Goodwill Group m Cost At 1 July 2009, 30 June 2010 and 30 June 2011 816.7 Accumulated impairment losses At 1 July 2009, 30 June 2010 and 30 June 2011 24.5 Carrying amount At 30 June 2010 and 30 June 2011 792.2 The Groups goodwill has a carrying value of 792.2m relating to the housebuilding segment.
The goodwill relating to the commercial developments segment, with cost of 24.5m, was fully impaired in the year ended 30 June 2008.
The Group conducts an annual impairment review of goodwill and intangibles together for both the housebuilding and commercial developments segments.
The impairment review was performed at 30 June 2011 and compared the value-in-use of the housebuilding segment with the carrying value of its tangible and intangible assets and allocated goodwill.
The Group allocates any identified impairment first to goodwill and then to assets on a pro rata basis, which in the case of the Group is its intangible assets and property, plant and equipment.
The value-in-use was determined by discounting the expected future cash flows of the housebuilding segment.
The first two years of cash flows were determined using the Groups approved detailed site-by-site business plan.
The cash flows for the third to fifth years were determined using Group level internal forecasted cash flows based upon expected volumes, selling prices and margins, taking into account available land purchases and work in progress levels.
The cash flows for year six onwards were extrapolated in perpetuity using an estimated growth rate of 2.5%, which was based upon the expected long-term growth rate of the UK economy.
The key assumptions for the value-in-use calculations were: Discount rate: this is a pre-tax rate reflecting current market assessments of the time value of money and risks appropriate to the Groups housebuilding business.
Accordingly the rate of 12.3% 2010 restated: 11.1% is considered by the Directors to be the appropriate pre-tax risk adjusted discount rate being the Groups estimated long-term pre-tax weighted average cost of capital.
This rate used in the 30 June 2011 impairment review is calculated using the average capital structure of the Group during the financial year.
The sensitivities disclosed below have been recalculated using this discount rate and the comparatives restated accordingly.
In the prior year the Group calculated the discount rate using the capital structure of the Group at the balance sheet date.
The Directors consider that the use of the average capital structure of the Group during the financial year is more appropriate due to the cyclicality of the Groups borrowing requirements.
Accordingly the discount rate of 11.3% quoted in the prior year has been restated as 11.1% to enable comparability between the financial years.
Using the capital structure of the Group at the balance sheet date as applied in the prior year, the discount rate would be 12.6% 2010: 11.3%.
Expected changes in selling prices for completed houses and the related impact upon operating margin: these are determined on a site-by-site basis for the first two years dependent upon local market conditions and product type.
For years three to five these have been estimated at a Group level based upon past experience and expectations of future changes in the market taking into account external market forecasts.
Sales volumes: these are determined on a site-by-site basis for the first two years dependent upon local market conditions, land availability and planning permissions.
Expected changes in site costs to complete: these are determined on a site-by-site basis for the first two years dependent upon the expected costs of completing all aspects of each individual development including any additional costs that are expected to occur due to the business being on an individual development site for longer due to current market conditions.
The conclusion of this impairment review was that the Groups goodwill related to the housebuilding segment was not impaired.
The impairment review of goodwill and intangible assets at 30 June 2011 was based upon current expectations regarding sales volumes, expected changes in selling prices and site costs to complete in the uncertain conditions within the UK housing market and used a discount rate considered appropriate to the position and risks of the Group.
The result of the impairment review was that the recoverable value of goodwill and intangible assets exceeded its carrying value by 428.5m 2010 restated: 819.6m.
Applying the discount rate based upon the capital structure of the Group at the balance sheet date, as used in the impairment review in the prior financial year, the recoverable value of goodwill and intangible assets exceeded its carrying value by 321.4m 2010: 707.5m.
If the UK housing market and expectations regarding its future were to deteriorate with either operating margins reducing by 1.5% per annum 2010 restated: 2.6% per annum or the appropriate discount rate were to increase by 1.0% 2010 restated: 1.7% and all other variables were held constant then the recoverable value of goodwill and intangible assets would equal its carrying value.
Further information is given in Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty on page 79.
86 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
