REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE to be exempt from stamp duty and is accompanied by the relevant Major shareholders share certificate and such other evidence of the right to transfer as In accordance with the UKLAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules theBoard may reasonably require: ii is in respect of only one class of theDTR all notifications received by the Company are published share: and iii if joint transferees, is in favour of not more than four such onthe Companys website www.
co. uk and via transferees: or where the transfer is requested by a person with a 0.25% aRegulated Information Service.
interest as defined in the Articles if such a person has been served with a restriction notice after failure to provide the Company with information As at the date of this report, the Company had received notifications, concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the inaccordance with DTR 5, of the notifiable interests set out in Table 10, Act, unless the transfer is shown to the Board to be pursuant to an inthe voting rights in the Companys issued share capital.
armslength sale as defined in the Articles.
Table 10 Notifiable Interests Shareholder authority for purchase of own shares Total % At the Companys AGM held on 17 November 2010, shareholders gave of issued authority to the Company to buy back up to an aggregate of 96,522,452 Number of share Nature of Name voting rights capital holding ordinary shares representing 10% of the Companys issued share Direct & capital.
This authority is valid until the end of the 2011 AGM or close Standard Life Investments Ltd 47,711,714 4.943 Indirect ofbusiness on 16 February 2012, whichever is the earlier.
Under the Legal & General Group Plc 37,886,028 3.92 Direct authority there is a minimum and maximum price to be paid for such JP Morgan Chase & Co. 17,286,656 4.98 Indirect shares.
Any shares which are bought back may be held as treasury Phoenix Asset Management shares or, if not so held, will be cancelled immediately upon completion Partners Limited 48,256,698 4.99 Direct ofthe purchase, thereby reducing the Companys issued share capital.
Polaris Capital Management LLC 34,606,679 3.59 Indirect FMR LLC 34,579,199 8.24 Indirect No purchases had been made under this authority as at the date of this report.
A resolution renewing the authority will be proposed at the 2011 AGM.
Employee share schemes Dividends and distributions Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 28.
Subject to the provisions of the Act, the Company may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends for payment to the Articles of Association holders of the ordinary shares of 10 pence each, of an amount which The Articles contain regulations which deal with matters such as does not exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board appointment and removal of Directors, Directors interests and may pay interim dividends, and also any fixed rate dividend, whenever proceedings at general and board meetings.
Any amendments to the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, theArticles may be made in accordance with the provisions of the justifies their payment.
If the Board acts in good faith, it is not liable to Actby way of special resolution at a general meeting.
holders of shares with preferred or pari passu rights for losses arising from the payment of interim or fixed dividends on other shares.
Significant agreements The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the The Board may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends or counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of other monies payable in respect of the Companys shares from a person achange of control of the Company: with a 0.25% interest if such person has been served with a restriction under the credit facility agreement dated 5 February 2007, the notice after failure to provide the Company with information concerning revolving credit facility agreement dated 9 July 2008 and the revolving interests in those shares required to be provided under the Act.
credit facility agreement dated 2 February 2005 each as amended and restated from time to time and most recently with effect from Shareholder arrangements to waive dividends 10May 2011, and the two forward start credit facility agreements The Barratt Developments Employee Benefit Trust the EBT holds each dated 10 May 2011, in each case between, amongst others, ordinary shares in the Company for the purpose of satisfying options theCompany, Lloyds TSB Bank Plc as the facility agent and the and awards that have been granted under the various employee share banks and financial institutions named therein as lenders together, the schemes operated by the Company.
Details of the shares so held are Credit Facility Agreements, the facility agent must, upon a change of set out in note 27. control, cancel the total commitments of the lenders under such Credit Facility Agreements and declare all outstanding loans, together with The EBT has agreed to waive all or any future right to dividend payments on accrued interest and any other amounts payable under such Credit shares held within the EBT and these shares do not count in the calculation Facility Agreements, to be immediately due and payable.
For these of the weighted average number of shares used to calculate EPS until such purposes, a change of control occurs if any person or group of time as they are vested to the relevant employee.
persons acting in concert as defined in the Takeover Code gains control as defined in the Corporation Tax Act 2010 of the Company: The Trustees of the EBT may vote or abstain from voting on shares held under the privately-placed notes originally amounting in aggregate to in the EBT in any way they think fit and in doing so may take into account 105.0m and $300.0m the Remaining Notes issued pursuant to a both financial and non-financial interests of the beneficiaries of the EBT note purchase agreement dated 23 August 2007 and a note purchase or their dependants.
agreement dated 23 April 2008 each as amended and restated from 62 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
