Share-based payments continued a Details of the share-based payment schemes i Long-Term Performance Plan The Long-Term Performance Plan the LTPP was approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held in November 2003 to take effect from 1 July 2003.
6,841,830 2010: nil LTPP awards were granted in the financial year ended 30 June 2011.
Awards under the LTPP are at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee the Committee, taking into account individual performance and overall performance of the Group.
An employee is not eligible to receive options under the Executive Share Option Scheme and awards under the LTPP in the same financial year.
Information on the performance conditions for the LTPP can be found on page 53. ii Savings-Related Share Option Scheme In November 2008, the Company adopted the Savings-Related Share Option Scheme the SRSOS.
Under the SRSOS, participants are required to make monthly contributions to an HM Treasury approved savings contract with a bank or building society for a period of three years.
On entering into the savings contract participants were granted an option to acquire ordinary shares in the Company at an exercise price determined under the rules of the SRSOS.
The exercise of options under the SRSOS is not subject to the satisfaction of a performance condition as the SRSOS is HM Revenue and Customs approved and open to all eligible employees.
The first grant under the SRSOS was made on 3 February 2009 at an exercise price of 87.05 pence per share which was subsequently adjusted to reflect the Rights Issue to 57.05 pence per share.
The second grant under the SRSOS was made on 30 March 2010 at an exercise price of 116.18 pence per share.
The third grant under the SRSOS was made on 29 March 2011 at an exercise price of 104.59 pence per share.
iii Executive Share Option Scheme In November 2008, the Company adopted the Executive Share Option Scheme the ESOS.
The grant of share options under the ESOS is at the discretion of the Committee, taking into account individual performance and the overall performance of the Group.
Options must be held for a minimum of three years from the date of grant before they can be exercised and lapse if not exercised within ten years from the date of grant.
The exercise of options granted under the ESOS is subject to the achievement of an objective performance condition set by the Committee, which for options granted in 2008 was based upon Return On Capital Employed ROCE.
More information can be found on page 53. iv Senior Management Share Option Plan In December 2009, the Company adopted the Senior Management Share Option Plan 2009-2012 the SMSOP.
The Board approves the grant of share options to employees under the SMSOP which are normally exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant, provided the employee remains employed by the Company.
It is intended that the grant of options under the SMSOP will be a one-off event and those who participate in the SMSOP are not eligible to participate in the LTPP or ESOS, therefore Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in the SMSOP.
v Executive Share Option Plan In November 1997, the Company adopted the Executive Share Option Plan the ESOP.
The grant of share options under the ESOP is at the discretion of the Committee, taking into account individual performance and the overall performance of the Group.
The exercise of options granted under the ESOP is subject to the achievement of an objective performance condition set by the Committee.
More information can be found on page 53. vi Employee Share Option Plan In November 1999, the Company adopted an Employee Share Option Plan the Employee Plan.
The Board approves the grant of share options to employees under this Employee Plan which are normally exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant.
The exercise of the options granted under the Employee Plan is subject to the achievement of an objective performance condition set by the Board, namely that the growth in the basic earnings per share of the Company over a period of three consecutive financial years should exceed the growth in the Retail Price Index by at least 9%.
No options may be granted under the Employee Plan after 10 April 2010.
Those who have participated in the ESOP do not participate in the Employee Plan.
vii Senior Management Incentive Plan In May 2009, the Company adopted the Senior Management Incentive Plan 2008-2011 the SMIP.
The SMIP entitles participants to a cash bonus linked to the Companys share price, subject to the achievement of an objective performance condition set by the Committee.
viii Co-Investment Plan The Co-Investment Plan the Plan was approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held in November 2005 and any annual bonus earned above target will normally be compulsorily deferred into shares held under this Plan.
The Executive Directors also have the opportunity to voluntarily defer additional amounts of annual bonus up to a maximum of 25% of basic salary into the Plan.
Matching awards will then be made by the Company, at the rate of one for one for compulsory deferral and at a maximum of four for one for voluntary deferral: matching awards will be subject to performance conditions measured over a period of three years.
The relevant performance conditions are the same as those used for the LTPP as detailed on page 53.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 111
