REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE The Board recognises that appropriate employee engagement is a Relations with shareholders keyfactor in the long-term success of the Group.
It has, accordingly, The Board recognises the importance of having an ongoing implemented a comprehensive employee engagement programme with relationship with its shareholders and other stakeholders.
It fully the aim of creating a strong, shared culture.
All employees are invited to supports the principles of the Code and the UK Stewardship Code take part in an engagement survey each year and the results of this survey which encourage open dialogue between companies and their are fed back to each operating division, who use the results to formulate shareholders.
The Group has arrangements in place which enable plans for maintaining or improving engagement in the following year.
ittocommunicate effectively with shareholders in respect of issues such asbusiness strategy, governance, remuneration and any senior A key part of effective employee engagement is communication.
The management or Board changes.
Company seeks to ensure that all significant events, economic factors and financial updates and the impact of these on the performance Information about the Group, its Board and its business, including oftheGroup are communicated to employees through email alerts, theannual and interim reports, interim management statements and corebriefings and regular newsletters.
Additionally the Group Chief trading updates, company announcements and details on services Executive regularly briefs senior management via conference calls available to shareholders can be found on the Companys website whichgives them the opportunity to ask questions and enter into www.
Information of a price sensitive dialogue.
Individually and collectively, the Board and the Executive nature is communicated as required via a Regulated Information Committee members visit operating divisions and sites frequently Service and the Group strives to ensure that all key information is inorder to assess operational performance, engage with employees effectively and clearlycommunicated.
onaone-to-one basis and gain first-hand experience of employees aspirations and concerns.
The Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director meet regularly with investors and analysts in order to convey an understanding The Group runs a graduate Recruitment and Development Programme of the Groups operations, the market and its management objectives.
consisting of a two-year multi-disciplinary programme of both on-job These meetings take place during the year but particularly after the and off-job modules.
The Group currently has 29 graduates who are annual and interim results announcements.
The Chairman and other one year into their two year programme.
Non-Executive Directors also have the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders at the request of either party and the Senior The Group is committed to appropriate employee training and Independent Director is available to meet with major shareholders, development at all levels of the organisation.
It has introduced a suite as and when required, to gain an understanding of their issues ofleadership and management development programmes aimed at and concerns.
all levels within the organisation from graduates to middle management and through to senior management.
The programme is designed and The notice of each AGM and related papers are circulated to all delivered internally and is tailored to the needs of the business.
The shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
All Directors, Group also offers the Barratt Academy, a staged programme to enable including the Chairmen of each of the Committees, attend every AGM employee development from Apprentice to Site Manager, and also in the and are available to answer shareholder questions before, during and Technical and Commercial disciplines.
Succession planning is in place after the meeting.
The Group Chief Executive also gives a presentation across the Group and the leadership development programmes assist on the progress and performance of the Group prior to the formal with the development of individuals as part of the succession plan.
In February 2011 the Company invited all eligible employees to In order to ensure that all Directors are aware of, and have a clear participate in the third grant under the Savings Related Share Option understanding of, the views of major shareholders, the Group Finance Scheme which was approved by shareholders at the Companys Director presents regular reports to the Board on the Companys 2008 AGM the SRSOS.
This gave those individuals who had investor relations activities.
participated in previous grants under the SRSOS, but not used up all of their entitlement, the opportunity to increase their savings and gave other employees the chance to participate in the SRSOS and become more involved in the Companys performance.
46 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
