ACCOUNTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Property, plant and equipment Non-vesting conditions are taken into account in the estimate of the Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated fair value of the equity instruments.
depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of the assets on a straight-line basis to Cash-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the their residual value over their estimated useful lives.
Residual values date of grant and are re-measured both at the end of each reporting and asset lives are reviewed annually.
period and at the date of settlement with any changes in fair value being recognised in the income statement for the period.
Fair value Freehold properties are depreciated on a straight-line basis over 25years.
is measured initially and at the end of each reporting period using a Freehold land is not depreciated.
Plant is depreciated on astraight-line Black-Scholes model and at the date of settlement as cash paid.
basis over its expected useful life, which ranges from oneto seven years.
Tax Inventories The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
comprises direct materials, direct labour costs and those overheads which have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or Land held for development, including land in the course of development, deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never is initially recorded at discounted cost.
Where, through deferred taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated purchase credit terms, the carrying value differs from the amount that using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by will ultimately be paid in settling the liability, this difference is charged as the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all a finance cost in the income statement over the period of settlement.
temporary differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an Due to the scale of the Groups developments, the Group has to allocate obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in site-wide development costs between units built in the current year the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
It also has to estimate costs to complete on such developments.
In making these assessments there is a degree of inherent Deferred tax is calculated at the rates that are expected to apply in uncertainty.
The Group has developed internal controls to assess and the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised based on review carrying values and the appropriateness of estimates made.
tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except Lease as lessee when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement in equal case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
instalments over the life of the lease.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore Leases as lessor recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be The Group enters into leasing arrangements with third parties following regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits the completion of constructed developments until the date of the sale from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can of the development to third parties.
Rental income from these operating be deducted.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is leases is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis a legally enforceable right to set-off current tax assets against current over the term of the lease.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and tax liabilities and when they relate to taxes levied by the same tax arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and leased asset and recognised in the income statement on a straight-line liabilities on a net basis.
basis over the lease term.
Pensions Share-based payments Defined contribution The Group issues both equity-settled and cash-settled share-based The Group operates defined contribution pension schemes for certain payments to certain employees.
In accordance with the transitional employees.
The Groups contributions to the schemes are charged in provisions, IFRS2 Share-based Payments has been applied to all the income statement in the year in which the contributions fall due.
grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that had not vested at 1 January 2005.
Defined benefit For the defined benefit scheme, the cost of providing benefits is Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial the date of grant.
Fair value is measured either using Black-Scholes, valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial Present-Economic Value or Monte Carlo models dependent upon the gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they characteristics of the scheme.
The fair value is expensed in the income occur.
They are recognised outside profit or loss and presented statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the in the statement of comprehensive income.
Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest where non-market vesting conditions apply.
74 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
