REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Financial statements and accounting records Directors responsibility statement The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The Directors confirm that, to the best of each persons knowledge: andAccounts including the Directors Remuneration report and the a the Group and Parent Company financial statements in this report, financialstatements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, Standing Interpretation Committee interpretations as adopted and endorsed by Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements the European Union, International Financial Reporting Interpretations foreach financial year.
The Directors are required by the International Committee interpretations and those parts of the Companies Act Accounting Standards Regulation the IAS Regulation to prepare 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS, give a true theGroup financial statements under International Financial Reporting and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS and have or loss of the Company and of the Group taken as a whole: and alsoelected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in b the management report contained in this report includes a fair review accordance with IFRS.
The financial statements are also required by of the development and performance of the business and the position lawto be properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act of the Company and the Group taken as a whole, together with 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Under the Disclosure and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
Transparency Rules, the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state The Directors of the Company and their functions are listed on pages ofaffairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company 36and 37. forthat period.
By order of the Board International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions inaccordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Mark Clare David Thomas Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR offinancial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation 13 September 2011 13 September 2011 willbe achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRS.
Directors are also required to: The Report of the Directors from pages 2 to 64 inclusive was approved properly select and apply accounting policies: by theBoard on 13 September 2011 and is signed on its behalf by: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users to understand theimpact of particular transactions, other events and conditions onthe entitys financial position and financial performance: and Tom Keevil make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as GROUP GENERAL COUNSEL AND COMPANY SECRETARY agoingconcern.
13 September 2011 The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity ofthecorporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation inother jurisdictions.
64 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
