How to Invest As well as investing in F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited directly through a stockbroker, there are some additional benefits of investing through one of the savings plans run by F&C Management Limited F&C.
You can enjoy the convenience of making regular savings by Direct Debit, take advantage of our tax-efficient ISA wrapper, receive a simple statement every six months and let us automatically reinvest your dividends for you.
Potential investors are reminded that the value of F&C Private Investor Plan investments and the income from them may go A flexible, low cost way to invest with a lump down as well as up and you may not receive back sum from 500 or regular savings from 50 a the full amount originally invested.
You can also make additional lump reliefs depend on the circumstances of the sum top-ups at anytime from 250. individual.
Low Charges All the plans are low cost and flexible.
When you F&C lnvestment Trust ISA buy or sell shares in these plans the dealing fee is Use your ISA allowance to invest up to only 0.2 per cent.
Government stamp duty of 10,680 increasing to 11,280 for the 0.5 per cent also applies on purchases where 2012 13 tax year tax efficiently each year applicable.
There are no initial or exit charges.
The with a lump sum from 500 or regular only annual management fee is on the ISA, which is savings from 50 a month.
You can also 60 VAT no matter how many ISAs you take out make additional lump sum top-ups at anytime annually with F&C, or how many lSAs you transfer.
from 250 and transfer any existing ISAs to The CTF has no initial charges, dealing charges or us whilst maintaining all the tax benefits.
How to Invest You can invest in all our savings plans online, F&C Child Trust Fund CTF except for the CTF.
Its simple to register and F&C is a leading provider of CTFs which can invest using your debit card.
Alternatively, please be opened for all children born between contact us for application forms.
1 September 2002 and 2 January 2011 using the governments CTF voucher.
The New Customers: maximum that can be invested annually is Contact our Investor Services Team: 3,600 and, with an investment trust CTF, Call: 0800 136 420 investments can start from as little as 25 a Email: info@fandc.
com Existing Plan Holders: F&C Childrens lnvestment Plan Contact our Investor Services Team: Aimed at older children ineligible for a CTF, or Call: 0845 600 3030 if you need access to the funds before the Email: investor.
This flexible plan can easily be By post: F&C Plan Administration Centre written under trust to help reduce inheritance Block C, Western House tax liability.
Investments can be made from a Lynch Wood Business Park 250 lump sum or 25 a month.
You can Peterborough, PE2 6BP also make additional lump sum top-ups at anytime from 100.
If you have trouble reading small print, please let us know.
We can provide literature in alternative formats, for example large print or on audiotape.
The above has been approved by F&C Management Limited which is a member of the F&C Asset Management Group and is authorised and regulated in the UK by the Financial Services Authority.
54 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Corporate Information Directors Property Valuers Chris Russell Chairman CBRE Limited Jonathan G Hooley St. Martins Court Martin R Moore 10 Paternoster Row Peter Niven London EC4M 7HP Brian W Sweetland # Nicholas J M Tostevin Auditor KPMG Channel Islands Limited 20 New Street Secretary and Registrars St. Peter Port Northern Trust International Fund Administration Guernsey GY1 4AN Services Guernsey Limited Trafalgar Court Guernsey Legal Advisers Les Banques Mourant Ozannes St. Peter Port 1 Le Marchant Street Guernsey St. Peter Port Channel Islands GY1 3QL Guernsey GY1 4HP UK Legal Advisers Registered Office Dickson Minto WS Trafalgar Court 16 Charlotte Square Les Banques Edinburgh EH2 4DF St. Peter Port Guernsey Bond Trustee Channel Islands GY1 3QL The Bank of New York One Canada Square Investment Managers London E14 5AL F&C Investment Business Limited 80 George Street Broker and Financial Adviser Edinburgh EH2 3BU Winterflood Securities Limited The Atrium Building Property Managers Cannon Bridge House F&C REIT Property Asset Management plc 25 Dowgate Hill 5 Wigmore Street London EC4R 2GA London W1U 1PB Chairman of the Nomination Committee Chairman of the Management Engagement Committee # Chairman of the Audit Committee Website www.
co. uk MLGEdinburgh 12278 Registered Office Trafalgar Court Les Banques St. Peter Port Guernsey Channel Islands GY1 3QL Registrars Northern Trust International Fund Administration Services Guernsey Limited Trafalgar Court Les Banques St. Peter Port Guernsey Channel Islands GY1 3QL Telephone: 01481 745001
