Shareholder Information Dividends Change of Address Ordinary dividends are paid monthly.
Shareholders who Communications with shareholders are mailed to the wish to have dividends paid directly into a bank account address held on the share register.
In the event of a rather than by cheque to their registered address can change of address or other amendment this should be complete a mandate form for the purpose.
Mandates may notified to Computershare Investor Services Jersey be obtained from Computershare Investor Services Jersey Limited, Queensway House, Hilgrove Street, St. Helier, Limited, Queensway House, Hilgrove Street, St. Helier, Jersey JE1 1ES under the signature of the registered Jersey JE1 1ES on request.
Where dividends are paid holder.
directly to shareholders bank accounts, dividend tax vouchers are sent directly to shareholders registered Shareholder Enquiries addresses.
Contact Northern Trust International Fund Administration Services Guernsey Limited, Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, Share Price St. Peter Port, Guernsey, Channel Islands GY1 3QL.
The Companys Ordinary Shares are listed on the London Additional information regarding the Company may also be Stock Exchange.
Prices are given daily in the Financial found at its website address which is: www.
co. uk Times under Investment Companies and in other newspapers.
Excluding performance fee, group reconstruction aborted merger costs and non-recoverable property expenses and calculated as a percentage of average total assets less current liabilities.
`Stated after application of a 10 per cent discount to the value of the Companys investments in indirect property funds.
Warning to Shareholders Boiler Room Scams In recent years, many companies have become aware that their shareholders have been targeted by unauthorised overseas-based brokers selling what turn out to be non-existent or high risk shares, or expressing a wish to buy their shares.
If you receive unsolicited investment advice or requests: Make sure you get the correct name of the person or organisation Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved by visiting www.
uk pages register Report the matter to the FSA by calling 0845 606 1234 If the calls persist, hang up.
More detailed information on this can be found on the CFEB website www.
uk Annual Report and Accounts 2011 53
