Directors Responsibilities accuracy at any time the financial position of the Directors Responsibilities for the Annual Company and to enable them to ensure that the Report and Accounts financial statements comply with The Companies The Directors are responsible for preparing the Guernsey Law, 2008.
They have a general Report of the Directors and the financial statements responsibility for taking such steps as are in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and to prevent and detect fraud and Guernsey company law requires the Directors to other irregularities.
prepare consolidated financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they have elected to Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors prepare the financial statements in accordance with are also responsible for preparing a Directors International Financial Reporting Standards as Report including a Business Review and Corporate issued by the IASB and applicable law.
Governance Statement that comply with these laws and those regulations.
The consolidated financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of Directors Responsibility Statement affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:.
the financial statements, prepared in accordance In preparing these consolidated financial statements, with the applicable set of accounting standards, the Directors are required to: give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities,.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply financial position and profit or loss of the Group them consistently: included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent:.
the Chairmans Statement and Report of the Directors include a fair review of the development.
state whether applicable accounting standards and performance of the business and the position have been followed, subject to any material of the Group included in the consolidation taken departures disclosed and explained in the as a whole together with a description of the financial statements: and principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.. prepare the consolidated financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate On behalf of the Board to presume that the Company will continue in C Russell business.
Director The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable 28 March 2012 28 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited
