Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of a expires at the conclusion of the next Annual General F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited will be held at Meeting of the Company after the passing of this Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, St. Peter Port, Guernsey, resolution or on the expiry of 15 months from the Channel Islands GY1 3QL on Tuesday, 29 May 2012 at passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, 12.30 pm for the following purposes.
save that the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such Ordinary Business expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following as in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if Ordinary Resolutions: the power conferred hereby had not expired: and 1.
That the Annual Report and Accounts for the year b shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities ended 31 December 2011 be received and approved.
up to an aggregate nominal value 695,287 being approximately 10 per cent of the nominal value of 2.
That the Directors Remuneration Report for the year the issued share capital of the Company, as at ended 31 December 2011 be approved.
That Mr M R Moore, who retires annually, be re-elected as a Director.
That the Company be authorised, in accordance with section 315 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, 4.
That Mr P Niven, who retires annually, be re-elected as to make market acquisitions within the meaning of a Director.
section 316 1 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 of ordinary shares of 1p each Ordinary 5.
That Mr B W Sweetland, who retires annually, be Shares either for retention as treasury shares for re-elected as a Director.
future resale or transfer, or cancellation, provided 6.
That Mr N J M Tostevin, who retires annually, be that: re-elected as a Director.
a the maximum number of Ordinary Shares hereby 7.
That Mr J G Hooley, who retires annually, be authorised to be purchased shall be 14.99 per cent re-elected as a Director.
of the issued Ordinary Shares on the date on which this resolution is passed: 8.
That Mr C Russell, who retires annually, be re-elected as a Director.
b the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share shall be 1p: 9.
That KPMG Channel Islands Limited be re-appointed as auditor.
c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an Ordinary Share shall be the 10.
That the Directors be authorised to determine the higher of i 105 per cent of the average of the auditors remuneration.
middle market quotations as derived from the Daily Official List for the Ordinary Shares for the five To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following as business days immediately preceding the date of Special Resolutions: purchase: and ii the higher of the last independent 11.
That the Directors of the Company be and they are trade and the highest current independent bid on hereby generally empowered, to allot ordinary shares in the trading venue which the purchase is carried out: the Company or grant rights to subscribe for, or to and convert securities into, ordinary shares in the Company equity securities, including the grant of rights to d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the subscribe for, or to convert securities into ordinary authority hereby conferred shall expire at the shares held by the Company as treasury shares for conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the cash as if any pre-emption rights in relation to the Company to be held in 2013, or on 29 November issue of shares as set out in the listing rules made by 2013, whichever is the earlier, save that the the Financial Services Authority under part VI of the Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as amended contract to purchase Ordinary Shares under such did not apply to any such allotment of equity securities, authority and may make a purchase of Ordinary provided that this power: Shares pursuant to any such contract.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 51 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes: Special Business 1.
A member who is entitled to attend, speak and vote at the To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following as an Meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and vote instead of him or her.
A proxy Ordinary Resolution: need not be a member of the Company.
That the waiver granted by the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers of the obligations which may otherwise 2.
More than one proxy may be appointed provided each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to arise, pursuant to Rule 9 of the City Code on different shares.
Takeovers and Mergers, for the Resolution Concert Party as defined in the circular to shareholders of the 3.
A form of proxy is enclosed for use at the Meeting.
The Company to be dated on or around the date hereof form of proxy should be completed and sent, together the Circular to make a general offer to the with the power of attorney or other authority if any under shareholders of the Company for all of the issued which it is signed, or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority, so as to reach the Companys ordinary shares in the capital of the Company as a registrars Computershare Investor Services Jersey result of the purchase by the Company of up to Limited, c o The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 104,223,521 ordinary shares in the Company pursuant 6ZY not later than 12.30 pm on 25 May 2012. to the authority granted by the passing of resolution 12 above, as more fully described in the Circular, be 4.
Completing and returning a form of proxy will not prevent a member from attending in person at the Meeting should and is hereby approved, with such waiver to expire at he or she so wish.
the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the 5.
To have the right to attend and vote at the Meeting and Company in 2013 or, if earlier, 29 November 2013. also for the purposes of calculating how many votes a member may cast on a poll a member must first have his or her name entered on the register of members not later By order of the Board than close of business on 27 May 2012.
Changes to entries in the register after that time shall be Northern Trust International Fund Administration disregarded in determining the rights of any member to Services Guernsey Limited attend and vote at such Meeting.
In order to comply with the Takeover Code, resolution 13 Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, St. Peter Port above will be taken on a poll and each of the members of Guernsey, Channel Islands GY1 3QL the Resolution Concert Party and Mr Peter Niven have undertaken not to vote on the resolution.
As at 28 March 2012, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document, the Company had 695,287,003 Ordinary Shares in issue.
The number of shares with voting rights was 695,287,003, each carrying one voting right.
Any person holding 3 per cent or more of the total voting rights in the Company who appoints a person other than the Chairman as his proxy will need to ensure that both he and such third party complies with their respective disclosure obligations under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The Articles of Incorporation and the Directors letters of appointment will be available for inspection from 15 minutes prior to, and at, the Annual General Meeting.
