Grainger plc 50 Report of the remuneration committee and directors remuneration report This report meets the disclosure requirements of the Companies Remuneration packages balance both short and long-term Act 2006 and the Listing Rules and in accordance with usual rewards, as well as performance related pay and non-performance practice will be put to shareholders for approval at the Annual related pay.
They include salary, bonus and defined contribution General Meeting.
pension elements and long-term share incentives: option schemes and other usual benefits are also afforded.
The remuneration committee The remuneration committee currently comprises four No executive director is involved in the determination of his own independent non-executive directors, Baroness Margaret Ford remuneration.
Fees of the non-executive directors, which include chairman, Robert Hiscox, Henry Pitman and Belinda Richards.
increments where a committee chairmanship or senior independent position is held, are determined by the executive Belinda Richards joined the committee on 17 May 2011. committee of the board.
The remuneration committee met formally four times during the The remuneration committee also review the total level of salaries year.
In each case with all members present save that Robert and bonuses paid to the group as a whole.
Hiscox did not attend the meeting in February 2011.
The committee have also communicated informally during the year.
Service contracts Contract dates and unexpired terms for the directors as at This year Hewitt New Bridge Street HNBS continued to be 30September 2011 are as follows: involved in the set-up and implementation of the Long Term Incentive Scheme LTIS.
HNBS have no other connection with the Contract Unexpired Notice date term period company or its directors as individuals.
The committees terms of reference are available on the groups website or on request from Andrew Cunningham 20 October No fixed 12 months the company secretary.
2009 term Peter Couch 1 June 2010 No fixed 12 months Remuneration policy term Graingers remuneration policy is designed to attract, motivate and retain high calibre individuals to enable the group to operate Nick Jopling 1 September No fixed 6 months strategically for the continued benefit of shareholders, over the 2010 term long term.
In order to operate this policy, the remuneration Mark Greenwood 13 September No fixed 6 months committee receives information on remuneration packages 2010 term awarded to directors in comparable organisations and aims to Robin Broadhurst 26 February 17 months 3 months ensure that the rewards paid by Grainger are competitive.
2004 The policy is also designed to align the directors interests with John Barnsley 27 February 5 months 3 months those of shareholders.
This is principally achieved through the use 2003 of share-based incentives and by encouraging executive directors Robert Hiscox 6 March 2002 5 months 3 months to maintain a reasonable shareholding in the group.
As a Henry Pitman 1 May 2007 17 months 3 months guideline, executive directors and senior executives are expected Baroness Margaret Ford 3 July 2008 29 months 3 months to hold the equivalent value of at least one years salary in Grainger shares.
Details of executive directors share options and Belinda Richards 5 April 2011 28 months 3 months share awards are shown on pages 55 and 56 respectively and Calculated as at 30 September 2011 and rounded to the nearest whole their shareholdings are shown within the table in the Directors month.
Share awards are generally satisfied by the Apart from salary and benefits in relation to the notice period acquisition of shares in the market, so are not dilutive to described above, there are no other terms in any of the contracts shareholders.
Share options are satisfied by the issue of new which would give rise to compensation payable for early sharecapital.
termination, or any other liability of the company.
