Grainger plc 72 Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued The group has a segment director responsible for the performance of each of these five segments and the group reports key financial information to the CODM on the basis of these five segments.
Each of these five segments operates within a different part of the overall residential market.
The title All other segments has been included in the segmental tables in note 4 to reconcile the segments to the figures reviewed by the CODM.
The measure of profit or loss used by the CODM is the trading profit or loss before valuation gains or deficits on investment properties and excluding all revaluation and non recurring items as set out in note 3.
The CODM reviews by segment two key balance sheet measures of net asset value.
These are Gross net asset value NAV and Triple net asset value NNNAV measures.
Both measures include trading stock at market value as opposed to the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Gross net asset value is defined as the market value of net assets before deduction for deferred tax on property revaluations and before adjustments for the fair value of derivatives.
Triple net asset value is defined as gross net asset value adjusted for deferred and contingent tax on revaluation gains and for mark to market adjustments.
Information relating to the groups operating segments and the two net asset value measures is set out in note 4. d Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
e Foreign currency translation i Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling, which is the companys functional and presentation currency.
ii Foreign currency transactions Foreign currency transactions are translated at the foreign exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated into sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions are recognised in the income statement.
iii Foreign operations The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated to Sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated at average foreign exchange rates for the relevant period.
Foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised within the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
iv Net investment hedges Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income within the translation reserve as part of retained earnings.
Any gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement within interest expense and similar charges.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement when the foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold.
f Investment property Property that is held for long-term rental yields or for capital appreciation or both, and that is not occupied by the companies in the consolidated group, is classified as investment property.
