Grainger plc 156 Glossary of terms Property Financial Net net net asset value triple net or Assured periodic tenancy APT Cap NNNAV Market-rented tenancy arising from Financial instrument which, in return for Gross NAV adjusted for deferred tax and succession from regulated.
Tenant has a fee, guarantees an upper limit for the those contingent tax liabilities which security of tenure.
would accrue if assets sold at market value and for the fair value of long-term Assured shorthold tenancy AST Contingent tax debt and derivatives.
Market-rented tenancy where landlord The amount of tax that would be payable may obtain possession if appropriate should assets be sold at the market value Return on capital employed notice served.
shown in the market value balance sheet.
Operating profit after net valuation movements on investment properties Assured tenancy AT Dividend cover plus share of results from joint venture Market-rented tenancy where tenant has Earnings per share divided by dividends associates plus the movement on the right to renew.
uplift of trading stock to market value as a percentage of opening gross capital Investment value IV or market value Earnings per share EPS defined as investment property, financial Open market value of a property subject Profit after tax attributable to shareholders interest in property assets CHARM, to relevant tenancy in place.
divided by the weighted average number investment in joint venture associates of shares in issue in the year.
Home reversion and trading stock at market value.
Rent free tenancy where tenant has right Gearing of occupation until possession is forfeited The ratio of borrowings, net of cash, Return on shareholders equity usually on death.
If tenant retains an to market net asset value.
Growth in net net net asset value NNNAV equity interest in the property this is a in the year plus the dividend per share Goodwill partial life tenancy.
relating to each year as a percentage of On acquisition of a company, the difference opening NNNAV.
PRS between the fair value of net assets Private rented sector.
acquired and the purchase price paid.
Swap Financial instrument to protect against Regulated tenancy Gross net asset value NAV interest rate movements.
Tenancy regulated under 1977 Rent Act, Shareholders funds adjusted for the Total shareholder return TSR rent usually sub-market set by rent officer market value of property assets held as and tenant has security of tenure.
Return attributable to shareholders stock but before deduction for deferred on basis of share price growth with tax on property revaluations and before Tenanted residential TR dividends reinvested.
adjustments for the fair value of derivatives.
Activity covering the acquisition, renting out and subsequent sale usually on Hedging Weighted average cost of capital vacancy of residential units subject to a The use of financial instruments to WACC tenancy agreement.
protect against interest rate movements.
The weighted average cost of funding the groups activities through a combination of Vacant possession value VP Interest cover shareholders funds and debt.
Open market value of a property free Profit on ordinary activities before interest from any tenancy.
and tax divided by net interest payable.
Corporate Loan to value LTV IFRS Ratio of net debt to the market value International Financial Reporting Standards, of properties.
mandatory for UK-listed companies for accounting periods ending on or after 31 December 2005.
