Grainger plc 78 Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued y Acquisition of and investment in own shares The group acquires its own shares to enable it to meet its obligations under the various share schemes in operation.
No gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the companys own shares.
The acquisition cost of the shares is debited to an investment in own shares reserve within retained earnings.
When shares are issued to employees, a transfer is made at the average cost of the shares issued between the investment in own shares reserve and the share-based payments reserve all within retained earnings see note 34.
Where the group buys back its own shares as treasury shares it adopts the accounting as described above.
Where it subsequently cancels them, issued share capital is reduced by the nominal value of the shares cancelled and this same amount is transferred to the capital redemption reserve.
z Impact of standards and interpretations issued i New standards and interpretations in the year At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following interpretations and amendments were issued, endorsed by the EU and are mandatory for the group for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 October 2010. International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations IFRIC 15 Arrangement for construction of real estates clarifies when IAS 18 Revenue Recognition and IAS 11 Construction contracts should be applied to particular transactions.
IFRIC 18 Transfer of assets from customers clarifies the accounting for arrangements where an item of property, plant and equipment that is provided by the customer is used to provide an ongoing service.
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments clarifies the accounting when an entity renegotiates the terms of its debt with the result that the liability is extinguished through the creditor issuing its own equity instruments to the debtor.
Amendments to existing standards Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based payment was updated to confirm that contribution of a business on the formation of a joint venture and common control transactions are not within its scope.
Amendment to IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations confirmed the disclosure requirements required under IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements paragraphs 15 and 125.
Amendment to IFRS 8 Operating Segments which removes the automatic requirement to report a measure of total assets for each reportable segment.
Total assets continue to be reported within note 4 of these financial statements as this measure is regularly provided to the chief operating decision maker.
Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements was updated to clarify the definition of a current liability where classification is derived from the lack of an unconditional right to defer settlement more than 12 months from the statement of financial position date.
Amendment to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows which restricts the eligibility of expenditure for inclusion as investing activity cash flows to those expenditures which result in recognised assets in the statement of financial position only.
Amendment to IAS 17 Leases to remove the presumption that leases of land were operating leases unless title transferred to the lessee at the end of the lease.
Amendment to IAS 18 Revenue Recognition to provide guidance for when an entity is acting as principal or agent.
This has not resulted in any changes in accounting policy for the group.
Amendment to IAS 38 Intangible Assets to confirm measurement of intangible assets in business combinations.
Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement to confirm the scope of the standard excludes forward contracts to enter into a business combination and clarify the definition of external parties for hedge accounting.
