Annual report and accounts 2011 O verview 51 B usiness review Governance F inancials Each non-executive director has specific terms of reference.
PERFORMANCE-RELATED REMUNERATION Theircontracts state an initial three-year period, with a As should be expected and in accordance with the Code, continuation subject to review at that time.
The new contracts asignificant element of executive directors and senior contain no entitlement to compensation for early termination.
managements potential remuneration is performance related.
Thecombination of short and long-term incentives attempts to Other directorships align the interests of executives and senior management with The board has an approved policy on other directorships.
This theinterests of shareholders, and to reward significant permits a full-time executive director to hold non-executive outperformance of expectations.
directorships, and to retain fees from any such appointment, provided that the board considers that this will not adversely Non-executive directors do not receive performance-related affect their executive responsibilities.
None of the executive remuneration.
directors held any other directorships outside of the group Revised arrangements for incentive schemes duringthe year.
The remuneration committee had during the previous year  REMUNERATION undertaken, with the independent assistance of HNBS, a review ofthe remuneration arrangements for the executive directors.
Basic salaries and benefits Basic salaries are reviewed by the remuneration committee Following this review the committee made revisions to the annually.
Uplifts are by reference to cost of living, responsibilities arrangements which it believes should motivate, retain and and market rates, as for all employees, and are performed at the appropriately reward management within a best practice same time of year.
It was decided for the years commencing compliant framework that aligns their interests with those of 1October 2010 and 2011 respectively that the executive directors shareholders.
The key revisions made by the committee are set would receive no increase in their basic salaries, in light of market outbelow.
Executive directors, along with other senior members The remuneration committee carefully considered the new of staff, receive a fully expensed company car, or a car allowance.
arrangements to ensure that they were no less challenging than Allmembers of staff, including the executive directors, benefit the previous system and were satisfied that this was the case.
from health and life insurances.
The fees for the chairman and non-executive directors are reviewed on a biennial basis by the Annual cash bonus executive committee to the board.
Increases in these fees effective Under the new annual bonus scheme that was introduced this from 1 October 2010 were agreed in November 2010. year 75% of the performance measure was based on the following two financial measures operating profit before Pensions valuation and return on shareholders equity.
The remaining 25% The group contributes 15% of basic salary to the money purchase of the performance measure was based on an assessment of pension schemes of all of the executive directors.
No other elements of remuneration are pensionable.
The assessment of the personal performance for the chief Share schemes open to all employees executive is undertaken by the chairman and for the other The four executive directors are eligible to participate in a save as executive directors by the chief executive.
you earn scheme SAYE, and Andrew Cunningham and Peter The maximum potential bonus for the chief executive is capped at Couch are eligible to participate in a share incentive plan SIP.
a multiple of 150% of salary with the other executive directors Both are Inland Revenue approved and therefore subject to the maximum bonus being capped at 125% of salary.
limits prescribed, and both schemes are open to all employees with relevant service, subject to the rules of the schemes.
Following an assessment of all of the above measures the total bonuses payable relative to their salary for the executive directors Nick Jopling and Mark Greenwood will be eligible to participate in were 75% for the chief executive and 60% for the other directors.
the SIP once they have been employed for the requisite period of eighteen months.
Amounts relating to directors participation in the SIP and share options under the SAYE scheme are shown on pages 54 and 55.
