Annual report and accounts 2011 O verview 71 B usiness review G overnance Financials Notes to the financial statements 1 Accounting policies iii Joint ventures and associates a Basis of preparation Joint ventures are those entities over whose activities the group has joint control, established by contractual agreement.
Associates are all Grainger plc is a company incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
It is a public limited liability company listed on the London Stock entities over which the group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% Exchange and the address of the registered office is given on page 154.
The group financial statements consolidate those of the company of the voting rights.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating decisions of the investee but is not and its subsidiaries, together referred to as the group, and equity account the groups interest in joint ventures and associates.
The parent control or joint control over those policies.
company financial statements present information about the company and not about its group.
Investments in joint ventures and associates are accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The These financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2011 have been prepared in accordance with EU endorsed International groups investment in joint ventures and associates includes goodwill net of any accumulated impairment loss identified on acquisition.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, IFRIC interpretations and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting The groups share of its joint ventures and associates post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement, and its share under IFRS.
The company has elected to prepare its company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP.
These are presented on of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in other comprehensive income.
Where the groups interest has been reduced to pages 146 to 152. nil, additional losses are provided for, and a liability is recognised, only to the extent that the group has incurred legal or constructive The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in the group obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture or associate.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against financial statements.
the carrying amount of the investment.
The group financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention except for the following assets and liabilities Unrealised gains on transactions between the group and its joint ventures and associates are eliminated to the extent of the groups which are stated at their fair value: investment property, derivative financial instruments and financial interest in property assets.
interest in joint ventures and associates.
The accounting policies of joint ventures and associates have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the group.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
Although these iv Transactions with non-controlling interests estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the events and amounts involved, actual results ultimately may differ from those The group applies a policy of treating transactions with non-controlling interests as transactions with parties external to the group.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to Disposals to non-controlling interests resulting in gains or losses for the group are recorded in equity.
On acquisition of non-controlling the consolidated financial statements are disclosed in note 2. interests, where the consideration paid exceeds the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary the difference is recorded in equity as a deduction from retained earnings.
b Basis of consolidation i Subsidiaries c Segmental reporting Subsidiaries are all entities including special purposes entities over which the group has the power to govern the financial and operating The groups risks and rates of return are affected predominantly by differences between the property asset types it owns and manages.
policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting A business segment is a distinguishable group of assets and operations, reflected in the way that the group manages its business, that is rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries subject to risks and returns that are different from those of other business segments.
are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date control ceases.
IFRS 8, Operating Segments IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be identified based upon the Groups internal reporting to the Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between group companies are eliminated.
Accounting policies chief operating decision maker CODM to make decisions about resources to be allocated to segments and to assess their performance.
of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the group.
The groups CODM is the chief executive officer.
ii Goodwill and impairment The group has identified five such segments as follows: The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the group.
The cost of the acquisition is UK residential: measured as the fair value of the assets given and equity instruments issued.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent Retirement solutions: liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the groups share of net identifiable assets including intangible assets of the Fund management residential investments: acquired entity at the date of acquisition.
If the cost of the acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, UK and European development: and the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Costs attributable to an acquisition are expensed in the consolidated income German residential.
statement under the heading Other income and expenses.
All of the above segments are UK based except European tenanted residential which has its assets and tenants based in Germany and Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries is included within this caption on the statement of financial position.
Goodwill on acquisition of Development which includes assets based in the Czech Republic.
More detail is given relating to each of the above segments, and their joint ventures and associates is included in investments in joint ventures and associates.
geographical split on pages 4 to 22 of the Business review and in note 4.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment testing and is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
