Grainger plc 58 Directors report continued Directors interests in significant contracts Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on No directors were materially interested in any contract of pages 42 and 43 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: significance.
the group financial statements, which have been prepared in Statement of directors responsibilities accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the directors remuneration report and the financial statements the group: in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the business review on pages 2 to 41 includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and Company law requires the directors to prepare financial the position of the group, together with a description of the statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors principal risks and uncertainties that it faces: have prepared the group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by so far as the directors are aware, there is no relevant audit the European Union, and the parent company financial statements information of which the companys auditors are unaware: and in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted the directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and taken as a director in order to make themselves aware of any applicable law.
Under company law the directors must not relevant audit information and to establish that the companys approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they auditors are aware of that information.
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and the company and of the profit or loss of the group for that period.
The maintenance and integrity of the Grainger plc website is the In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors to: does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may select suitable accounting policies and then apply them have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially consistently: presented on the website.
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable Corporate governance and prudent: A report on matters of corporate governance is set out on pages state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and 44 to 49 of this annual report.
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the group Insurance of directors and parent company financial statements respectively: and The company has put in place insurance to cover its directors and officers against the costs of defending themselves in civil legal prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis proceedings taken against them in that capacity and in respect unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will ofdamages awarded in such proceedings.
Following shareholder continue in business.
approval, the group maintains insurance for Grainger plcs The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting directors in respect of their duties as director, which is a qualifying records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys third party indemnity provision for the purposes of the Companies transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time Act 2006.
This cover was in place during the financial year and at the financial position of the company and the group and enable the date of approval of these financial statements.
them to ensure that the financial statements and the directors Creditor payment policy remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, It is the groups policy to pay suppliers in accordance with their as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS normal terms and conditions of trading.
Payment in respect of the Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets purchase of property is subject to and will comply with contractual of the company and the group and hence for taking reasonable terms.
Trade creditors existing at 30 September 2011 relating to steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other purchases of property stock generally complete 28 days after irregularities.
The company has no trade creditors.
Tradecreditor days of the group were calculated as 22 days 2010:21 days.
