Grainger plc 78 Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued y Acquisition of and investment in own shares The group acquires its own shares to enable it to meet its obligations under the various share schemes in operation.
No gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the companys own shares.
The acquisition cost of the shares is debited to an investment in own shares reserve within retained earnings.
When shares are issued to employees, a transfer is made at the average cost of the shares issued between the investment in own shares reserve and the share-based payments reserve all within retained earnings see note 34.
Where the group buys back its own shares as treasury shares it adopts the accounting as described above.
Where it subsequently cancels them, issued share capital is reduced by the nominal value of the shares cancelled and this same amount is transferred to the capital redemption reserve.
z Impact of standards and interpretations issued i New standards and interpretations in the year At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following interpretations and amendments were issued, endorsed by the EU and are mandatory for the group for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 October 2010. International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations IFRIC 15 Arrangement for construction of real estates clarifies when IAS 18 Revenue Recognition and IAS 11 Construction contracts should be applied to particular transactions.
IFRIC 18 Transfer of assets from customers clarifies the accounting for arrangements where an item of property, plant and equipment that is provided by the customer is used to provide an ongoing service.
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments clarifies the accounting when an entity renegotiates the terms of its debt with the result that the liability is extinguished through the creditor issuing its own equity instruments to the debtor.
Amendments to existing standards Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based payment was updated to confirm that contribution of a business on the formation of a joint venture and common control transactions are not within its scope.
Amendment to IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations confirmed the disclosure requirements required under IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements paragraphs 15 and 125.
Amendment to IFRS 8 Operating Segments which removes the automatic requirement to report a measure of total assets for each reportable segment.
Total assets continue to be reported within note 4 of these financial statements as this measure is regularly provided to the chief operating decision maker.
Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements was updated to clarify the definition of a current liability where classification is derived from the lack of an unconditional right to defer settlement more than 12 months from the statement of financial position date.
Amendment to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows which restricts the eligibility of expenditure for inclusion as investing activity cash flows to those expenditures which result in recognised assets in the statement of financial position only.
Amendment to IAS 17 Leases to remove the presumption that leases of land were operating leases unless title transferred to the lessee at the end of the lease.
Amendment to IAS 18 Revenue Recognition to provide guidance for when an entity is acting as principal or agent.
This has not resulted in any changes in accounting policy for the group.
Amendment to IAS 38 Intangible Assets to confirm measurement of intangible assets in business combinations.
Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement to confirm the scope of the standard excludes forward contracts to enter into a business combination and clarify the definition of external parties for hedge accounting.
Annual report and accounts 2011 O verview 79 B usiness review G overnance Financials Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued Amendments to existing interpretations y Acquisition of and investment in own shares Amendment to IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives to confirm the scope of the interpretation excludes business combinations.
The group acquires its own shares to enable it to meet its obligations under the various share schemes in operation.
The acquisition cost of the shares is Amendment to IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Currency to remove the restriction that the foreign entity being debited to an investment in own shares reserve within retained earnings.
When shares are issued to employees, a transfer is made at the hedged may not hold the hedging instrument.
average cost of the shares issued between the investment in own shares reserve and the share-based payments reserve all within retained These standards and amendments to these standards and interpretations have had no material financial impact on these financial earnings see note 34. statements.
Where it subsequently cancels ii Standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective them, issued share capital is reduced by the nominal value of the shares cancelled and this same amount is transferred to the capital At the date of authorisation of these financial statements there are a number of standards, amendments and interpretations to existing redemption reserve.
standards that have been published but which are not yet effective and which have not been early adopted by the group.
These are z Impact of standards and interpretations issued as follows: i New standards and interpretations in the year International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following interpretations and amendments were issued, endorsed by the EU and IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: classification and measurement which has two measurement categories: amortised cost and fair value.
are mandatory for the group for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 October 2010.
All equity instruments are measured at fair value.
A debt instrument is measured at amortised cost only if the entity is holding it to International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations collect contractual cash flows and the cash flows represent principal and interest.
IFRIC 15 Arrangement for construction of real estates clarifies when IAS 18 Revenue Recognition and IAS 11 Construction contracts IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements which identifies the concept of control as the determining factor of whether an entity should be applied to particular transactions.
should be included within the consolidated financial statements.
IFRS 11 Joint arrangements includes revised definitions of joint arrangements which focus on the rights and obligations over the legal form.
The standard removes the option of proportional consolidation.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities requires disclosure of all interests in other entities.
Amendments to existing standards IFRS 13 Fair value measurement provides a precise definition of fair value and a single source of fair value measurement and disclosure Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based payment was updated to confirm that contribution of a business on the formation of a joint requirements.
venture and common control transactions are not within its scope.
IAS 27 revised 2011 Separate Financial Statements and IAS 28 revised 2011 Associates and joint ventures include the provisions on Amendment to IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations confirmed the disclosure requirements required separate financial statements which are not included in IFRS 10. under IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements paragraphs 15 and 125. International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations Amendment to IFRS 8 Operating Segments which removes the automatic requirement to report a measure of total assets for each IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement applies only to entities required to make minimum funding contributions to reportable segment.
Total assets continue to be reported within note 4 of these financial statements as this measure is regularly provided a defined benefit pension plan.
to the chief operating decision maker.
Amendments to existing standards and interpretations Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements was updated to clarify the definition of a current liability where Annual improvements 2010 covering changes to IFRS 1, IFRS 3, IFRS 7, IAS1, IAS 27, IAS 34 and IFRIC 13. classification is derived from the lack of an unconditional right to defer settlement more than 12 months from the statement of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures has been amended to remove the requirement for government-related entities to disclose details of all financial position date.
transactions with the government and other government-related entities and clarifies and simplifies the definition of a related party.
Amendment to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows which restricts the eligibility of expenditure for inclusion as investing activity cash flows IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures includes changes to promote transparency in the reporting of transfer transactions and to those expenditures which result in recognised assets in the statement of financial position only.
improve users understanding of the risk exposures of transfers of financial assets.
Amendment to IAS 17 Leases to remove the presumption that leases of land were operating leases unless title transferred to the lessee IFRS 1 First time Adoption amends fixed dates and includes guidance on implementations affected by hyperinflation.
IAS 12 Income taxes introduces an exception to the existing principle for the measurement of deferred tax assets or liabilities arising on Amendment to IAS 18 Revenue Recognition to provide guidance for when an entity is acting as principal or agent.
This has not resulted investment property measured at fair value.
in any changes in accounting policy for the group.
IAS 19 Employee benefits introduces a requirement to group items presented in Other comprehensive income on the basis of whether Amendment to IAS 38 Intangible Assets to confirm measurement of intangible assets in business combinations.
they are potentially recycled to income statement.
