Annual report and accounts 2011 O verview 75 B usiness review G overnance Financials Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued iii Share-based compensation j Cash and cash equivalents The group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans comprising awards under a Long-term Incentive Scheme Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original LTIS, a deferred bonus plan DBP, a Share Incentive Plan SIP and a save as you earn SAYE scheme.
The fair value of the employee maturities of three months or less.
services received in exchange for the grant of shares and options is recognised as an employee expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the shares and options granted.
For market based conditions, k Income tax the probability of vesting is taken into account in the fair value calculation and no revision is made to the number of shares or options Income tax on the profits or losses for the periods presented comprises both current and deferred tax.
Current tax is the expected tax expected to vest.
For non-market conditions, each year the group revises its estimate of the number of options or shares that are expected payable on the taxable income for the year using rates applicable during the year.
Tax payable upon the realisation of revaluation gains to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement with a corresponding adjustment recognised in prior periods is recorded as a current tax charge with a release of the associated deferred taxation.
Deferred income tax is recognised, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and Awards that are subject to a market-based performance condition are valued at fair value using the Monte Carlo simulation model.
liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
However, the deferred income tax is not accounted for if it Awards not subject to a market-based performance condition are valued at fair value using the Black Scholes valuation model.
arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted When options are exercised the proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital nominal or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the value and share premium.
deferred income tax liability is settled.
m Revenue recognition Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and is stated net of sales taxes and value added taxes.
temporary differences can be utilised.
Revenue is recognised on our three primary income streams as follows: Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of i Income from property trading the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the Revenue and profits or losses arising from the sale of trading and investment property are included in the income statement where foreseeable future.
contract completion has taken place.
Profits or losses are calculated by reference to the carrying value of property and are included in operating profit.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either ii Rental income the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term on an accruals basis.
l Employee benefits iii Management fee income i Defined contribution pension scheme Management fee income is recognised in the accounting period in which the services are rendered.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are recognised as an expense in the income statement in the period In addition, income is recognised as follows on service charges and investments: to which they relate.
Service charges ii Defined benefit pension scheme The group is responsible for providing service charge services in both the UK and in Germany.
Where Grainger is exposed to the significant The group currently contributes to a defined benefit pension scheme that was closed to new members and employee contributions in risks and rewards associated with the rendering of services it is acting as principal.
Otherwise it is acting as agent.
The full deficit in the scheme was recognised in the balance sheet as at 1 October 2004.
In the UK, Grainger acts primarily as agent.
Accordingly service charge receivables and payables are shown net in the balance sheet.
An actuarial valuation of the scheme is carried out every three years.
The cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date by a qualified actuary, also under the Projected Unit In Germany, Grainger acts primarily as principal.
Accordingly service charge income and costs are shown gross in the income statement Credit Method, for the purpose of determining the amounts to be reflected in the groups financial statements under IAS 19. with service charge recoveries from tenants recorded as a component of group revenue.
Where recovery of service charges is doubtful a provision for impairment is made.
The liability recognised in the balance sheet is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of scheme assets.
Income from investments Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
There are no current or past service costs as the scheme is closed to new members and employee contributions.
Interest on pension scheme liabilities and the expected return on pension scheme assets are reflected in the income statement each year.
Actuarial gains and Group revenue losses net of deferred income tax are reflected in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income each year.
Group revenue set out in note 5, comprises gross rental income, service charge income on a principal basis, gross proceeds, before sales costs, from the sale of trading properties and management fee and other income.
