Annual report and accounts 2011 O verview 73 B usiness review G overnance Financials Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued Investment property is measured initially at its cost, including related transaction costs.
The group has a segment director responsible for the performance of each of these five segments and the group reports key financial After initial recognition, investment property is carried at fair value.
Fair value is based on active market prices, adjusted, if necessary, for information to the CODM on the basis of these five segments.
Each of these five segments operates within a different part of the overall any difference in the nature, location or condition of the specified asset.
If this information is not available, the group uses alternative residential market.
valuation methods such as recent prices on less active markets or discounted cash flow projections.
The title All other segments has been included in the segmental tables in note 4 to reconcile the segments to the figures reviewed Subsequent expenditure is included in the carrying amount of the property when it is probable that the future economic benefits by the CODM.
associated with the item will flow to the group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance costs The measure of profit or loss used by the CODM is the trading profit or loss before valuation gains or deficits on investment properties and are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
excluding all revaluation and non recurring items as set out in note 3.
The CODM reviews by segment two key balance sheet measures of Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the groups investment properties are included in the income statement of the net asset value.
These are Gross net asset value NAV and Triple net asset value NNNAV measures.
Both measures include trading period in which they arise.
stock at market value as opposed to the lower of cost and net realisable value.
g Property, plant and equipment Gross net asset value is defined as the market value of net assets before deduction for deferred tax on property revaluations and before Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less subsequent depreciation and impairment.
Cost includes expenditure that is adjustments for the fair value of derivatives.
directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Triple net asset value is defined as gross net asset value adjusted for deferred and contingent tax on revaluation gains and for mark to Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable market adjustments.
that the future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
Information relating to the groups operating segments and the two net asset value measures is set out in note 4.
All other repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
d Share capital Depreciation on property, plant and equipment is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost less residual values over Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as their estimated useful lives, as follows: a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Fixtures, fittings and equipment Five years e Foreign currency translation The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
i Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic h Financial interest in property assets environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds Financial interest in property assets is initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs and subsequently carried at fair value.
Sterling, which is the companys functional and presentation currency.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the net change in value that is recorded through the income statement is as follows: i the carrying value of the assets is increased by the effective interest rate and ii the carrying value of the assets is revised to the net present value of the ii Foreign currency transactions updated projected cash flows arising from the instrument using the effective interest rate applicable at acquisition.
The change in value Foreign currency transactions are translated at the foreign exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and recorded through the income statement is shown on the line finance income from financial interest in property assets.
Cash received liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated into sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that from the instrument in the year is deducted from the carrying value of the asset.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions are recognised in the income statement.
Differences between the updated projected cash flows using the effective interest rate applicable at acquisition compared to updated iii Foreign operations projected cash flows using a year end effective interest rate, assessed as the rate available in the market for an instrument with a similar The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated to maturity and credit risk, are taken through other comprehensive income with a corresponding adjustment to the carrying value of the Sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated at average assets.
When gains or losses in the assets are realised, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in equity are included in the foreign exchange rates for the relevant period.
Foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised within the consolidated statement of income statement as gains and losses from financial interest in property assets.
i Inventories trading property iv Net investment hedges Tenanted residential properties held for sale in the normal course of business are shown in the financial statements at the lower of Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes legal and surveying charges and introducer fees incurred during acquisition together with instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income within the translation reserve as part improvement costs.
Net realisable value is the net sale proceeds which the group expects on sale of a property with vacant possession.
Any gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement within interest expense and similar charges.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement when the foreign operation is partially Land and property held within the development segment of the business, including house-building sites, are shown in the financial disposed of or sold.
statements at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost represents the acquisition price including legal and other professional costs associated with the acquisition together with subsequent development costs net of amounts transferred to costs of sale.
Net realisable f Investment property value is the expected net sales proceeds of the developed property.
Property that is held for long-term rental yields or for capital appreciation or both, and that is not occupied by the companies in the consolidated group, is classified as investment property.
Where residential properties are sold tenanted or where land is sold without development, net realisable value is the current market value net of associated selling costs.
