Grainger plc 76 Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued n Leases i Group as lessor The net present value of ground rents receivable is, in the opinion of the directors, immaterial.
Accordingly, ground rents receivable are taken to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Properties leased out to tenants are included in the balance sheet as either investment property or as trading property under inventories.
Where the group grants a lifetime lease on an investment property and receives from the lessee an upfront payment in respect of the grant of the lease, the upfront payment is treated as deferred rent in the balance sheet.
This deferred rent is released to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the projected term of the lease.
At each year end the projected term of the lease is revised on an actuarial basis and the remaining deferred rent is released to the income statement on a straight-line basis over this revised lease term.
ii Group as lessee The group occupies a number of its offices as a lessee.
After a review of all of its occupational leases, the directors have concluded that all such leases are operating leases.
Payments, including prepayments, made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
The net present value of ground rents payable is, in the opinion of the directors, immaterial.
Accordingly, ground rent expenses are taken to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
o Derivative financial instruments Derivatives The group uses derivative instruments to help manage its interest rate risk.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the group does not hold or issue derivatives for trading purposes.
Derivatives are classified as current assets and current liabilities.
The derivatives are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequently, the gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement, unless the derivatives qualify for cash flow hedge accounting in which case any gain or loss is taken to equity in a cash flow hedge reserve.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the group is required to document in advance the relationship between the item being hedged and the hedging instrument.
The group is also required to demonstrate that the hedge will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness testing is re-performed at each period end to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecasted transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was recognised in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Fair value estimation The fair value of interest rate swaps is based on a discounted cash flow model using quoted market information.
p Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Derecognition is the point at which the group removes an asset or a liability from its balance sheet.
The groups policy is to derecognise financial assets only when the contractual right to the cash flows from the financial asset expires.
The group also derecognises financial assets that it transfers to another party provided that the transfer of the assets also transfers the right to receive cash flows from the financial asset.
When the transfer does not result in the group transferring the right to receive cash flows from the financial asset but it does result in the group assuming a corresponding obligation to pay cash flows to another recipient, the financial asset is derecognised.
The group derecognises financial liabilities only when its obligation is discharged, is cancelled or expires.
Financial assets classified as available-for-sale is the financial interest in property assets.
Derivative financial instruments not in hedge accounting relationships are classified as fair value through profit and loss.
