Grainger plc 80 Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued All the above IFRSs, IFRIC interpretations and amendments to existing standards are yet to be endorsed by the European Union EU at the date of approval of these financial statements with the exception of IAS 24 and IFRIC 14.
The directors are currently considering the potential impact arising from the future adoption of these standards and interpretations listed above.
2 Critical accounting estimates and assumptions The groups significant accounting policies are stated in note 1 above.
Not all of these accounting policies require management to make subjective or complex judgements or estimates.
The following is intended to provide further detail relating to those accounting policies that management consider critical because of the level of complexity, judgement or estimation involved in their application and their impact on the consolidated financial statements.
The group performs sensitivity analysis as part of the risk management process.
Accordingly the sensitivities applied in the critical accounting estimates and assumptions are relative to the risk assessment and materiality of each balance.
Valuation of residential property The groups residential trading property is carried in the balance sheet at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The groups investment property is carried in the balance sheet at fair value.
The group does, however, in its principal net asset value measures, NAV and NNNAV, include trading stock at market value.
The market value of the groups property which, in the case of investment property, is the same as fair value, is established as set out below.
i The groups own in-house qualified surveying team provide a vacant possession value for the majority of the groups UK based property as at 30 September 2011.
A structured sample of these in-house valuations are reviewed by Allsop LLP, an external independent valuer.
Valuing the large number of properties in the portfolio is a significant task.
For this reason it is undertaken on an external inspection basis only.
Invariably, when the in-house valuations are compared to those of the external valuer, around 85% of the valuations are within a small acceptable tolerance.
Where the difference is more significant this is discussed with the valuer to determine the reasons for the difference.
Typically the reasons vary but it could be, for example, that further or better information about internal condition is available or that respective valuers have placed a different interpretation on comparable sales.
Once such reasons have been identified the group and the valuer agree the appropriate valuation that should be adopted as the directors valuation.
Overall, across all of the properties valued by Allsop LLP, the directors valuations were approximately 1.0% lower than the Allsop LLP values.
Allsop LLP has provided the directors with the following opinion on the directors valuation of the groups UK property, Property held in the core residential and retirement solutions portfolios was valued as at 30 September 2011 by Graingers in-house surveyors.
These valuations were reviewed and approved by the directors.
Allsop LLP has undertaken a comprehensive review of the directors valuation and they are satisfied with the process by which the in-house valuations were conducted.
As part of the review, Allsop LLP valued approximately 50% of the core residential portfolio and approximately 33% of the retirement solutions portfolio, independently of the group.
Based on the results of that review Allsop LLP has concluded that they have a high degree of confidence in those directors valuations.
Allsop LLP also recommend the discount to apply to the vacant possession valuations to establish the market value of each property.
For property in UK residential the discounts are established by tenancy type and are based on evidence gathered by Allsop LLP from recent transactional market evidence.
For property in retirement solutions the discounts recommended by Allsop LLP are on a propertyby-property basis taking into account a number of factors, primarily the estimated period until vacant possession may arise and the appropriate discount rate.
The directors have adopted all of the recommendations made by Allsop LLP in relation to the discounts.
For the property held in the group balance sheet as investment property, the valuation process as set out above gave a market value of 187.5m.
A net valuation deficit of 4.4m has been taken through the income statement in relation to this property.
The remaining property is held in the groups balance sheet as trading property at the lower of cost and net realisable value of 839.8m.
ii All of the property owned by the group in the Grainger GenInvest portfolio and which is now wholly owned see note 41 ii was valued as at 30 September 2011 by Allsop LLP who are external independent valuers.
Annual report and accounts 2011 O verview 81 B usiness review G overnance Financials Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued The aggregate of the market values of the properties at 30 September 2011 was 298.6m, subject to the assumption that the dwellings All the above IFRSs, IFRIC interpretations and amendments to existing standards are yet to be endorsed by the European Union EU would be sold individually, in their existing condition, and subject to any existing leases or tenancies.
The valuers opinion of market value at the date of approval of these financial statements with the exception of IAS 24 and IFRIC 14. was primarily derived using comparable recent market transactions on arms-length terms.
Part of the property is held in the groups balance sheet as investment property with a market value of 104.9m at 30 September 2011.
The remaining property is held in the The directors are currently considering the potential impact arising from the future adoption of these standards and interpretations listed groups balance sheet as trading property at the lower of cost and net realisable value of 184.2m.
The net gain on valuation of the above.
investment property in this portfolio was 3.3m which has been taken through the income statement.
2 Critical accounting estimates and assumptions iii The whole of the property portfolio in Germany was valued at 30 September 2011 by Cushman and Wakefield LLP who are external The groups significant accounting policies are stated in note 1 above.
Not all of these accounting policies require management to make independent valuers.
The Germany portfolio is virtually all held in the group balance sheet as investment property and has a market value subjective or complex judgements or estimates.
The following is intended to provide further detail relating to those accounting policies that at 30 September 2011 of 489.3m 421.4m.
The net deficit on valuation of the Germany portfolio was 1.6m which has been taken management consider critical because of the level of complexity, judgement or estimation involved in their application and their impact on through the income statement.
The remaining property is held in the groups balance sheet as trading property at the lower of cost and the consolidated financial statements.
Accordingly the net realisable value of 1.1m 0.9m.
sensitivities applied in the critical accounting estimates and assumptions are relative to the risk assessment and materiality of each balance.
Whilst in the UK, valuers rely predominantly on recent transactional evidence for similar properties to value investment property, in Valuation of residential property Germany investment property is valued using an income capitalisation approach under which net rental income is discounted to a net The groups residential trading property is carried in the balance sheet at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The groups investment present value.
Both methodologies are permitted under IAS 40. property is carried in the balance sheet at fair value.
The market value of the groups property which, in the case of investment property, is the same as iv Allsop LLP has also valued as at 30 September 2011 the property assets owned by Tricomm Housing Limited and let under a long-term fair value, is established as set out below.
lease arrangement with the Secretary of State for Defence under a PFI Project Agreement.
Allsop LLP has provided a calculation of worth which is defined as the value of a property to a particular owner, investor or class of investors for identified investment or operational i The groups own in-house qualified surveying team provide a vacant possession value for the majority of the groups UK based property objectives.
The calculation of worth has been made in accordance with RICS Valuation Standards, is based on a discounted cash flow as at 30 September 2011.
model, and results in a worth of 106.1m as at 30 September 2011.
The property is held in the group balance sheet as investment Valuing the large number of properties in the portfolio is a significant task.
For this reason it is undertaken on an external inspection basis property at this figure.
A gain on valuation of 0.7m since acquisition see note 41 has been taken through the income statement.
Where the difference is more significant this is discussed with the valuer to determine the reasons for the v The group has a 21.96% interest in G:res which has invested in investment property.
Valuations of 100% of the G:res portfolio were difference.
Typically the reasons vary but it could be, for example, that further or better information about internal condition is available or carried out in two parts as at 31 December 2010 and 30 June 2011 by external valuers, Allsop LLP and DTZ Debenham Tie Leung Limited.
that respective valuers have placed a different interpretation on comparable sales.
Once such reasons have been identified the group and In aggregate, the valuation of the individual dwellings at 30 June 2011 was 384.3m.
After full consideration of house price movements the valuer agree the appropriate valuation that should be adopted as the directors valuation.
Overall, across all of the properties valued by in those areas where G:res property assets are situated the groups directors made no adjustment to the 30 June 2011 valuations, other Allsop LLP, the directors valuations were approximately 1.0% lower than the Allsop LLP values.
than for sales and purchases, in assessing the groups share of G:res net assets for the purposes of the groups accounts to 30 September 2011.
For every 1% movement in the market value of the G:res investment property the groups share of the movement would amount Allsop LLP has provided the directors with the following opinion on the directors valuation of the groups UK property, Property held to 0.8m.
in the core residential and retirement solutions portfolios was valued as at 30 September 2011 by Graingers in-house surveyors.
Allsop LLP has undertaken a comprehensive review of the directors All of the external valuers in the UK mentioned above have made full disclosure, as required by RICS Valuation Standards UKVS 4, of the valuation and they are satisfied with the process by which the in-house valuations were conducted.
As part of the review, Allsop LLP extent and duration of their work for, and fees earned by them from, the company, which in all cases are less than 5% of their total fees.
valued approximately 50% of the core residential portfolio and approximately 33% of the retirement solutions portfolio, independently Net realisable value of trading property of the group.
Based on the results of that review Allsop LLP has concluded that they have a high degree of confidence in those The groups residential trading properties are carried in the balance sheet at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
In assessing net directors valuations.
realisable value the group uses the valuations carried out by its own in-house qualified surveying team.
As stated above, a structured Allsop LLP also recommend the discount to apply to the vacant possession valuations to establish the market value of each property.
sample of the in-house valuations was reviewed by Allsop LLP, an external independent valuer.
For property in UK residential the discounts are established by tenancy type and are based on evidence gathered by Allsop LLP from As the groups business model is to sell trading stock on vacancy, net realisable value is the net sales proceeds which the group expects on recent transactional market evidence.
For property in retirement solutions the discounts recommended by Allsop LLP are on a propertysale of a property with vacant possession.
A net realisable value provision has been made at 30 September 2011 to write down properties by-property basis taking into account a number of factors, primarily the estimated period until vacant possession may arise and the expected to be sold ultimately at vacant possession value.
The provision has been assessed on what the group considers to be reasonable appropriate discount rate.
These allow for no change to property prices in 2012 followed by growth in house prices of 2.5% in 2013 with price The directors have adopted all of the recommendations made by Allsop LLP in relation to the discounts.
increases thereafter in line with conservative historical house price growth rates.
The assumptions also allow for an annual vacancy rate of 6.5%.
The group does sell some property as investment sales, a sale with the tenant still in situ.
A net realisable value provision has been For the property held in the group balance sheet as investment property, the valuation process as set out above gave a market value of made at 30 September 2011 against projected investment sales.
In aggregate a charge of 0.8m has been made in the 2011 income statement credit of 2.3m in 2010 income statement to adjust the book value of trading properties to the lower of cost and net realisable value and at the year end the group is holding a provision of 4.4m ii All of the property owned by the group in the Grainger GenInvest portfolio and which is now wholly owned see note 41 ii was valued 2010: 3.6m in its balance sheet.
as at 30 September 2011 by Allsop LLP who are external independent valuers.
Grainger plc 82 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Critical accounting estimates and assumptions continued Land and property held within the development segment of the business, are shown in the financial statements at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the expected net sales proceeds of the developed property and a provision is made when, and to the extent that, total projected project costs exceed total projected project revenues.
Where land and property is sold without development, net realisable value is the current market value net of associated selling costs.
The current market value of the groups land and property held within the development segment has been assessed by Knight Frank LLP who are external valuers.
Their valuation is on the basis of market value as defined in the RICS Valuation Standards.
Decisions regarding whether to develop a site or to sell a site undeveloped are made by the directors based on market conditions prevailing at the time.
The assumptions adopted as at 30 September 2011 are based upon the current intentions of the directors.
In addition, estimates at 30 September 2011 of project profitability are based on assumptions regarding projected build costs and sales proceeds for those sites where development is expected to occur.
In some cases these projections are made without the benefit of planning permission having been agreed.
The assumptions made may or may not be borne out in practice.
It is possible therefore that the net realisable value provision required should be more than or less than that made.
A charge of 1.0m has been made in the 2011 income statement credit of 0.6m in 2010 to adjust the book value of development stock to net realisable value.
Valuation of financial interest in property assets The valuation is based on an assessment of the future cash flows that will arise from our financial interest and on the effective interest rate used to discount those cash flows.
The valuation methodology adopted is set out in note 1 h above.
The key assumptions affecting the carrying value are house price inflation and the effective interest rate.
The assumptions adopted with regard to house prices are the same as those set out under net realisable value of trading property above.
A change of 1% to average house price inflation over the 10-year period from 1 October 2011 would either increase the valuation by 5.6m or reduce the valuation by 5.8m.
Consideration has been given to the effective interest rate to adopt for the valuation.
We have concluded that the effective interest rate as at 30 September 2011 should be the same as the rate adopted at 30 September 2010 which is 0.85% lower than the effective interest rate when the financial interest was acquired.
A 1% change to the discount rate would either increase the carrying value by 7.2m or reduce the carrying value by 6.4m.
Distinction between investment and trading property The group considers the intention at the outset when each property is acquired in order to classify the property as either an investment or a trading property.
Where the intention is to either trade the property or where the property is held for immediate sale upon receiving vacant possession within the ordinary course of business, the property is classified as trading property.
Where the intention is to hold the property for its long-term rental yield and or capital appreciation, the property is classified as an investment property.
Income taxes There are some transactions and calculations that involve a degree of estimation and judgement and whose tax treatment can not be determined until a formal resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authorities.
In such cases, the groups policy is to be prudent in its assessment of the tax benefit that may accrue in line with the contingent asset rules set out in IAS 37.
Where the final outcome of these matters is different from the amounts initially recorded, such differences will impact on the income and deferred tax amounts reflected in subsequent accounting periods.
During the year, the group concluded its discussions with HM Revenue & Customs in connection with a number of outstanding tax matters.
Further information is provided in note 14.
Annual report and accounts 2011 O verview 83 B usiness review G overnance Financials Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Critical accounting estimates and assumptions continued Going concern Land and property held within the development segment of the business, are shown in the financial statements at the lower of cost and The directors are required to make an assessment of the groups ability to continue to trade as a going concern for the foreseeable future.
Net realisable value is the expected net sales proceeds of the developed property and a provision is made when, and The directors have given this matter due consideration and have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the group financial statements to the extent that, total projected project costs exceed total projected project revenues.
The main considerations were as follows: Where land and property is sold without development, net realisable value is the current market value net of associated selling costs.
i Covenant compliance The groups core banking facility has two covenants, being loan to value LTV and interest cover.
At 30 The current market value of the groups land and property held within the development segment has been assessed by Knight Frank LLP September 2011 the LTV was 52% compared to a default level of 75% and the interest cover ratio was 3.1 times compared to a who are external valuers.
The group has other bank debt on which there are also covenant requirements.
As at 30 September 2011, the group is operating comfortably within these requirements.
The directors have reviewed the groups financial projections Decisions regarding whether to develop a site or to sell a site undeveloped are made by the directors based on market conditions covering a minimum period of at least 12 months beyond the date of signing of these financial statements, and which include covenant prevailing at the time.
These projections show that the group will comfortably meet its covenant requirements.
In some cases these projections are made without the benefit of ii Banking facilities The groups existing core facilities were 1,093m on 30 September 2011, of which 927m were drawn.
The group planning permission having been agreed.
It is possible therefore that the had free cash balances plus available overdraft of 48m and undrawn committed facilities of 166m at 30 September 2011.
As a result of net realisable value provision required should be more than or less than that made.
securing 50.3m of debt financing from Partnership Assurance on 5 October 2011, the core facilities have since been reduced to 1,043m, of which 877m were drawn as at 25 November 2011.
The new forward start facility of 840m which will be drawn to replace A charge of 1.0m has been made in the 2011 income statement credit of 0.6m in 2010 to adjust the book value of development stock the existing facilities by 30 September 2012 together with existing free cash balances of 42m as at 25 November 2011 will enable the to net realisable value.
group to repay the existing core facilities in the course of the current financial year.
Valuation of financial interest in property assets In addition to the above, the group is actively engaging with a number of interested lenders to provide additional funding and an The valuation is based on an assessment of the future cash flows that will arise from our financial interest and on the effective interest rate agreement for a further 28.6m of debt financing from Partnership Assurance was concluded on 21 November 2011. used to discount those cash flows.
As has been demonstrated over the past few years, the group is able to generate strong cash flows even in very difficult general market conditions.
The groups cash flow projections confirm that the group will remain well within its facilities for a minimum period of at least The assumptions adopted with regard to house prices are the same as those set out under net realisable value of trading property above.
12 months beyond the date of signing of these financial statements.
