Annual report and accounts 2011 O verview 59 B usiness review Governance F inancials Financial Risk Management Employment of disabled persons Details are included in note 25 to the financial statements.
The company gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment made by disabled persons, having regard to Sustainability their particular aptitudes and abilities.
In the event of an employee Our approach to sustainability is based on our assessment of the becoming disabled every effort is made to ensure that their potential risk and opportunity to our business.
In the year ended employment within the company continues and that appropriate 30 September 2011 we either fully or partially achieved 88% of training is arranged where necessary.
It is the policy of the the applicable sustainability targets that we committed to meeting company that the training, career development and promotion by that date.
Further information is provided in the corporate of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that responsibility report on pages 30 to 38. of other employees.
Charitable donations Employee involvement During the year the group made charitable donations amounting The group places considerable value on the involvement of its to 17,500 2010: 12,320.
Grainger makes charitable donations employees and has continued its practice of keeping them in three ways.
Firstly, we are a Foundation Partner member of informed on matters affecting them as employees, for example, LandAid, the property industry charity, and have committed to eligibility to join company share schemes, and on the various donating 10,000 per annum to LandAid for a period of three factors affecting the performance of the group.
Communication years of which this is the second year of contribution.
Secondly, is made using the intranet, The Source, and through regular we match fund our staffs individual fundraising efforts up to a meetings with, and presentations by senior management.
maximum of 100 per person per annum and we make occasional donations to specific events or good causes.
We have not made Independent auditors and disclosure of information any contributions for political purposes.
toauditors As far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit Overseas operations information of which the companys auditors are unaware.
Our German portfolio continues to be centrally managed and Each director has taken steps that they ought to have taken controlled by our Luxembourg managers.
as directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant Health and safety audit information and to establish that the companys auditors Grainger has a well-developed Health and Safety Management are aware of that information.
System for the internal and external control of health and safety  LLP have expressed their willingness risks which is managed by the Director of Health and Safety.
to continue in office as auditors to the company and group.
Thisincludes the use of online risk management systems for the A resolution to reappoint them as auditors to the company will identification, mitigation and reporting of real time health and be proposed at the next Annual General Meeting.
The group health and safety committee consists of members from across the organisation and is chaired by the chief operating officer.
The committee continues to monitor the delivery of legal compliance in health and safety through audit and implementation of improvements to enable us to become best in class.
