Grainger plc 114 Notes to the financial statements continued 25 Financial risk management and derivative financial instruments continued Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss due to a counterpartys failure to honour its obligations.
The groups principal financial assets include its financial interest in property assets, bank balances and cash, trade and other receivables and financial derivatives.
The carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the financial statements represents the groups maximum exposure to credit risk without taking account of the value of any collateral obtained.
The groups financial interest in property assets relates to a financial interest in equity mortgages held by the Church of England Pensions Board as mortgagee, a counterparty considered to be low risk as they have no history of past due or impaired amounts and there are no past due amounts outstanding at the year end.
The groups principal credit risk relates to trade receivables.
Where it is identified that recovery is doubtful a provision for impairment is made.
For all Assured Shorthold Tenancies credit checks are performed prior to acceptance of the tenant.
Regulated tenants are incentivised through the benefit of their tenancy agreement to avoid default on their rent.
Lifetime tenancies are generally at low or zero rent and hence suffer minimal credit risk.
Rent deposits and personal guarantees are held in respect of some leases.
Taking these factors into account, the risk to the group of individual tenant default and the credit risk of trade receivables is considered low, as is borne out by the low level of trade receivables written off both in this year and in prior years.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is managed through the groups policies of monitoring counterparty exposure, concentration of credit risk through the use of multiple counterparties and the use of counterparties of good financial standing.
Cash and short-term deposits at 30 September 2011 amounted to 90.9m 2010: 91.5m.
Deposits were placed with financial institutions with Aor better credit ratings.
At 30 September 2011, the fair value of all interest rate derivatives which had a positive value was 0.2m 2010: nil.
For 2011 balances, all the counterparties have investment grade credit ratings.
At 30 September 2011, the largest combined credit exposure to a single counterparty arising from money market deposits and interest rate swaps was 246.8m 2010: 291.7m which represents 11.0% 2010: 14.1% of total assets.
At 30 September 2011, the loan advanced to Mornington Capital Special Situations Co-investment Fund 1 Limited Partnership was impaired on the basis of discounted future cash flows see note 24.
Liquidity risk The group ensures that it maintains continuity and flexibility through a spread of maturities.
Although the groups core funding is supported by covenants requiring certain levels of loan to value with respect to the entities in the group of obligors and to maintaining a certain level of interest cover at the group level the loan is not secured directly against any property allowing operational flexibility.
The group has operated well within its covenants during 2011 and as at 30 September 2011 see note 2 Critical accounting estimates and assumptions.
The group ensures that it maintains sufficient cash for operational requirements at all times.
The group uses short-term money market deposits to manage its liquidity.
The group also ensures that it has sufficient undrawn committed borrowing facilities from a diverse range of banks and other sources to allow for operational flexibility and to meet committed expenditure.
The UK residential business in particular is very cash generative from its gross rents and sales of trading properties.
In adverse trading conditions, investment sales can be increased and new acquisitions can be stopped.
Consequently, the group is able to reduce gearing levels and improve liquidity quickly.
The following table analyses the groups financial liabilities and net-settled derivative financial liabilities at the balance sheet date into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
As the amounts included in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, these amounts will not equal the amounts disclosed on the balance sheet for borrowings, derivative financial instruments, trade and other payables and provisions for liabilities and charges.
A reconciliation to the balance sheet amounts is given on pages 115 and 116.
Trade and other payables due within 12 months equal their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not significant.
