Annual report and accounts 2011 O verview 145 B usiness review G overnance Financials Notes to the financial statements continued Independent auditors report on the parent company financial statements 42 Acquisitions in the prior year continued We have audited the parent company financial statements of Opinion on financial statements ii Acquisition of Sovereign Reversions Limited formerly Sovereign Reversions plc Grainger plc for the year ended 30 September 2011 which In our opinion the parent company financial statements: On 9 August 2010 the group acquired Sovereign Reversions plc Sovereign a company which specialises in equity release investment, comprise the parent company balance sheet and the related notes.
Give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs advice, plan provision and plan administration.
The Sovereign property portfolio on acquisition was valued at approximately 67.9m.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their as at 30 September 2011: preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Grainger Equity Release Limited GERL paid 34.2m for 100% of the issued share capital of Sovereign excluding acquisition costs.
Have been properly prepared in accordance with United Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting The fair value of assets and liabilities was 73.1m and 34.4m respectively.
The fair value of net assets acquired was therefore 38.7m.
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Practice.
The resulting gain on acquisition of 4.5m was credited to the 2010 income statement in line with IFRS 3 Revised.
Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The purchase was made with the subsequent intention of entering into a joint venture with Moorfield Real Estate Fund II Equity Release of the Companies Act 2006.
As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Moorfield Real Estate Fund II Moorfield.
Moorfield is a UK-based real estate investor and Opinion on other matters prescribed by the set out on page 58, the directors are responsible for the Fund Manager.
Companies Act 2006 preparation of the parent company financial statements and for In our opinion: Subsequent to the 2010 Grainger year end, on 12 October 2010, GERL received a cash consideration of 17.5m from Moorfield for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the parent company financial a 50% stake in Sovereign valued at 19.2m.
The group provided for the resulting loss of 1.7m in its 2010 financial statements.
The part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has statements in accordance with applicable law and International In accordance with IFRS 5 all of the assets and liabilities of Sovereign at 30 September 2010 were classified as a disposal group held-forbeen properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act sale.
This is because the disposal group met the two criteria set out in IFRS 5 of being available-for-sale in its present condition and the sale Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require 2006: and us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards being highly probable.
Included on the face of the 2010 consolidated statement of financial position are total assets of 70.7m and total The information given in the directors report for the financial for Auditors.
liabilities of 34.1m relating to Sovereign.
These balances comprised the following: year for which the parent company financial statements are This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only prepared is consistent with the parent company financial m for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter statements.
Total assets 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Inventories trading property 66.5 We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters Cash and cash equivalents 3.1 responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, Other current assets 1.1 whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save in our opinion: where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
70.7 Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Total liabilities Scope of the audit of the financial statements company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Bank loans 28.2 received from branches not visited by us: or disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Deferred tax 4.9 The parent company financial statements and the part of the assurance that the financial statements are free from material Other current liabilities 1.0 directors remuneration report to be audited are not in misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an agreement with the accounting records and returns: or 34.1 assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently A net gain of 2.8m, comprising the gain on acquisition of 4.5m and impairment loss of 1.7m were credited to the 2010 consolidated are not made: or applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant statement of comprehensive income and are shown in the segmental analysis in note 4 within the retirement solutions segment.
accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall We have not received all the information and explanations The Sovereign assets and liabilities are shown as part of the retirement solutions segment in note 4. presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all we require for our audit.
the financial and non-financial information in the annual report Following the formation of the joint venture on 12 October 2010 the remaining 50% interest in Sovereign is now shown within note 20 Other matter to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial of these financial statements.
We have reported separately on the group financial statements statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material of Grainger plc for the year ended 30 September 2011. misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications 43 Post balance sheet events for our report.
On 5 October 2011, the group signed an agreement for 50.3m of debt funding from Partnership Assurance provided through an innovative structure against certain of the groups Retirement Solutions assets, non-recourse to the rest of the group.
On 21 November 2011 the group signed a further agreement with Partnership Assurance for an additional 28.6m of debt funding under similar terms to Bowker Andrews Senior Statutory Auditor the initial 50.3m.
These facilities are repayable on a property-by-property basis as the assets are sold on vacancy, with interest rolling up.
for and on behalf of  LLP In this way the facility exactly matches the cash flow characteristics of this part of the business, with an expected average maturity of 11 Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors years.
These funds are being used to reduce the groups core debt facilities.
