Grainger plc 60 Directors report continued Shares A tender offer of 1 for every 238 shares was undertaken in June 2011.
Following the general meeting to approve the tender offer a total of 1,484,890 ordinary shares were tendered at a price of 149p per share and purchased by the company for approximately 2.2m.
These shares are now held in treasury.
In September 2011 9,683 shares were issued pursuant to the exercise of share options under the groups SAYE scheme.
The company has one class of ordinary shares and all shares rank equally and are fully paid.
No person holds shares carrying special rights with regard to control of the company.
There are neither restrictions on the transfer of shares nor the size of a holding which are both governed by the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of shares in the Company that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting rights.
At 30 September 2011, the directors had unexpired power to repurchase up to 41,600,000 shares.
Takeover directive On a change of control, the core banking facilities described in note 26 to the accounts would become repayable should prior consent not be obtained, or should the debt not be renegotiated within 45 days.
There are no other material matters relating to a change of control of the company following a takeover bid.
Post balance sheet events On 5 October 2011, the group signed an agreement for 50.3m of debt funding from Partnership Assurance provided through an innovative structure against certain of the groups Retirement Solutions assets, non-recourse to the rest of the group.
On21November 2011 the Group signed a further agreement with Partnership Assurance for an additional 28.6m of debt funding under similar terms to the initial 50.3m.
These facilities are repayable on a property-by-property basis as the assets are sold on vacancy, with interest rolling up.
In this way the facility exactly matches the cash flow characteristics of this part of the business, with an expected average maturity of 11 years.
These funds are being used to reduce the groups core debt facilities.
By order of the board Michael Windle Company Secretary 5 December 2011
