Annual report and accounts 2011 O verview 77 B usiness review G overnance Financials Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued q At fair value through profit or loss financial asset n Leases At fair value through profit or loss financial assets are included in the balance sheet at fair value with changes in fair value taken through i Group as lessor the income statement.
At fair value through profit or loss financial assets are managed, and their performance is evaluated, on a fair value The net present value of ground rents receivable is, in the opinion of the directors, immaterial.
Accordingly, ground rents receivable are basis in accordance with the groups documented investment policy.
taken to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Properties leased out to tenants are included in the r Borrowings balance sheet as either investment property or as trading property under inventories.
Borrowings are initially recognised at cost, being the fair value of consideration received, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings Where the group grants a lifetime lease on an investment property and receives from the lessee an upfront payment in respect of the are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is grant of the lease, the upfront payment is treated as deferred rent in the balance sheet.
This deferred rent is released to the income recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
statement on a straight-line basis over the projected term of the lease.
At each year end the projected term of the lease is revised on an Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least actuarial basis and the remaining deferred rent is released to the income statement on a straight-line basis over this revised lease term.
12 months after the balance sheet date.
ii Group as lessee s Convertible bond The group occupies a number of its offices as a lessee.
After a review of all of its occupational leases, the directors have concluded that all The convertible bond is a compound financial instrument and the carrying amount has been allocated to its equity and liability such leases are operating leases.
Payments, including prepayments, made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the components in the group balance sheet.
The liability component has been determined by measuring the fair value of a similar liability that lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
does not have an associated equity component.
The discount rate used for this was based on a rate of 7.5% compounded semi-annually.
The net present value of ground rents payable is, in the opinion of the directors, immaterial.
Accordingly, ground rent expenses are taken The liability component has been deducted from the fair value of the compound financial instrument as a whole and the residual element to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
has been assigned to the equity component.
The liability element is subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
o Derivative financial instruments Derivatives t Trade receivables The group uses derivative instruments to help manage its interest rate risk.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the group does not hold Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less or issue derivatives for trading purposes.
Derivatives are classified as current assets and current liabilities.
A provision for impairment in trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the group will not be able to collect all amounts due.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present The derivatives are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequently, the gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the effective interest rate.
The movement in the provision is recognised in the income immediately in the income statement, unless the derivatives qualify for cash flow hedge accounting in which case any gain or loss is taken statement.
to equity in a cash flow hedge reserve.
u Trade payables In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the group is required to document in advance the relationship between the item being hedged Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
The group is also required to demonstrate that the hedge will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness testing is re-performed at each period end to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
v Provisions Provisions are recognised when a the group has a present obligation as a result of a past event and b it is probable that an outflow of When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or resources will be required to settle the obligation and c a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecasted transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was recognised in equity w Dividends is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Dividend distributions to the companys shareholders are recognised as a liability in the group financial statements in the period in which the dividends either are approved by the companys shareholders or are appropriately authorised and no longer at the discretion Fair value estimation of the group.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is based on a discounted cash flow model using quoted market information.
x Assets held for sale p Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Where a group of assets are to be disposed of by sale together or as a single group, they are classified as a disposal group.
The disposal Derecognition is the point at which the group removes an asset or a liability from its balance sheet.
The groups policy is to derecognise group is classified as held for sale as defined by IFRS 5 when they are available-for-sale in their present condition and the sale is highly financial assets only when the contractual right to the cash flows from the financial asset expires.
The group also derecognises financial probable and expected to be completed within one year from the date of classification.
assets that it transfers to another party provided that the transfer of the assets also transfers the right to receive cash flows from the financial asset.
When the transfer does not result in the group transferring the right to receive cash flows from the financial asset but it does result in the group assuming a corresponding obligation to pay cash flows to another recipient, the financial asset is derecognised.
The group derecognises financial liabilities only when its obligation is discharged, is cancelled or expires.
Financial assets classified as available-for-sale is the financial interest in property assets.
Derivative financial instruments not in hedge accounting relationships are classified as fair value through profit and loss.
