Going Concern Group should be able to operate within the level of its current facilities The Groups business activities together with the factors likely to affect for the foreseeable future.
its future development, performance and position are set out in the The principal risks and uncertainties affecting the forecasts and Directors Report on pages 2 to 76.
The financial position of the Group, projections, to which the Group is exposed, relate to the number of its cash flows and liquidity position are described on pages 53 and 54. hours of flying activity, principally in B&GA, but also to a lesser extent In addition, note 17 of the Consolidated Financial Statements includes in commercial and military aviation.
Flying hours largely dictate the the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: drivers of revenue, namely fuel volumes in Signature, aircraft its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial movements in ASIG, engine overhaul cycles in ERO and demand for instruments and hedging activities: and its exposure to credit risk and components in Legacy Support and APPH.
Further details of these liquidity risk.
risks and uncertainties are provided on page 17.
During the year the Group replaced its previous bank facilities The directors have carried out a critical review of the Groups with a new $750 million multicurrency revolving credit facility, dated 2012 budget and medium-term plans, with due regard for the risks 21 April 2011, with a split maturity of $250 million which is due to expire and uncertainties to which the Group is exposed and the impact that in April 2014, and $500 million which is due to expire in April 2016.
In these could have on trading performance.
The key assumptions used addition, the Group raised $300 million in senior loan notes in the US in constructing the budget were that: private placement market, in May 2011, with maturities of seven, ten Signature, ASIG and ERO continue their gradual recovery in 2012 and twelve years.
Under the $750 million multicurrency revolving and beyond credit facility, as at 31 December 2011, the Group had available $550 Legacy Support remains stable with modest revenue growth and million of undrawn committed borrowing facilities.
These debt operational improvements: and obligations and facilities are subject to cross default.
Further details APPH will be relatively stable in 2012 with a gradual recovery relating to these debt arrangements are provided in note 16 to the commencing during 2013.
The bank facility and the US private placement notes are subject to two main financial covenants: The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and maximum net debt to underlying EBITDA of 3.5 times and minimum the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence net interest cover of 3.0 times EBITDA.
The Directors expect the Group for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going to comply with these covenants for the foreseeable future.
concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
The Groups forecasts and projections taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance show that the Statement of Directors Responsibilities the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
law the directors must not approve the accounts unless they are The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation In preparing the parent company financial statements, the and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation directors are required to: in other jurisdictions.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable Responsibility statement and prudent: We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, explained in the financial statements: and liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will the Directors Report, includes a fair review of the development continue in business.
and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation In preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements, International taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors: and uncertainties that they face.
properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner By order of the Board that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: Simon Pryce Mark Hoad provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director 76 Directors Report requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand 1 March 2012 1 March 2012
