Presentation currency Accounting Policies The Groups revenues, profits and cash flows are primarily generated in US dollars, and are expected to remain principally denominated in US Basis of accounting dollars in the future.
During the year, the Group changed the currency The financial statements have been prepared using the historical in which it presents its consolidated financial statements from pounds cost convention adjusted for the revaluation of certain financial sterling to US dollars, in order to better reflect the underlying instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out performance of the Group.
below which have been consistently applied with the prior year A change in presentation currency is a change in accounting except where noted.
policy which is accounted for retrospectively.
Statutory financial The financial statements have been prepared in accordance information included in the Groups Annual Report and Accounts for with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted for the year ended 31 December 2010 previously reported in sterling has use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the been restated into US dollars using the procedures outlined below: EU IAS Regulation.
They have also been prepared in accordance with assets and liabilities denominated in non-US dollar currencies IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
were translated into US dollars at the closing rates of exchange on There are no new Standards issued by the International the relevant balance sheet date: Accounting Standards Board that are effective in the current period.
non-US dollar income and expenditure were translated at the The following amendments to published Standards and average rates of exchange prevailing for the relevant period: Interpretations were effective during the current year, none of which the cumulative hedging and translation reserves were set to nil at had a significant impact on the Groups results: 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, and these reserves have been restated on the basis that the Group has reported in Amendments US dollars since that date.
Share capital, share premium and the IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting other reserves were translated at the historic rates prevailing at Standards 1January 2004, and subsequent rates prevailing on the date of IFRS 3 Business Combinations each transaction: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures all exchange rates were extracted from the Groups underlying IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures financial records.
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation IFRIC 14 IAS 19: The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum The exchange rates of the US dollar to pounds sterling over the periods Funding Requirements and their Interaction presented in this report are as follows: New Interpretation Year ended Year ended Year ended IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity US dollar pounds sterling rate 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009 Instruments Closing rate 1.55 1.57 1.61 Average rate 1.60 1.55 1.56 The following amendments to published Standards and Interpretations are not expected to have a significant impact on the Groups results: IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Basis of consolidation Standards The Group financial statements incorporate the financial statements IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures of the parent company and all subsidiary undertakings under the IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements acquisition method of accounting.
IAS 12 Income Taxes The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or sold during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the The following Standards and amendments to published Standards will effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal as become effective for the Groups 2013 year end and the Group is in the appropriate.
Control is achieved where the company has the power to process of assessing the impact: govern the financial and operating policies of an investee so as to obtain benefits from activities.
Standards Goodwill on acquisitions, being the excess of the fair value of the IFRS 9 Financial Instruments consideration paid, the non-controlling interest, and the fair value of IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements any previously held equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements the identifiable net assets and liabilities acquired, is capitalised and IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities tested for impairment on an annual basis.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement Associated undertakings are those investments other than subsidiary undertakings where the Group is in a position to exercise a Amendments significant influence, typically through participation in the financial IAS 19 Employee Benefits and operating policy decisions of the investee.
The consolidated IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements financial statements include the Groups share of the post-acquisition IAS 28 Investments in Associates reserves of all such companies.
Consolidated Financial Statements 83 Financial statements The effective portion of gains or losses on cash flow hedges is deferred Accounting Policies continued 77 Independent Auditors in equity until the impact from the hedged item is recognised in the Report to the Members of income statement.
The ineffective portion of such gains and losses is Going concern BBA Aviation plc in Respect of the Consolidated recognised in the income statement immediately, and is included in The directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a Financial Statements the other gains and losses line of the income statement.
reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have 78 Consolidated Income Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the Statement for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern 79 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Further in equity in the foreign currency translation reserve.
The gain or loss 80 Consolidated Balance Sheet detail is contained in the directors statement of going concern on relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately, and is page 76 of the Directors Report.
81 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement included in the operating profit of the income statement.
Gains and 82 Consolidated Statement of losses deferred in the foreign currency translation reserve are Investments Changes in Equity recognised in profit or loss on disposal of the foreign operation.
In the Groups financial statements, investments in associated 83 Accounting Policies of Changes in the fair value of the foreign exchange contracts undertakings are stated at cost plus the Groups share of posttheGroup classified as fair value through profit or loss FVTPL and those that do acquisition reserves less provision for impairment.
88 Notes to the Consolidated not qualify for hedge accounting, are recognised in the income Financial Statements statement as they arise, and are included in the operating profit of 121 Independent Auditors Foreign currencies Report to the Members the income statement.
Changes in the fair value of interest rate Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into dollars at the rate of BBA Aviation plc in swaps classified as FVTPL are charged to the net interest line of the Respect of the Parent of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and Company Financial income statement.
liabilities denominated in other currencies at the balance sheet date Statements are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date.
Any gain 122 Company Balance Sheet Financial instruments or loss arising from a change in exchange rates subsequent to the date 123 Accounting Policies of Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups of transaction is recognised in the income statement.
theCompany balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual The income statements of overseas operations are translated 124 Notes to the Company provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are accounted for at the Financial Statements into US dollars at the average exchange rates for the year and their trade date.
129 Principal Subsidiary balance sheets are translated into US dollars at the exchange rates Undertakings ruling at the balance sheet date.
All exchange differences arising on 130 Five Year Summary Cash and cash equivalents consolidation are taken to equity.
All other translation differences are 131 Shareholder Information Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and deemed taken to the income statement, with the exception of differences on deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are foreign currency borrowing and derivative instruments to the extent readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an that they are used to provide a hedge against the Groups equity insignificant risk of changes in value.
investments in overseas operations, which are taken to equity together with the exchange difference on the net investment in Trade receivables thoseoperations.
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising from the acquisition nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign irrecoverable amounts.
entity and translated at the closing rate.
Financial liabilities and equity Operating profit Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to Operating profit is stated after charging exceptional items and after the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An the share of results of associates but before investment income and equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in finance costs.
the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Exceptional items are items which are material or non-recurring in nature, costs relating to acquisitions and the amortisation of Borrowings acquired intangibles.
Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at fair value which equates to proceeds less direct issue costs at inception.
Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedge Accounting Subsequent to initial recognition, borrowings are measured at Derivative financial instruments utilised by the Group comprise amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method, except where interest rates swaps, cross-currency swaps and foreign exchange they are identified as a hedged item in a fair value hedge.
All such instruments are used for hedging purposes to difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the manage the risk profile of an underlying exposure of the Group in line amount due on settlement is recognised in the income statement with the Groups risk management policies.
All derivative instruments over the term of the borrowings.
are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value.
Recognition of gains or losses on derivative instruments depends on whether the instrument is designated as a hedge and the type of exposure it is designed tohedge.
84 Consolidated Financial Statements Property, plant and equipment Trade payables Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their Property, plant and equipment is stated in the balance sheet at cost less accumulated depreciation and provision for impairments.
Depreciation is provided on the cost of property, plant and equipment less estimated residual value and is calculated on a straight-line basis Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the over the following estimated useful lives of the assets: proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Land Not depreciated Revenue recognition Buildings 40 years maximum Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or Plant and machinery including essential receivable, and represents amounts receivable for goods supplied and commissioning costs 3-18 years services provided by the Group excluding intercompany transactions, sales by associated undertakings and sales taxes.
Tooling, vehicles, computer and office equipment are categorised Within the engine overhauls business, turnover and associated within plant and machinery.
profit are recognised on a percentage of completion basis once the Finance costs which are directly attributable to the construction terms of the contract have been agreed with the customer and the of major items of property, plant and equipment are capitalised as part ultimate profitability of the contract can be determined with of those assets.
The commencement of capitalisation begins when reasonable certainty.
The percentage of completion is based on both finance costs and expenditures for the asset are being incurred hoursincurred.
and activities that are necessary to get the asset ready for use are in progress.
Capitalisation ceases when substantially all the activities that Research and development expenditure are necessary to get the asset ready for use are complete.
Research expenditure is charged against income in the year in which it is incurred.
An internally generated intangible asset arising from the Impairment of assets Groups development expenditure is recognised only if the asset can At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying value of its be separately identified, it is probable that the asset will generate tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any future economic benefits and the development costs of the asset can indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any be measured reliably.
such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss.
Where the Post-retirement benefits asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cashcharged as an expense as they fall due.
generating unit to which the asset belongs.
An intangible asset with For defined benefit retirement benefit schemes, the cost is an indefinite life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
valuations being carried out annually on 31 December.
Actuarial gains Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash They are recognised outside profit or loss and presented in the flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount statement of comprehensive income.
rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of The service cost of providing retirement benefits to employees money.
The risks specific to the asset are reflected as an adjustment to during the year is charged to operating profit in the year.
Any past the future estimated cash flows.
service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line basis estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of over the average period until the benefits becomevested.
the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance An impairment loss is recognised immediately.
sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying adjusted for unrecognised past service costs, and reduced by the fair amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised value of scheme assets plus any additional liability to be recognised in estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying accordance with IFRIC 14 and the minimum funding requirement.
Any amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would not have asset resulting from this calculation is only recognised to the extent been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the that it is recoverable.
asset or cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment Defined benefit scheme contribution levels are determined by loss is recognised as income immediately, unless the relevant asset is valuations undertaken by independent qualified actuaries.
carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
Consolidated Financial Statements 85 Financial statements Share-based payments Accounting Policies continued 77 Independent Auditors The Group operates a number of cash and equity-settled share-based Report to the Members of compensation plans.
The fair value of the compensation is recognised Intangible assets BBA Aviation plc in Respect of the Consolidated in the income statement as an expense.
The total amount to be Licences are shown at amortised cost.
Amortisation provided on the Financial Statements expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the cost of licences is calculated on a straight-line basis over the useful life 78 Consolidated Income fair value of the options granted and calculated using the valuation of the licences.
Where a licence has an indefinite life, the licence is not Statement technique most appropriate to each type of award.
These include amortised until such time as the remaining life of the associated 79 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Black-Scholes calculations and Monte Carlo simulations.
For cashplatform is estimated to be 20 years at which point amortisation settled options, the fair value of the option is revisited at each balance 80 Consolidated Balance Sheet commences over the remaining useful life of the licence.
For both cash and equity-settled options, the Group Where computer software is not an integral part of a related 81 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to item of computer hardware, the software is treated as an intangible 82 Consolidated Statement of become exercisable at each balance sheet date.
Computer software is capitalised on the basis of the costs Changes in Equity incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software.
Amortisation 83 Accounting Policies of Leases is provided on the cost of software and is calculated on a straight-line theGroup Where assets are financed by lease agreements that give rights similar basis over the useful life of the software.
88 Notes to the Consolidated to ownership finance leases, the assets are treated as if they had been Financial Statements The Group makes an assessment of the fair value of intangible purchased and the leasing commitments are shown as obligations to 121 Independent Auditors assets arising on acquisitions.
An intangible asset will be recognised as Report to the Members the lessors.
The capitalisation values of the assets are written off on a long as the asset is separable or arises from contractual or other legal of BBA Aviation plc in straight-line basis over the shorter of the periods of the leases or the Respect of the Parent rights, and its fair value can be measured reliably.
Amortisation is Company Financial useful lives of the assets concerned.
The capital elements of future provided on the fair value of the asset and is calculated on a straightStatements leases are recorded as liabilities, while the interest elements are line basis over its useful life.
122 Company Balance Sheet charged to the income statement over the period of the leases to 123 Accounting Policies of produce a constant rate of charge on the balance of capital payments Provisions theCompany outstanding.
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation 124 Notes to the Company For all other leases operating leases the rental payments are Financial Statements legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that the charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lives 129 Principal Subsidiary Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate Undertakings of the leases.
can be made of the amount of the obligation.
130 Five Year Summary The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the 131 Shareholder Information Inventory consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding comprises the cost of raw materials and an appropriate proportion of the obligation.
Where a provision is measured using the cash flows labour and overheads in the case of work in progress and finished estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the goods.
Cost is calculated using the first in first out method in the Flight present value of those cash flows.
Support segment, and weighted average method in the Aftermarket When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a Services and Systems segment.
Provision is made for slow moving or provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, a receivable obsolete inventory as appropriate.
is recognised as an asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received on settlement of a related provision and the amount of Taxation the receivable can be measured reliably.
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred due to temporary differences between Restructurings the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has developed Current tax is calculated at tax rates which have been enacted or a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has raised a valid substantially enacted at the balance sheet date.
expectation in those affected that it will carry out the restructuring by Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on starting to implement the plan or announcing its main features to differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in those affected by it.
The measurement of a restructuring provision the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases in the includes only the direct expenditures arising from the restructuring, computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance which are those amounts that are both necessarily entailed by the sheet liability method.
restructuring and not associated with the ongoing activities of the No provision is made for temporary differences on unremitted entity.
earnings of foreign subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates where the Group has control and the reversal of the temporary difference is not Onerous contracts foreseeable.
Present obligations arising under onerous contracts are recognised The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each and measured as provisions.
An onerous contract is considered to exist balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer where the Group has a contract under which the unavoidable costs of probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic part of the asset to be recovered.
benefits expected to be received under it.
86 Consolidated Financial Statements Deferred tax is calculated at tax rates which have been enacted or expected return on assets.
These assumptions are determined having substantially enacted at the balance sheet date and that are expected taken advice from qualified actuaries.
The net pension liability related to defined benefit type schemes at the balance sheet date was $53.5 to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except million.
Details regarding the carrying value and assumptions used in arriving at the carrying values are provided in note 19. when it relates to items charged or credited to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Taxation Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation As part of the process for preparing the Groups financial statements, management is required to calculate income tax accruals.
This process uncertainty The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of involves estimates of the current tax exposures together with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets tax and accounting purposes.
These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included in the balance sheet.
and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below.
The judgements used by management in the application of the Groups As at 31 December 2011, the Group had a corporate tax liability of $86.1 million 2010: $79.0 million.
While the Group aims to ensure accounting policies in respect of these key areas of estimation are considered to be the most significant.
the accruals for its tax liabilities are accurate, the process of agreeing tax liabilities with the tax authorities can take several years.
Impairment of goodwill, intangible and tangible fixed assets Management judgement is therefore required in determining the provision for income tax and the recognition of deferred tax assets and Determining whether goodwill, intangible or tangible fixed assets are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cashliabilities: however the actual tax liabilities could differ from the amounts accrued.
generating units to which the goodwill has been allocated or the individual assets.
The value in use calculation requires the entity to As at 31 December 2011, the Group had a net deferred tax liability of $73.6 million 2010: $66.3 million.
estimate future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit or asset and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present Provisions value.
The carrying amounts of goodwill, intangible and tangible fixed assets at the balance sheet date were $806.6 million, $176.2 million and The Group exercises judgement in measuring and recognising provisions and the exposures to contingent liabilities related to $517.4 million respectively.
Details regarding the goodwill and tangible fixed asset carrying value and assumptions used in carrying out the pending litigation or other outstanding claims subject to negotiated settlement, mediation, arbitration or government regulation, as well as impairment reviews are provided in notes 8 and 9. other contingent liabilities see note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
Judgement is necessary in assessing the likelihood that a Pensions and other post-retirement benefits Determining the defined benefit obligation and the income statement pending claim will succeed, or a liability will arise, and to quantify the possible range of the financial settlement.
Because of the inherent charge in respect of pension and other post-retirement benefit schemes requires an estimation of certain assumptions which include uncertainty in this evaluation process, actual losses may be different from the originally estimated provision.
the discount rate, inflation rate, mortality, length of service and Consolidated Financial Statements 87
