Share-based payments Accounting Policies The Company operates a number of cash and equity-settled sharebased compensation plans.
The fair value of the compensation is Basis of accounting recognised in the income statement as an expense.
The total amount The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to required by the Companies Act 2006.
The financial statements have the fair value of the options granted and calculated using the valuation been prepared using the historical cost convention adjusted for the technique most appropriate to each type of award.
These include revaluation of certain fixed assets and in accordance with applicable Black-Scholes calculations and Monte Carlo simulations.
For cashUnited Kingdom accounting standards and law.
settled options, the fair value of the option is revisited at each balance The financial statements have been prepared on a going sheet date.
For both cash and equity-settled options, the Company concern basis in accordance with the rationale set out in the directors revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to statement of going concern on page 76 of the Directors Report.
become exercisable at each balance sheet date.
The principal accounting policies are set out below.
They have all been applied consistently throughout the period.
Tangible fixed assets Plant and machinery are stated in the balance sheet at cost.
Land and Investments buildings are stated at cost.
Other tangible fixed assets are stated in In the Companys financial statements, investments in subsidiary and the balance sheet at cost.
Depreciation is provided on the cost of associated undertakings are stated at cost less provision for tangible fixed assets less estimated residual value and is calculated on impairment.
a straight-line basis over the following estimated useful lives of the assets: Treasury Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rate Land Not depreciated of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and Buildings 40 years maximum liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date Plant and machinery including essential are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date.
Any gain commissioning costs 3 18 years or loss arising from a change in exchange rates subsequent to the date of transaction is recognised in the profit and loss account.
Tooling, vehicles, computer and office equipment are categorised Derivative financial instruments utilised by the Group comprise within plant and machinery in note 3 of the accounts.
interest rates swaps, cross-currency or basis swaps and foreign The revaluation reserve consists of the surpluses on the exchange contracts.
All such instruments are used for hedging revaluation of land and buildings to their market value for existing use purposes to manage the risk profile of an underlying exposure of the and on the revaluation of plant and machinery to net current Group in line with the Groups risk management policies.
The directors are not aware of any material change instruments are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value.
to the value of these assets since the last revaluation.
Recognition of gains or losses on derivative instruments depends on whether the instrument is designated as a hedge and the type of Leases exposure it is designed to hedge.
Where assets are financed by lease agreements that give rights similar The effective portion of gains or losses on cash flow hedges are to ownership finance leases, the assets are treated as if they had been deferred in equity until the impact from the hedged item is recognised purchased and the leasing commitments are shown as obligations to in the profit and loss account.
The ineffective portion of such gains the lessors.
The capitalisation values of the assets are written off on a and losses is recognised in the profit and loss account immediately.
straight-line basis over the shorter of the periods of the leases or the Gains or losses on the qualifying part of net investment hedges useful lives of the assets concerned.
The capital elements of future are recognised in equity together with the gains and losses on the lease obligations are recorded as liabilities, while the interest elements underlying net investment.
The ineffective portion of such gains and are charged to the profit and loss account over the period of the leases losses is recognised in the profit and loss account.
to produce a constant rate of charge on the balance of capital Changes in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments payments outstanding.
that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the profit and loss account as they arise.
Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes Pensions and other post-retirement benefits into account taxation deferred due to timing differences between the The Company provides pension arrangements to the majority of full treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
time employees through the Companys defined benefit scheme.
It is Deferred tax is provided in full on all liabilities.
In accordance with FRS not possible to identify the share of underlying assets and liabilities in 19, deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent it is regarded that it this scheme which is attributable to the Company on a consistent and is more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets reasonable basis.
Therefore the Company has applied the provisions in and liabilities have not been discounted.
FRS17 to account for the scheme as if it was a defined contribution Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences arising from scheme.
the sale or revaluation of fixed assets unless, at the balance sheet date, The costs of pension plans and other post-retirement benefits a binding commitment to sell the asset has been entered into and it is are charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the costs unlikely that any gain will qualify for rollover relief.
over employees working lives within the Company.
The contribution levels are determined by valuations undertaken by independent qualified actuaries.
