Helical Bar plc 2011 page 91 glossary of terms Average unexpired lease term The average unexpired lease term expressed in years.
Capital value psf The open market value of the property divided by the area of the property in square feet.
Diluted EPRA earnings per share Earnings per share adjusted to exclude losses gains on sale and revaluation of investment properties and their deferred tax adjustments, the tax on loss profit on disposal of investment properties, trading property losses profits, impairment of available-for-sale investments and fair value movements on derivative financial instruments, on a diluted basis.
Details of the method of the calculation of the diluted EPRA earnings per share are available from EPRA.
Diluted EPRA net assets per share Diluted net asset value per share adjusted to exclude fair value of financial instruments and deferred tax on capital allowances and on investment properties revaluation, but including the fair value of trading and development properties in accordance with the best practice recommendations of EPRA.
Diluted EPRA triple net asset value per share Diluted EPRA net asset value per share adjusted to include fair value of financial instruments and deferred tax on capital allowances and on investment properties revaluation.
Diluted gures Reported amounts adjusted to include the effects of potential shares issuable under the employee share option schemes.
Earnings per share profit after tax divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue.
EPRA European Public Real Estate Association.
Equivalent yield The constant capitalisation rate which, if applied to all cash ows from an investment property, including current rent, reversions to current market rent and such items as voids and expenditures, equates to the market value.
Assumes rent is received in arrears.
Estimated rental value ERV The market rental value of lettable space as estimated by the Companys valuers at each balance sheet date.
Initial yield Annualised net rents on investment properties as a percentage of the investment property valuation.
IPD The Investment Property Databank Limited IPD is a company that produces a number of independent benchmarks of unleveraged commercial property returns.
Net assets per share or net asset value NAV Equity shareholders funds divided by the number of ordinary shares at the balance sheet date.
Net gearing Total borrowings less short-term deposits and cash as a percentage of equity shareholders funds.
Passing rent The annual gross rental income excluding the net effects of straightlining lease incentives.
Rack rental value % The anticipated yield, which the initial yield will rise to once the rent reaches the ERV.
Total shareholder return TSR The growth in the ordinary share price as quoted on the London Stock Exchange plus dividends per share received for the period expressed as a percentage of the share price at the beginning of the period.
True equivalent yield The constant capitalisation rate which, if applied to all cash ows from an investment property, including current rent, reversions to current market rent and such items as voids and expenditures, equates to the market value.
Assumes rent is received quarterly in advance.
Unleveraged returns Total property gains and losses both realised and unrealised plus net rental income expressed as a percentage of the total value of the properties.
