Matters on which we are required to report by exception Independent Auditors Report We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where to the members of BBA Aviation plc the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: We have audited the parent company financial statements of BBA adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Aviation plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been Parent Company Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 12.
The received from branches not visited by us: or financial reporting framework that has been applied in their the parent company financial statements and the part of the preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
agreement with the accounting records and returns: or This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. not made: or Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the we have not received all the information and explanations we Companys members those matters we are required to state to them require for our audit.
in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone Other matter other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
BBA Aviation plc for the year ended 31 December 2011.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor Nigel Mercer Senior statutory auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a London, United Kingdom true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion 1 March 2012 on the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
