24 Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information Business Review Operating Risk Statement Risk is a natural part of any business.
The management of risk is a key operating component of the Group.
Themanner in which this is carried out is highly important to the long-term success of the business.
The Group hasidentified, evaluated and put in place strategies to mitigate the principal risks faced by the business, shown in the table below: Area of Risk Description of Risk Mitigation of Risk Land The inability to source suitable land at Endeavour to ensure that a land bank with planning satisfactory margins wouldhave a permission for at least three years construction detrimental effect on the Groups land programme is in place on a rolling basis.
bank andconsequently, its future Thorough pre-purchase due diligence and viability success.
Authorisation of land purchases in line with robust Groupprocedures.
Planning Delays and the increased complexity Centralised and Regional Planning Directors provide of the planning process hampers and advice and support to divisions to assist with slows the Groups growth prospects.
progressing the planning permission process.
Sales Ensuring that the effects of any In consultation with Head Office, local divisional diminution in the size of the management determines product range and pricing marketplace, the ability of prospective strategy commensurate with regional market customers to access credit facilities or conditions.
the sales prices achieved are managed Use of sales incentives where appropriate to in suchaway as to limit any adverse encourage the selling process, such as part-exchange financial or operational effectson the and Express Mover.
Use of government-backed schemes to encourage home ownership where appropriate.
Ensuring that construction rates are managed to ensure stock availability matches sales rates.
Construction Ensuring that appropriately skilled Identifying training needs and allocating appropriate personnel are available andthat resources to training.
suitable materials are also available Ensuring systems are in place for engaging, monitoring at the right price.
and controlling work carried out by sub-contractors.
Ensuring competitive reward systems are in place.
Ensuring Group purchasing arrangements are in place to secure materials at competitive prices.
Environment Housebuilding has a significant effect It is our objective to ensure that at the conclusion of a on the environment.
It is important development an attractive and sustainable new that the effects of the Groups environment has been created that will continue over developments are, asfar as possible, time.
See our Environmental Policy on page 19, or our positive rather than negative.
co. uk, for further information.
Health and It is important to ensure that the The Board considers health and safety issues at each Safety Group has adequate systems inplace Boardmeeting.
to mitigate, as far as possible, the Regular visits to sites by senior management dangers to people inherent in the independent of our divisions and external construction process.
consultants to monitor health and safety standards and performance against the Groups health and safety policies and procedures.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 25 Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information Area of Risk Description of Risk Mitigation of Risk Personnel Attracting and retaining the correct The Group offers competitive salary and benefits personnel is key to the Groups packages.
Failure to do so will Divisional training plans are in place.
severely affect the Groups ability to Succession planning for key posts.
perform in a highly competitive market.
98% of site workers including sub-contractors are fully accredited under CSCS.
Information It is vital that the Group has suitable Group-wide systems are in place which are centrally Technology systems in place to ensure that, as far controlled with an outsourced support function as possible, a smooth flow of in place.
information is transmitted throughout the Group and that the risk of system loss is mitigated and supported by appropriate contingency plans.
Asset The way in which the Group carries The Group prepares viability assessments on all of its Protection out its operations can have a material land purchases and construction projects, and keeps effect on the value of its assets.
these under regular review to protect, wherever possible, the value of itsassets.
Treasury Ensuring suitable financial resources, at Central negotiation and control of banking facilities Management appropriate costs, are inplace to meet to ensureliquidity and debt levels are appropriate.
Facilities distributed across various sources.
Careful management and monitoring of cash forecasts.
Legal and Disadvantageous contractual Central secretariat, human resources and legal Regulatory obligations, regulatory fines or adverse functions advise divisions on compliance and ensure Compliance publicity by failing to comply with policies and procedures are kept up to date to current laws and regulations or failing minimise risk of non-compliance.
to have appropriately worded contracts inplace.
In addition, the Board ensures that adequate insurance cover is maintained to underpin and support the many areas in which the Group is exposed to risk of loss.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011
