27 Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information Mike R Toms Date of Birth: 1 July 1953 Mr Toms was appointed a non-executive director on 1 February 2009.
Heis currently a non-executive director of Birmingham Airport Holdings Limited.
He was formerly an executive director of BAA plc and was non-executive Chairman of Northern Ireland Electricity plc.
He was also anon-executive director of Viridian Group PLC and UK Coal PLC.
He is amember of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors MRICS and amember of the Royal Town Planning Institute MRTPI.
He is Chairman ofthe Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration, and amember of the Audit and Nomination Committees of the Board.
John A Cuthbert obe Date of Birth: 9 February 1953 Mr Cuthbert, a Chartered Accountant, was appointed a non-executive director on 1 November 2009.
Mr Cuthbert worked in the water industry from 1991 to 2010, when he retired as Managing Director of Northumbrian Water Group plc, having formerly been Managing Director of North East Water plc and Managing Director of Essex and Suffolk Water plc.
He is Chairman of Castle View Enterprise Academy in Sunderland.
He is a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees and the Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration.
Group Company Secretary G Kevin Wrightson Date of Birth: 27 October 1954 Mr Wrightson, a Chartered Secretary, joined Bellway in 1990.
He has held senior posts within the Group, including that of Deputy Group Secretary, before being appointed as Group Company Secretary on 1 August 2002.
Advisers Group Company Secretary Registrars and Financial Advisers and Registered Office Transfer Office N M Rothschild & Sons Limited G K Wrightson FCIS Capita Registrars Limited Stockbrokers Bellway p. l. c. The Registry Citigroup Global Markets Limited Seaton Burn House 34 Beckenham Road Dudley Lane, Seaton Burn Beckenham Bankers Newcastle upon Tyne Kent Barclays Bank PLC NE13 6BE BR3 4TU Lloyds Banking Group plc Registered number 1372603 Auditors KPMG Audit Plc Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011
