50 Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information Accounts Accounting Policies Basis of preparation Bellway p. l. c. the Company is a company incorporated in the UK.
Both the Company financial statements and the Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs and have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for other financial assets, which are stated at their fair value.
On publishing the Company financial statements here together with the Group financial statements, which were approved for issue on 17 October 2011, the Company is taking advantage of the exemption in section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form a part of these financial statements.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with Adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chief Executives Operating Review on pages 6 to 11.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Group Finance Directors Review on pages 20 to 23.
Note 18 to the financial statements sets out the Groups policies and processes for managing its capital, financial risk, and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups activities are financed principally by a combination of ordinary shares, preference shares, bank borrowings and cash in hand.
At 31 July 2011, cash net of borrowings excluding preference shares was 3.4 million having expended 62.3 million during the year.
The Group has operated within all of its banking covenants throughout the year.
In addition, the Group had bank facilities of 290.0 million, expiring in tranches up to December 2015, with 210.0 million available for drawdown under such facilities at 31 July 2011.
The directors consider that the Group is well placed to manage business and financial risks in the current economic environment and have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Judgements made by the directors, in the application of these accounting policies and Adopted IFRSs, that have a significant effect on the financialstatements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year, are discussed below.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
Effect of new standards and interpretations effective for the first time The Group has adopted Annual Improvements 2009 in the Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 July 2011.
The adoption of Annual Improvements 2009 has not had a material effect on the Groups profit for the period or equity.
The other standards and interpretations that are applicable for the first time in the Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 July 2011 have no effect on these financial statements.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 July.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Jointly controlled entities are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups proportionate share of the significant entities assets, liabilities, income and expenses with items of a similar nature on a line by line basis, from the date that joint control commences until the date that joint control ceases.
Property, plant and equipment Items are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives over the following number of years: Plant, fixtures and fittings 3 to 10 years.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 51 Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information Investment property Investment property is initially recognised at cost.
Subsequent to recognition, investment property is measured using the cost model and is carried atcost less any accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Depreciation is charged, where material, so as to write off the cost less residual value of the investment properties over their estimated useful lives.
The residual values and useful lives of investment properties are reviewed at each financial year end.
The useful life of investment properties has been assessed as: 10 100 years 2010 100 years.
Investments in subsidiaries Interests in subsidiary undertakings are valued at cost less impairment.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost, in relation to work in progress and showhomes, comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads, not including any general administrative overheads, that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs ofcompletion and overheads.
Land held for development, including land in the course of development until legal completion of the sale of the asset, is initially recorded at cost.
Regular reviews are carried out to identify any impairment in the value of the land by comparing the total estimated selling prices less estimated selling expenses against the book cost of the land plus estimated costs to complete.
Provision is made for any irrecoverable amounts.
Where, through deferred payment terms, the fair value of land purchased differs from the amount that will subsequently be paid in settling the liability, the difference is charged as a finance expense in the income statement over the period to settlement.
Options purchased in respect of land are capitalised initially at cost.
Regular reviews are carried out for impairment in the value of these options, and provisions made accordingly to reflect loss of value.
The impairment reviews consider the period elapsed since the date of purchase of the option given that the option contract has not been exercised at the review date.
Further, the impairment reviews consider the remaining life of the option, taking account of any concerns over whether the remaining time available will allow a successful exercise of the option.
The carrying cost of the option at the date of exercise is included within the cost of land purchased as a result of the option exercise.
Investments in land without the benefit of planning consent, either through the purchase of land or non-refundable deposits paid on land purchase contracts subject to planning consent, are included initially at cost.
Regular reviews are carried out for impairment in the values of these investments and provision made to reflect any irrecoverable element.
The impairment reviews consider the existing use value of the land and assess the likelihood of achieving planning consent and the value thereof.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables are stated at their fair value at the date of initial recognition and subsequently at amortised cost less allowances for impairment.
Other financial assets Other financial assets are classified as being available-for-sale and are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss being recognised directly inequity within retained earnings, except for impairment losses and changes in future cash flows, which are recognised directly in the income statement.
When these investments are fide-recognised, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised directly in equity is recognised in the income statement.
Where these investments are interest-bearing, interest calculated using the effective interest method is recognised in the incomestatement.
A description of the valuation technique is given in note 14 on page 63.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are defined as cash balances in hand and in the bank including short-term cash deposits.
The Group utilises bank overdraft facilities, which are repayable on demand, as part of its cash management policy.
As a consequence, bank overdrafts are included as a component of net cash and cash equivalents within the cash flow statement.
Offset arrangements across Group businesses are applied to arrive atthe cash and overdraft figures in the balance sheet.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings Interest bearing loans and borrowings are stated at their fair value at the date of initial recognition and subsequently at amortised cost.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 52 Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information Accounts Accounting Policies continued Trade and other payables Trade payables on normal terms are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Trade payables on deferred terms, most notably inrelation to land purchases, are recorded initially at their fair value.
The discount to nominal value is amortised over the period to settlement andcharged to finance expenses.
Preference share capital Preference share capital is redeemable on 6 April 2014 or at the option of the Company subject to relevant conditions set out in note 16 and is classified as a liability.
Dividends Dividends on redeemable preference shares are recognised as a liability and accrued using the effective interest rate method.
They are recognised inthe income statement within finance expenses.
Other dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved by the shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised whenpaid.
Classification of equity instruments and financial liabilities issued by the Group Equity instruments issued by the Group are treated as equity only to the extent that they meet the following two conditions: a they include no contractual obligations upon the Company or Group as the case may be to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Company or Group : and b where the instrument will or may be settled in the Companys own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no obligation to deliver a variable number of the Companys own equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the Companys exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability.
Where the instrument so classified takes the legal form of the Companys own shares, the amounts presented in these financial statements for called up share capital and share premium account exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
Grants Grants are included within work in progress in the balance sheet to the extent that they contribute to construction costs and within deferred incometo the extent that they contribute to site income.
Grants are credited to the income statement over the life of the developments to which they relate.
Revenue recognition Revenue from private housing sales and land is recognised when transactions have legally completed.
Incentives Sales incentives are substantially cash in nature but include part-exchange costs which mainly relate to amounts written down, where the partexchange allowance given to the purchaser of the new home is greater than the valuation of the part-exchange property.
Incentives are accounted for by reducing the housebuild revenue by the cost to the Group of providing the incentive.
Sales incentives also include shared equity schemes which are accounted for as Other Financial Assets.
Revenue is recognised at the initial fair value ofthe Other Financial Assets as described above.
Rental income Rental income is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Part-exchange properties The purchase and subsequent sale of part-exchange properties is an activity undertaken in order to achieve the sale of a new property.
As such, the activity is regarded as a mechanism for selling.
Impairments and gains or losses on the sale of part-exchange properties are classified as a cost of sale.
Contingent liabilities Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within the Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 53 Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the result for the year and takes into account current and deferred taxation.
The charge is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in equity in which case it is recognised in equity.
Deferred taxation is provided for all temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Employee benefits retirement benefit costs For the defined benefit scheme, the liability is calculated as the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date.
The fair values of scheme assets are then deducted.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
All actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the Statement of Comprehensive Income SOCI.
Further details of the scheme and the valuation methods applied may be found in note 25 on pages 70 to 73.
Defined contribution pension costs are charged to the income statement in the period for which contributions are payable.
Employee benefits share-based payment In accordance with IFRS 2, the fair value of equity settled share options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured as at the date the options are granted and the charge is only amended if vesting does not take place due to non-market conditions not being met.
Various option pricing models are used according to the terms of the option scheme under which the options were granted.
The fair value is spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of options that vest.
At the balance sheet date, if it is expected that non-market conditions will not be satisfied, the cumulative expense recognised in relation to the relevant options is reversed.
IFRS 2 has been applied to options granted after 7 November 2002 which had not vested at 1 January 2005.
With respect to share-based payments, a deferred tax asset is recognised on the relevant tax base.
The tax base is then compared to the cumulative share-based payment expense recognised in the income statement.
Deferred tax arising on the excess of the tax base over the cumulative sharebased payment expense recognised in the income statement has been recognised directly in equity outside the SOCI as share-based payments areconsidered to be transactions with shareholders.
A deferred tax asset relating to awards issued before 7 November 2002, which follow the exemption of IFRS 1 and have not been accounted forunder IFRS 2, has been recognised on transition.
Subsequent reversal of the deferred tax asset and any excess tax benefits are recognised directlyin equity.
Where the Company grants options over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries it recognises, in its individual financial statements, anincrease in the cost of investment in its subsidiaries equivalent to the equity settled share-based payment charge recognised in its consolidated financial statements, with the corresponding credit being recognised in equity.
Own shares held by ESOP trust Transactions of the Company-sponsored ESOP trust are included in both the Group financial statements and the Companys own financial statements.
The purchase of shares in the Company by the trust are charged directly to equity.
Operating leases Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Finance income and expenses Finance income includes interest receivable on bank deposits.
Other financial assets relate to the deferred element of revenues receivable from the sale of homes under shared equity schemes.
The discounting of these other financial assets produces a notional interest receivable amount and this iscredited to cost of sales.
Finance expenses includes interest on bank borrowings and dividends on redeemable preference shares.
The discounting of the deferred payments for land purchases produces a notional interest payable amount and this is also charged to finance expenses.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 54 Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information Accounts Accounting Policies continued Exceptional items Exceptional items are those which, in the opinion of the Board, are material by size or nature, non-recurring, and of such significance that they require separate disclosure on the face of the income statement.
Accounting estimates and judgements Management considers the key estimates and judgements made in the financial statements to be related to: Valuation of work in progress and land held for development Inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value, less payments on account.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less all estimated costs of completion and overheads.
Valuations of site work in progress are carried out at regular intervals and estimates of the cost to complete a site and estimates of anticipated revenues are required to enable a development profit to bedetermined.
Management are required to employ considerable judgement in estimating the profitability of a site and in assessing any impairment provisions which may be required.
For both the years ended 31 July 2011 and 31 July 2010, a full review of inventories has been performed and write downs have been made where cost exceeds net realisable value.
Estimated selling prices have been reviewed on a site by site basis and selling prices have been amended based on local management and the Boards assessment of current market conditions.
For the years ended 31 July 2011 and 31 July 2010 no exceptional charge has resulted from the review.
Whilst management remain cautious, selling prices and volumes have stabilised, however the market remains fragile.
Should there be further significant movements in selling prices, either further reductions or a stepped recovery, exceptional charges or credits may be necessary.
Pension The Group has utilised a rate of return on assets and a discount rate having been advised by its actuary.
To the extent that such assumed rates are different from what actually transpires, the pension liability of the Group would change.
Income taxes A certain degree of estimation and judgement is required in establishing the tax figures prior to formal resolution with HMRC.
In accordance with the contingent asset rules, detailed in IAS 37, the Groups policy is to be prudent in assessing the level of benefit which may accrue.
Other financial assets The fair value of future anticipated cash receipts takes into account the directors view of future house price movements, the expected timing of receipts and the likelihood that a purchaser defaults on a repayment.
The directors revisit the future anticipated cash receipts from the assets at the end of each reporting period as detailed in note 14 on page 63.
Standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following relevant amendment, which has not been applied in these financial statements, was in issue and endorsed by the EU but not yet effective: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosure Amendment.
The amendment provides clarification of the standard and requires additional disclosures in relation to financial instruments.
This is effective for the period beginning on 1 August 2011.
The Board anticipates that this amendment will be adopted in the Groups financial statements in the year it becomes effective and that the adoption of this amendment will not have a significant effect on the Groups financial statements.
Of the other IFRSs that are available for early adoption, none are expected to have a material effect on the financial statements.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011
