48 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2011 1.
General information The results of subsidiary undertakings that have been sold during Savills plc the Company and its subsidiaries together the the year are included up to date of disposal.
The profit or loss is Group is a leading international property advisory Group.
The calculated by reference to the net asset value at the date of Group operates through a network of offices in the UK, Europe, disposal, adjusted for purchased goodwill previously included on Asia Pacific and the US.
Savills is listed on the London Stock the statement of financial position and foreign exchange reserve Exchange and employs 23,555 staff worldwide.
The Company is a public limited company incorporated and Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains domiciled in England and Wales.
The address of its registered arising between Group companies are eliminated in preparing office is 20 Grosvenor Hill, Berkeley Square, London W1K 3HQ.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure These consolidated financial statements were approved for issue consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
by the Board of Directors on 14 March 2012.
Investments in subsidiaries held by the Company are held at cost, 2.
Accounting policies less any provision for impairment.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies Transactions with non-controlling interests have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless The Group treats transactions with non-controlling interests as otherwise stated, and are also applicable to the parent Company.
transactions with equity owners of the Group.
For purchases from non-controlling interests, the difference between any consideration Basis of preparation paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net These financial statements have been prepared in accordance assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and IFRIC disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
interpretations as adopted by the European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies When the Group ceases to have control or significant influence, reporting under IFRS.
any retained interest in the entity is remeasured to its fair value, with the change in carrying amount recognised in profit or loss.
The fair The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes of subsequently requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates and for accounting for the retained interest as an associate, joint venture management to exercise judgement in the process of applying or financial asset.
In addition, any amounts previously recognised in the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher other comprehensive income in respect of that entity are accounted degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets or and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial liabilities.
This may mean that amounts previously recognised in statements, are disclosed in Note 4. other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss.
Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include those of the If the ownership interest in an associate is reduced but significant Company and its subsidiary undertakings, together with the influence is retained, only a proportionate share of the amounts Groups share of results of its associates and joint ventures.
previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss where appropriate.
Subsidiaries A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Group, where control is Associates the power to govern the financial and operating policies generally Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant accompanying a shareholding of more than half of the voting rights.
influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in exercisable and convertible are considered when assessing whether associates are accounted for using the equity method and are the Group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated initially recognised at cost.
The Groups investment in associates from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
includes goodwill net of any accumulated impairment loss identified on acquisition see Note 16 a.
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition method.
For the purpose of consolidation, the purchase The Groups share of its associates post-acquisition profits or consideration is allocated between the underlying net assets losses is recognised in the income statement and its share of acquired, including contingent liabilities and intangible assets post-acquisition movements in other comprehensive income is other than goodwill, on the basis of their fair value.
The excess of recognised in other comprehensive income.
The cumulative postthe consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount interest in the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value of any of the investment.
previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If this is associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the associates.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
On an  basis, the Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the Accounting policies of associates have been aligned to ensure non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
losses on dilution of the Groups share of equity in associates are recognised in the income statement.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 49 Our business Our governance Our results 2.
Accounting policies continued When a foreign operation is sold, exchange differences that were Joint ventures recorded in equity are recognised in the income statement as part A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments more parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets joint control, which exists only when the strategic financial and and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
operating decisions relating to the activity require the unanimous Property, plant and equipment consent of the venturers.
The Groups joint ventures are accounted Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less for using the equity method.
Historical cost includes Segment reporting expenditure directly attributable to acquisition.
Subsequent costs Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that the maker.
The chief operating decision maker, who is responsible for future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
segments, has been identified as the Group Executive Board.
Provision for depreciation is made at rates calculated on a straightA business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged line basis to write off the assets over their estimated useful lives in providing products or services that are subject to risks and asfollows: returns that are different from those of other business segments.
Freehold property 50 years Ageographical segment is engaged in providing products or Leasehold property less than 50 years over unexpired services within a particular economic environment that is subject term of lease to risks and returns that are different from those of segments Furniture and office equipment 3 6 years operating in other economic environments.
Motor vehicles 3 5 years As the Group is strongly affected by both differences in the types Computer equipment 3 years of services it provides and the geographical areas in which it operates, the matrix approach of disclosing both the business and geographical segments formats is used.
Useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate, at each reporting date.
Revenues and expenses are allocated to segments on the basis that they are directly attributable or the relevant portion can be An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its allocated on a reasonable basis.
recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Foreign currency translation Functional and presentation currency Goodwill Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition of a entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic subsidiary or associate over the Groups share of the fair value of environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, In respect of associates, goodwill is included in the carrying value which is also the Companys functional and presentation currency.
Transactions and balances Separately recognised goodwill is tested annually for impairment Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year relating to the entity sold.
end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, Goodwill continued except when deferred in other comprehensive income as qualifying Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose net investment hedges.
The allocation is made to those cashgenerating units or groups of cash-generating units that are Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets and expected to benefit from the business combination in which the liabilities are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss and are goodwill arose.
The Group allocates goodwill to each business recognised in the income statement, except for available-for-sale segment in the geographical region in which it operates Note 14. equity investments, which are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Non-monetary items carried at historical cost are reported Intangible assets other than goodwill using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Intangible assets acquired as part of business combinations and incremental contract costs are valued at fair value on acquisition and The differences between retained profits of foreign subsidiaries and amortised over the useful life.
Fair value on acquisition is determined associated undertakings translated at average and closing rates of by third-party valuations where the acquisition is significant.
exchange are taken to reserves, as are differences arising on the retranslation of foreign net assets to Sterling at the end of the year using closing rates of exchange.
Any differences that have arisen since 1 January 2004 are presented as a separate component of equity.
As permitted under IFRS 1, any differences prior to that date are not included in this separate component of equity.
50 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2011 continued 2.
Accounting policies continued Financial instruments Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Groups basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the statement of financial position at fair value when the Group specific software.
Costs associated with maintaining computer becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
software programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Subsequent measurement depends on the classification and is Development costs that are directly attributable to the design and discussed below: testing of identifiable and unique software products controlled by Available-for-sale investments the Group are recognised as intangible assets when the following Available-for-sale investments are stated at fair value, with changes criteria are met: in fair value being recognised in other comprehensive income.
it is technically feasible to complete the software product so When such investments are disposed or become impaired, the that it will be available for use: accumulated gains and losses, previously recognised in other comprehensive income, are recognised in the income statement.
management intends to complete the software product and use or sell it: Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and there is an ability to use or sell the software product: subsequently measured at amortised cost less provision for impairment.
Receivables are discounted where the time value of it can be demonstrated how the software product will generate money is material.
probable future economic benefits: A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect the development and to use or sell the software product are all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
available: and Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the the expenditure attributable to the software product during its debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default development can be reliably measured.
or delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
The amount of the provision is the difference Measurement subsequent to initial recognition is at cost less between the assets carrying amount and the present value of accumulated amortisation and impairment.
estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective Intangible assets are tested for impairment where there is an interest rate.
indication that an asset may be impaired.
An impairment loss is The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an recognised to the extent that the carrying value exceeds the allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the higher of the assets fair value less cost to sell and its value-in-use.
income statement within other operating expenses.
When a trade Amortisation charges are spread on a straight-line basis over the receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance period of the assets estimated useful lives as follows: account for trade receivables.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts Computer software 3 5 years previously written off are credited against other operating Property management contracts 2 10 years expenses in the income statement.
Incremental contract costs 10 years Cash and cash equivalents Business and customer relationships 6 10 years Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and deposits Brands 5 years held on call with banks, together with other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less and Impairment of non-financial assets working capital overdrafts, which are subject to an insignificant risk Assets that have indefinite useful lives are not subject to of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts are included under borrowings amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are in the statement of financial position.
subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever an Bank borrowings indicator of impairment exists.
An impairment loss is recognised to Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially measured the extent that the carrying value exceeds the higher of the assets at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred, and subsequently fair value less cost to sell and its value-in-use.
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Value-in-use is determined using the discounted cash flow method, Trade payables with an appropriate discount rate to reflect market rates and Trade payables are initially measured at fair value and subsequently specific risks associated with the asset.
measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.
Trade payable are classified as current liabilities if payment For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at is due within one year or less.
If not, they are presented as the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash non-current liabilities.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates Derivative financial instruments and hedging the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a asset belongs.
derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Certain derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting.
In these cases, changes in the fair value of all derivative instruments are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 51 Our business Our governance Our results 2.
Accounting policies continued Pension obligations Gains and losses relating to the effective portion of hedges of The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
net investments in foreign operations are recognised in other A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the comprehensive income.
Gains or losses relating to the ineffective Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
The Group portion are recognised immediately in the income statement.
has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees statement when the foreign operation is partially disposed or sold.
the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an Share capital amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors, such as attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in age, years of service and compensation.
equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
When share capital is repurchased, the amount of consideration paid, including The liability recognised in the statement of financial position in directly attributable costs, is recognised as a charge to equity.
respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the Repurchased shares which are not cancelled, or shares purchased defined benefit obligation at the reporting date less the fair value of for the Employee Share Ownership Trusts, are classified as treasury plan assets.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by shares and presented as a deduction from total equity.
independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by Taxation discounting the estimated future cash outflows.
The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent The defined benefit scheme charge consists of interest costs, that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income expected return on plan assets, past service costs and the impact or directly in equity.
In this case, the tax is also recognised in other of any settlements or curtailments and is charged as an expense as comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax All actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in other laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
the countries where the company and its subsidiaries operate and Pension obligations continued generate taxable income.
Management periodically evaluates The Group also operates a defined contribution Group Personal positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which Pension Plan for new entrants and a number of defined applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
It establishes contribution individual pension plans.
Contributions in respect provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to of defined contribution pension schemes are charged to the be paid to the tax authorities.
income statement when they are payable.
The Group has no Deferred income tax is recognised, using the liability method, on further payment obligations once the contributions have been temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and paid.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments statements.
However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognised if is available.
they arise from the initial recognition of goodwill: deferred income The net defined benefit cost is allocated amongst participating tax is not accounted for if it arises from the initial recognition of an Group subsidiaries on the basis of pensionable salaries.
asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor Share-based payments taxable profit or loss.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax The Group operates equity-settled share-based compensation rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by plans.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about liability is settled.
the number of options that are expected to vest.
The total expense Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which which all of the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied.
the temporary differences can be utilised.
At the end of each reporting period, the entity revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest based on the Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising non-market vesting conditions.
It recognises the impact of the on investments in subsidiaries and associates except for deferred revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with income tax liability where the timing of the reversal of the temporary a corresponding adjustment to equity.
difference is controlled by the group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Equity-settled share-based payments granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested as of 1 January 2005 are measured at Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups relate to income tax levied by the same taxation authority on either estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
52 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2011 continued 2.
Accounting policies continued Revenue The fair value of equity-settled share-based payments is measured Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or by the use of the Actuarial Binomial option pricing model.
At each receivable for the provision of services in the ordinary course of the reporting date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of Groups activities.
Revenue is shown net of value-added tax and options that are expected to become exercisable.
It recognises amounts due to third parties and after elimination of revenue within the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income the Group.
statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity over the Residential transactional fees remaining vesting period.
The proceeds received net of any directly Generally, where contracts are unconditional, revenue is recognised attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal on exchange of contracts.
However, on more complex contracts, value and share premium when the options are exercised.
revenue will be recognised on the date of completion.
On multi-unit Employee Benefit Trust developments, revenue is recognised on a staged basis, based on The Company has established the Savills plc 1992 Employee each contract, commencing when the underlying contracts are Benefit Trust the EBT, the purposes of which are to grant awards exchanged.
to employees, to acquire shares in the Company pursuant to the Commercial transactional fees Savills Deferred Share Bonus Plan and the Savills Deferred Share Generally, revenue is recognised on the date of completion or Plan and to hold shares in the Company for subsequent transfer when unconditional contracts have been exchanged.
to employees on the vesting of the awards granted under the schemes.
The assets and liabilities of the EBT are included in the Property consultancy Group statement of financial position.
Investments in the Groups Revenue in respect of property consultancy represents own shares are shown as a deduction from equity.
commissions and fees recognised on a time basis, fixed fee or percentage of completion.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or Revenue continued constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable Property and facilities management that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and the Revenue represents fees earned for managing properties and amount has been reliably estimated.
Provisions are measured at providing facilities and is generally recognised in the period the the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle services are provided using a straight-line basis over the term of the obligation at the reporting date and are discounted to present thecontract.
value where the effect is material.
Fund management Professional indemnity claims Revenue represents commissions and fees receivable, net of Provisions on professional indemnity claims are recognised when it marketing costs in accordance with the relevant fee agreements.
is probable that the Group will be required to settle claims against it as a result of a past event and the amount of the obligation can be Annual management fees are recognised, gross of costs, in the reliably estimated.
period to which the service has been provided, in accordance with the contracted fee agreements.
Transaction fees are recognised Dilapidation provisions on the date of completion of a purchase or sale transaction.
The Group is required to perform dilapidation repairs on leased Distribution fees are recognised on the completion of a signed properties prior to the properties being vacated at the end of subscription agreement and performance fees are recognised as their lease term.
Provision for such costs are made where a legal earned and when approved by the fund.
obligation is identified and the liability can be reasonably quantified.
Financial services Onerous leases Insurance commission revenue is recognised when the insurance A provision is recognised where the costs of meeting the policy sold is in effect and the amount of commission earned is obligations under a lease contract exceed the economic benefits determinable.
Indemnity commission is recognised when the policy expected to be received and is measured as the net least cost of sold is in effect.
Mortgage commission is recognised on exiting the contract, being the lower of the cost of fulfilling it and completion.
any compensation or penalties arising from the failure to fulfil it.
Work in progress Restructuring provision Work in progress generally relates to consultancy revenue and is A provision is recognised when there is a present constructive stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes obligation to meet the costs of restructure.
This arises when there an appropriate proportion of overheads.
is a detailed formal plan for the restructuring, identifying at least the business or part of the business concerned, principal locations Interest income affected and the location, function and approximate number of Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the employees to be compensated for terminating their services.
Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Other income Other income includes interest and dividend income on availablefor-sale investments plus fair value gains and losses on assets at fair value through profit or loss.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 53 Our business Our governance Our results 2.
Accounting policies continued IFRIC 14 amendments, Prepayments of a minimum funding Leases requirement.
The amendments correct an unintended Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has consequence of IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The limit on a defined benefit substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction.
Without the amendments, entities are not permitted to recognise as an asset some voluntary prepayments for minimum funding Finance lease assets are initially recognised at an amount equal to contributions.
This was not intended when IFRIC 14 was issued, the lower of their fair value and the present value of the minimum and the amendments correct this.
The amendments are effective lease payments at inception of the lease.
The assets are then for annual periods beginning 1January 2011.
These depreciated over the lower of the lease terms or the estimated amendments do not have a material impact on the Groups useful lives of the assets.
The capital elements of future obligations under finance leases are Standards, amendments and interpretations to standards included as liabilities in the statement of financial position.
Leasing effective in 2011 continued payments comprise capital and finance elements and the finance IFRS 3 amendment, Business combinations.
The amendments element is charged to the income statement.
apply to annual periods beginning on or after 1July 2010.
Firstly, they clarify that the requirements in IAS 39 do not apply to The annual payments under all other lease agreements operating contingent consideration that arose from a business combination leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line whose acquisition date preceded the application of IFRS 3 basis over the lease term.
Benefits received and receivable as an revised 2008 and to provide guidance on how to account for incentive to enter into the operating lease are also spread on a such balances.
Secondly, it limits the choice of accounting straight-line basis over the lease term.
applied to non-controlling interests to those that are present A lease is classified as onerous where the unavoidable costs of ownership instruments and entitle their holders to a proportionate meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic share of the entitys net assets in the event of liquidation.
Thirdly, benefits expected to be received under it.
it now provides guidance on share-based payment transactions of an acquiree that the acquirer chooses to replace and clarifies Dividends that those awards should be accounted for in the same way as Dividend distributions are recognised as a liability in the Groups acquiree awards that the acquirer is obliged to replace.
The financial statements in the period in which they are approved by amendments do not have a material impact on the Groups the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
IFRS 7 amendment, Financial instruments: Disclosures.
Standards, amendments and interpretations to standards The amendment applies to annual periods beginning on or effective in 2011 after 1January 2011.
It clarifies that the disclosure requirement The following new standards and amendments to standards are in respect of maximum exposure to credit risk applies only mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning to financial assets whose carrying amounts do not show the 1January 2011: reporting entitys maximum exposure to credit risk in order to avoid repetition.
The requirements to disclose the carrying IAS 32 amendment, Classification of rights issues.
The amount of financial assets that would otherwise be past due amendment applies to annual periods beginning on or after or impaired whose terms have been renegotiated and the fair 1February 2010.
The amendment addresses the accounting value of collateral and other credit enhancements have been for rights issues that are denominated in a currency other than removed.
This amendment does not have a material impact the functional currency of the issuer.
Provided certain conditions on the Groups financial statements.
are met, such rights issues are now classified as equity regardless of the currency in which the exercise price is denominated.
IAS 1 amendment, Presentation of financial statements.
Previously, these issues had to be accounted for as derivative The amendment is effective for annual periods beginning on liabilities.
The amendment applies retrospectively in accordance or after 1January 2011.
It clarifies that entities may present with IAS 8 Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates required reconciliations for each component of other and errors.
This amendment does not have an impact on the comprehensive income either in the statement of changes Groups financial statements.
in equity or in the notes to the financial statements.
It also reinforces the disclosure of dividends per share either in the IFRIC 19, Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity statement of changes in equity or the notes to the financial instruments, effective for annual periods beginning on or after statements.
This amendment does not have a material impact 1July 2010.
The interpretation clarifies the accounting by an on the Groups financialstatements.
entity when the terms of a financial liability are renegotiated and result in the entity issuing equity instruments to its creditor to IAS 34 amendment, Interim Financial Reporting.
The extinguish all or part of the financial liability debt for equity swap.
amendment is effective for annual periods beginning on or It requires a gain or loss to be recognised in profit or loss, which after 1January 2011.
The amendment aligns the disclosures is measured as the difference between the carrying amount of required by IAS 34 with those of other IFRSs and takes into the financial liability and the fair value of the equity instruments account some of the disclosures required by IFRS 7, Financial issued.
If the fair value of the equity instruments issued cannot be instruments: Disclosures around fair value measurement.
This reliably measured, the equity instruments should be measured to amendment does not have a material impact on the Groups reflect the fair value of the financial liability extinguished.
interpretation does not have an impact on the Groups financialstatements.
54 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2011 continued 2.
Accounting policies continued IAS 12 amendment, Income taxes on deferred taxation on Other standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2011 investment property, effective for accounting periods beginning and not discussed above are not relevant to the Group.
Financial risk management IFRS 1 amendment, First time adoption financial instrument Financial risk factors disclosures, effective for accounting periods beginning on or after The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks.
The 1July 2010, accounting policy changes in the year of adoption, Group has in place a risk management programme that seeks to revaluation basis as deemed cost, use of deemed cost for limit the adverse effects on the financial performance of the Group.
operations subject to rate regulation, effective for accounting Occasionally, the Group uses financial instruments to manage periods beginning on or after 1January 2011. foreign currency and interest rate risk.
IAS 24 amendment, Related party disclosures, disclosures The treasury function is responsible for implementing risk for state-controlled entities, effective for accounting periods management policies applied by the Group and has a policy and beginning on or after 1January 2011. procedures manual that sets out specific guidelines on financial risks and the use of financial instruments to manage these.
IFRIC 13, Customer loyalty programmes, fair value of award credits, effective for accounting periods beginning on or after Foreign exchange risk 1January 2011.
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risks primarily with respect to the Euro, Hong Kong Standards, amendments and interpretations to standards dollar, Australian dollar and US dollar.
Foreign exchange risk that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted arises from future commercial transactions, recognised assets by theGroup and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations.
The Group The following standards and amendments to published standards finances some overseas investments through the use of foreign are mandatory for accounting periods beginning on or after currency borrowings.
The Group does not actively seek to 1January 2012, and have not been early adopted: hedge risks arising from foreign currency translations due to IFRS 7 amendment, Financial instruments: Disclosures on their non-cash nature and the high costs associated with such derecognition transfers of financial assets, effective for hedging: however when there is a material committed foreign accounting periods beginning on or after 1July 2011. currency exposure the foreign exchange risk will be hedged.
IAS 1 amendment, Financial statement presentation, regarding For the year ended 31 December 2011, if the average currency other comprehensive income, effective for accounting periods conversion rates against Sterling for the year had changed with beginning on or after 1 July 2012. all other variables held constant, the Group post tax profit for the year would have increased or decreased as shown below: IAS 19 amendment, Employee benefits, effective for Movement of currency against Sterling accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. m 20% 10% 10% 20% IFRS 9, Financial instruments.
This standard is the first step 2011 in the process to replace IAS 39, Financial instruments: Estimated impact on post-tax profit recognition and measurement.
The effective date has been Euro 1.1 0.6 0.7 1.6 delayed to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015.
Early adoption is permitted, however, the standard has not yet Hong Kong dollar 1.4 0.8 0.9 2.1 been endorsed by the EU.
The Group is yet to assess IFRS 9s US dollar 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.4 full impact.
Estimated impact on components of equity IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements, effective for Euro 7.1 3.9 4.8 10.7 accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
Hong Kong dollar 14.9 8.1 10.0 22.4 IFRS 11, Joint arrangements, effective for accounting periods US dollar 1.4 0.7 0.9 2.0 beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
2010 Estimated impact on post-tax profit IFRS 12, Disclosures of interests in other entities, effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
Euro 0.9 0.5 0.6 1.4 Hong Kong dollar 1.2 0.6 0.8 1.8 IFRS 13, Fair value measurement, effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
US dollar 0.7 0.4 0.5 1.1 Estimated impact on components of equity Standards, amendments and interpretations to standards Euro 5.2 2.8 3.4 7.7 that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by theGroup continued Hong Kong dollar 16.3 8.9 10.9 24.5 Other standards, amendments and interpretations not yet US dollar 3.0 1.6 2.0 4.5 effective and not discussed above are not relevant to the Group.
Theseinclude: IFRS 1 amendment, First time adoption on fixed dates and hyperinflation, effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 55 Our business Our governance Our results 3.
Financial risk management continued The table below shows Group cash balances split by counterparty Price risk ratings at the reporting date: The Group is not materially exposed to equity securities price 2011 2010 risk because listed investments held on the statement of financial Counterparty rating provided by S&P m m position are not significant.
The Group is not exposed to AA 12.2 commodity price risk.
AA 38.1 32.2 Interest rate risk A 22.2 30.5 The Group has both interest-bearing assets and liabilities.
The A 11.8 8.3 Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits A 0.1 7.6 and bank borrowings, at both fixed and floating interest rates.
BBB or below 7.8 6.4 Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group cash flow 80.0 97.2 to interest rate risk, which is partially offset by cash held at variable Total rates.
Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
Group policy is to maintain at least 70% Liquidity risk of its borrowings in fixed rate instruments.
The Group maintains appropriate committed facilities to ensure the Group has sufficient funds available for operations and expansion.
For the year ended 31 December 2011, if the average interest rate The Group prepares an annual funding plan approved by the Board for the year had changed with all other variables held constant, the which sets out the Groups expected financing requirements for the Group post tax profit for the year would have increased or next 12 months.
decreased as shown below: Increase in interest rates Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Groups liquidity m 0.50% 1.00% 1.50% 2.00% reserve comprising undrawn borrowing facilities Note 22 and 2011 cash and cash equivalents Note 19 on the basis of expected cash flow.
This is carried out at local level in the operating Estimated impact on companies of the Group in accordance with Group practice as post-tax profit 0.1 0.3 0.4 0.6 well as on a Group consolidated basis.
2010 Estimated impact on The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities and post-tax profit 0.2 0.3 0.5 0.7 net-settled derivative financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the reporting date Decrease in interest rates to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the m 0.50% 1.00% 1.50% 2.00% table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Balances due 2011 within 12 months equal their carrying balances, as the impact of discounting is not significant.
Estimated impact on post-tax profit 0.1 0.3 0.4 0.4 Less than Between Between m 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 2010 2011 Estimated impact on Borrowings 6.2 post-tax profit 0.2 0.3 0.3 0.2 Finance leases 0.1 0.1 Derivative financial Credit risk instruments 0.1 Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments and deposits with banks and financial Trade and other payables 181.1 8.8 0.2 institutions, as well as credit exposures to clients, including 187.5 8.9 0.2 outstanding receivables and committed transactions.
The Group has policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential Less than Between Between customers before business commences.
A risk control framework m 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years is used to assess the credit quality of clients, taking into account 2010 financial position, past experience and other factors.
Borrowings 5.8 3.9 Individual risk limits for banks and financial institutions are set Loan notes 0.4 based on external ratings and in accordance with limits set by Finance leases 0.1 0.1 the Board.
The utilisation of credit limits is regularly monitored.
Derivative financial As at the reporting date, no significant credit risk existed in relation instruments 0.1 0.4 to banking counterparties.
No credit limits were exceeded during Trade and other payables 185.7 16.8 0.5 the reporting period, and management does not expect any losses 192.1 21.2 0.5 from non-performance by these counterparties.
There were no other significant receivables or individual trade receivable balances as at 31 December 2011.
56 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2011 continued 3.
Financial risk management continued The capital structure is as follows: Capital risk management Group Company The Groups objectives when managing capital are: m 2011 2010 2011 2010 Equity 204.4 209.1 144.6 123.8 to safeguard the Groups ability to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders: and Cash and cash equivalents 80.0 97.2 15.8 to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost Bank overdrafts 1.2 0.7 6.3 ofcapital.
Borrowings 5.2 9.6 Savills plc is not subject to any externally imposed capital Net cash debt 73.6 86.9 15.8 6.3 requirements, with the exception of our FSA regulated entities, which complied with all capital requirements during the year ended 31 December 2011.
For more information on FSA capital adequacy Fair value estimation requirements, please visit www.
The following table presents the Groups assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 December 2011: In order to maintain an optimal capital structure, the Group may m Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital 2011 to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
Assets The Board has put in place a distribution policy which takes into Available-for-sale investments account the degree of maintainability of Savills different profit Unlisted 14.4 14.4 streams and the Groups overall exposure to cyclical Transaction Advisory profits, as well as the requirement to maintain a certain Derivative financial instruments 0.1 0.1 level of cash resources for working capital and corporate Total assets 14.5 14.5 development purposes.
The Board will recommend an ordinary Liabilities dividend broadly reflecting the profits derived from our less volatile Derivative financial instruments 0.1 0.1 businesses.
In addition, when profits from the cyclical Transaction Total liabilities 0.1 0.1 Advisory business are strong, the Board will consider and, if appropriate, recommend the payment of a supplemental dividend alongside the final ordinary dividend.
The value of any such The following table presents the Groups assets and liabilities that supplemental dividend will vary depending on the performance are measured at fair value at 31 December 2010: of the Groups Transaction Advisory business and the Groups m Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total anticipated working capital and corporate development 2010 requirements through the cycle.
It is intended that, in normal Assets circumstances, the combined value of the ordinary and supplemental dividends declared in respect of any year are Available-for-sale investments covered at least 1.5 times by statutory retained earnings and or Unlisted 14.2 14.2 at least 2.0times by underlying profits after taxation.
Total assets 14.2 14.2 Liabilities The Groups policy is to borrow centrally if required to meet anticipated funding requirements.
These borrowings, together with Derivative financial instruments 0.5 0.5 cash generated from operations, are then on-lent or contributed Total liabilities 0.5 0.5 as equity to certain subsidiaries.
The Board of Directors monitors a number of debt measures on a rolling forward 12 month basis The fair value of unlisted available-for-sale investments is including gross cash by location: gross debt by location: cash determined using valuation techniques using observable market subject to restrictions: total debt servicing cost to operating profit: data where available and rely as little as possible on entity gross borrowings as a percentage of EBITDA earnings before estimates.
The fair value of investment funds is based on underlying interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation : and forecast asset values determined by the Fund Managers audited annual headroom against available facilities.
These internal measures financial statements.
Fair value of other unlisted investments is indicate the levels of debt that the Group has and are closely based on price earnings models.
These instruments are included in monitored to ensure compliance with banking covenants and Level 2. that the Group has sufficient unused facilities.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is determined by using valuation techniques using observable market data.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is based on the market value of similar instruments with similar maturities.
These instruments are included in Level 2.
If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in Level 3.
Level 1 instruments are those whose fair values are based on quoted market prices.
The Group has no Level 1 instruments.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 57 Our business Our governance Our results 4.
Critical accounting estimates and Estimated impairment of assets The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any management judgements impairment.
All other assets are tested for impairment where there Critical accounting estimates and assumptions are indicators of impairment.
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience, current market conditions and The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units have been other factors including expectations of future events that are determined based on value-in-use calculations.
The use of this believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Actual results method requires the estimate of future cash flows expected to may differ from these estimates.
Changes in accounting estimates arise from the continuing operation of the cash-generating unit may be necessary if there are changes in circumstances on which and the choice of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the the estimate was based, or as a result of new information or more present value.
Actual outcomes could vary significantly from these experience.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant estimates.
The estimates used in these financial statements are risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of contained in Note 14. assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussedbelow.
Valuation of intangible assets and useful life The Group has made assumptions in relation to the potential Pension benefits future cash flows to be determined from separable intangible The present value of the defined benefit pension obligations assets acquired as part of business combinations.
This assessment depends on a number of factors that are determined on an involves assumptions relating to potential future revenues, actuarial basis using a number of assumptions including the appropriate discount rates and the useful life of such assets.
Any changes in these assumptions will impact the These assumptions impact the income statement over the useful carrying amount of pension obligations.
The Group determines the life of the intangible asset.
appropriate discount rate at the end of each year.
In determining the appropriate discount rate, the Group considers the interest Provisions rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the The Group and its subsidiaries are party to various legal claims.
currency in which the benefits will be paid and that have terms to Provisions made within these financial statements are contained maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability.
Additional claims could be made which might not Other key assumptions for pension obligations are based in part be covered by existing provisions or by insurance as detailed in on current market conditions.
Critical judgements in applying the entitys accounting policies Income taxes The application of the Groups accounting policies may require The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
management to make judgements, apart from those involving Judgement is required in determining the provision for income estimates, that can affect the amounts recognised in the taxes.
There are transactions and calculations for which the consolidated financial statements.
Such judgements include: ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
Where the final tax outcome Award of options and deferred shares to employees of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially The Group applies judgement in deciding the proportion of the recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred available bonus pool to be awarded to employees under its tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
The Groups current Deferred taxes policy is to deduct from the bonus pool an amount equal to the The recognition of deferred tax assets is based upon whether it is market value of the share price on the date of award.
Under IFRS, probable that sufficient and suitable taxable profits will be available the value of award is spread over the vesting period and charged in the future, against which the reversal of temporary differences to the income statement.
The charge to the income statement is can be deducted.
Recognition, therefore, involves judgement currently higher than the market value of shares to be awarded.
regarding the future financial performance of the particular legal entity or tax group in which the deferred tax asset has been recognised, especially with regard to the extent that future taxable profits will be available against which losses can be utilised.
Additional information is disclosed in note 17.
Fair value of options granted to employees The Group uses the Binomial Model in determining the fair value of options granted to employees under the Groups various schemes as detailed in the Remuneration report.
Information on such assumptions is contained in Note 26.
The alteration of these assumptions may impact charges to the income statement over the vesting period of the award.
58 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2011 continued 5.
Segment analysis Operating segments reflect internal management reporting to the Groups chief operating decision maker, defined as the Group Executive Board GEB.
The operating segments are determined based on differences in the nature of their services.
Geographical location also strongly affects the Group and both are therefore disclosed.
The reportable operating segments derive their revenue primarily from property related services.
Refer to the Group overview on page 3 and the Segmental reviews on pages 8 to 13 for further information on revenue sources.
Operations are based in four main geographical areas.
The UK is the home of the parent Company with segment operations throughout the region.
Asia Pacific segment operations are based in Hong Kong, Macau, China, Korea, Japan, Taiwan, Thailand, Singapore, Vietnam and Australia.
Continental Europe segment operations are based in Germany, France, Spain, Netherlands, Belgium, Sweden, Italy, Ireland and Poland.
America segment operations are based in New York.
The sales location of the client is not materially different from the location where fees are received and where the segment assets are located.
Within the UK, commercial and residential activities are managed separately.
Other geographical areas, although largely commercial based, also provide residential services, in particular Hong Kong, China, Vietnam and Singapore.
The GEB assesses the performance of operating segments based on a measure of underlying profit before tax which adjusts reported pre-tax profit by profit on disposals, share-based payments adjustment, restructuring costs and impairment and amortisation of goodwill and intangibles excluding software.
Segmental assets and liabilities are not measured or reported to the GEB, but non-current assets are disclosed geographically below.
The segment information provided to the GEB for revenue and profits for the year ended 31 December 2011 is as follows: Property and Transaction Facilities Fund Advisory Consultancy Management Management Other Total 2011 m m m m m m Revenue United Kingdom commercial 47.9 79.5 60.3 20.8 0.6 209.1 residential 95.0 27.9 17.5 2.8 143.2 Total United Kingdom 142.9 107.4 77.8 20.8 3.4 352.3 Continental Europe 26.0 11.1 28.4 65.5 Asia Pacific commercial 80.2 24.9 172.4 277.5 residential 19.9 19.9 Total Asia Pacific 100.1 24.9 172.4 297.4 America 6.3 6.3 Total revenue 275.3 143.4 278.6 20.8 3.4 721.5 Underlying profit loss before tax United Kingdom commercial 4.6 7.8 4.3 4.7 8.1 13.3 residential 14.8 3.1 2.2 0.3 20.4 Total United Kingdom 19.4 10.9 6.5 4.7 7.8 33.7 Continental Europe 8.8 0.1 0.7 9.6 Asia Pacific commercial 11.2 1.8 10.9 23.9 residential 3.8 3.8 Total Asia Pacific 15.0 1.8 10.9 27.7 America 1.4 1.4 Underlying profit loss before tax 24.2 12.6 16.7 4.7 7.8 50.4 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 59 Our business Our governance Our results 5.
Segment analysis continued Property and Transaction Facilities Fund Financial Advisory Consultancy Management Management Services Other Total 2010 m m m m m m m Revenue United Kingdom commercial 48.2 73.2 56.2 19.0 0.7 197.3 residential 86.8 24.3 16.2 8.7 136.0 Total United Kingdom 135.0 97.5 72.4 19.0 9.4 333.3 Continental Europe 30.2 10.4 20.3 60.9 Asia Pacific commercial 85.5 26.3 151.0 262.8 residential 16.9 16.9 Total Asia Pacific 102.4 26.3 151.0 279.7 America 3.1 3.1 Total revenue 270.7 134.2 243.7 19.0 9.4 677.0 Underlying profit loss before tax United Kingdom commercial 7.7 6.4 3.9 3.4 1.1 8.0 12.3 residential 13.3 2.7 1.9 0.8 2.0 15.1 Total United Kingdom 21.0 9.1 5.8 3.4 1.9 10.0 27.4 Continental Europe 4.3 0.1 1.8 6.2 Asia Pacific commercial 13.4 1.6 10.4 25.4 residential 4.3 4.3 Total Asia Pacific 17.7 1.6 10.4 29.7 America 3.6 3.6 Underlying profit loss before tax 30.8 10.6 14.4 3.4 1.9 10.0 47.3 Following the disposal of Savills Private Finance Limited, the financial services business is now shown within Other.
These results were previously reported as a separate segment for information purposes only as it did not meet the quantitative thresholds to be a reportable segment as required by IFRS 8.
This adds 2.9m of revenue and 0.3m of underlying profit to Other for the year ended 31 December 2011.
For 2011, the Other segment includes Savills Private Finance Limited up to the date of disposal, as well as costs and other expenses at holding company and subsidiary levels, which are not directly attributable to the operating activities of the Groups business segments.
In comparative periods, Other excludes financial services.
In 2010, the Other UK residential segment represents the Groups share of post tax losses of 2.0m from an associated company, which could not be reasonably allocated to an operating segment.
The losses primarily related to the impairment of goodwill.
A reconciliation of underlying profit before tax to profit before tax is provided in Note 7.
Inter segmental revenue is not material.
Transaction Advisory underlying profit before tax includes depreciation of 2.7m 2010: 2.6m, software amortisation of 0.2m 2010: 0.2m and share of post-tax profit from associates and joint ventures of 2.3m 2010: 2.3m.
Consultancy underlying profit before tax includes depreciation of 1.3m 2010: 1.4m and software amortisation of 0.1m 2010: 0.1m.
Property and Facilities Management underlying profit before tax includes depreciation of 2.3m 2010: 2.0m, software amortisation of 0.3m 2010: 0.4m and share of post-tax profit from associates and joint ventures of 1.5m 2010: 0.9m.
Fund management underlying profit before tax includes depreciation of 0.1m 2010: 0.1m and share of post-tax profit from associates and joint ventures of 0.3m 2010: nil.
Included in Other underlying profit is depreciation of 0.7m 2010: 0.5m, software amortisation of 0.5m 2010: 0.3m and share of post-tax loss from associates and joint ventures of 0.1m 2010: 2.0m.
60 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2011 continued 5.
Segment analysis continued Non-current assets by geography comprise: 2011 2010 m m Non-current assets United Kingdom 74.4 69.4 Continental Europe 44.7 46.2 Asia Pacific 65.6 63.9 America 17.4 17.9 Total non-current assets 202.1 197.4 Non-current assets include goodwill and intangible assets, plant, property and equipment, investments in joint ventures and associates and available-for-sale investments.
Deferred tax assets are not included.
Operating profit Operating profit is stated after charging crediting : Group 2011 2010 m m Amortisation and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets include: Amortisation Note 14 3.7 3.7 Impairment of goodwill Note 14 5.4 4.3 Impairment of intangible assets Note 14 0.1 9.1 8.1 Other operating expenses include: Net foreign exchange losses 0.2 0.1 Bad debts expense 3.0 2.3 Restructuring costs 1.9 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.3 Operating lease rentals Hire of equipment and vehicles 2.3 2.2 Property 23.8 21.6 Impairment of investment in associate 2.0 Other income dividend and investment income 0.5 0.3 Profit loss on disposals is made up as follows: Profit loss on disposals Available-for-sale investments 1.7 Joint venture 0.1 Subsidiaries 0.5 0.1 2.3 0.1 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 61 Our business Our governance Our results 6 b.
Income Statement of the Company As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the income statement and statement of comprehensive income of the Company is not presented as part of these accounts.
The Company has produced its own income statement and statement of comprehensive income for approval by its board.
The Company receives dividends from subsidiaries and charges subsidiaries for the provision of Group related services.
The profit after income tax of the Company for the year was 46.5m 2010: 5.0m.
6 c. Fees payable to the Companys auditor,  LLP, and its associates: Group 2011 2010 m m Audit services Fees payable to Companys auditor for the audit of parent Company and consolidated financial statements 0.2 0.2 Other services Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.9 0.8 Tax services 0.3 0.3 Advisory services 0.1 1.5 1.3 7.
Underlying profit before tax 2011 2010 m m Reported profit before tax 40.0 36.8 Adjustments: Amortisation of intangibles excluding software Note 14 2.6 2.7 Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets Note 14 5.4 4.4 Impairment of investment in associate Note 16 a 2.0 Share-based payment adjustment 0.8 3.3 Restructuring costs 1.9 Profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries, joint venture and available-for-sale investment 2.3 0.1 Underlying profit before tax 50.4 47.3 The Directors regard the above adjustments necessary to give a fair picture of the underlying results of the Group for the year.
The adjustment for share-based payment relates to the impact of the accounting standard for share-based compensation.
The annual bonus is paid in a mixture of cash and deferred shares and the proportions can vary from one year to another.
Under IFRS the deferred share element is amortised to the income statement over the vesting period whilst the cash element is expensed in the year.
The adjustment above addresses this by adding to or deducting from profit the difference between the IFRS 2 charge and the effective value of the annual share award in order better to match the underlying staff costs in the year with the revenue recognised in the same period.
62 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2011 continued 8 a.
Employee benefits expense Staff and Directors Group 2011 2010 m m Basic salaries and wages 288.0 258.1 Profit share and commissions 111.1 122.3 Wages and salaries 399.1 380.4 Social security costs 32.9 31.0 Other pension costs 15.5 14.9 Share-based payments 11.3 11.3 458.8 437.6 8 b.
Staff numbers The weighted average number of employees including Directors for the year was: Group 2011 2010 United Kingdom 3,334 3,222 Continental Europe 751 692 Asia Pacific 19,432 17,640 America 38 34 23,555 21,588 The average number of UK employees including Directors during the year included 113 employed under fixed term and temporary contracts 2010: 91.
8 c. Key management compensation Group 2011 2010 m m Key management Short term employee benefits 12.1 6.3 Post-employment benefits 1.1 0.2 Share-based payments 1.9 1.4 15.1 7.9 The key management of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2011 comprised Executive Directors and the GEB members.
Details of Directors remuneration is contained in the Remuneration report on pages 33 to 39.
During the year six 2010: five GEB members made aggregate gains totalling 1.2m 2010: 1.1m on the exercise of options under the DSBP, DSP, ESOP and Sharesave Schemes.
The pension annuity for the highest paid GEB members was nil with no lump sum accrued 2010: 49,958 with no lump sum accrued.
Retirement benefits under the defined benefit scheme are accruing for three 2010: three GEB members and benefits are accruing under a defined contribution scheme in Hong Kong for two 2010: one GEB members.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 63 Our business Our governance Our results 9.
Pension scheme Defined contribution plans The Group operates the Savills UK Group Personal Pension Plan, a defined contribution scheme, a number of defined contribution individual pension plans and a Mandatory Provident Fund Scheme in Hong Kong, to which it contributes.
The total pension charges in respect of these plans were 16.5m 2010: 14.0m.
The amount outstanding as at 31 December 2011 in relation to defined contribution schemes is 0.3m 2010: 0.2m.
Defined benefit plan The Pension Plan of Savills the Plan provided final salary pension benefits to some employees, but was closed with regard to future service-based benefit accrual with effect from 31 March 2010.
From 1 April 2010, pension benefits for former employees of the Plan are provided through the Groups defined contribution Personal Pension Plan.
The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Group, and invested in managed funds units.
The contributions are determined by an independent qualified actuary on the basis of triennial valuations.
A full actuarial valuation was carried out as at 31 March 2010 and has been updated to 31 December 2011 by a qualified independent actuary.
The assumptions which have the most significant effect on the results of the valuation are those relating to the rate of return on investments pre-retirement, the rates of increase in salaries and the post-retirement investment return.
The valuation showed that the market value of the schemes assets was 109.6m and that the actuarial value of those assets represented 80% of the benefits that had accrued to members, after allowing for expected future increases in earnings.
The scheme has been closed to new joiners for pension benefits since 1 April 2000.
Group Principal assumptions at 31 December 2011 2010 Expected return on plan assets Equities 7.80% 8.10% Gilts 2.50% 4.00% Bonds 4.70% 5.20% Property 6.80% 7.10% Diversified growth funds 7.50% 7.80% Other 0.50% 0.50% Expected rate of salary increases 4.50% 4.50% Rate of increase to pensions in payment accrued before 6 April 1997 3.00% 3.00% accrued after 5 April 1997 3.10% 3.60% accrued after 5 April 2005 2.30% 2.40% Rate of increase to pensions in deferment accrued before 6 April 2001 5.00% 5.00% accrued after 5 April 2001 2.80% 2.90% accrued after 5 April 2009 2.20% 2.50% Discount rate 4.90% 5.50% Inflation assumption 3.10% 3.60% Using post-retirement mortality assumptions, the assured life expectations on retirement at age 60 2010: 60 are as follows: Group 2011 2010 Retiring today Male 88.1 88.1 Female 89.2 89.1 Retiring in 20 years Male 89.5 89.5 Female 90.8 90.8 Sensitivity analysis of the discount rate: Change in assumption Increase by 0.5% p. a.
Impact on liabilities Decrease by 10.7% 2010: increase by 12% 64 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2011 continued 9.
Pension scheme continued The amounts recognised in the statement of financial position are as follows: Group Company 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m Fair value of plan assets 129.0 119.5 7.1 6.6 Present value of funded obligations 164.6 141.8 9.1 7.8 Deficit 35.6 22.3 2.0 1.2 Related deferred tax asset 8.9 6.1 0.5 0.3 Net liability 26.7 16.2 1.5 0.9 The amounts recognised in the income statement: Group 2011 2010 m m Current service cost 0.9 Interest cost 7.7 7.9 Expected return on plan assets 8.7 7.9 Total included in staff costs 1.0 0.9 All net actuarial gains or losses for each year are recognised in full in the year in which they are incurred in the statement of comprehensive income.
Change in defined benefit obligation: Group 2011 2010 m m Present value of defined benefit obligation at start of year 141.8 141.2 Current service cost 0.9 Interest cost 7.7 7.9 Plan participants contributions 0.3 Actuarial loss gain 16.1 7.2 Benefits paid 1.0 1.3 Present value of defined benefit obligation at end of year 164.6 141.8 Change in plan assets: Group 2011 2010 m m Fair value of plan assets at start of year 119.5 103.5 Expected return on plan assets 8.7 7.9 Actuarial loss gain 4.2 3.3 Employer contributions 6.0 5.8 Plan participants contributions 0.3 Benefits paid 1.0 1.3 Fair value of plan assets at end of year 129.0 119.5 The actual return on plan assets was 4.5m 2010: 11.2m.
The overall expected return on assets is determined as the weighted average of the expected returns on each separate asset class shown below.
The expected return on plan assets is determined by the expected rate of return over the remaining life of the related liabilities held by the scheme.
The expected rate of return on equities is based on market expectations of dividend yields and price earnings ratios.
Expected returns on bonds are based on gross redemption yields as at the reporting date.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 65 Our business Our governance Our results 9.
Pension scheme continued The amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: Group 2011 2010 m m Actuarial losses brought forward 27.1 37.6 Net actuarial loss gain for the year 20.3 10.5 Accumulated net actuarial losses 47.4 27.1 The major categories of assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows: 2011 2010 Equities 48% 51% Gilts 4% Bonds 31% 23% Property 2% 3% Diversified Growth Funds 18% 19% Cash 1% Total 100% 100% No plan assets are the Groups own financial instruments or property occupied or used by the Group.
Amounts for the current and previous four years are as follows: 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 m m m m m Plan assets 129.0 119.5 103.5 85.9 103.4 Defined benefit obligation 164.6 141.8 141.2 110.5 113.4 Deficit 35.6 22.3 37.7 24.6 10.0 Experience loss gain on plan liabilities 1% 2% 2% 1% 5% Experience loss gain on plan assets 3% 3% 8% 35% 4% The Group expects to contribute 7.0m to its pension plan in the period to 31 December 2012 2011: 6.0m.
The Company expects to contribute 0.4m 2011: 0.3m.
Finance income and costs Group 2011 2010 m m Bank interest receivable 1.1 0.9 Fair value gain interest rate swaps 0.3 0.3 Finance income 1.4 1.2 Bank interest payable 1.3 2.2 Finance costs 1.3 2.2 Net finance costs 0.1 1.0 66 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2011 continued 11.
Income tax expense Group 2011 2010 Analysis of tax expense for the year m m Current tax United Kingdom: Corporation tax on profits for the year 10.6 10.1 Adjustment in respect of previous years 1.1 0.1 11.7 10.0 Foreign tax 6.5 6.7 Adjustment in respect of previous years 0.3 0.4 Total current tax 17.9 16.3 Deferred tax Representing: United Kingdom 1.9 4.1 Foreign tax 1.9 0.3 Adjustment in respect of previous years 0.9 0.2 Total deferred tax Note 17 4.7 4.6 Income tax expense 13.2 11.7 The weighted average applicable UK tax rate was 26.5% 2010: 28% due to the reduction of the UK tax rate from 28% to 26% which was effective from 1 April 2011.
The tax on the Groups profit before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the weighted average tax rate applicable to Group profits.
The tax for the year is higher 2010: higher than the weighted average rate of 26.5%.
The total tax charge on profit can be reconciled to the accounting profit as follows: Group 2011 2010 m m Profit before tax 40.0 36.8 Profit on ordinary activities at 26.5% 2010: 28.0% 10.6 10.3 Effects of: Adjustments to tax in respect of previous years 0.1 0.7 Adjustments in respect of foreign tax rates 2.3 3.0 Impact of falling rising share price compared to the fair value of share awards options at date of grant 0.8 0.6 Income not subject to tax 0.7 Non-deductible tax losses 1.6 2.6 Expenses and other charges not deductible for tax purposes 3.0 3.4 Impairment of associate undertaking 0.5 Tax on joint ventures and associates 1.0 0.3 Effect of change in UK tax rate on deferred tax 0.8 Income tax expense on profit 13.2 11.7 The effective tax rate of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2011 is 33% 2010: 31.8%.
During the year as a result of a further change in the UK tax rate from 26% to 25% that was substantively enacted on 5 July 2011 and that will be effective from 1 April 2012, the relevant deferred tax balances have been remeasured.
Deferred tax expected to reverse in the year ended 31 December 2012 has been measured using the effective rate that is expected to apply in the period 25.25%.
Further reductions to the UK tax rate have been announced.
The changes, which are expected to be enacted separately each year, propose to reduce the rate by 1% per annum to 23% by 1 April 2014.
The changes had not been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and, therefore, are not recognised in these financial statements.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 67 Our business Our governance Our results 11.
Income tax expense continued The tax charged credited to other comprehensive income is as follows: Group Company 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m Current tax credit on employee benefits 3.4 2.6 0.2 Current tax credit on foreign exchange reserves 0.2 Current tax credit on retirement benefits 1.6 1.4 0.1 Deferred tax credit charge on pension actuarial losses gains 5.4 3.2 0.2 0.2 Deferred tax on pension additional contributions 1.6 1.4 0.1 Deferred tax on pension effect of tax rate change 0.6 Deferred tax charge on employee benefits 3.3 1.7 0.1 Deferred tax credit on revaluations of available-for-sale investments 0.2 0.1 Deferred tax credit on foreign exchange reserves 0.1 0.1 Tax on items relating to components of other comprehensive income 5.0 2.1 0.4 0.3 12.
Dividends Group and Company 2011 2010 m m Amounts recognised as distribution to owners in the year: Ordinary final dividend for 2010 of 6.0p per share 7.4 Supplemental interim dividend for 2010 of 4.0p per share 5.0 Interim dividend of 3.15p per share 2010: 3.0p 3.9 3.7 Second interim dividend for 2009 of 6.0p per share 7.3 16.3 11.0 The Board recommends a final dividend of 6.35p net per ordinary share amounting to 7.8m is paid, alongside the supplemental interim dividend of 4p per ordinary share amounting to 5.0m, to be paid on 14 May 2012 to shareholders on the register at 10 April 2012.
These financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable.
Under the terms of the Savills plc 1992 Employee Benefit Trust the EBT, the Trustee has waived all but 0.01p of any dividend on each share held by the Trust.
Savills QUEST Trustees Limited, the trustee of the Qualifying Employee Share Trust, waived all dividends on the shares it held.
68 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2011 continued 13 a.
Basic and diluted earnings per share Basic earnings per share are based on the profit attributable to owners of the company and the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding the shares held by the EBT, 9,198,857 shares 2010: 9,613,393 shares.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of dilutive potential ordinary shares, being the share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year and where performance conditions have been met.
The earnings and the shares used in the calculations are as follows: 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 Earnings Shares EPS Earnings Shares EPS m million pence m million pence Basic earnings per share 26.5 123.3 21.5 25.0 122.2 20.5 Effect of additional shares issuable under option 3.4 0.6 4.2 0.7 Diluted earnings per share 26.5 126.7 20.9 25.0 126.4 19.8 13 b.
Underlying basic and diluted earnings per share Excludes profit loss on disposals, share-based payments adjustment, impairment and amortisation of goodwill and intangibles excluding software, impairment of associate undertaking and restructuring costs.
2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 Earnings Shares EPS Earnings Shares EPS m million pence m million pence Basic earnings per share 26.5 123.3 21.5 25.0 122.2 20.5 Amortisation of intangibles excluding software after tax 2.1 1.7 2.1 1.7 Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets after tax 5.4 4.4 4.4 3.6 Impairment of investment in associate after tax 2.0 1.6 Share-based payment adjustment after tax 0.6 0.5 2.5 2.1 Restructuring costs after tax 1.4 1.2 Profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries, joint venture and available-for-sale investment after tax 2.3 1.9 0.1 Underlying basic earnings per share 35.7 123.3 29.0 34.1 122.2 27.9 Effect of additional shares issuable under option 3.4 0.8 4.2 0.9 Underlying diluted earnings per share 35.7 126.7 28.2 34.1 126.4 27.0 The Directors regard the above adjustments necessary to give a fair picture of the underlying results of the Group for the year.
The gross amounts of the above adjustments Note 7 are profit on disposals of 2.3m 2010: loss of 0.1m, share-based payment adjustment 0.8m 2010: 3.3m, add back of amortisation of intangibles excluding software 2.6m 2010: 2.7m, impairment of goodwill and intangibles of 5.4m 2010: 4.4m, impairment of investment in associate of 2.0m 2010: nil and restructuring costs of 1.9m 2010: nil.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 69 Our business Our governance Our results 14.
Goodwill and intangible assets Group Company Investment and Customer property business management Computer Goodwill relationships Brands contracts software Total Total Acquired goodwill and intangible assets m m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2011 178.1 22.3 6.1 10.6 11.5 228.6 3.4 Additions through business combinations Note 16 e 7.5 0.7 0.6 8.8 Disposals through business combinations Note 16 f 4.6 1.3 0.3 0.4 6.6 Initial recognition of deferred tax on intangible assets Note 17 0.2 0.2 Other additions 1.2 1.2 0.4 Disposals 0.1 0.1 Derecognition of fully amortised intangible assets 0.3 6.1 6.4 Exchange movement 1.7 0.2 0.1 2.0 At 31 December 2011 179.5 21.2 10.8 12.2 223.7 3.8 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2011 43.8 10.8 6.1 5.3 8.7 74.7 1.9 Amortisation charge for the year 2.4 0.2 1.1 3.7 0.5 Disposals through business combinations Note 16 f 4.6 0.3 0.4 5.3 Impairment 5.4 5.4 Disposals 0.1 0.1 Derecognition of fully amortised intangible assets 0.3 6.1 6.4 Exchange movement 0.7 0.1 0.8 At 31 December 2011 43.9 12.8 5.2 9.3 71.2 2.4 Net book value At 31 December 2011 135.6 8.4 5.6 2.9 152.5 1.4 70 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2011 continued 14.
Goodwill and intangible assets continued All intangible amortisation charges in the year are disclosed on the face of the income statement.
The Companys intangible assets consist of computer software only.
Group Company Investment and Customer property business management Computer Goodwill relationships Brands contracts software Total Total Acquired goodwill and intangible assets m m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2010 169.4 21.0 6.2 10.5 10.1 217.2 2.7 Acquisitions 7.6 1.3 8.9 Other additions 1.0 0.1 1.6 2.7 0.7 Disposals 2.0 0.6 2.6 Exchange movement 2.1 0.1 0.4 2.4 At 31 December 2010 178.1 22.3 6.1 10.6 11.5 228.6 3.4 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2010 41.1 8.0 6.2 5.0 8.0 68.3 1.6 Amortisation charge for the year 2.5 0.2 1.0 3.7 0.3 Impairment 4.3 0.1 4.4 Disposals 2.0 0.6 2.6 Exchange movement 0.4 0.3 0.1 0.3 0.9 At 31 December 2010 43.8 10.8 6.1 5.3 8.7 74.7 1.9 Net book value At 31 December 2010 134.3 11.5 5.3 2.8 153.9 1.5 At 1 January 2010 128.3 13.0 5.5 2.1 148.9 1.1 During the year, goodwill and intangibles were tested for impairment in accordance with IAS 36.
Goodwill and intangibles are allocated to the Groups cash-generating units CGUs identified according to country of operation and business segment.
In most cases, the CGU is an individual subsidiary or operation and these have been separately assessed and tested.
A segment-level summary of the allocation is presented below: Property and Transactional Facilities Fund Advice Consultancy Management Management Total m m m m m United Kingdom 26.5 10.3 5.1 2.2 44.1 Continental Europe 30.1 0.7 11.9 42.7 Asia Pacific 11.4 3.1 31.1 45.6 America 17.2 17.2 Total goodwill and intangibles excluding software 85.2 14.1 48.1 2.2 149.6 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 71 Our business Our governance Our results 14.
Goodwill and intangible assets continued Method of impairment testing All recoverable amounts were determined based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations use discounted cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a five-year period.
Cash flows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated using a terminal value.
Assumptions Market recovery In each case the models used assume that, apart from Italy, each of the property markets in which the Group operates begin to recover during 2012 2013.
Discount rate The discount rate applied to cash flows of each CGU is based on the Groups Weighted Average Cost of Capital WACC.
WACC is the average cost of sources of financing debt and equity, each of which is weighted by its respective use.
Key inputs to the WACC calculation are the risk free rate, the equity market risk premium the return that Savills shares provide over the risk free rate, beta reflecting the risk of the Group relative to the market as a whole and the Groups borrowing rates.
Method of impairment testing continued Group WACC was adjusted for risk relative to the country in which the assets were located.
The risk adjusted pre-tax discount range of rates used in each region for impairment testing are as follows: 2011 2010 Pre-tax discount rate range Pre-tax discount rate range United Kingdom 11.0% 11.0% Continental Europe 11.0 11.5% 11.0 11.5% Asia Pacific 6.3 21.3% 8.5 22.0% America 12.5% 12.5% Long-term growth rate To forecast beyond the five years covered by detailed forecasts, a terminal value was calculated, using an average long-term growth rate determined at 1.5%.
This reflects managements expectations based on historical growth and current market conditions and does not exceed the long-term growth rate in any country in which the Group operates.
Impairment charge Following impairment testing, a 5.4m charge has been recognised through the income statement 2010: 4.4m relating to goodwill on historical acquisitions where carrying values are no longer supported by the discounted cash flow analysis.
2.8m of the impairment relates to Savills Italy SRL.
The economic climate in Southern Europe has adversely affected the business and the goodwill relating to this business has been fully written off.
This business is included within the European transactional segment.
Key assumptions include a discount rate of 11.5%.
Our Spanish business has also been subject to similar economic conditions in the region.
Discounted cash flow analysis indicates that the goodwill relating to this business should be impaired by 1.9m, with a key assumption being a discount rate of 11.5%.
This business operates under the European transactional, consultancy and property management segments.
The remaining 0.7m relates to Showcase, an exhibition and design business in Hong Kong.
The business has not performed as expected and goodwill relating to this business has been fully written off.
The business is included within the Asian property management segment.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions The level of impairment is a reflection of best estimates in arriving at value in use, future growth rates and the discount rate applied to cash flow projections.
Nonetheless, there are no CGUs which management consider a reasonable possible change in a key assumption would give rise to an impairment apart from our Spanish business, which is partially impaired.
Had the discount rate been increased by 0.5% to 12.0% the impairment would have been 2.1m.
Future impairments may be impacted by the following factors: Market conditions the timing and growth expectations for further recovery are key assumptions in the determination of the cash flow projections.
For the purposes of the impairment tests, management expect the market to improve slightly over 2012 for the next year, but anticipate a bigger improvement from 2013 onward.
Cost base the cost base assumptions reflects 2011s costs with limited growth in the fixed cost base going forward.
Commissions and profit shares are correlated to the Groups revenue and profits and the percentage payout.
These are assumed to be consistent with existingrates.
72 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2011 continued 15.
Property, plant and equipment Equipment Equipment Short and motor and motor Freehold leasehold vehicles vehicles property property Owned Leased Total Group m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2011 0.1 20.6 51.1 0.3 72.1 Subsidiaries acquired Note 16 e 0.2 0.2 Subsidiaries disposed Note 16 f 1.0 1.6 2.6 Additions 2.2 7.0 9.2 Reclassifications 0.2 0.2 Disposals 3.4 3.3 6.7 Exchange movement 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2011 0.1 18.4 53.7 0.1 72.3 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2011 13.7 40.6 0.1 54.4 Charge for the year 1.9 5.2 7.1 Subsidiaries disposed Note 16 f 0.4 1.4 1.8 Disposals 3.3 2.5 5.8 At 31 December 2011 11.9 41.9 0.1 53.9 Net book value At 31 December 2011 0.1 6.5 11.8 18.4 The Directors consider that the fair value of plant, property and equipment approximates carrying value.
Equipment Equipment Short and motor and motor Freehold leasehold vehicles vehicles property property Owned Leased Total Group m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2010 0.4 19.7 47.4 67.5 Acquisitions 0.1 0.3 0.4 Additions 0.6 4.9 5.5 Transfer 0.3 0.3 Disposals 0.1 2.3 2.4 Exchange movement 0.1 1.0 1.1 At 31 December 2010 0.1 20.6 51.1 0.3 72.1 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2010 11.7 37.5 49.2 Charge for the year 2.0 4.5 0.1 6.6 Disposals 2.1 2.1 Exchange movement 0.7 0.7 At 31 December 2010 13.7 40.6 0.1 54.4 Net book value At 31 December 2010 0.1 6.9 10.5 0.2 17.7 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 73 Our business Our governance Our results 15.
Property, plant and equipment continued Short Equipment Freehold leasehold and motor property property vehicles Total Company m m m m Cost At 1 January 2011 0.1 0.8 8.8 9.7 Additions 0.8 0.8 Disposals 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2011 0.1 0.8 9.5 10.4 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2011 0.8 7.6 8.4 Charge for the year 0.7 0.7 Disposals 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2011 0.8 8.2 9.0 Net book value At 31 December 2011 0.1 1.3 1.4 Short Equipment Freehold leasehold and motor property property vehicles Total Company m m m m Cost At 1 January 2010 0.1 0.8 7.9 8.8 Additions 0.9 0.9 At 31 December 2010 0.1 0.8 8.8 9.7 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2010 0.8 7.1 7.9 Charge for the year 0.5 0.5 At 31 December 2010 0.8 7.6 8.4 Net book value At 31 December 2010 0.1 1.2 1.3 74 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2011 continued 16 a.
Group Investments in joint ventures and associated undertakings Joint ventures Associated undertakings Investment Loans Total Investment Goodwill Total m m m m m m Cost or valuation At 1 January 2011 1.4 1.9 3.3 3.8 0.2 4.0 Additions 0.8 0.8 Loans advanced 2.1 2.1 0.2 0.2 Loans repaid 0.7 0.7 Impairment 1.8 0.2 2.0 Exchange movement 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2011 2.2 3.3 5.5 2.1 2.1 Share of profit At 1 January 2011 2.5 2.5 1.8 1.8 Groups share of retained profit 1.5 1.5 2.5 2.5 Dividends received 0.4 0.4 1.5 1.5 Disposals 0.2 0.2 At 31 December 2011 3.4 3.4 2.8 2.8 Total At 31 December 2011 5.6 3.3 8.9 4.9 4.9 Joint ventures Associated undertakings Investment Loans Total Investment Goodwill Total m m m m m m Cost or valuation At 1 January 2010 1.1 2.2 3.3 3.4 0.2 3.6 Additions 0.3 0.3 Loans advanced 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 Loans repaid 0.5 0.5 Exchange movement 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 At 31 December 2010 1.4 1.9 3.3 3.8 0.2 4.0 Share of profit At 1 January 2010 1.7 1.7 4.0 4.0 Groups share of retained profit 1.0 1.0 0.2 0.2 Dividends received 0.3 0.3 2.7 2.7 Exchange movement 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.3 At 31 December 2010 2.5 2.5 1.8 1.8 Total At 31 December 2010 3.9 1.9 5.8 5.6 0.2 5.8 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 75 Our business Our governance Our results 16 a.
Group Investments in joint ventures and associated undertakings continued In relation to the Groups interests in joint ventures, the assets, liabilities, income and expenses are shown below: 2011 2010 m m Current assets 10.3 7.2 Non-current assets 5.3 3.8 Current liabilities 8.0 6.5 Non-current liabilities 2.0 0.6 Net assets 5.6 3.9 Revenue 16.6 12.3 Expenses 14.8 11.0 Share of income tax 0.3 0.3 Share of post-tax profit from joint ventures 1.5 1.0 In relation to the Groups associated undertakings, the assets, liabilities, income and expenses are shown below: 2011 2010 m m Current assets 9.6 9.5 Non-current assets 1.6 5.2 Current liabilities 6.3 8.5 Non-current liabilities 0.6 Net assets 4.9 5.6 Revenue 34.1 31.9 Expenses 31.0 31.2 Share of income tax 0.6 0.5 Share of post-tax profit from associates 2.5 0.2 The joint ventures and associates have no significant liabilities to which the Group is exposed to, nor has the Group any significant contingent liabilities or capital commitments in relation to its interests in the joint ventures and associates.
The Group has fully impaired the carrying value of the investment in Adventis Group plc, an associate company, due to difficult trading conditions and high levels of debt.
The market value of the Groups holding in Adventis Group plc, was 0.1m at 31 December 2011 2010: 1.0m.
The Group disposed of certain holdings in joint ventures during the year.
Net assets of 0.2m were disposed and a gain of 0.1m was recognised through the income statement.
16 b. Available-for-sale investments Group Group 2011 2010 m m At 1 January 14.2 14.0 Additions 1.2 0.9 Transfer from investment in subsidiary 0.3 Net fair value loss transferred to other comprehensive income 0.9 0.3 Impairment 0.3 Exchange movement 0.4 0.1 At 31 December 14.4 14.2 Available-for-sale investments comprise the following: Unlisted securities UK equity securities 0.8 UK limited partnership 0.1 0.1 UK investment funds 2.5 2.5 European investment funds 10.6 11.2 Asia Pacific equity securities 0.4 0.4 14.4 14.2 76 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2011 continued 16 b. Available-for-sale investments continued Available-for-sale investments are denominated in the following currencies: Group Group 2011 2010 m m Sterling 3.4 2.6 Euro 10.6 11.2 Other 0.4 0.4 14.4 14.2 At 31 December 2011, the Group held the following principal available-for-sale investments: Investment Holding Principal activity General insurance, mortgage broking and SPF Private Clients Limited registered in England and Wales 19.99% personal financial planning services Pinnacle Regeneration Group Limited registered in England and Wales 3.03% Social housing services Cordea Savills Dawn Syndication LP registered in England and Wales 3.50% Investment property fund Cordea Savills Student Hall Fund registered in Jersey 2.03% Student accommodation property fund Cordea Savills Italian Opportunities Fund 1 registered in Luxembourg 2.81% Investment property fund Cordea Savills Italian Opportunities Fund 2 registered in Luxembourg 1.33% Investment property fund Serviced Land No.
2 LP registered in England and Wales 1.97% UK land investment fund Cordea Savills German Retail Fund registered in Luxembourg 1.94% Retail investment property fund Cordea Savills Nordic Retail Fund registered in Luxembourg 11.30% Retail investment property fund Cordea Savills UK Property Ventures No.
1 LP registered in England and Wales 4.07% UK land investment fund This holding relates to Class C ordinary shares.
The Group also holds 100% of Class A1 preference shares and 4.0% of Class B preference shares in this fund.
In June 2011 60% of Savills 12.1% shareholding in Pinnacle Regeneration Group Ltd was sold resulting in a 1.7m profit on disposal.
The remaining shares are held at a fair value of 0.5m.
The Group does not exert significant influence over these businesses, and therefore does not equity account for these investments.
These shareholdings are treated as trade investments and held at fair value.
The fair value of unlisted securities is based on underlying asset values and price earnings models.
The fair value of investment funds is determined by the Fund Managers annual audited financial statements.
At 31 December 2011 the Group held a conditional commitment to co-invest 0.6m 2010: 0.7m in the Cordea Savills UK Property Ventures Fund No.
1 LP, 0.1m 2010: 1.0m in the Cordea Savills Italian Opportunities Fund 2 and 0.3m 2010: 0.4m in the Cordea Savills Italian Opportunities Fund 1.
The Company made no available-for-sale investments during the year 2010: nil.
16 c. Company Investments in subsidiaries Shares Loans to in Group Group undertakings undertakings Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2010 22.4 111.5 133.9 Loans repaid 8.2 8.2 Exchange movement 0.9 0.9 At 31 December 2010 22.4 104.2 126.6 Loans advanced 21.6 21.6 Loans repaid 25.1 25.1 Transfer from current receivables 2.9 2.9 At 31 December 2011 22.4 103.6 126.0 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 77 Our business Our governance Our results 16 d. Investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated undertakings The principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated undertakings of the Group which, in the Directors opinion principally affect the figures shown in the financial statements, are shown below together with details of their main activities.
Except where otherwise noted, they are wholly-owned, have share capital wholly comprised of ordinary shares, are registered in England and Wales, operate in the UK and are consolidated into the Group financial statements.
Holding interests are the same as voting interests.
A full list of the Groups subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated undertakings is available from the registered office of Savills plc.
Subsidiary undertakings Holding Main activities Cordea Savills LLP 100% Provision of fund management Savills Commercial Limited 100% Commercial surveyors Savills L&P Limited 100% General practice surveyors Prime Purchase Limited 100% Property buying company Cordea Savills Investment Management Limited 100% Asset manager registered in the US 75% Property consultants Savills LLC Savills Commercial Ireland Limited registered in Ireland 100% Property consultants Savills Consultores Inmobiliarios SA registered in Spain 100% Property consultants Savills Immobilien Beratungs GmbH registered in Germany 100% Property consultants Savills SA registered in France 99.97% Property consultants Savills Italy SRL registered in Italy 100% Property consultants Savills Nederland Holding BV registered in the Netherlands 87% Property consultants Savills Sweden AB registered in Sweden 98.40% Property consultants  Stadsmuren registered in Sweden 100% Project management Loudden Bygg-och Fastighetsservice AB registered in Sweden 70% Facilities management Savills Spolka z Organiczona registered in Poland 100% Property consultants Savills Hong Kong Limited registered in Hong Kong 100% Mixed practice agency, valuation and research Savills Valuation and Professional Services Limited registered in Hong Kong 100% Valuation and research Savills Property Management Limited registered in Hong Kong 100% Property management Guardian Property Management Limited registered in Hong Kong 100% Property management Savills Singapore Pte Limited registered in Singapore 100% Property management and agency Savills Japan KK registered in Japan 100% Property management and agency Savills Property Services Shanghai Co Limited registered in China 100% Property management Savills Property Services Beijing Co Limited registered in China 100% Property management Savills Korea Asset Management Limited registered in Korea 100% Property management Savills Korea Co. Limited registered in Korea 100% Property agency and consultants Savills Vietnam Limited registered in BVI 72.10% Property management and agency Savills Thailand Limited registered in Thailand 100% Property agency, consultants and management Savills Taiwan Limited registered in Taiwan 100% Property agency and consultants Savills Aust Pty Limited registered in Australia 96.19% Property agency, consultants and management Joint ventures GES Holdings Limited Macau 50% Property management Associated undertakings Hutton Asia Pte Ltd Singapore 48% Property agency Shares interests held indirectly by the Company.
78 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2011 continued 16 e. Acquisitions of subsidiaries Stadsmuren and Loudden On 25 February 2011 the Group entered into an agreement to acquire 100% of the shares of  Stadsmuren Stadsmuren, a Stockholm based property and project management firm and 70% of the shares of Loudden Bygg-och Fastighetsservice AB Loudden, a Stockholm based facilities management firm, a related company of Stadsmuren.
The acquisition provides a new service offering for the Groups Swedish clients and adds to its European property management network.
Total consideration of up to 5.6m 3.8m for Stadsmuren and 1.8m for Loudden will be paid of which 4.2m was paid on transaction close with a further 1.4m payable by February 2012 subject to earnings performance during 2011.
All consideration payments will be settled in cash out of existing resources, including debt facilities.
Goodwill of 2.6m and other intangible assets of 0.5m have been determined with respect to Stadsmuren and goodwill of 1.5m and intangible assets of 0.1m with respect to Loudden.
Intangible assets relate to property management contracts.
Goodwill is attributable to Stadsmuren and Louddens strong market position.
IFRS 3 revised has been applied to this acquisition which was accounted for using the acquisition method.
Non-controlling interest is measured at its proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
Acquisition related costs of 0.1m are included in the income statement.
Thomas Davidson & Partners On 31 January 2011 the Group acquired the business and undertaking of Thomas Davidson & Partners, a London based retail property consultancy business.
The business brings with it specialist expertise and knowledge in the retail sector.
Consideration of 2.5m was paid on completion.
A further 2.5m is payable in instalments on the first, second and third anniversaries subject to service conditions and is expensed through the income statement.
Goodwill of 1.8m and other intangible assets relating to established client relationships of 0.7m have been determined.
Goodwill is attributable to the experience and expertise of key staff.
None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Acquisition related costs for this transaction were negligible.
During the year, the Group also acquired London Planning Practice Limited and 51% of CKH Strata Management Pte Ltd, based in Singapore.
Cash consideration for these transactions amounted to 1.9m.
Goodwill of 1.6m has been determined and is attributable to key staff and the reputation of the companies.
IFRS 3 revised has been applied to these acquisitions, which were accounted for using the acquisition method.
Provisional fair value to Group Stadsmuren Thomas Loudden Davidson Other Total Subsidiaries acquired m m m m Property, plant and equipment Note 15 0.2 0.2 Current assets: Trade and other receivables 1.8 0.6 2.4 Current tax receivables 0.1 0.1 Cash and cash equivalents 0.7 0.7 1.4 Total assets 2.6 1.5 4.1 Current liabilities: Trade and other payables 1.3 0.9 2.2 Employee and retirement benefit obligations Note 24 b 0.2 0.2 Net assets 1.1 0.6 1.7 Non-controlling interest 0.2 0.3 0.5 Other intangibles Note 14 0.6 0.7 1.3 Fair value of net assets acquired 1.5 0.7 0.3 2.5 Goodwill Note 14 4.1 1.8 1.6 7.5 Purchase consideration 5.6 2.5 1.9 10.0 Consideration satisfied by: Net cash paid as per cash flow statement 3.5 2.5 1.2 7.2 Cash acquired 0.7 0.7 1.4 Deferred consideration owing at reporting date 1.4 1.4 3.5 2.5 1.2 7.2 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 79 Our business Our governance Our results 16 e. Acquisitions of subsidiaries continued For these acquisitions, there was no difference between the fair value and carrying value of net assets acquired, except for intangible assets.
The acquisitions are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The Group acquires businesses intended for use on a continuing basis.
Goodwill is attributable to anticipated future operating synergies from the combination with existing businesses and perceived future economic benefits that will be generated from the staff client relationships acquired.
There were no significant changes to the provisional goodwill that arose in the previous year on acquisitions.
Included in Group operating profit relating to acquisitions is: Stadsmuren Thomas Loudden Davidson Other Total m m m m Turnover 9.9 2.6 1.9 14.4 Staff costs 2.4 1.2 1.2 4.8 Other operating charges 6.9 0.5 0.3 7.7 Operating profit before finance charges 0.6 0.9 0.4 1.9 If the date for all acquisitions made during the year had been 1 January 2011, the amounts included in Group operating profit would have been: Stadsmuren Thomas Loudden Davidson Other Total m m m m Turnover 11.4 2.9 4.0 18.3 Staff costs 2.8 1.3 2.6 6.7 Depreciation 0.1 0.1 Other operating charges 7.8 0.6 0.8 9.2 Operating profit before finance charges 0.8 1.0 0.5 2.3 80 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2011 continued 16 f. Disposal of subsidiaries On 3 May 2011, the Group sold 80.01% of its shareholding in Savills Private Finance Limited SPF and its subsidiaries to the management of the business.
The Group retains a shareholding in SPF of 19.99%.
A gain of 0.4m has been recognised in profit on disposal of subsidiaries including the remeasurement to fair value of the Groups remaining share amounting to 0.3m.
Other disposals during the year, including Theodor Schone, the Hamburg property management business sold to management, have resulted in a 0.1m net profit recognised through the income statement.
Details of aggregate net assets disposed are set out in the table below.
Subsidiaries disposed m Property, plant and equipment Note 15 0.8 Other intangible assets Note 14 1.3 Deferred tax assets 0.1 Current assets: Trade and other receivables 2.0 Cash and cash equivalents 1.3 Total assets 5.5 Current liabilities: Trade and other payables 3.6 Provisions for liabilities and charges 0.1 Net assets disposed 1.8 Analysis of purchase consideration and costs Net assets disposed 1.8 Profit on disposal 0.5 Costs of disposal 1.5 Total consideration 3.8 Consideration satisfied by: Cash consideration 0.1 Deferred consideration owing at balance sheet date 1.9 Interest retained as trade and other receivables 1.5 Fair value of interest retained as available-for-sale investment 0.3 Total consideration 3.8 Net cash inflow outflow arising on disposal Cash consideration 0.1 Cash disposed 1.3 Net consideration 1.2 Directly attributable costs of disposal paid 0.2 1.4 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 81 Our business Our governance Our results 16 g. Transactions with non-controlling interests During the year, the Group undertook the following transactions with non-controlling interests: Holding Total holding at Name Date acquired 31 December 2011 Savills Italy SRL September and December 2011 9.5% 100% Savills Vietnam Limited December 2011 3.0% 72.1% Under IAS 27 revised, transactions with non-controlling interests must be accounted for as equity transactions, therefore no goodwill has been recognised.
Acquisition costs related to these transactions were not significant.
During the year, the Group acquired the remaining 9.5% of shares in Savills Italy SRL in two tranches for a combined cash consideration of 0.8m.
The carrying amount of Savills Italy SRLs net assets on the dates of acquisition was 0.2m.
The Group recognised a nominal decrease in non-controlling interests.
The amount charged to equity in respect of this transaction was 0.8m.
In December 2011, the Group acquired an additional 3.0% of the shares in Savills Vietnam Limited for cash consideration of 0.4m.
This takes the Groups shareholding to 72.1%.
The carrying amount of Savills Vietnam Limiteds net assets on the date of acquisition was 2.0m.
The Group recognised a decrease in non-controlling interest of 0.1m.
The amount charged to equity in respect of this transaction was 0.3m.
During the year, pre-acquisition dividends of 0.3m were paid to the previous partners in Cordea Savills LLP.
Deferred income tax Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there are legally enforceable rights to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax relates to the same fiscal authority.
The deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when realised through current tax.
The deferred income tax assets and liabilities at 31 December, without taking into consideration the offsetting balances within the same jurisdiction, are as follows: Group Company 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m Deferred tax assets Deferred tax asset to be recovered after more than 12 months 25.8 18.4 1.3 1.1 Deferred tax asset to be recovered within 12 months 3.6 7.1 0.6 0.5 29.4 25.5 1.9 1.6 Deferred tax liabilities Deferred tax liability to be recovered after more than 12 months 1.7 2.4 Deferred tax liability to be recovered within 12 months 0.4 0.4 2.1 2.8 Deferred tax asset net 27.3 22.7 1.9 1.6 The movement on the deferred tax account is shown below: Group Company 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m At 1 January asset 22.7 23.8 1.6 1.7 Amount credited to income statement Note 11 5.5 4.6 0.2 0.2 Effect of UK tax rate change within income statement Note 11 0.8 Tax charged to other comprehensive income Pension asset on actuarial loss gain 5.4 3.2 0.2 0.2 Pension asset on additional contributions 1.6 1.4 0.1 Pension asset effect of UK tax rate change within other comprehensive income 0.6 Employee benefits 3.3 1.7 0.1 Revaluations of available-for-sale investments 0.2 0.1 Movement on foreign exchange reserves 0.1 0.1 Exchange movement 0.1 0.2 Acquisitions Note 16 e 0.2 Initial recognition of intangible assets 0.2 At 31 December asset 27.3 22.7 1.9 1.6 Deferred income tax assets have been recognised in respect of all tax losses and other temporary differences to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through the future taxable profits is probable.
82 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2011 continued 17.
Deferred income tax continued As at the reporting date the Group did not recognise deferred tax income tax assets of 8.1m 2010: 5.7m in respect of losses amounting to 24.8m 2010: 18.6m that can be carried forward against future taxable income.
Losses amounting to 1.2m 2010: 0.7m expire within 2 years, losses amounting to 1.5m 2010: 1.2m expire between 3 and 8 years and the remaining loss of 22.1m 2010: 16.7m remains available for offset indefinitely.
Accelerated Other capital including Retirement Employee allowances provisions Tax losses benefits Revaluation benefits Total Deferred tax assets Group m m m m m m m At 1 January 2010 0.9 5.1 4.3 10.7 6.4 27.4 Amount credited charged to income statement 0.1 0.8 0.2 3.3 4.0 Tax charged to other comprehensive income 4.6 1.7 6.3 Acquisitions 0.2 0.2 Exchange movement 0.3 0.1 0.2 At 31 December 2010 1.0 6.4 4.0 6.1 8.0 25.5 Amount credited charged to income statement Note 11 1.4 1.8 0.3 1.9 4.8 Effect of UK tax rate change within income statement Note 11 0.1 0.4 0.2 0.7 Tax credited charged to other comprehensive income Note 11 3.8 3.3 0.5 Effect of UK tax rate change within other comprehensive income Note 11 0.6 0.6 Transfer to from deferred tax liabilities 0.3 0.3 Exchange movement 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2011 0.9 7.1 5.7 9.0 0.3 6.4 29.4 Other including provisions and foreign exchange Intangible reserves Revaluations assets Total Deferred tax liabilities Group m m m m At 1 January 2010 0.7 0.2 2.7 3.6 Amount credited to income statement 0.6 0.6 Tax credited to other comprehensive income 0.1 0.1 0.2 At 31 December 2010 0.6 0.1 2.1 2.8 Amount credited to income statement Note 11 0.7 0.7 Effect of UK tax rate change within income statement Note 11 0.1 0.1 Tax credited to other comprehensive income Note 11 0.1 0.2 0.3 Transfer from to deferred tax assets 0.3 0.3 Initial recognition of intangible assets Note 14 0.2 0.2 At 31 December 2011 0.2 0.2 1.7 2.1 Net deferred tax asset At 31 December 2011 27.3 At 31 December 2010 22.7 A number of changes to the UK Corporation tax system were announced in the March 2011 Budget Statement.
The Finance Act 2011, which was substantively enacted on 5 July 2011, includes legislation reducing the main rate of corporation tax from 26 per cent to 25 per cent from 1 April 2012.
Further reductions to the main rate are proposed to reduce the rate by 1 per cent per annum to 23 per cent by 1 April 2014.
These later reductions had not been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and, therefore, are not included in these financial statements.
The proposed reductions of the main rate of corporation tax by 1 per cent per year to 23 per cent by 1 April 2014 are expected to be enacted separately each year.
The overall effect of the further changes from 25 per cent to 23 per cent, if these applied to the deferred tax balance at 31 December 2011, would be to reduce the net deferred tax asset by approximately 1.4m being 0.7m recognised in 2012, 0.7m recognised in 2013.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 83 Our business Our governance Our results 17.
Deferred income tax continued Accelerated Other capital including Retirement Employee allowances provisions benefits benefits Total Deferred tax assets Company m m m m m At 1 January 2010 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.2 1.7 Amount charged credited to income statement 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 Tax charged to other comprehensive income Note 11 0.3 0.3 As at 31 December 2010 0.3 0.6 0.3 0.4 1.6 Amount credited to income statement 0.2 0.2 Tax credited to other comprehensive income Note 11 0.2 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2011 0.3 0.6 0.5 0.5 1.9 Net deferred tax asset At 31 December 2011 1.9 At 31 December 2010 1.6 18.
Trade and other receivables Group Company 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m Trade receivables 151.1 147.0 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 7.9 9.1 Trade receivables net 143.2 137.9 Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 15.0 12.4 Other receivables 19.4 15.1 1.0 1.4 Prepayments and accrued income 28.6 26.2 0.7 0.7 191.2 179.2 16.7 14.5 The carrying value of trade and other receivables is approximate to fair value.
There is no other concentration of credit risk with respect to trade and other receivables as the Group has a large number of clients internationally dispersed with no individual client owing a significant amount.
Inter-company trade receivables are generally cleared within the month.
As at 31 December 2011, trade receivables of 7.9m 2010: 9.1m were impaired and provided for.
The individually impaired receivables mainly relate to receivables from clients that have been affected by the uncertain economic conditions where funding and completion have been delayed and cash flow has become uncertain.
The ageing of these receivables is as follows: Group 2011 2010 m m Up to 3 months 1.1 0.9 3 to 6 months 1.5 1.6 Over 6 months 5.3 6.6 7.9 9.1 As at 31 December 2011, trade receivables of 43.2m 2010: 40.6m were past due but not impaired.
These relate to trade receivables which are past due at the reporting date but are not considered impaired as there has not been a significant change in credit quality and the amounts are still considered recoverable.
84 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2011 continued 18.
Trade and other receivables continued The ageing of these receivables is as follows: Group 2011 2010 m m Up to 3 months 31.9 31.0 3 to 6 months 6.6 5.8 Over 6 months 4.7 3.8 43.2 40.6 The carrying amounts of the Groups trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: Group 2011 2010 m m Sterling 93.1 89.1 Euro 21.2 21.3 Hong Kong dollar 32.2 27.5 Australian dollar 15.7 16.7 Other 29.0 24.6 191.2 179.2 Other currencies include Chinese renminbi, Singapore dollar, Polish zloty and Swedish krona.
Movement on the provision for impairment of trade receivables is as follows: Group 2011 2010 m m At 1 January 9.1 9.4 Provisions for receivables impairment 3.2 2.4 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible 2.7 2.4 Unused provisions released 1.5 0.5 Subsidiary disposed 0.2 Exchange movements 0.2 At 31 December 7.9 9.1 The creation and release of the provision for impaired receivables have been included in other operating expenses in the income statement.
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 85 Our business Our governance Our results 19.
Cash and cash equivalents Group Company 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m Cash at bank and in hand 69.3 91.7 15.8 Short-term bank deposits 10.7 5.5 80.0 97.2 15.8 The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents approximates their fair value.
The effective interest rate on short-term bank deposits as at 31 December 2011 was 1.19% 2010: 0.87% : these deposits have an average maturity of 51 days 2010: 25 days.
Cash subject to restrictions in Asia Pacific amounts to 16.3m 2010: 17.4m which is cash pledged to banks in relation to property management contracts and cash remittance restrictions in certain countries.
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts include the following for the purposes of the cash flow statement: Group Company 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 80.0 97.2 15.8 Bank overdrafts Note 22 1.2 0.7 6.3 78.8 96.5 15.8 6.3 Cash and cash equivalents are denominated in the following currencies: Sterling 18.8 36.9 15.8 Euro 4.4 4.1 Hong Kong dollar 23.6 27.3 Singapore dollar 3.8 2.3 Australian dollar 5.9 6.1 Chinese renminbi 14.4 11.1 South Korean wan 1.5 1.3 US dollar 2.3 3.5 Other currencies 5.3 4.6 80.0 97.2 15.8 The Companys Sterling and Euro accounts are managed within a Group pooling banking arrangement.
As at 31 December 2011, no net overdrafts existed within either pool 2010: nil.
Other currencies include Taiwan dollar, Macau pataca, Thai baht, Japanese yen, Polish zloty and Swedish krona.
Trade and other payables current Group Company 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m Deferred consideration 8.6 3.2 Trade payables 32.2 35.6 2.0 4.8 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 1.1 1.5 Other taxation and social security 27.6 24.3 3.1 Other payables 10.3 7.9 0.4 Accruals and deferred income 130.0 138.9 5.6 5.7 208.7 209.9 11.8 12.4 The carrying value of trade and other payables approximates their fair value.
86 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2011 continued 21.
Trade and other payables non-current Group Company 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m Deferred consideration 8.8 16.6 Other payables 0.2 0.2 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 5.1 5.3 9.0 16.8 5.1 5.3 22.
Borrowings Group Company 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m Current Bank overdrafts 1.2 0.7 6.3 Unsecured bank loans due within one year or on demand 5.0 5.1 Loan notes 0.4 Finance leases 0.1 0.1 6.3 6.3 6.3 Non-current Unsecured bank loans 3.9 Finance leases 0.1 0.1 0.1 4.0 The Companys Sterling and Euro accounts are managed within a Group pooling banking arrangement.
In 2007, the Group borrowed 19.8m for the acquisition of Granite Partners LLC in the US now Savills LLC.
The borrowings are denominated in US dollars.
Interest is fixed at 5.315% via an interest rate swap until maturity date.
At 31 December 2011, at the year end exchange rate, 3.9m was outstanding 2010: 9.0m.
USD6.0m is due within one year.
In October 2011 Savills Aust Pty Ltd borrowed 1.5m as a working capital loan.
The borrowings are denominated in Australian dollars and interest is fixed at 7.40%.
The loan is repaid in equal monthly instalments until July 2012.
At 31 December, at the year end exchange rate, 1.1m was outstanding 2010: nil and is due within one year.
Bank loans are denominated in a number of currencies and bear interest at LIBOR or foreign equivalents as appropriate to the country in which the borrowing is incurred.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 87 Our business Our governance Our results 22.
Borrowings continued The exposure of the Groups borrowings to interest rate changes and the contractual repricing dates at the reporting date are: Group Company 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m Less than 1 year 6.3 1.2 6.3 Between 1 and 2 years 0.1 9.0 Between 2 and 5 years 0.1 6.4 10.3 6.3 The maturity of non-current borrowings is as follows: Group Company 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m Between 1 and 2 years 0.1 4.0 Between 2 and 5 years 0.1 4.0 The effective interest rates at the reporting date were as follows: Group 2011 2010 m m Bank overdraft 3.76% 2.82% Bank loans 5.77% 5.32% Loan notes 5.00% Finance leases 9.69% 10.26% The carrying amounts of borrowings approximate to fair value.
The carrying amounts of the Groups borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: Group Company 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m Sterling 0.4 6.3 US dollar 3.9 9.0 Euro 1.2 0.6 Australian dollar 1.2 0.2 Hong Kong dollar 0.1 Thai baht 0.1 6.4 10.3 6.3 The Group has the following undrawn borrowing facilities: Floating rate expiring within 1 year or on demand 13.5 15.6 6.3 Floating rate expiring between 1 and 5 years 50.0 50.0 The 50m multi-currency revolving credit facility was renewed on 10 March 2011 and expires on 31 March 2014.
As at 31 December 2011 this facility was undrawn.
88 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2011 continued 23.
Derivative financial instruments Group Company Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities 2011 m m m m Interest rate swaps at fair value 0.1 Forward foreign exchange contracts at fair value 0.1 Total 0.1 0.1 Less non-current portion Current portion 0.1 0.1 Group Company Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities 2010 m m m m Interest rate swaps at fair value 0.4 Forward foreign exchange contracts at fair value 0.1 Total 0.5 Less non-current portion 0.4 Current portion 0.1 Interest rate swaps The notional principal amounts of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts in relation to the US borrowing at 31 December 2011 were 3.9m 2010: 9.0m.
At 31 December 2011, the fixed interest rate was 5.315%.
The floating rate is USD LIBOR.
Gains and losses on interest rate swaps are recognised in the income statement.
Forward foreign exchange contracts The gross notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts at 31 December 2011 were 13.4m 2010: 14.9m.
The non-current portion represents contracts that mature in over one year.
Gains and losses on forward foreign exchange contracts are recognised in the income statement.
Hedge of net investments in foreign operations The Groups USD borrowing amounting to USD6.0m 2010: USD14.0m is designated as a hedge on the net investment in the Groups US subsidiary.
The fair value of the USD borrowing at 31 December 2011 was 3.9m 2010: 9.0m.
The foreign exchange gain of 0.2m 2010: loss of 0.5m on translation of the borrowing to currency at the reporting date is recognised in foreign exchange reserves in other comprehensive income.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of the derivative assets on the statement of financial position.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 89 Our business Our governance Our results 24 a.
Provisions for other liabilities and charges Professional indemnity Dilapidation Onerous Restructuring Group claims provisions leases provision Total Company m m m m m m At 1 January 2011 12.1 1.9 1.6 15.6 1.4 Released during the year 3.0 0.1 3.1 Provided during the year 7.5 0.5 0.8 0.8 9.6 Utilised during the year 0.7 0.6 1.3 0.1 Subsidiary disposed 0.1 0.1 Exchange movements 0.1 0.1 Total 15.7 2.4 1.7 0.8 20.6 1.3 Less non-current portion 6.4 2.2 0.9 9.5 1.2 Current portion 9.3 0.2 0.8 0.8 11.1 0.1 Professional indemnity Dilapidation Onerous Restructuring Group claims provisions leases provision Total Company 2010 m m m m m m Current 6.5 0.5 0.8 7.8 0.2 Non-current 5.6 1.4 0.8 7.8 1.2 Total 12.1 1.9 1.6 15.6 1.4 Professional indemnity claims These arise from various legal actions, proceedings and other claims that are pending against the Group.
The outcomes of these claims are not predictable with any assurance and the amounts are based on reasonable estimates, taking into account the opinions of legal counsel.
The non-current portion of these provisions are expected to be utilised within the next two to five years.
Included are provisions for claims relating to subsidiaries prior to their disposal.
Dilapidation provisions The Group is required to perform dilapidation repairs on leased properties prior to the properties being vacated at the end of their lease term.
These amounts are based on estimates of repair costs at a future date and are subject to price fluctuations in these costs and extent of repairs to be completed.
The majority of the non-current portion of these provisions are expected to be utilised within the next two to six years.
Onerous leases A provision is recognised where the costs of meeting the obligations under a lease contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received and is measured as the net least cost of exiting the contract, being the lower of the cost of fulfilling it and any compensation or penalties arising from the failure to fulfil it.
The majority of the non-current portion of these provisions are expected to be utilised within the next two to seven years.
Restructuring provision This provision comprises termination payments to employees affected by restructuring and lease termination penalties.
Employee benefit obligations In addition to the defined benefit obligation pension scheme disclosed in Note 9, the following are included in employee benefit obligations: Total Group m At 1 January 2011 11.4 Acquisitions Note 16 e 0.2 Provided during the year 6.4 Utilised during the year 3.8 At 31 December 2011 14.2 The above provisions relate to holiday pay and long service leave in Asia Pacific and Europe and are expected to crystallise within five to seven years of the reporting date.
Profit shares are included within accruals Note 20.
The Company had no employee benefit obligations at 31 December 2011 or 31 December 2010.
90 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2011 continued 24 b.
Employee benefit obligations continued The above employee benefit obligations have been analysed between current and non-current as follows: Group 2011 2010 m m Current 6.7 4.7 Non-current 7.5 6.7 14.2 11.4 25.
Share capital Group and Company 2011 2010 2011 2010 Authorised and allotted Number of shares Number of shares m m Ordinary shares of 2.5p each: Authorised 202,000,000 202,000,000 5.1 5.1 Allotted, called up and fully paid 132,589,303 132,152,375 3.3 3.3 Movement in allotted, called up and fully paid share capital 2011 2010 Number of shares m Number of shares m At 1 January 132,152,375 3.3 131,841,846 3.3 Allotted to direct participants on exercise of options under the Sharesave Scheme 357,928 310,529 Allotted to direct participants on exercise of options under the Executive Share Option Scheme 2001 79,000 At 31 December 132,589,303 3.3 132,152,375 3.3 At the Annual General Meeting held on 4 May 2011, the shareholders gave the Company authority, subject to stated conditions, to purchase for cancellation up to 13,233,349 of its own ordinary shares AGM held on 5 May 2010: 13,184,184.
Such authority remains valid until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or 1 July 2012 whichever is the earlier.
Share-based payment Details of the terms of the following schemes are contained in the Remuneration report on pages 36 and 37.
Executive Share Option Scheme 2001 The following share options have been granted under the Executive Share Option Scheme 2001 and were outstanding at 31December 2011: 2011 2010 Number of Number of shares shares Date of grant Exercise period Exercise price 000 000 30 March 2004 7 years from 30 March 2007 Unapproved 217.8p 46 14 March 2005 7 years from 14 March 2008 Approved 321.3p 28 37 14 March 2005 7 years from 14 March 2008 Unapproved 321.3p 67 91 16 April 2008 7 years from 16 April 2011 Unapproved 300.1p 160 17 April 2009 7 years from 17 April 2012 Approved 288.8p 21 21 17 April 2009 7 years from 17 April 2012 Unapproved 288.8p 530 530 19 April 2010 7 years from 19 April 2013 Unapproved 341.0p 422 422 1,068 1,307 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 91 Our business Our governance Our results 26.
Executive Share Option Scheme 2001 continued A reconciliation of option movements over the year to 31 December 2011 is shown below: 2011 2010 Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average shares exercise shares exercise 000 price 000 price Outstanding at 1 January 1,307 307.7p 885 291.8p Granted 422 341.0p Exercised 79 261.0p Lapsed 160 300.1p Outstanding at 31 December 1,068 312.3p 1,307 307.7p Exercisable at 31 December 95 321.3p 174 293.9p The weighted average share price on the date of exercise during the year was 404.1p 2010: nil and total consideration of 0.2m 2010:nil was received.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of share options outstanding at 31 December 2011 is 7.3 years 2010: 7.1 years.
26 b. Sharesave Scheme During the year 357,925 shares 2010: 310,529 shares were allotted direct to participants on the exercise of options under the Sharesave Scheme, for consideration of 1,120,417.
The following table shows the options remaining outstanding as at 31 December 2011: 2011 2010 Number of Number of shares shares Date of grant Exercise price Exercise period 000 000 31 October 2007 318.0p 01.12.10 01.06.11 467 29 October 2009 267.0p 01.12.12 01.06.13 976 1,096 976 1,563 A reconciliation of option movements over the year to 31 December 2011 is shown below: 2011 2010 Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average shares exercise shares exercise 000 price 000 price Outstanding at 1 January 1,563 282.2p 2,218 307.0p Lapsed 229 299.1p 344 409.8p Exercised 358 313.0p 311 317.8p Outstanding at 31 December 976 267.0p 1,563 282.2p Exercisable at 31 December 467 318.0p The weighted average share price on the date of exercise during the year was 376.9p 2010: 363.8p and the weighted average remaining contractual life of share options outstanding at 31 December 2011 is 1.4 years 2010: 1.8 years.
92 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2011 continued 26.
Share-based payment continued 26 c. Deferred Share Bonus Plan The following awards of deferred shares, without exercise price, have been granted under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan the DSBP and were outstanding at 31 December 2011: 2011 2010 Number of Number of shares shares Date of award Deferred period Vesting date 000 000 13 March 2006 5 years 13 March 2011 34 19 March 2007 5 years 19 March 2012 534 560 17 March 2008 3 years 17 March 2011 2,112 17 March 2008 5 years 17 March 2013 1,192 1,245 17 April 2009 3 years 17 April 2012 815 833 17 April 2009 5 years 17 April 2014 521 535 13 April 2010 3 years 13 April 2013 492 497 13 April 2010 5 years 13 April 2015 54 57 30 March 2011 3 years 30 March 2014 739 30 March 2011 5 years 30 March 2016 621 4,968 5,873 As at 31 December 2011, 346 2010: 423 individuals held outstanding awards under the DSBP.
Awards made under the DSBP from 2006 onwards are subject to rolled-up dividends whereby the number of shares awarded will be increased on the vesting date to reflect dividends paid to shareholders throughout the deferred period.
A reconciliation of award movements over the year to 31 December 2011 is shown below: 2011 2010 Weighted Weighted average average Number of share price Number of share price shares at date shares at date 000 of exercise 000 of exercise Outstanding at 1 January 5,873 7,472 Granted 1,378 574 Forfeited 149 201 Exercised 2,134 374.3p 1,972 353.3p Outstanding at 31 December 4,968 5,873 Exercisable at 31 December 10 The weighted average exercise price for awards granted under this scheme is nil 2010: nil.
Awards over nil shares were exercisable under this scheme as at 31 December 2011 31 December 2010: 9,998.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of share options outstanding at 31 December 2011 is 1.6 years 2010: 1.4 years.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 93 Our business Our governance Our results 26.
Share-based payment continued 26 d. Deferred Share Plan The following awards of deferred shares, without exercise price, have been granted under the Deferred Share Plan the DSP and remained outstanding at 31 December 2011: 2011 2010 Number of Number of shares shares Date of grant Deferred period Vesting date 000 000 10 October 2006 5 years 10 October 2011 9 19 March 2007 5 years 19 March 2012 29 37 17 September 2007 5 years 17 September 2012 12 12 17 March 2008 3 years 17 March 2011 664 17 March 2008 5 years 17 March 2013 30 30 23 September 2008 3 years 23 September 2011 124 17 April 2009 3 years 10 April 2012 591 615 10 September 2009 3 years 10 September 2012 14 14 10 September 2009 5 years 10 September 2014 17 23 13 April 2010 3 years 13 April 2013 1,283 1,337 13 April 2010 4 years 13 April 2014 344 348 13 April 2010 5 years 13 April 2015 1,508 1,557 8 September 2010 3 years 8 September 2013 373 394 30 March 2011 3 years 30 March 2014 656 30 March 2011 4 years 30 March 2015 362 30 March 2011 5 years 30 March 2016 371 27 September 2011 3 years 27 September 2014 148 27 September 2011 5 years 27 September 2016 43 5,781 5,164 As at 31 December 2011, 265 individuals 2010: 236 held outstanding awards under the DSP.
Awards made under the DSP are subject to rolled-up dividends whereby the number of shares awarded will be increased on the vesting date to reflect dividends paid to shareholders during the deferred period.
A reconciliation of award movements over the year to 31 December 2011 is shown below: 2011 2010 Weighted Weighted average average Number share price Number of share price of shares at date shares at date 000 of exercise 000 of exercise Outstanding at 1 January 5,164 2,533 Granted 1,593 3,674 Forfeited 116 71 Exercised 860 358.0p 972 358.0p Outstanding at 31 December 5,781 5,164 Exercisable at 31 December 5 The weighted average exercise price for awards granted under this scheme is nil 2010: nil.
Awards over nil shares were exercisable under this scheme as at 31 December 2011 31 December 2010: 5,340.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of share options outstanding at 31 December 2011 is 2.3 years 2010: 2.6 years.
94 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2011 continued 26.
Share-based payment continued 26 e. Performance Share Plan The following awards of deferred shares, without exercise price, have been granted under the Performance Share Plan the PSP and were outstanding at 31 December 2011: 2011 2010 Number of Number of shares shares Date of award Deferred period Vesting date 000 000 27 May 2011 3 years 27 May 2014 552 552 As at 31 December 2011, 9 individuals 2010: nil held outstanding awards under the PSP.
Awards made under the PSP are subject to rolled-up dividends whereby the number of shares awarded will be increased on the vesting date to reflect dividends paid to shareholders during the deferred period.
A reconciliation of award movements over the year to 31 December 2011 is shown below: 2011 2010 Weighted Weighted average average Number share price Number of share price of shares at date shares at date 000 of exercise 000 of exercise Outstanding at 1 January Granted 552 Outstanding at 31 December 552 Exercisable at 31 December The weighted average remaining contractual life of share options outstanding at 31 December 2011 is 2.4 years 2010: nil 26 f. Fair value of options Options and awards for the DSBP, Sharesave Scheme, PSP and ESOS were valued at fair value using the Actuarial Binomial model of actuaries Lane Clark & Peacock LLP.
The key assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: Risk free rate 2.1% p. a.
5.0% p. a. depending on grant date and expected life Volatility 33% p. a.
51% p. a. depending on grant date Correlation 57% correlation for company share price against comparator index at grant date PSP only Employee turnover zero for ESOS Early exercise 50% of employees exercise early when options and awards are 20% in the money Performance criteria All vest after three years only relevant for ESOS The expected volatility is measured over the three or five years prior to the date of grant to match the vesting period of the award.
The risk free rate is the yield on a zero coupon UK Government bonds at each grant date, with term based on the expected life of the option oraward.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 95 Our business Our governance Our results 26.
96 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2011 continued 27.
Retained earnings and other reserves Sharebased Profit Total Capital Foreign payments Treasury and loss retained redemption exchange Revaluation Total other reserve shares account earnings reserve reserves reserves reserves Group m m m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 2011 23.4 30.3 105.8 98.9 0.3 23.7 0.2 24.2 Profit attributable to owners of the Company 26.5 26.5 Other comprehensive income 15.5 15.5 0.1 0.7 0.6 Employee share option scheme: Value of services provided 11.3 11.3 Exercise of options 10.6 10.3 0.3 Purchase of treasury shares 10.1 10.1 Dividends 16.3 16.3 Transactions with non-controlling interests 1.4 1.4 Balance at 31 December 2011 24.1 30.1 99.4 93.4 0.3 23.8 0.5 23.6 Balance at 1 January 2010 26.4 29.2 94.0 91.2 0.3 18.9 0.4 19.6 Profit attributable to owners of the Company 25.0 25.0 Other comprehensive income 8.2 8.2 4.8 0.2 4.6 Employee share option scheme: Value of services provided 11.3 11.3 Exercise of options 14.1 10.1 4.0 Lapse of options 0.2 0.2 Purchase of treasury shares 11.2 11.2 Dividends 11.0 11.0 Transactions with non-controlling interests 14.6 14.6 Balance at 31 December 2010 23.4 30.3 105.8 98.9 0.3 23.7 0.2 24.2 Included within Profit and loss account is tax on items taken directly to equity Note 11 as disclosed above.
Contingent liabilities In common with comparable professional services businesses, the Group is involved in a number of disputes in the ordinary course of business.
Provision is made in the financial statements for all claims where costs are likely to be incurred and represents the cost of defending and concluding claims.
The Group carries professional indemnity insurance and no separate disclosure is made of the cost of claims covered by insurance as to do so could seriously prejudice the position of the Group.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 97 Our business Our governance Our results 29.
Operating lease commitments minimum lease payments Property leases Other leases Total 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Group m m m m m m Future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Within 1 year 19.9 21.5 3.0 2.3 22.9 23.8 Between 1 to 5 years 67.1 50.2 3.6 2.4 70.7 52.6 After 5 years 98.0 21.1 98.0 21.1 185.0 92.8 6.6 4.7 191.6 97.5 Operating lease commitments payable by the Company at 31 December 2011 2010: nil are shown below.
Property leases Other leases Total 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Company m m m m m m Future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Within 1 year Between 1 to 5 years 10.1 10.1 After 5 years 79.4 79.4 89.5 89.5 During the year, the Group entered into a 20 year lease for an office building in London from October 2012.
The Group will relocate from its two existing premises in Londons West End.
Significant operating leases relate to the various property leases for Savills offices in the United Kingdom, Europe and Asia Pacific.
There are no significant non-cancellable subleases.
98 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2011 continued 30.
Cash generated from used in operations Group Company 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m Profit for the year 26.8 25.1 46.5 5.0 Adjustments for: Income tax Note 11 13.2 11.7 1.2 1.6 Depreciation Note 15 7.1 6.6 0.7 0.5 Amortisation of intangibles Note 14 3.7 3.7 0.5 0.3 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.3 Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets Note 14 5.4 4.4 Profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries, joint venture and available-for-sale investment Note 6 a 2.3 0.1 Net finance income expense Note 10 0.1 1.0 1.9 1.0 Share of post-tax profit from associates and joint ventures Note 16 a 4.0 1.2 Decrease in employee and retirement obligations 3.5 3.6 0.4 0.3 Exchange movement on operating activities 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.9 Increase decrease in provisions 4.2 5.8 0.1 0.1 Credit charge for defined benefit pension scheme Note 9 1.0 0.9 0.1 0.1 Impairment of associated undertaking and available-for-sale investment included within operating income 2.0 0.3 0.2 Charge for share-based compensation 11.3 11.3 0.9 0.6 Exercise of share options 10.1 10.1 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 62.9 66.2 34.6 7.3 Increase in work in progress 0.6 0.7 Increase in trade and other receivables 9.5 29.4 4.5 3.4 Decrease increase in trade and other payables 5.7 42.1 0.6 2.3 Cash generated from used in operations 47.1 78.2 29.5 13.0 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 99 Our business Our governance Our results 31.
Analysis of cash net of debt At Non-cash flow Exchange At 1 January Acquisitions movements Cash flows movement 31 December 2011 m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 97.2 17.5 0.3 80.0 Bank overdrafts 0.7 0.5 1.2 96.5 18.0 0.3 78.8 Bank loans 9.0 3.9 0.1 5.0 Loan notes 0.4 0.4 Finance Leases 0.2 0.2 Cash and cash equivalents net of debt 86.9 13.7 0.4 73.6 At Non-cash flow Exchange At 1 January Acquisitions movements Cash flows movement 31 December 2010 m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 81.6 13.9 1.7 97.2 Bank overdrafts 0.7 0.7 80.9 13.9 1.7 96.5 Bank loans 13.6 5.1 0.5 9.0 Loan notes 1.0 0.2 0.9 0.1 0.4 Finance Leases 0.3 0.1 0.2 Cash and cash equivalents net of debt 66.3 0.5 20.0 1.1 86.9 32.
Related party transactions Marketing services were provided by Adventis Group plc, an associate company, to Savills L&P Limited to the value of 3.0m 2010: 2.7m.
During the year the Group provided consulting services to Savills Solar Ltd, a joint venture, to the value of 0.3m 2010: nil.
An amount of 0.1m was owed to the Group at 31 December 2011 2010: nil.
These transactions took place on an arms length basis.
Loans to related parties Loans to associates and joint ventures are disclosed in Note 16 a.
Company transactions The Company provided corporate function services to its subsidiaries at an arms-length value of 11.6m 2010: 10.1m.
Dividends received from subsidiaries were 40.0m 2010: nil.
Amounts outstanding to and from subsidiaries as at 31 December 2011 are disclosed in Notes 18, 20 and 21.
Events after the reporting date Gresham Down Capital Partners On 5th January 2012 the Group acquired the specialist Central London investment and asset management business Gresham Down Capital Partners.
The business provides investment advisory and brokerage advice focusing primarily on the Central London Commercial property market, as well as asset management services, and will strengthen the existing Central London presence.
Consideration of 1.6m was paid on completion, with a further total of 1.4m payable across the subsequent four anniversaries subject to service conditions and with the last instalment conditional on achieving revenue targets.
Goodwill and other intangible assets of 1.0m and 0.6m respectively have been provisionally determined.
International Property Asset Management GmbH On the 20 January 2012 the Group acquired International Property Asset Management GmbH IPAM, a German real estate asset management company.
The acquisition complements and expands our existing German business and investment platform.
Total consideration is provisionally determined at 4.6m, of which 2.8m was paid on completion.
Further contingent consideration may become payable in 2012 and 2013 based on the actual performance of the business.
Goodwill on acquisition has provisionally been determined at 3.2m.
100 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 Shareholder information Key dates for 2012 Date Annual General Meeting 9 May Financial half year end 30 June Announcement of half year results August Website Professional advisers and service providers Visit our investor relations website www.
com for full up to Solicitors date investor relations information, including the latest share price, CMS Cameron McKenna LLP recent annual and half year reports, results presentations and Mitre House financial news.
160 Aldersgate Street London Shareholder enquiries EC1A 4DD For shareholder enquiries please contact our Registrars, Equiniti.
For general enquiries please call our Shareholder Services Registrars helpline on: 0871 384 2018 overseas holders need to ring Equiniti 44 0 121 415 7047.
Calls to Equinitis 0871 numbers are Aspect House charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Other telephony Spencer Road service providers costs may vary.
Lines are open from 8.30am Lancing to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday, excluding bank holidays.
West Sussex BN99 6DA For further administrative queries in respect of your shareholding please access our Registrars website at www.
co. uk Auditors Electronic communications  LLP If you would prefer to receive shareholder communications 1 Embankment Place electronically in future, including your annual and half-yearly London WC2N 6RH reports and notices of meetings, please visit our Registrars website, www.
co. uk and follow the link to Sign up Joint Stockbrokers for paper-free communications.
UBS Investment Bank 1 Finsbury Avenue Half Year Report London EC2M 2PP Like many other listed public companies, we will no longer be circulating printed Half Year reports to shareholders.
Rather, the Numis Securities Ltd Half Year results to be announced in August 2012 and all future The London Stock Half Year results statements will be published on the Companys Exchange Building website.
We believe that this will be of benefit to those shareholders 10 Paternoster Square who do not wish to be burdened with such paper documents, London EC4M 7LT and to the Company, as it is consistent with our target of saving printing and distribution costs.
Principal Bankers Barclays Bank Plc 1 Churchill Place London E14 5HP Cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements Other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from Certain statements included in this Annual Report are forwardthose estimated by the forward-looking statements include, but are looking and are therefore subject to risks, assumptions and not limited to: uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from global economic business conditions: those expressed or implied because they relate to future events.
monetary and interest rate policies: These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, foreign currency exchange rates: statements relating to the Companys expectations.
Forwardequity and property prices: looking statements can be identified by the use of relevant the impact of competition, inflation: terminology including the words: believes, estimates, changes to regulations, taxes: anticipates, expects, intends, plans, goal, target, aim, changes to consumer saving and spending habits: and may, will, would, could or should or, in each case, their our success in managing the above factors.
negative or other variations or comparable terminology and include all matters that are not historical facts.
They appear in a number of Consequently, our actual future financial condition, performance places throughout this Annual Report and include statements and results could differ materially from the plans, goals and regarding our intentions, beliefs or current expectations and those expectations set out in our forward-looking statements.
The of our officers, directors and employees concerning, amongst other Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forwardthings, our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future prospects, growth, strategies and the businesses we operate.
This report is printed on Look, which is 100% ECF Elemental Chlorine Free pulp and is 100% recyclable and sourced from carefully managed and renewed commercial forests, certified in accordance with the FSC Forest Stewardship Council.
The mill is ISO 14001 certified.
Our printers are fully accredited to the ISO 14001 environmental management system.
They utilise vegetable based inks and operate a direct computer to plate repro system, eliminating the need for film with its chemicals such as developer and acid fixers.
Designed and produced by Carnegie Orr 44 0 20 7610 6140 www.
co. uk Savills plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Savills plc Annual Report 20 Grosvenor Hill and Accounts 2011 Berkeley Square London W1K 3HQ T: 44 0 20 7499 8644 F: 44 0 20 7495 3773 Registered in England No.
