Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 88 Key assumptions and sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of the consolidated The calculations of the recognised f Clinical Solutions and financial statements in conformity with assets and liabilities from such plans Decontamination business IFRS requires management to make are based upon statistical and actuarial In 2010, we separated the Clinical estimates and assumptions that affect calculations.
In particular the present Solutions and Decontamination the application of policies and reported value of the defined benefit obligation business into individual Cash amounts of assets, liabilities, income, is impacted by assumptions on discount Generating Units CGU as there are expenses and related disclosures.
rates used to arrive at the present separate assets and cash flows for The estimates and underlying value of future pension liabilities, and each CGU.
As a result of ongoing losses assumptions are based on historical assumptions on future increases in on the two decontamination contracts, experience and other relevant factors.
Furthermore, a provision for 9.9 million was This approach forms the basis of the groups independent actuaries use recognised in 2010.
The key assumption making the judgements about carrying statistically based assumptions covering used in determining the onerous values of assets and liabilities that are areas such as future withdrawals of contract provision is the period over not readily apparent from other sources.
participants from the plan and estimates which mitigating actions are planned Actual results may differ from these on life expectancy.
The actuarial to achieve a financially sustainable estimates.
assumptions used may differ materially position.
This was assessed in 2010 from actual results due to changes in as being as four years, with the losses The estimates and underlying market and economic conditions, higher being principally incurred in the first assumptions are reviewed on an or lower withdrawal rates or longer two years.
4.4 million of the provision ongoing basis.
Changes in accounting or shorter life spans of participants was utilised in 2011.
Although the estimates may be necessary if there are and other changes in the factors remaining provision is expected to changes in the circumstances on which being assessed.
These differences be used over the next three years, the estimate was based, or as a result could impact the assets or liabilities the majority is expected to be utilised of new information.
Such changes are recognised in the balance sheet in 2012.
If there was a one year delay recognised in the period in which the in future periods.
The last triennial to any of these actions being taken, estimate is revised.
valuation of the main UK pension the onerous contract provision would The key assumptions about the scheme took place in February 2010. increase by approximately 3.0 million.
future and key sources of estimation c Income taxes No impairment has been made in uncertainty that have a risk of causing At 31st December 2011, the net liability respect of the plant and machinery a material adjustment to the carrying for current income taxes is 6.4 million which has a carrying value of value of assets and liabilities within the and the net liability for deferred 16.5 million as at the year end.
next 12 months are described below.
income taxes is 34.7 million The key assumptions used to support a Property, plant and equipment note 19.
Estimates may be required this assessment are as follows: and intangible assets, including in determining the level of current Existing contracts achieve financially and deferred income tax assets goodwill sustainable position.
and liabilities, which management The group has property, plant and New contract wins will increase believes are reasonable and equipment with a carrying value of revenues.
adequately recognises any income 520.8 million note 10, goodwill with a A positive margin achieved for tax related uncertainties.
carrying value of 419.9 million note 8 the new contracts in line with and intangible assets with a carrying Various factors may have favourable managements original expectations.
value of 76.1 million note 9. or unfavourable effects on the income The pre-tax discount rate used for These assets are reviewed annually tax assets and liabilities.
for impairment as described above changes in tax laws in the jurisdiction If the above assumptions are not intangible assets and property, plant we operate in, tax rates, interpretations achieved then impairment of the plant and equipment sections.
To assess if of existing tax laws, future levels of any impairment exists, estimates are and machinery may become necessary.
spending and in overall levels of made of the future cash flows expected For example: future earnings.
to result from the use of the assets If only half the estimated new and their eventual disposal.
Actual d Share-based payments contract win revenue was achieved, outcomes could vary from such The economic cost of awarding shares the group would have to recognise estimates of discounted future cash and share options to employees is an impairment of 3.3 million.
Factors such as changes in the reflected by recording a charge in the If the new contract gross margin planned use of buildings, machinery income statement equivalent to the fair was 5% less than managements or equipment, or closure of facilities, value of the benefit awarded over the estimates at 31st December 2011, the presence of competition, or lower vesting period.
The fair values of the the group would need to reduce than anticipated sales could result in awards are determined by use of the the carrying value by 1.4 million.
shortened useful lives or impairment.
e Provisions b Pensions and other postProvisions for vacant properties, employment benefits restructuring costs and legal claims The group operates a number of defined benefit schemes within are recognised when the group has a present legal or constructive the UK and Europe note 27. obligation as a result of past events and As at 31st December 2011 the present value of the groups defined benefit it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle obligation for funded plans was a surplus of 6.8 million and a deficit the obligation: and the amount has of 35.0 million for unfunded plans.
