Overview Strategy and performance Business line review Risk Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Investors Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 73 Directors responsibilities for the financial statements The directors are responsible for The directors are responsible for In accordance with DTR 4.1.
12, each of ensuring that the group and the the directors confirms that, to the best preparing the Report and Accounts and the financial statements in accordance company keep accounting records of their knowledge: which show and explain the companys withapplicable law and regulations.
i the financial statements of the transactions, disclose with reasonable Company law requires the directors group, prepared in accordance with accuracy, at any time, the financial toprepare financial statements for International Financial Reporting position of the company and which eachfinancial year.
Under that law Standards as adopted by the EU, enable them to ensure that the financial thedirectors have prepared the group andthe financial statements of the statements comply with the Companies financial statements in accordance company, prepared in accordance Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS withInternational Financial Reporting with United Kingdom Generally Regulation and the parent company Standards IFRSs as adopted by Accepted Accounting Practice, give financial statements comply with the theEuropean Union, and the parent atrue and fair view of the assets, Companies Act 2006.
The directors company financial statements in liabilities, financial position and have a general responsibility for taking accordance with applicable law and profitor loss of the company and such steps asare reasonably open to United Kingdom Accounting Standards theundertakings included in the them to safeguard the assets of the United Kingdom Generally Accepted consolidation taken as a whole: and group andcompany and to prevent and Accounting Practice.
The group and detect fraud and other irregularities.
ii the management report, which is parent company financial statements incorporated into the Directors are required by law to give a true and This statement, which should be read report, includes a fair review of the fair view of the state of affairs of the inconjunction with the Auditors Report, development and performance of company and the group and of the is made with a view to distinguishing for thebusiness and the position of profit or loss of the company and members the respective responsibilities thecompany and the undertakings groupfor that period.
of the directors and the auditors in included in the consolidation taken as relation to the financial statements.
The financial statements on pages 75 a whole, together with a description to138 have been prepared on a going A copy of the Annual Report and the of the principal risks and uncertainties concern basis, suitable accounting financial statements of the company they face.
policies have been used and applied areon the companys website at The current directors and their functions consistently, reasonable and prudent www.
The directors are listed on pages 48 and 49. judgements and estimates have been areresponsible for the maintenance made and applicable accounting andintegrity of the companys website, By order of the board standards have been followed.
and the work carried out by the auditorsdoes not involve consideration David Lawler of these matters.
Accordingly, the Company Secretary auditors accept no responsibility for 23rd February 2012 anychangesthat may have occurred tothefinancial statements since they wereplaced on the website.
Information published on the internet is accessible inmany countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation inother jurisdictions.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 74 Contents Financial statements 75 Independent auditors report Finance.
76 Consolidated income statement 77 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 78 Consolidated balance sheet 79 Consolidated cash flow statement Robust 80 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 82 Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements 88 Key assumptions and sources of estimation uncertainty performance.
89 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 130 Independent auditors report to the members of Berendsen plc 131 Parent company financial statements 132 Accounting policies to the parent company financial statements 134 Notes to the parent company financial statements 139 Five year record We are pleased to present our financial statements andreportsfor the year ended 31st December 2011 forboththegroup and forBerendsen plc.
