Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 140 Advisers Investment Bankers Rothschild Stockbrokers JPMorgan Cazenove Oriel Securities Solicitors Slaughter and May Auditors  LLP, Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors, London Registrars Equiniti Financial calendar Final results announced February Annual general meeting April Ordinary final dividend paid May Interim results announced August Ordinary interim dividend paid October Shareholder information Enquiries relating to shareholders, such as queries concerning notification of change of address, dividend payments and lost share certificates, should be made to the companys registrars.
The company has a share account, management and dealing facility for all shareholders via Equiniti Limited Shareview.
This offers shareholders secure access to their account details held on the share register to amend address information and payment instructions directly, as well as providing a simple and convenient way of buying and selling the companys ordinary shares.
For internet services visit www.
co. uk or the investor relations sections of the companys website www.
The Shareview Dealing service is also available bytelephone on 08456 037037 between 8.00 am and 4.30 pm, Monday to Friday.
The best way to ensure that dividends are received as quickly as possible is to instruct the companys registrars to pay them directly into a bank or building society account: tax vouchers are then mailed to shareholders separately.
This method also avoids the risk of dividend cheques being delayed or lost in the post.
Dividend mandate forms are available from the registrars either from their website www.
co. uk or by telephone on the Equiniti General Shareholder Helpline number below.
Calling from the UK: 0871 384 2179 or if calling from overseas: 44 0 121 415 7047 Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline: other telephony provider costs may vary.
Lines are open 8.30 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday.
Website Financial information about the company, including annual reports, public announcements and share price data, is available from the companys website at www.
com, which also contains further information about the group and links to the websites of its subsidiaries.
This ensures Radley Yeldar www.
com there is an audited chain of custody from the Design and production.
tree in the well-managed forest through to the finished document in the printing factory.
ISO 14001 A pattern of control for an Pureprint Group Printed by Pureprint Group, using pureprint environmental management system against environmental print technology, a CarbonNeutral company certified to which an organisation can be credited by FSC and IS0 14001.
This document is printed on Cocoon Silk 100 an FSC a third party.
paper which is100% recycled and manufactured at an ISO 14001 accredited mill.
Registered office Berendsen plc 4 Grosvenor Place London SW1X 7DL Registered N 1480047 Tel: 020 7259 6663 E-mail: reception@berendsen.
com, Results presentation, PDF downloads, Investor information
