Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 82 Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements The following new standards, Basis of preparation Business combinations amendments to standards and The consolidated financial statements The group uses the acquisition method interpretations have been issued, have been prepared in accordance of accounting to account for business but are not effective for the financial with International Financial Reporting combinations.
The consideration year beginning 1st January 2011 Standards as adopted by the European transferred for the acquisition of a and have not been early-adopted.
Union IFRSs as adopted by the subsidiary is the fair values of the assets Their expected impact is still being EU, IFRIC Interpretations and the transferred, the liabilities incurred and assessed by management: Companies Act 2006 applicable to the equity interests issued by the group.
IFRS 7 amendment, Financial companies reporting under IFRS.
The consideration transferred includes instruments: disclosures on The consolidated financial statements the fair value of any asset or liability fide-recognition.
have been prepared under the historical resulting from a contingent IAS 12 amendment, Income taxes cost convention, and certain financial consideration arrangement.
assets and financial liabilities including related costs are expensed as incurred IAS 1 amendment, Financial derivative instruments at fair and disclosed as exceptional items.
statement presentation, regarding value through income statement.
Identifiable assets acquired and other comprehensive income.
liabilities and contingent liabilities The preparation of financial statements IAS 19 amendment, Employee assumed in a business combination are in conformity with IFRS requires the use benefits.
measured initially at their fair values at of certain critical accounting estimates.
The excess of the It also requires management to exercise IFRS 10, Consolidated financial consideration transferred, the amount its judgement in the process of applying statements.
of any non-controlling interest in the the groups accounting policies.
IFRS 12, Disclosures of interests in acquiree and the acquisition date fair The areas involving a higher degree other entities.
value of any previous equity interest in of judgement or complexity, or areas IFRS 13, Fair value measurement.
the acquiree over the fair value of the where assumptions and estimates groups share of the identifiable net are significant to the consolidated Consolidation assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
financial statements are disclosed If this is less than the fair value of the on page 88.
The group financial statements net assets of the subsidiary acquired in consolidate the financial statements The following new standards and the case of a bargain purchase, the of the company and all its subsidiaries.
amendments to standards are difference is recognised directly in the Subsidiaries are all entities over mandatory for the first time statement of comprehensive income.
which the group has the power to for the financial year beginning govern the financial and operating 1st January 2011: Non-current assets held for sale policies generally accompanying a IAS 1, Presentation of financial shareholding of more than one half of Non-current assets and disposal statements.
Subsidiaries are fully groups classified as held for sale are IFRIC 14 amendment, Prepayments consolidated from the date on which measured at the lower of carrying of a minimum funding requirement.
control is transferred to the group and amount and fair values less costs to sell.
are fide-consolidated from the date on Non-current assets and disposal IFRS 7, Financial instruments.
groups are classified as held for sale if IAS 27, Consolidated and separate All intra-group transactions are their carrying amount will be recovered financial statements.
eliminated as part of the consolidation through a sale transaction rather than The following new and amended process.
Accounting policies of through continuing use.
This condition standards and interpretations are subsidiaries have been changed where is regarded as met only when the sale mandatory for the first time for the necessary to ensure consistency with is highly probable and the asset financial year beginning 1st January 2011 the policies adopted by the group.
or disposal group is available for and have not had a material impact on immediate sale in its present condition.
the group: Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to IAS 24 revised, Related party qualify for recognition as a completed disclosures.
sale within one year from the date of IAS 32 amendment, Classification classification.
IFRIC 19, Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments.
Overview Strategy and performance Business line review Risk Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Investors Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 83 Foreign exchange gains and losses that Segment reporting Pre-contract bid costs relate to borrowings and cash and cash Operating segments are reported in Pre-contract costs are expensed as equivalents are presented in the income a manner consistent with the internal incurred until the group is appointed statement within finance income or reporting provided to the chief preferred bidder.
All other foreign exchange gains operating decision-maker.
The chief status provides sufficient confidence and losses are presented in the income operating decision-maker, who is that the conclusion of the contract is statement within other losses responsible for allocating resources and probable, the outcome can be reliably gains net.
assessing performance of the operating measured and is expected to generate Translation differences on nonsegments, has been identified as the sufficient net cash inflows to enable monetary financial assets and liabilities Berendsen plc executive board.
Pre-contract costs incurred are reported as part of the fair value subsequent to appointment as During 2011, the Berendsen plc gain or loss.
Translation differences preferred bidder are capitalised onto executive board considered the on non-monetary financial assets the balance sheet under prepayments business from both a geographical and liabilities such as equities held and accrued income.
The prepayment and product service perspective: at fair value through profit or loss are is expensed to the income statement Textile maintenance Nordic, Textile recognised in profit or loss as part of over the period of the contract.
Costs, maintenance Continent, Textile the fair value gain or loss.
Translation which have been expensed, are not maintenance UK and Ireland and differences on non-monetary financial subsequently reinstated when a Clinical Solutions and assets such as equities classified as contract award is achieved.
The Clinical available for sale are included in the Solutions and Decontamination fair value reserve in equity.
Property, plant and equipment segment is reported although it does not meet the quantitative c Group companies Land and buildings comprise mainly thresholds required by IFRS 8.
The results and financial position factories and offices.
All property, plant of all the group entities that have a and equipment are shown at cost less Following the strategic review of the functional currency different from the subsequent depreciation.
Cost includes business presented in November 2010, presentation currency are translated expenditure that is directly attributable from 1st January 2012 the Berendsen plc into the presentation currency to the acquisition of the items.
executive board will manage the as follows: business under the business lines of Textile assets such as garments and Workwear, Facility, UK Flat Linen, Flat assets and liabilities for each balance linen and washroom equipment which Linen outside UK and Clinical Solutions sheet presented are translated at the are owned by the group entities where and Decontamination.
closing rate at the date of that substantially all the risks and rewards balance sheet: of ownership of such equipment The group has provided voluntary income and expenses for each is retained by group entities are disclosure under the new segment income statement are translated capitalised as non-current assets for 2011. at average exchange rates and depreciated over their estimated unless this average is not a useful lives.
Foreign currency translation reasonable approximation of the Depreciation of assets is calculated cumulative effect of the rates a Functional and presentation using the straight line method to prevailing on the transaction dates, currency allocate the cost of each asset to its in which case income and expenses Items included in the financial residual value over its estimated useful are translated at the rate on the statements of each of the groups life, as follows: dates of the transactions : and entities are measured using the all resulting exchange differences are a Land and buildings currency of the primary economic recognised as a separate component environment in which the entity Depreciated at a rate of 2% per annum of equity.
on an estimate of the buildings value operates the functional currency.
of freehold properties and leasehold The consolidated financial statements On consolidation, exchange differences are presented in sterling, which is the properties with 50 or more years arising from the translation of the net unexpired at the balance sheet date.
companys functional and investment in foreign operations, and This rate has been determined having presentational currency.
of borrowings and other currency regard to the groups practice to instruments designated as hedges b Transactions and balances maintain these assets in a continual of such investments, are taken to Foreign currency transactions are state of sound repair and to extend shareholders equity.
When a foreign translated into the functional currency and make improvements from time to operation is partially disposed of or using the exchange rates prevailing time.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
sold, exchange differences that were at the dates of the transactions.
Short leasehold land and buildings recorded in equity are recognised in Foreign exchange gains and losses are depreciated by equal instalments the income statement as part of the resulting from the settlement of such over the period of the lease.
transactions and from the translation Major renovations are depreciated over at year-end exchange rates of monetary Goodwill and fair value adjustments the remaining useful life of the related assets and liabilities denominated arising on the acquisition of a foreign in foreign currencies are recognised asset or to the scheduled date of the entity are treated as assets and liabilities next major renovation, whichever in the income statement, except when of the foreign entity and translated at is sooner.
deferred in equity as qualifying cash the closing rate.
flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 84 Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements continued Costs associated with maintaining b Plant and machinery Impairment of non-financial assets computer software programs are Depreciated at rates of 10% to 50% Assets that have an indefinite useful life recognised as an expense as incurred.
per annum, depending on the class for example, goodwill are not subject Development costs that are directly of the asset.
to amortisation and are tested annually attributable to the design and testing for impairment.
c Textile assets and washroom of identifiable and unique software equipment Assets that are subject to amortisation products controlled by the group are Depreciated at rates of 20% to 40%, or depreciation are reviewed for recognised as intangible assets when depending on class of asset, and impairment whenever events or the following criteria are met: augmented where necessary changes in circumstances indicate it is technically feasible to complete by amounts to cover wastage, that the carrying amount may not the software product so that it will obsolescence and loss.
An impairment loss be available for use: is recognised for the amount by When properties, plant or equipment management intends to complete which the assets carrying amount are sold, the difference between the the software product and use or exceeds its recoverable amount.
sales proceeds and net book value sell it: The recoverable amount is the higher is included in the income statement.
there is an ability to use or sell the of an assets fair value less costs to software product: Residual values and useful lives of sell and value in use.
For the purposes it can be demonstrated how the assets are reviewed annually and of assessing impairment, assets are software product will generate amended where necessary.
grouped at the lowest levels for which probable future economic benefits: there are separately identifiable cash adequate technical, financial and flows cash-generating units.
Intangible assets other resources to complete the Non-financial assets other than goodwill a Goodwill development and to use or sell the that suffered impairment are reviewed Goodwill represents the excess of software product are available: and for possible reversal of the impairment the cost of an acquisition over the fair the expenditure attributable to the at each reporting date.
value of the groups share of the net software product during its identifiable assets of the acquired development can be reliably Financial assets subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
The group classifies its non-derivative Goodwill net of amortisation prior to Directly attributable costs that are 1st January 2005 in respect of business financial assets as loans and receivables.
capitalised as part of the software The classification depends on the combinations made since 1st January product include the software purpose for which the financial assets 1998 is included within intangible assets.
development employee costs and Goodwill in respect of business were acquired.
Management determines an appropriate portion of relevant the classification of its financial assets combinations made on or before overheads.
31st December 1997 remains eliminated against reserves.
Other development expenditures Loans and receivables are that do not meet these criteria are non-derivative financial assets with fixed Goodwill has an indefinite useful life.
recognised as an expense as incurred.
or determinable payments that are not Goodwill is tested annually for Development costs previously quoted in an active market.
impairment or if there is an indication recognised as an expense are of impairment.
Goodwill is allocated to not recognised as an asset in Derivative financial instruments cash-generating units for the purpose a subsequent period.
and hedging activities of impairment testing.
Gains and losses Computer software development costs on the disposal of an entity include the Derivatives are initially recognised at fair recognised as assets are amortised over carrying amount of goodwill relating value on the date a derivative contract their estimated useful lives, which does to the entity sold except for goodwill is entered into and are subsequently not exceed five years.
remeasured at their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The method of c Customer contracts b Computer software recognising the resulting gain or loss Intangible assets arising either from Acquired computer software depends on whether the derivative is legal or contractual rights which have licences are capitalised on the basis of designated as a hedging instrument, been purchased are required to be the costs incurred to acquire and bring and if so, the nature of the item separately identified from goodwill and to use the specific software.
are stated at historical cost, or in the are amortised over their estimated case of intangible assets acquired as useful lives not exceeding three years.
The group designates certain part of a business combination, at fair derivatives as either i hedges of value.
The fair value attributable to the the fair value of recognised assets customer contracts is determined by or liabilities fair value hedge : or discounting the expected future cash ii hedges of a particular risk associated flows to be generated from that asset at with a recognised asset or liability, or the risk adjusted weighted average cost a highly probable forecast transaction of capital for the entity.
This amount is cash flow hedge : or iii hedges of amortised over the period in which the net investments in foreign operations company is expected to benefit from net investment hedge.
the contracts acquired, over periods ranging from two to five years.
Overview Strategy and performance Business line review Risk Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Investors Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 85 The group documents at the inception When a hedging instrument expires Share capital of the transaction the relationship or is sold, or when the hedge no longer Ordinary shares are classified as equity between hedging instruments and meets the criteria for hedge accounting, and are recorded at par value of hedged items and its assessment, both any cumulative gain or loss in equity proceeds received, net of direct issue at hedge inception and on an ongoing at that time remains in equity and costs.
Where shares are issued above basis, of whether the derivatives that is recognised when the forecast par value, the proceeds in excess of are used in the hedging transactions transaction ultimately occurs.
par value are recorded in the share are highly effective in offsetting When a forecast transaction is premium account.
changes in fair values of hedged items.
no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was Where any group company purchases The fair value of various derivative reported in equity will be transferred the companys equity share capital, instruments used for hedging purposes to the income statement.
the consideration paid, including any are disclosed in note 16.
Movements on directly attributable incremental costs, the hedging reserve in shareholders d Derivatives that do not qualify is deducted from equity attributable equity are shown in note 24.
The group for hedge accounting to the companys shareholders until holds no trading derivatives.
Changes in the fair value of any the shares are cancelled, reissued or derivative instruments that do not a Fair value hedge disposed of.
Where such shares are qualify for hedge accounting are Changes in the fair value of the subsequently sold or reissued, any recognised immediately in the derivatives that are fully designated consideration received, net of any income statement.
and qualify as fair value hedges are directly attributable incremental costs, recorded in the income statement, is included in equity attributable to e Energy contracts together with any changes in the fair the companys shareholders.
The group occasionally takes out value of the hedged asset or liability energy contracts in relation to the that are attributable to the hedged risk.
supply of gas and electricity.
Such Trade payables contracts are not recognised as The group has one fair value hedge Trade payables are obligations to derivative financial instruments as they in respect of a cross currency fixed to pay for goods or services that have are held with the purpose of the receipt floating interest rate swap.
If the hedge been acquired in the ordinary course or delivery of a non-financial item in no longer meets the criteria for hedge of business from suppliers.
Accounts accordance with the entitys expected accounting, the exchange component payable are classified as current purchase, sale or usage requirements.
of the derivative will continue to be liabilities if payment is due within taken to the income statement other one year or less or in the normal Inventories gains and losses along with the operating cycle of the business if exchange on the related borrowings.
If not, they are presented Inventories are stated at the lower of The interest component of the as non-current liabilities.
cost and net realisable value.
Cost is derivative item will be amortised to determined using the first in, first out Trade payables are recognised initially the income statement over the period FIFO method.
The cost of finished at fair value and subsequently measured to maturity.
goods and work in progress comprises at amortised cost using the effective of raw materials, direct labour, other b Net investment hedge interest method.
direct costs and related production Any gain or loss on the hedging overheads.
Net realisable value is the instrument relating to the effective Borrowings estimated selling price in the ordinary portion of the hedge is recognised course of business, less applicable Borrowings are recognised initially directly against reserves.
The gain or variable selling expenses.
Full provision at fair value, net of transaction loss relating to any ineffective portion is made for obsolete, defective and slow costs incurred.
Borrowings are is recognised immediately in the moving stock.
subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Any difference between the amount Gains and losses accumulated in equity initially recognised net of transaction Trade receivables are included in the income statement costs and the redemption value is Trade receivables are recognised when the foreign operation is partially recognised in the income statement initially at fair value less provision for disposed of or sold.
over the period of the borrowings using impairment.
They are subsequently the effective interest method.
c Cash flow hedge held at amortised cost less provision for The effective portion of changes in Borrowing costs which are directly impairment.
A provision for impairment the fair value of derivatives that are attributable to the acquisition, of trade receivables is established when designated to qualify as cash flow construction or production of a there is objective evidence that the hedges are recognised in equity.
qualifying asset one that takes a group will not be able to collect all The groups cash flow hedges which substantial period of time to get ready amounts due according to the original are in respect of cross-currency interest for use or sale are capitalised as part of terms of the receivables.
The amount rate swaps, interest rate swaps and the cost of that asset, until such time as of the change in provision is recognised forward foreign exchange contracts the assets are ready for their intended in the income statement.
result in recognition in either the use or sale.
currency translation component of Cash and cash equivalents equity or in the hedging reserve.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 86 Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements continued All other borrowing costs are Tax is recognised in the income For defined contribution plans, the recognised in the income statement statement except to the extent that group pays contributions to publicly in the period in which they are incurred.
it relates to items recognised directly or privately administered pension in equity, in which case it is recognised insurance or trustee administered The group refinanced its Revolving in equity.
plans on a mandatory, contractual Credit Facilities in July 2011.
The group has costs of 4.0 million were capitalised no further payment obligations once Employee benefits in the year ended 31st December 2011. the contributions have been paid.
a Pension obligations Borrowings are classified as non-current The contributions are recognised as The group operates various pension liabilities where the group has an employee benefit expense when they schemes.
The schemes are funded unconditional right to defer settlement are due.
Prepaid contributions are through payments to insurance of the liability for at least 12 months recognised as an asset to the extent companies or a trustee administered after the balance sheet date.
that a cash refund or a reduction in fund, determined by periodic actuarial the future payments is available.
The group has both Current and deferred income tax b Share-based payment plans defined benefit and defined contribution The current income tax charge is The groups management awards plans.
A defined benefit plan is a calculated on the basis of the tax laws employees share options, from time pension plan that defines an amount enacted or substantively enacted at to time, both on a discretionary of pension benefit that an employee the balance sheet date in the countries and non-discretionary basis which will receive on retirement, usually where the groups subsidiaries operate are subject to vesting conditions.
dependent on one or more factors and generate taxable income.
The economic cost of awarding the such as age, years of service and share options to its employees is compensation.
A defined contribution Deferred income tax is recognised, recognised as an employee benefit plan is a pension plan under which the using the liability method, on temporary expense in the income statement group pays fixed contributions into a differences arising between the tax equivalent to the fair value of the separate entity.
The group has no legal bases of assets and liabilities and their benefit awarded.
The fair value is or constructive obligations to pay carrying amounts in the consolidated determined by reference to the further contributions if the fund does financial statements.
However, the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
not hold sufficient assets to pay all deferred income tax is not accounted The charge is recognised in the Income employees the benefits relating to for, if it arises from initial recognition of Statement over the vesting period employee service in the current and an asset or liability in a transaction other of the award.
than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither The proceeds received are credited to The net liability recognised in the accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
share capital nominal value and share balance sheet in respect of defined Deferred income tax is determined premium when the options are benefit pension plans is the present using tax rates and laws that have exercised.
value of the defined benefit obligation been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date less the fair c Termination benefits by the balance sheet date and are value of plan assets, together with Termination benefits are payable expected to apply when the related adjustments for unrecognised actuarial when an employment is terminated deferred income tax asset is realised gains or losses and past service costs.
before the normal retirement date, or the deferred income tax liability The defined benefit obligation is or whenever an employee accepts is settled.
calculated annually by independent voluntary redundancy in exchange actuaries using the projected unit credit Deferred income tax assets are for these benefits.
The present value of the recognised to the extent that it is termination benefits when it is shown defined benefit obligation is determined probable that future taxable profit to be committed to either: terminating by discounting the estimated future will be available against which the the employment of current employees cash outflows using interest rates temporary differences can be utilised.
according to a detailed formal plan of high quality corporate bonds that are without possibility of withdrawal: or Deferred income tax is provided denominated in the currency in which providing termination benefits as a on temporary differences arising the benefits will be paid, and that have result of an offer made to encourage on investments in subsidiaries and terms to maturity approximating to the voluntary redundancy.
associates, except where the timing of terms of the related pension liability.
the reversal of the temporary difference d Holiday pay Current and past service costs, is controlled by the group and it is Paid holidays are regarded as an to the extent they have vested, probable that the temporary difference employee benefit and as such are are recognised in operating costs in will not reverse in the foreseeable charged to the Income Statement as the the Income Statement together with future.
An accrual is made interest costs on plan liabilities and at the balance sheet date to reflect the Deferred income tax assets and the expected return on plan assets.
fair value of holidays earned but not liabilities are offset when there is Cumulative actuarial gains and losses yet taken.
a legally enforceable right to offset arising from experience adjustments current tax assets against current tax and change in actuarial assumptions liabilities and when the deferred income are credited or charged to the taxes assets and liabilities relate to statement of comprehensive income income taxes levied by the same and expense net of deferred tax.
taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Overview Strategy and performance Business line review Risk Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Investors Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 87 Provisions Leases Income statement presentation Provisions for vacant properties, Leases of property, plant and a Exceptional items restructuring costs and legal claims equipment where the group has Items that are material in size or are recognised when the group has a substantially all the risks and rewards non-operating in nature are presented present legal or constructive obligation of ownership are classified as finance as exceptional items in the income as a result of past events and it is leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at statement.
The directors are of the more likely than not that an outflow of the leases commencement at the lower opinion that the separate recording resources will be required to settle the of the fair value of the leased property of exceptional items provides helpful obligation: and the amount has been and the present value of the minimum information about the groups reliably estimated.
Each lease payment underlying business performance.
is allocated between the liability and Examples of events, which may A provision for onerous contracts is finance charges so as to achieve a give rise to the classification of items recognised when the expected benefits constant rate on the finance balance as exceptional include, inter alia, to be derived by the group from a outstanding.
The corresponding lease restructuring of businesses, gains contract are lower than the unavoidable obligations, net of finance charges, are and losses on disposal of properties, cost of meeting its obligations under included in other long-term payables.
acquisition costs, impairment of the contract.
The interest element of the finance cost goodwill and non-recurring income.
is charged to the income statement Revenue recognition b Amortisation of customer over the lease period so as to produce contracts a constant periodic rate of interest on Group revenue comprises the fair value These are presented separately in the remaining balance of the liability for the rendering of services, net of the income statement as they arise for each period.
Property, plant and value added tax and other similar sales from acquisitions.
equipment acquired under finance based taxes, rebates and discounts and leases are depreciated over the after eliminating sales within the group.
shorter of the assets useful life Revenue is recognised as follows: and the lease term.
a Service income Leases where the lessor retains Income received or receivable in respect substantially all the risks and rewards of service income is credited to revenue of ownership are classified as operating as and when services are rendered in leases.
Payments made under operating respect of mats, linen, washroom and leases net of any incentives received decontamination services.
Revenue is from the lessor are charged to the recognised on a per item basis for income statement on a straight line delivery of laundered textiles to hotels basis over the period of the lease.
Revenue for supply and laundering of workwear is recognised Dividend distribution on a regular, periodic basis in accordance with the terms of Final dividend distribution to the the contract.
companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in the groups financial b Sale of goods revenue statements in the period in which For non-contract based business, the dividends are approved by the revenue represents the value of companys shareholders.
dividends are recognised when paid.
Accrued income comprises revenue contractually earned for services performed that are invoiced to the customer primarily in the following month.
