Highlights Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Notice of annual general meeting Notice is hereby given that the annual general meeting AGM of The UNITE Group plc the Company will be held at The Core, 40 St Thomas Street, Bristol BS1 6JX at 9.30am on 17 May 2012 for the purpose of considering and, if thought fit, passing the following resolutions which, in the case of resolutions numbered 1 to 15 inclusive, shall be proposed as ordinary resolutions and, in the case of resolutions numbered 16 and 17, shall be proposed as special resolutions.
To receive the audited annual accounts of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2011, together with the Directors Report and Auditors Report on those accounts and that section of the remuneration report subject to audit 2.
To confirm and declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares for the year ended 31 December 2011 of 1.25p per ordinary share payable to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 20 April 2012 3.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2011 4.
To appoint Mrs M K Wolstenholme as a Director of the Company 5.
To re-appoint Mr P M White as a Director of the Company 6.
To re-appoint Mr M C Allan as a Director of the Company 7.
To re-appoint Mr J J Lister as a Director of the Company 8.
To appoint Mr R C Simpson as a Director of the Company 9.
To appoint Mr R S Smith as a Director of the Company 10.
To re-appoint Mr S R H Beevor as a Director of the Company 11.
To re-appoint Mr R S Walker as a Director of the Company 12.
To re-appoint Sir Tim Wilson as a Director of the Company 13.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting of the Company at which accounts are laid 14.
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the auditors Special business 15.
That, in substitution for any equivalent authorities and powers granted to the Directors prior to the passing of this resolution, the Directors be and are generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act : a to exercise all powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company, and grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares of the Company, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 13,355,955 such amount to be reduced by the nominal amount of any allotments or grants made under paragraph b below in excess of 13,355,955: and further: b to allot equity securities as defined by Section 560 1 of the Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 26,711,910 such amount to be reduced by the nominal amount of any allotments or grants made under paragraph a above in connection with an offer by way of rights issue: i in favour of holders of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company, where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of such holders are proportionate as nearly as practicable, to the respective number of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company held by them: and ii to holders of any other equity securities as required by the rights of those securities or as the Directors otherwise consider necessary, but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors consider expedient in relation to treasury shares, fractional entitlements, legal or practical problems under the laws in any territory or the requirements of any relevant regulatory body or stock exchange or any other matter whatsoever, provided that this authority shall expire unless renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in general meeting, on the date falling 15 months from the passing of this Resolution or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company to be held following the passing of this Resolution, save that the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or enter into an agreement which would or might require shares in the Company to be allotted or rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares be granted after such expiry and the directors may allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if this authority had not expired.
That, in accordance with Section 570 1 of the Act, the directors be and are empowered to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 560 1 of the Act pursuant to the general authority conferred on them by Resolution 15 above as if Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited: a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer or issue to or in favour of ordinary shareholders on the register on a date fixed by the Directors where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all those shareholders are proportionate as nearly as practicable to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them on that date, but the Directors may make such exclusions or other arrangements as they consider expedient in relation to fractional entitlements, legal or practical problems under the laws in any territory or the requirements of any relevant regulatory body or stock exchange: and The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 103 Notice of annual general meeting continued b to the allotment other than under a above of equity securities having a nominal value not exceeding in aggregate 2,003,393 and this authority shall expire on the date falling 15 months from the passing of this Resolution, or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company to be held following the passing of this resolution, save that the Company may, before this authority expires, make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after it expires and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if this authority had not expired and provided further that this authority shall supersede and revoke all previous authorities under Section 570 1 of the Act.
That a general meeting other than an AGM may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
By order of the board A D Reid Secretary Dated 1 March 2012 Registered office: The Core 40 St Thomas Street Bristol BS1 6JX Notes 1.
A member of the Company who wishes to attend the meeting in person should arrive at the offices of the Company, The Core, 40 St Thomas Street, Bristol BS1 6JX in good time before the meeting, which will commence at 9.30am.
In order to gain admittance to the meeting, members may be required to produce their attendance card, which is attached to the form of proxy enclosed with this document, or otherwise prove their identity.
A member of the Company who is unable or does not wish to attend the meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of his her rights to attend and to speak and vote on his her behalf at the meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares so a member must have more than one share to be able to appoint more than one proxy.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company but must attend the meeting to represent his her appointing member.
Appointing a proxy will not prevent a member from attending in person and voting at the meeting.
A proxy must vote in accordance with any instructions given by the member by whom the proxy is appointed.
A form of proxy which may be used to make such appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this notice.
You can only appoint a proxy using the procedures set out in these notes and the notes to the proxy form.
To be valid, any form of proxy, and the original or duly certified copy of the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or authenticated, must be received by hand or by post at Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZY, no later than 9.30am on 15 May 2012.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the meeting and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclears specifications, and must contain the information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be a valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Companys agent CREST ID 3RA50 by the latest time for receipt of proxy appointments specified in note 3 above.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the Companys agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting service providers should note that Euroclear does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his her CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 as amended.
If you would like to submit your proxy vote via the internet, you can do so by accessing our registrars website www.
You will require the control number, your unique PIN which will expire at the end of the voting period and your Shareholder Reference Number SRN, printed on the proxy card, in order to log in and submit your proxy vote electronically.
You can access this site from any internet enabled PC.
In the case of joint holders, where more than one of the joint holders purports to appoint a proxy, only the appointment submitted by the most senior holder will be accepted.
Seniority is determined by the order in which the names of the joint holders appear in the Companys register of members in respect of the joint holding the first-named being the most senior.
104 The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Highlights Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 10.
If you submit more than one valid proxy appointment in respect of the same shares, the appointment received last before the latest time for the receipt of proxies will take precedence.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Act to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
These rights can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
Pursuant to Part 13 of the Companies Act 2006 and Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 as amended, the Company specifies that only those shareholders registered in the register of members of the Company at 5.00pm two days before the meeting shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Any changes to the register of members after such time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
As at 1 March 2012 the Companys issued share capital consists of 160,271,460 ordinary shares carrying one vote each.
Therefore the total voting rights in the Company as at 1 March 2012 are 160,271,460.
You may not use any electronic address provided either in this notice of meeting or any related documents including the proxy form to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
Members attending the meeting have the right to ask and, subject to the provisions of the Act, the Company must cause to be answered, any questions relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting.
The following information is available at www.
co. uk 1 the matters set out in this notice of AGM: 2 the total numbers of shares in the Company in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the meeting: 3 the totals of the voting rights that members are entitled to exercise at the meeting: and 4 members statements, members resolutions and members matters of business received by the Company after the date on which notice of the meeting was given.
It is possible that, pursuant to requests made by members of the Company under Section 527 of the Act, the Company may be required to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: a the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or b any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with Section 437 of the Act.
The Company may not require the members requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with Sections 527 or 528 of the Act.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under Section 527 of the Act, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under Section 527 of the Act to publish on a website.
In accordance with Section 338 of the Act, a member or members of the Company may provided that the criteria set out in Section 338 3 of the Act are met require the Company to give to members notice of a resolution which may properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the meeting, provided that: a the resolution must not be, if passed, ineffective whether by reason of inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution or otherwise : and b the resolution must not be defamatory of any person, frivolous or vexatious.
Such a request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, must be authenticated by the person or persons making it, must identify the resolution of which notice is to be given and must be received by the Company not later than six weeks before the meeting, or, if later, the time at which notice is given of the meeting.
In the foregoing sentence, the terms hard copy form, electronic form and authenticated bear their respective meanings set out in the Act in relation to a communication, or a document or information sent or supplied, to a company.
In accordance with Section 338A of the Act, a member or members of the Company may provided that the criteria set out in Section 338A 3 of the Act are met require the Company to include in the business to be dealt with at the meeting a matter other than a proposed resolution which may properly be included in the business of the meeting, provided that the matter is not defamatory of any person, frivolous or vexatious.
A request may be in hard copy form or electronic form, must identify the matter to be included in the business, must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request, must be authenticated by the person or persons making it and must be received by the Company not later than six weeks before the meeting, or, if later, the time at which notice is given of the AGM.
In the foregoing sentence, the terms hard copy form, electronic form and authenticated bear the respective meanings set out in the Act in relation to a communication, or a document or information sent or supplied, to a company.
A member that is a company or other organisation not having a physical presence cannot attend in person but can appoint someone to represent it.
This can be done in one of two ways: Either by the appointment of a proxy as described in the notes above or of a corporate representative.
Members considering the appointment of a corporate representative should check their own legal position, the Companys articles of association and the relevant provisions of the Act.
The following documents are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during the usual business hours on any weekday Saturday, Sunday or public holidays excluded from the date of this notice until the conclusion of the AGM and will also be available for inspection at the place of the meeting from 9.15am on the day of the meeting until its conclusion: a copies of the Executive Directors service contracts with the Company and any of its subsidiary undertakings b and letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors.
The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 105 Glossary Adjusted earnings per share of their financing costs and the Groups total non-development The diluted earnings per share based on adjusted profit.
Adjusted, fully diluted net asset value per share Net rental growth Adjusted NAV The annual growth in net operating income less costs from The basic NAV per share figure is recalculated to take account a property measured on a like-for-like basis, ie, excluding of dilutive outstanding share options and adjusted to: impact of completion and disposals.
exclude the impact of deferred tax Non-core assets exclude the mark to market of interest rate swaps Properties which do not fit with the Groups long-term include the valuation gain not recognised on properties investment strategy, either because of their location or held at cost operational inefficiency as a result of their size.
Adjusted gearing OCB Adjusted net debt as a percentage of adjusted net assets.
UNITE successfully established a joint venture with Oasis Capital Bank OCB in August 2009.
The joint venture consists Adjusted net debt of three assets located in London, all of which were completed The Groups debt, net of cash and unamortised debt raising in 2010. costs, excluding the mark to market of interest rates swaps.
Rental properties Adjusted net debt to property assets Investment and completed properties whose construction has The adjusted net debt as a percentage of the value been completed and are used by the Operations segment of UNITE properties.
to generation Net Portfolio Contribution.
Adjusted profit Stabilising assets Adjusted profit is prepared on the basis recommended for real Properties that have recently been developed and are not yet estate companies by EPRA, the European Public Real Estate generating their optimal net operating income.
Association, except for profits from disposal of assets see note 2.3 a for details.
This excludes movements relating to changes Total income from managed portfolio in values of investment properties and interest rate swaps and This measure indicates the overall scale of the property the related tax effects.
portfolio that the Group manages.
It comprises rental and related income, totalling 219.6 million from properties Basis points bps owned by: A basis point is a term used to describe a small percentage, usually in the context of a change, and equates to 0.01%.
m The Group 63.6 Financing costs Third parties 1.1 Gross financing costs net of interest capitalised into USAF 109.5 developments and interest received on deposits.
UCC 27.1 Gross financing costs USV 5.9 This includes all interest paid by the Group, including those OCB 12.4 capitalised into developments and operating lease rentals.
It includes all receipts and payments under interest rate The Groups share of this gross income is shown in note swaps whether they are effective or ineffective under IFRS 2.2 a. as economically they all hedge interest rate exposures.
UCC Interest cover ratio ICR UNITE Capital Cities was established in 2005 as a joint venture The interest cover ratio is the income generated by a property between UNITE and GIC Real Estate.
It is a closed-ended as a multiple of the interest charge on the debt secured vehicle due to mature in 2013 and was established by UNITE on the property.
to develop and operate student accommodation in London and Edinburgh.
UCC equity is now fully invested and all Minimum net worth development projects have been completed.
Minimum net worth covenant measures the value of the Company against an absolute target.
USAF the Fund The UNITE UK Student Accommodation Fund USAF Net Initial Yield NIY or Yield is Europes largest fund that purely focuses on direct let student The net operating income generated by a property expressed accommodation investment assets.
The Fund is an open-ended as a percentage of its value.
infinite life vehicle which has unique buying access to UNITEs portfolio.
UNITE act as Fund Manager of the Fund, as well Net operating income NOI as owning a significant minority stake.
The rental income from rental properties less those operating costs directly related to the property, therefore excluding USV central overhead.
UNITE Student Village was established in 2004 as a joint venture between UNITE and Lehman Brothers to develop large Net portfolio contribution NPC student village schemes of c1,000 bed spaces.
UNITE acquired This is an important indicator of operational performance the USV stake in the one remaining operation asset from as it measures the income from the rental properties, net Lehman Brothers in January 2012.
106 The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Highlights Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information UNITE letting arrangements Direct Let Properties where short-hold tenancy agreements are made directly between the commercial operator and the student.
Lease Properties which are leased to Universities for a number of years and have no UNITE management presence.
Nominations Properties where short-hold tenancy agreements are made with students, with the University providing a longer term occupancy guarantee in respect of a significant proportion of rooms.
Sale and lease back Properties which have been sold to a third party investor then leased back to the Company.
UNITE are responsible for the management of these assets on behalf of the owner.
The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 107 Company information UNITE Executive Team Company Secretary Mark Allan Andrew Reid Chief Executive Auditors KPMG Audit Plc Joe Lister 15 Canada Square Chief Financial Officer London E14 5GL Richard Simpson Financial Advisors Managing Director of Property JP Morgan Cazenove 20 Moorgate London EC2R 6DA Richard Smith Managing Director of Operations Numis Securities The London Stock Exchange Building Nicola Yates 10 Paternoster Square Group Human Resources Director London EC4M 7LT Paul Harris Registrars Group Strategy and Corporate Relations Director Computershare Investor Services PLC PO Box 82 Registered office The Pavilions The Core Bridgwater Road 40 St Thomas Street Bristol BS99 7NH Bristol BS1 6JX Financial PR Consultants Registered number in England FTI Consulting 3199160 Holborn Gate 26 Southampton Buildings London WC2A 1PB 108 The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Design by luminous.
co. uk The UNITE Group plc The Core 40 St Thomas Street Bristol BS1 6JX Tel: 0117 302 7000 Fax: 0117 302 7400 info@unite-group.
