136 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2011 Portfolio and other information Information for shareholders Financial calendar Ex-dividend date 15 June 2011 Record date 17 June 2011 Annual General Meeting 6 July 2011 Final dividend to be paid 15 July 2011 Half-year results available online only November 2011 Interim dividend expected to be paid January 2012 The 2011 Annual General Meeting will be held at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE on 6 July 2011 at 11.00am.
For further details please see the Notice of Annual General Meeting 2011.
Unsolicited telephone calls In the past, some of our shareholders have received unsolicited telephone check the FSAs list of known unauthorised overseas firms at calls or correspondence concerning investment matters from organisations www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts overseas.
shtml or persons claiming or implying that they have some connection with the However, these firms change their name regularly, so even if a firm is Company.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target not listed it does not mean they are legitimate.
Always check that they UK shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless are listed on the FSA Register: or high risk shares in UK or overseas investments.
Shareholders are advised if you have any doubts, call the FSA Consumer Helpline on 0845 606 1234 to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount with details, or complete the Unauthorised Firms Reporting Form or offers of free reports into the Company.
These approaches are operated at www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts form.
shtml out of what is more commonly known as a boiler room.
You may also If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive be approached by brokers offering to purchase your shares for an upfront payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
payment in the form of a broker fee, tax payment or fide-restriction fee.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found This is a common secondary scam operated by the boiler rooms.
You should If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: also report any approach to Operation Archway, an initiative by the City of London Police in conjunction with the FSA, the Serious Fraud always ensure the firm is on the Financial Services Authority FSA Register Office, the Serious Organised Crime Agency and police forces within and is allowed to give financial advice before handing over your money.
the UK, by email to: operationarchway@cityoflondon.
uk pages register: double-check the caller is from the firm they say they are ask for their name and telephone number and say you will call them back.
Check their identity by calling the firm using the contact number listed on the FSA Register.
This is important as the FSA has seen instances where an authorised firms website has been cloned but with a few subtle changes, such as a different phone number or false email address: O verview S trategy and B usiness review R isk C orporate G overnance F inancial statements P ortfolio and b usiness model r esponsibility o ther information Report and accounts 2011 3i Group plc 137 Annual and half-yearly reports online Registrars If you would prefer to receive shareholder For shareholder administration enquiries, communications electronically in future, including changes of address, please contact: including annual reports and notices of Equiniti meetings, please visit our Registrars website Aspect House at www.
co. uk clients 3isignup and Spencer Road follow the instructions there to register.
The 2011 Lancing half-yearly report will only be available online.
West Sussex BN99 6DA Please register to ensure you are notified when Telephone 0871 384 2031 it becomes available.
Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline, other telephony provider costs may vary.
Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, More general information on electronic Monday to Friday.
communications is available on our website International callers 44 121 415 7183 at www.
com e-comms 3i Group plc Investor relations and general enquiries Registered office: For all investor relations and general enquiries about 16 Palace Street, 3i Group plc, including requests for further copies London SW1E 5JD, UK of the Report and accounts, please contact: Registered in England No.
1142830 An investment company as defined Group Communications by section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
com or visit our Investor relations website, www.
com, for full up-to-date investor relations information, including the latest share price, Reporting centre, results presentations and financial news.
Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.
com Printed by Pureprint Group who are a CarbonNeutral printer certified to ISO 14001 environmental management system and registered to EMAS the Eco Management Audit Scheme.
Printed using vegetable oil based inks and 100% renewable energy.
The report is printed on Amadeus 50% Silk which is FSC certified and contains 50% recycled waste and 50% virgin fibre.
FSC Forest Stewardship Council This ensures that there is an audited chain of custody from the tree in the well-managed forest through to the finished document in the printing factory.
ISO 14001 A pattern of control for an environmental management system against which an organisation can be accredited by a third party.
Carbon Neutral The CO emissions associated with the production and distribution of our Annual Report and accounts 2010 have been measured and reduced to net zero through the Renew Portfolio of 100% renewable energy projects.
com M69911 May 2011 Shareholder communications print or online?
Its quick and easy online Its more environmentally friendly online Its more cost-effective online Its where youll find additional information.
View our online Report and accounts 2011, and additional information at: http: reportingcentre.
com 2011 To register for electronic communications If you would prefer to receive shareholder communications electronically in the future, including annual reports and notices of meetings, please visit our Registrars website at www.
co. uk clients 3isignup and follow the instructions there to register.
For investor relations information, please visit: www.
com For other information about 3i, please visit: www.
