O verview S trategy and B usiness review R isk C orporate G overnance F inancial statements P ortfolio and b usiness model r esponsibility o ther information Report and accounts 2011 3i Group plc 17 Introduction 3i is an international investor focused on private equity, infrastructure and debt management, investing in Europe, Asia and the Americas.
Our vision, values and strategy are set out on pages 7, 12 and 13.
All three of 3is business lines invest using a mix of the Corporate responsibility and risk management, for Groups own balance sheet capital and external capital.
which there are reports on pages 50 and 56, are Total assets under management at 31 March 2011, central to our strategy.
During the year, we undertook including 3is commitments to funds, were 12.7 billion an extensive survey of over 200 people from a range 2010: 9.6 billion, including 7.2 billion 2010: of key groups engaged with 3i, including our portfolio, 3.8 billion advised or managed on behalf of others.
key intermediaries, members of our Business Leaders Network and shareholders.
This review has informed The composition of our assets under management is set our thinking and is referred to in the relevant sections out on the following pages.
Further detail is also provided of this report.
on the composition of the investment portfolios within each of the business line reviews on pages 22 to 40.
Employee engagement is our key non-financial Information on our largest investments is provided on performance measure.
As an international investor pages 132 to 135. employing a relatively small number of people, in a highly competitive market, employee engagement A detailed review of our performance at a Group and is important to 3i and we undertake a detailed survey business line level for the year to 31 March 2011 is set of our staff each year.
out in this Business review.
In summary, the Groups total return is generated by the realised and unrealised returns Achieving the right balance between transparency we achieve from our direct portfolio and the fees that and accessibility of information was an important we receive from advising or managing external funds, factor in developing the online Reporting centre, less the operating expenses and funding costs of which was launched last year.
We have continued the business.
to provide further information online this year and enhanced the functionality of the site.
For more information on the following, please go to: Strategy and performance p12 and 13 k Key Group financial performance measures p13 k Business line reviews p22, 34 and 38 k Risk p50 k Corporate responsibility p56 k Ten largest investments p132 k Forty other large investments p134 k For more information on transparency, please go to transparency k
