60 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2011 Corporate responsibility As a responsible business, we have engaged our staff External benchmarking through a series of initiatives on a range of topics, 2010 2009 2008 including reducing our environmental footprint, through local initiatives to reduce waste.
Our investment staff Dow Jones Sustainability Score: Score: Score: are also being given responsible investment objectives Index DJSI 62% 61% 63% for the financial year to 31 March 2012.
Carbon Disclosure Disclosure Score: CDLI: CDLI: 2010 2009 2008 Project 43% 51% 61% Score: Score: Score: Business in the Score: Score: Score: Employee engagement 86% 83% 74% Community BitC 81% 80% 78% CR Index Silver 2011 Silver Bronze Employee engagement is a composite measure.
As a founder member of BitC over thirty years ago, The Board has recently formed a Brand and Values 3i is proud to have maintained its ranking in the 2011 Committee, which is chaired by the Companys Chairman.
We have also maintained our ranking It comprises non-executive Directors and senior in the DJSI.
However, our disclosure score from the management.
The Committee will provide guidance, Carbon Disclosure Project was lower this year, and counsel and oversight on a range of matters pertaining to we will be taking steps to understand where and the Groups reputation, brand and values, and its how we can improve.
approach as a responsible investor and a responsible business.
Key challenges Challenges There are two key challenges in this area.
The first is The challenges in this area are to ensure that sufficient to ensure that 3i continues to be well regarded as a emphasis, investment and time are spent on training and responsible business.
The second relates to the need development.
We also need to constantly strive for to respond to higher expectations and demands for consistency, given the diversity of 3is operations and information from a growing number of groups.
For more information, please go to Accountability For more information, please go to Adding value as and Transparency in the CR section of our IR website.
a company and Partnership as an investor in the CR section of our IR website.
To maintain a One 3i culture Ensuring that 3i is an attractive place to work Our priorities for the year ahead requires investment in staff, our internal communications We recognise that we have more to do in this area, and and our brand.
We believe that investing in these areas have identified the following priorities for the year ahead: will foster a strong and unified culture.
This is best illustrated by our best team for the job approach, training and awareness programmes for all staff on which aims to harness the skills and knowledge of our anti-bribery and 3i values: teams from around the world.
ensuring that our revised investment procedures are Key achievements finalised, communicated across 3i, and supported by We achieved high scores in our annual Employee appropriate training and resources: engagement survey, including on pride in working for enhancing our monitoring and reporting to include 3i and commitment to helping 3i achieve its objectives.
meaningful KPIs with respect to ESG matters in our We also received numerous constructive suggestions portfolio: for improvement from our staff.
using the results of our existing portfolio review on Our entire suite of training programmes has been bribery and wider environmental, social and governance refreshed and communicated to all staff.
matters to engage with portfolio management teams and assist them in achieving improvements: and to develop the remit of the Brand and Values Committee and use that Committee to good effect.
For more information on the following topics, please go to Adding value as a company in the CR section of our IR website.
People Direct environmental impact Community Report and accounts 2011 3i Group plc 61 Governance Information on how 3i is governed and run at a board and executive level, as well as our remuneration report and details on our Board and Leadership Team.
Board of Directors and Leadership Team 62 Statutory and corporate governance information 64 Corporate governance statement 71 Directors remuneration report 78
