14 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2011 Strategy and business model Business model Our approach to investing has evolved over many years.
Today, we have three focused businesses, each with its own distinctive characteristics.
They all share a common set of values and benefit from the strength of 3is reputation.
The fundamental elements of our business model are set The depth of involvement and use of Group resources out on the following page.
Our core values and our brand varies across our business lines and depends on the are at the heart of our business model and are consistent nature of our investment.
The intensive relationship we across all of our activities.
A strong track record as a have with the team of a mid-market buyout company, successful and responsible investor is critical to gaining where 3i and funds may together own the majority access to capital, as is our record of delivering value to of the equity of the business and hold a position on the those we work with, whether they are the investors in board, naturally differs from that with the finance director our funds or the management teams of the companies of a company in which one of our Debt Management that we invest in.
The diagram opposite captures the degree of importance each aspect of our business model has to our Private Equity, Infrastructure and Debt Management business lines.
Our business model and brand are underpinned by our core values Our core values are to: be commercial and fair respect the needs of shareholders, investors, our people and the companies in which we invest maintain our integrity and professionalism strive for continual improvement and innovation For more information on the following, please go to: Business lines p22-40 k Risk p50 k Corporate responsibility p56 k O verview S trategy and B usiness review R isk C orporate G overnance F inancial statements P ortfolio and b usiness model r esponsibility o ther information Report and accounts 2011 3i Group plc 15 Secure access to capital from Invest in our network, See the best investment multiple sources people and knowledge opportunities As a listed company with its own capital and Our strong culture of working across borders and Access to high-quality investment opportunities as a manager or adviser to external funds, 3i has harnessing the skills and knowledge from local, is critical to future value growth.
Investment over access to multiple sources of funds.
This provides sector and business line teams delivers what we many decades in our network, people, knowledge resilience and sustainability and depends upon call the best team for the job for each phase of and relationships provides 3i with the right performance, transparency and a long-term the investment lifecycle.
Sustaining this requires relationships and insights to deliver this.
constant investment in our people, systems and communications.
Business lines Business lines Business lines Level of importance Level of importance Level of importance Private Equity Private Equity Private Equity Infrastructure Infrastructure Infrastructure Debt Management Debt Management Debt Management Invest in our network, people and knowledge Secure access See the best to capital from investment multiple sources opportunities Core values Brand Build great Create innovative companies and financial solutions deliver outstanding and ensure excellent returns execution Achieve full potential through active partnership Build great companies and Achieve full potential through Create innovative financial solutions deliver outstanding returns active partnership and ensure excellent execution Two significant Private Equity investments, Effective portfolio management has underpinned 3i has a strong heritage of successfully aligning Norma and l, are examples of this.
Each of our performance and reputation for over 65 interests and delivering innovative financial these businesses delivered strong and sustained years.
Our rigorous methodology for effecting solutions.
Our scale, culture, experience growth in earnings in competitive markets.
business change is focused on operational and and training are central to sustaining this.
In Infrastructure, similar examples include functional expertise, sector and strategic insight The development of our infrastructure and Anglian Water and Adani Power.
and high standards of governance.
debt management capabilities are good examples of this.
Business lines Business lines Business lines Level of importance Level of importance Level of importance Private Equity Private Equity Private Equity Infrastructure Infrastructure Infrastructure Debt Management Debt Management Debt Management 16 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2011 Business review A review of our business at a Group and business line level.
Introduction 17 Assets under management 18 Market environment 20 Business lines 22 Financial review 41
