92 3iGroupplc Report and accounts 2011 Financial statements Significant accounting policies 3i Group plc the Company is a company incorporated in Great Britain and registered in England and Wales.
The consolidated financial statements for the year to 31 March 2011 comprise the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
Separate financial statements of the Company are also presented.
The accounting policies of the Company are the same as for the Group except where separately disclosed.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Directors on 11 May 2011.
A  These consolidated and separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, International Accounting Standards and their interpretations issued or adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board as adopted for use in the European Union IFRS.
These consolidated and separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance with and in compliance with the Companies Act 2006.
 The IASB has issued the following standards and interpretations to be applied to financial statements with periods commencing on or after the following dates: Effective for period beginning on or after IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments 1 July 2010 IAS 24 Revised definition of related parties 1 January 2011 IFRIC 14, IAS 19 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement Amendments to IFRIC 14 1 January 2011 IFRS 7 Amendments enhancing disclosures about transfers of financial assets 1 July 2011 IAS 12 Limited scope amendment recovery of underlying assets 1 January 2012 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Classification and Measurement 1 January 2013 The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the financial statements in the period of initial application and have decided not to adopt early.
B Basisofpreparation The financial statements are presented in sterling, the functional currency of the Company, rounded to the nearest million pounds m except where otherwise indicated.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The most significant estimates relate to the fair valuation of the investment portfolio, the basis of consolidation and the actuarial valuation of the defined benefit pension scheme.
These are further disclosed in accounting policies C, E and K and notes 9 and 13.
The actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
The statement of comprehensive income of the Company has been omitted from these financial statements in accordance with section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
The accounting policies have been consistently applied across all Group entities for the purposes of producing these consolidated financial statements.
C Basisofconsolidation i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefit from its activities.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
ii Associates Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
Investments that are held as part of the Groups investment portfolio are carried in the balance sheet at fair value even though the Group may have significant influence over those companies.
This treatment is permitted by IAS 28 Investment in Associates, which requires investments held by venture capital organisations to be excluded from its scope where those investments are designated, upon initial recognition, as at fair value through profit or loss and accounted for in accordance with IAS 39, with changes in fair value recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in the period of the change.
The Group has no interests in associates through which it carries on its business.
iii Jointventures Interests in joint ventures that are held as part of the Groups investment portfolio are carried in the balance sheet at fair value.
This treatment is permitted by IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures, which requires venturers interests held by venture capital organisations to be excluded from its scope where those investments are designated, upon initial recognition, as at fair value through profit or loss are accounted for in accordance with IAS 39, with changes in fair value recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in the period of the change.
O verview S trategy and B usiness review R isk C orporate G overnance F inancialstatements P ortfolio and b usiness model r esponsibility o ther information Report and accounts 2011 3iGroupplc 93 D Exchangedifferences i  Transactions in currencies different from the functional currency of the Group entity entering into the transaction are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated to sterling at the exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated to sterling using exchange rates ruling at the date the fair value was determined.
ii  The assets and liabilities of operations whose functional currency is not sterling, including fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated to sterling at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of these operations are translated to sterling at rates approximating to the exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated within a separate component of equity, the Translation reserve, and are released upon disposal of the non-sterling operation.
In respect of non-sterling operations, cumulative translation differences on the consolidation of non-sterling operations are being accumulated from the date of transition to IFRS, 1 April 2004, and not from the original acquisition date.
E Investmentportfolio i  Investments are recognised and fide-recognised on a date where the purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require the delivery or settlement of the investment.
The Group manages its investments with a view to profiting from the receipt of dividends and changes in fair value of equity investments.
Quoted investments are designated at fair value through profit and loss and subsequently carried in the balance sheet at fair value.
Fair value is measured using the closing bid price at the reporting date, where the investment is quoted on an active stock market.
Unquoted equity investments are designated at fair value through profit and loss and are subsequently carried in the balance sheet at fair value.
Fair value is measured using the International Private Equity and Venture Capital valuation guidelines, details of which are in the section called Portfolio valuation an explanation.
Other investments including loan investments, bonds, fixed income shares and variable funding notes are included as loans and receivables.
Loans, bonds and fixed income shares are carried in the balance sheet at amortised cost less impairment.
For more detail see the section called Portfolio valuation an explanation.
Variable funding notes are used to invest in debt instruments and are carried in the balance sheet at the value derived from the bid prices of the underlying debt instruments taking into account the Groups obligations under the funding contract.
The fair value of loans and receivables is not anticipated to be substantially different to the holding value.
All investments are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration given and held at this value until it is appropriate to measure fair value on a different basis, applying 3i Groups valuation policies.
ii Income Gross portfolio return is equivalent to revenue for the purposes of IAS 1.
It represents the overall increase in net assets from the investment portfolio net of deal-related costs but excluding exchange movements.
Investment income is analysed into the following components: a Realised profits over value on the disposal of investments are the difference between the fair value of the consideration received less any directly attributable costs, on the sale of equity and the repayment of loans and receivables, and its carrying value at the start of the accounting period, converted into sterling using the exchange rates in force at the date of disposal.
b Unrealised profits on the revaluation of investments are the movement in the carrying value of investments between the start and end of the accounting period converted into sterling using the exchange rates in force at the date of the movement.
c Portfolio income is that portion of income that is directly related to the return from individual investments.
It is recognised to the extent that it is probable that there will be economic benefit and the income can be reliably measured.
The following specific recognition criteria must be met before the income is recognised: Dividends from equity investments are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
Income from loans and receivables is recognised as it accrues by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash flows through the expected life of the financial asset to the assets carrying value.
Fee income is earned directly from investee companies when an investment is first made and through the life of the investment.
Fees that are earned on a financing arrangement are considered to relate to a financial asset measured at fair value through profit or loss and are recognised when that investment is made.
Fees that are earned on the basis of providing an ongoing service to the investee company are recognised as that service is provided.
94 3iGroupplc Report and accounts 2011 Financial statements Significant accounting policies F  i Fundmanagementfees The Group manages private equity, infrastructure and debt management funds.
Fees earned from the ongoing management of these funds are recognised to the extent that it is probable that there will be economic benefit and the income can be reliably measured.
ii Advisoryfees The Group acts as investment adviser to private equity funds.
Fees earned from the provision of investment advisory services are recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the substance of the relevant investment advisory agreement.
iii Performancefees The Group earns a performance fee from funds to which it provides investment advisory services where specified performance targets are achieved.
Performance fees are recognised to the extent that it is probable that there will be economic benefit and the income can be reliably measured.
iv Supportservicesfees The Group provides support services to external funds, including accounting, treasury management, corporate secretariat and investor relations.
Fees earned from the provision of these support services are recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the relevant support services agreement.
G Carriedinterest i  The Group earns a share of profits carried interest receivable from funds which it manages on behalf of third parties.
These profits are earned once the funds meet certain performance conditions.
Carried interest receivable is only accrued on those managed funds in which the funds performance conditions, measured at the balance sheet date, would be achieved if the remaining assets in the fund were realised at fair value.
Fair value is determined using the Groups valuation methodology and is measured at the balance sheet date.
An accrual is made equal to the Groups share of profits in excess of the performance conditions, taking into account the cash already returned to fund investors and the fair value of assets remaining in the fund.
ii  The Group offers investment executives the opportunity to participate in the returns from successful investments.
Carried interest payable is the term used for amounts payable to executives on investment-related transactions.
A variety of asset pooling arrangements are in place so that executives may have an interest in one or more carried interest scheme.
Carried interest payable is only accrued on those schemes in which the schemes performance conditions, measured at the balance sheet date, would be achieved if the remaining assets in the scheme were realised at fair value.
An accrual is made equal to the executives share of profits in excess of the performance conditions in place in the carried interest scheme.
H Intangibleassets Fund management contracts, acquired by the Group in connection with the acquisition of a subsidiary, are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged to the statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the fund management contract, typically five to ten years.
I Property, plantandequipment i Landandbuildings Land and buildings are carried in the balance sheet at fair value less depreciation and impairment.
Fair value is determined at each balance sheet date from valuations undertaken by professional valuers using market-based evidence.
Any revaluation surplus is recognised in other comprehensive income and credited to the Capital reserve except to the extent that it reverses a previous valuation deficit on the same asset recognised in profit or loss in which case the surplus is recognised in profit or loss to the extent of the previous deficit.
Any revaluation deficit that offsets a previously recognised surplus in the same asset is directly offset against the surplus in the Capital reserve.
Any excess valuation deficit over and above that previously recognised in surplus is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
Depreciation on revalued buildings is charged in the statement of comprehensive income over their estimated useful life, generally over 50 years.
ii  Vehicles and office equipment are depreciated by equal annual instalments over their estimated useful lives as follows: office equipment five years: computer equipment three years: computer software three years: motor vehicles four years.
iii  Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful life on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, the lease term.
Assets are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
The interest element of the rental obligations is charged in the statement of comprehensive income over the period of the agreement and represents a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
J  Short-term treasury assets and short and long-term treasury liabilities are used in order to manage cash flows and overall costs of borrowing.
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the balance sheet when the relevant Group entity becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
fide-recognition occurs when rights to cash flows from a financial asset expire, or when a liability is extinguished.
i  Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and short-term deposits as defined above and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into cash and are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value, net of bank overdrafts.
ii Deposits Deposits in the balance sheet comprise longer term deposits with an original maturity of greater than three months.
O verview S trategy and B usiness review R isk C orporate G overnance F inancialstatements P ortfolio and b usiness model r esponsibility o ther information Report and accounts 2011 3iGroupplc 95 iii Bankloans,  All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs associated with the borrowings.
After initial recognition, these are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, which is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash flows through the expected life of the liabilities.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs and any discount or premium on settlement.
iv Convertiblebonds The convertible bonds are cash settled and are regarded as compound instruments consisting of a liability and a derivative instrument see policy below for derivatives.
Subsequent to initial recognition the conversion option is measured as a derivative financial instrument with the market value of the instrument at period end used as its fair value.
The remainder of the proceeds are allocated to the liability component and this amount is carried as a liability on the amortised cost basis until extinguished on conversion, redemption or repurchase.
v  Derivative financial instruments are used to manage the risk associated with foreign currency fluctuations of the investment portfolio and changes in interest rates on its borrowings.
This is achieved by the use of foreign exchange contracts, currency swaps and interest rate swaps.
All derivative financial instruments are held at fair value.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value on the contract date and subsequently re-measured to the fair value at each reporting date.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange contracts for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
The fair value of currency swaps and interest rate swaps is determined with reference to future cash flows and current interest and exchange rates.
All changes in the fair value of financial instruments are taken to the statement of comprehensive income.
Derivatives over own shares are classified as equity when they will be settled by the exchange of a fixed amount of shares for a fixed amount of cash.
K Employeebenefits i  Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit plans are charged to the statement of comprehensive income as they fall due.
For defined benefit retirement plans, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit method with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Current service costs are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
Actuarial gains or losses are recognised in full as they arise in other comprehensive income.
A retirement benefit deficit is recognised in the balance sheet to the extent that the present value of the defined benefit obligations exceeds the fair value of plan assets.
A retirement benefit surplus is recognised in the balance sheet where the fair value of plan assets exceeds the present value of the defined benefit obligations limited to the extent that the Group can benefit from that surplus.
ii Share-basedpayments In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 1, the requirements of IFRS 2 have been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested at 1 January 2005.
The costs of share-based payments made by the Company in respect of subsidiaries employees are treated as additional investments in those subsidiaries.
The Group enters into arrangements that are equity-settled share-based payments with certain employees.
These are measured at fair value at the date of grant, which is then recognised in the statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of an appropriate model.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of 3i Group plc.
The charge is adjusted at each balance sheet date to reflect the actual number of forfeitures, cancellations and leavers during the period.
The movement in cumulative charges since the previous balance sheet is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income, with a corresponding entry in equity.
L Otherassets Assets, other than those specifically accounted for under a separate policy, are stated at their cost less impairment losses.
They are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated based on expected discounted future cash flows.
Any change in the level of impairment is recognised directly in the statement of comprehensive income.
An impairment loss is reversed at subsequent balance sheet dates to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed its carrying value had no impairment been recognised.
M Otherliabilities Liabilities, other than those specifically accounted for under a separate policy, are stated based on the amounts which are considered to be payable in respect of goods or services received up to the balance sheet date.
N Sharecapital Ordinary shares issued by the Group are recognised at the proceeds or fair value received with the excess of the amount received over nominal value being credited to the share premium account.
Direct issue costs net of tax are deducted from equity.
O Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation of uncertain timing or amount as a result of past events, and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate of that obligation can be made.
The provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the amount to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value if the effect is material.
Changes in provisions are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income for the period.
96 3iGroupplc Report and accounts 2011 Financial statements Significant accounting policies PIncometaxes Income taxes represent the sum of the tax currently payable, withholding taxes suffered and deferred tax.
Tax is charged or credited in the statement of comprehensive income, except where it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the tax is also dealt with in equity.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the year.
This may differ from the profit included in the statement of comprehensive income because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit temporary differences, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences.
Where there are taxable differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, deferred tax liabilities are recognised except where the Group is able to control reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are generally recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
However, where there are deductible temporary differences arising from investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates, and interests in joint ventures, deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that both the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of goodwill and other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
