Significant accounting policies 3i Infrastructure plc the Company is a company incorporated in The adoption of certain accounting policies by the Group also Jersey, Channel Islands.
The consolidated financial statements for requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates in the year to 31 March 2011 comprise the financial statements of determining the information to be disclosed in the financial the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the statements.
Areas where assumptions are significant to the Group.
Separate financial statements of the Company are also consolidated and individual financial statements include: presented, with the exception of a Company level statement of i Valuation of the investment portfolio Certain assets in the comprehensive income, as this is not required under Jersey investment portfolio are valued on a discounted cash flow basis Company Law where consolidated information is presented.
which requires assumptions to be made regarding the growth in The accounting policies of the Company are the same as for the future cash flows and the discount rate to be applied to these cash Group, except where separately disclosed.
Refer to Note 8 and Note 11 for further details of the The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Directors sensitivity of the carrying value of these investments to the on 4 May 2011. assumptions that have been made.
ii Assessment for impairment The Group must make certain Statement of compliance estimates regarding the recoverability of loans and receivables balances when assessing whether these financial assets meet the These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with criteria for impairment against the current carrying value.
Refer to International Financial Reporting Standards, International Accounting Note 2 and Note 8 for further details of assessments made during Standards and their interpretations as issued by the International the year.
These financial statements have also been prepared in accordance Standards issued but not yet effective with and in compliance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
The following new or amended standards have been issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Basis of preparation In 2009, the IASB issued IFRS 9, Financial Instruments The financial statements of the Group and the Company are Classification and Measurement, the first part of a replacement presented in sterling, the functional currency of the Company standard for IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and and the Group, rounded to the nearest hundred thousand pounds Measurement.
An update to this standard was issued in October 0.1 million except where otherwise indicated.
2010 and provided greater clarity on the application of certain The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS provisions in the standard.
This is applicable for accounting periods requires the Board to make judgments, estimates and assumptions commencing 1 January 2013 or later, and is therefore not applicable that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of for the current accounting period.
On adoption, will require the assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and Group to review the classification of certain investments while associated assumptions are based on experience and other factors allowing the Group to retain the fair value measurement option as that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the necessary.
This standard is expected to have a significant impact results of which form the basis to determine carrying values of on the Company and the Group once it becomes effective.
assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The following amendments to the standards below are not expected Actual results may differ from these estimates.
to have a significant impact on the Company and the Group once they become effective: Key estimates and judgments IFRS 1, First Time Adoption of IFRS Severe Hyperinflation and The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS Removal of Fixed Dates for First Time Adopters effective for requires the Directors to exercise judgment in the process of periods commencing on or after 1 July 2011 : applying the accounting policies defined below.
The following policies are areas where a higher degree of judgment has been IFRS 7, Disclosures Transfers of Financial Assets effective for applied in the preparation of the financial statements.
periods commencing on or after 1 July 2011, Improvements to IFRSs 2010 effective for periods commencing on or after i Basis of consolidation The Group holds significant stakes in 1 January 2011 : the majority of its investee companies.
The Group must exercise judgment in the level of control of the underlying investee company IAS 12, Deferred Tax Recovery of Underlying Assets effective that is obtained and consider the need to classify certain investee for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012 : and companies as associates, joint ventures or subsidiary undertakings.
IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures effective for periods commencing ii Functional currency The Group has certain subsidiaries that on or after 1 January 2011. conduct the majority of their business operations in currencies other than sterling.
Judgment has been exercised in determining the appropriate functional currency of these subsidiary undertakings.
Financials and other information 3i Infrastructure plc 55 Annual report and accounts 2011 Significant accounting policies continued net assets attributable to minority interests during the year arising Interpretations issued but not yet effective from distributions payable to minority interests or movements in The following new and amended interpretations have been issued the proportion of capital held by minorities are shown directly in by International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee.
equity through the statement of changes in equity.
The following interpretations are not expected to have a significant impact on the Company or the Group.
B Exchange differences IFRIC 1, Amendment Limited Exemption from Comparative IFRS7, i Foreign currency transactions Transactions in currencies Disclosures for First Time Adopters effective for periods different from the functional currency of the Group entity entering commencing on or after 1 July 2010. into the transaction are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the IFRIC 19, Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments, date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in was issued in November 2009 and is applicable for accounting currencies different to the functional currency of each Group entity periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010. at the financial reporting date are translated to functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation to the functional currency A Basis of consolidation are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms Group.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directly of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an exchange rate at the date of the transactions.
Non-monetary assets entity so as to obtain benefit from its activities.
The financial and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at results of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial fair value are translated to sterling using exchange rates ruling at the statements from the date that control commences until the date date the fair value was determined.
ii Financial statements of non-sterling operations The assets ii Associates Associates are those entities in which the Group and liabilities of operations whose functional currency is not sterling, has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and including fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are operating policies.
Investments that are held as part of the Groups translated to sterling at exchange rates ruling at the financial investment portfolio are carried in the balance sheet at fair value reporting date.
The revenues and expenses of these operations are even though the Group may have significant influence over those translated to sterling at rates approximating to the exchange rates companies.
This treatment is permitted by IAS 28, Investment in ruling at the date of the transactions.
Exchange differences arising Associates, which allows investments held by venture capital on retranslation are recognised directly in a separate component of organisations to be excluded from its scope where those equity, the translation reserve, and are released upon disposal of the investments are designated, upon initial recognition, as at fair value non-sterling operation.
through profit or loss and accounted for in accordance with IAS 39, with changes in fair value recognised in the statement of C Investment portfolio comprehensive income in the period.
The Group has no interests in associates through which it carries out its business.
i Recognition and measurement Investments are recognised iii Joint ventures Interests in joint ventures that are held as and derecognised on a date where the purchase or sale of an part of the Groups investment portfolio are carried in the balance investment is under a contract whose terms require the delivery or sheet at fair value.
This treatment is permitted by IAS 31 Interests settlement of the investments.
The Group manages its investments in Joint Ventures, which allows interests held by venture capital with a view to profiting from the receipt of interest and dividends organisations to be excluded from its scope where those and changes in fair value of equity investments.
Therefore, all investments are designated, upon initial recognition, as at fair quoted investments and unquoted equity investments are value through profit or loss and accounted for in accordance with designated as at fair value through profit or loss upon initial IAS 39, with changes in fair value recognised in the statement recognition and subsequently carried in the balance sheet at fair of comprehensive income in the period of the charge.
Loan investments are classified as loans and receivables and has no interests in joint ventures through which it carries out subsequently carried in the balance sheet at amortised cost less its business.
All investments are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration given and held at this value until it is iv Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intragroup appropriate to measure fair value on a different basis, applying balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income and the Groups valuation policy.
Acquisition costs are attributed to expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated equity investments and recognised in the statement of in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
v Minority interests Minority interests reflect the proportion Investments held in subsidiaries in the separate financial of the capital of subsidiary undertakings of the Group that is not statements of the Company are accounted for at cost less held by entities within the Group.
The proportion of the net assets provision for impairment.
and profit of the Group that is attributable to minority interests is shown as a separate component within the statement of comprehensive income and the balance sheet.
Movements in the Financials and other information 3i Infrastructure plc 56 Annual report and accounts 2011 C Investment portfolio continued D Fees i Fees Fees payable represent fees incurred in the process of ii Income acquiring an investment and are measured on the accruals basis.
a Realised profits over value on the disposal of investments is the ii Advisory fee An annual advisory fee is payable to 3i plc based difference between the fair value of the consideration receivable less on the Gross Investment Value of the Company.
The fee is payable any directly attributable costs, on the sale of equity and the quarterly in advance and is accrued in the period it is incurred.
repayment of loans and receivables, and its fair value at the start of Further explanations are provided in Note 20. the accounting period, converted into sterling using the exchange iii Performance fee 3i plc is entitled to a performance fee rates in force at the date of disposal: and are recognised in the based on the Adjusted Total Return per ordinary share generated in Statement of comprehensive income.
the period in excess of a performance hurdle.
The fee is payable b Unrealised profits on the revaluation of investments is the annually in arrears and is accrued in the period it is incurred.
Further movement in the fair value of investments between the start and explanations are provided in Note 20. end of the accounting period, or the investment acquisition and the iv Finance costs Finance costs associated with loans and end of the accounting period, converted into sterling using the borrowings are recognised on an accruals basis using the effective exchange rates in force at the end of the period: and are recognised interest method.
in the statement of comprehensive income.
c Portfolio income is that portion of income that is directly related E Treasury assets and liabilities to the return from individual investments.
It is recognised to the extent that it is probable that there will be an economic benefit and Short-term treasury assets and shortand long-term treasury the income can be reliably measured.
The following specific liabilities are used to manage cash flows and the overall costs of recognition criteria must be met before the income is recognised: borrowing.
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the balance sheet when the relevant Group entity becomes a party to Dividends from equity investments are recognised in the the contractual provisions of the instrument.
statement of comprehensive income when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established to the extent i Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the that dividends paid out of pre-acquisition reserves adjust the fair balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term value of the equity investment: deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
For the purposes of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents Income from loans and receivables and debt held at fair value comprise cash and short-term deposits as defined above.
Interest through profit or loss is recognised as it accrues by reference to receivable on cash and cash equivalents is recognised on an the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable, accruals basis.
which is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash flows through the expected life of the financial asset to the assets ii Bank loans, loan notes and borrowings Loans and carrying value or principal amount: borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received, net of issue costs associated with the Fees receivable represent amounts earned on completion borrowings.
After initial recognition, these are subsequently of underlying investment transactions and are recognised on measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, an accruals basis once entitlement to the revenue has which is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash been established.
flows through the expected life of the liabilities.
Amortised cost is iii Impairment of assets held as loans and receivables All calculated by taking into account any issue costs and any discount or financial assets held as loans and receivables are assessed for premium on settlement.
impairment on both an individual and a collective basis.
The amount iii Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial of the impairment is measured as the difference between the instruments are used to manage the risk associated with foreign carrying value of the asset and the net present value of the currency fluctuations of portfolio income, the valuation of the expected future cash flows expected to arise from each asset, investment portfolio and changes in interest rates on its borrowings.
based on the effective interest rate of each asset.
The amount of This is achieved by the use of forward foreign currency contracts the resultant loss is recognised in the statement of comprehensive and interest rate swaps.
Such instruments are used for the sole income.
If the impairment analysis demonstrates that the conditions purpose of efficient portfolio management.
All derivative financial giving rise to a previously recognised impairment are no longer instruments are held at fair value through profit or loss.
prevalent, a reversal of the impairment loss is recognised in the Statement of comprehensive income.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value on the contract date and subsequently remeasured to the fair value at each reporting date.
All changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments are taken to the statement of comprehensive income.
The maturity profile of derivative contracts is measured relative to the financial contract settlement date of each contract and the fair value of the derivative contracts is disclosed accordingly.
Financials and other information 3i Infrastructure plc 57 Annual report and accounts 2011 Significant accounting policies continued F Other assets I Income taxes Assets, other than those specifically accounted for under a separate Income taxes represent the sum of the tax currently payable, policy, are stated at their cost less impairment losses.
The cost of withholding taxes suffered and deferred tax.
Tax is charged or such assets or liabilities is considered approximate to their fair value.
credited in the statement of comprehensive income except to the They are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether extent that it relates to an amount recognised in the statement of there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, changes in equity when it is recognised directly in this statement.
the assets recoverable amount is estimated based on expected The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the discounted future cash flows.
Any change in levels of impairment period.
This may differ from the profit included in the Consolidated is recognised directly in the statement of comprehensive income.
statement of comprehensive income because it excludes items of An impairment loss is reversed at subsequent financial reporting income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and dates to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The exceed its carrying value, had no impairment been recognised.
Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the financial G Other liabilities reporting date.
Liabilities, other than those specifically accounted for under Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on a separate policy, are stated based on the amounts which are differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities considered to be payable in respect of goods or services received in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used up to the financial reporting date.
The cost of other liabilities is in the computation of taxable profit temporary differences, considered to be approximate to their fair value.
and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
H Equity and reserves i Share Capital Share capital issued by the Company including the conversion of warrants is recognised at the fair value of proceeds received and is credited to the stated capital account.
Direct issue costs net of tax are deducted from the fair value of proceeds received.
ii Equity and reserves The stated capital account of the Company represents the cumulative proceeds recognised from share issues or warrant conversions made by the Company reduced by any amount that has been transferred to distributable reserves in previous years.
Share capital is treated as an equity instrument, on the basis that no contractual obligation exists for the Company to deliver cash or other financial assets to the holder of the instrument.
The retained reserve represents the distributable reserves of the Company.
The retained reserve incorporates the cumulative retained profits of the Company after the payment of dividends plus any amount that has been transferred from the stated capital account of the Company.
iii Dividends payable Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised as a deduction from retained reserves in the period in which the Companys obligation to make the dividend payment arises.
Financials and other information 3i Infrastructure plc 58 Annual report and accounts 2011
