Investment policy The Company aims to build a diversified portfolio of equity No investment made by the Company will represent more than 20% investments in entities owning infrastructure businesses and assets.
of the Companys gross assets, including cash holdings, at the time The Company seeks investment opportunities globally, but with a of the making of the investment.
It is expected that most individual focus on Europe, North America and Asia.
In some cases, the total amount required for an individual transaction may exceed the The Companys equity investments will often comprise share capital maximum amount that the Company is permitted to commit to and related shareholder loans or other financial instruments that a single investment.
In such circumstances, the Company may are not shares but that, in combination with shares, are similar in consider entering into co-investment arrangements with 3i Group substance.
The Company may also invest in junior or mezzanine or other investors who may also be significant shareholders, debt in infrastructure businesses or assets.
pursuant to which 3i Group and its subsidiaries or such other Most of the Companys investments are in unquoted companies.
investors may co-invest on the same financial and economic However, the Company may also invest in entities owning terms as the Company.
The suitability of any such co-investment infrastructure businesses and assets whose shares or other arrangements will be assessed on a  instruments are listed on any stock exchange, irrespective of basis and would be subject to both Board and, where applicable, whether they cease to be listed after completion of the investment, 3i Group and its subsidiaries approval.
Depending on the size of the if the Directors judge that such an investment is consistent with the relevant investment and the identity of the relevant co-investor, Companys investment objectives.
The Company will, in any such a co-investment arrangement may be subject to the related case, invest no more than 15% of its total gross assets in other party transaction provisions contained in the Listing Rules and may investment companies or investment trusts which are listed on therefore require shareholder consent.
The Companys Articles require its outstanding borrowings, including The Company may also consider investing in other fund structures any financial guarantees to support subsequent obligations, to be in the event that it considers, on receipt of advice from the limited to 50% of the gross assets of the Group valuing Investment Adviser, that that is the most appropriate and effective investments on the basis included in the Groups accounts.
means of investing, which may be advised or managed either by In accordance with Listing Rules requirements, the Company will the Investment Adviser or a third party.
If the Company invests in only make a material change to its investment policy with the another fund advised or managed by 3i Group, the relevant approval of shareholders.
proportion of any advisory or management fees payable by the investee fund to 3i plc will be deducted from the annual advisory fee payable under the Investment Advisory Agreement and the relevant proportion of any performance fee will be deducted from the annual performance fee, if payable, under the Investment Advisory Agreement.
For the avoidance of doubt, there will be no similar set-off arrangement where any such fund is advised or managed by a third party.
For most investments, the Company seeks to obtain representation on the board of directors of the investee company or equivalent governing body and in cases where it acquires a majority equity interest in a business, that interest may also be a controlling interest.
Financials and other information 3i Infrastructure plc 75 Annual report and accounts 2011
