Portfolio valuation methodology A description of the methodology used to value the investment DCF portfolio of 3i Infrastructure and its subsidiaries the Group is set DCF is the primary basis for valuation.
In using the DCF basis, fair out below in order to provide more detailed information than is value is estimated by deriving the present value of the investment included within the accounting policies and the Investment Advisers using reasonable assumptions and estimation of expected future review for the valuation of the portfolio.
The methodology complies cash flows and the terminal value and date, and the appropriate in all material aspects with the International Private Equity and risk-adjusted discount rate that quantifies the risk inherent to the Venture Capital valuation guidelines which are endorsed by the investment.
The discount rate will be estimated for each investment British Private Equity and Venture Capital Association and the derived from the market risk-free rate, a risk-adjusted premium and European Private Equity and Venture Capital Association.
information specific to the investment or market sector.
Basis of valuation LP share of fund net assets Investments are reported at the Directors estimate of fair value at Where the Group has made investments into other infrastructure the reporting date.
Fair value represents the amount for which an funds, the value of the investment will be derived from the Groups asset could be exchanged between knowledgeable, willing parties in share of net assets of the fund based on the most recent reliable an arms length transaction.
financial information available from the fund.
Where the underlying investments within a fund are valued on a DCF basis, the discount General rate applied may be adjusted by the Company to reflect its In estimating fair value, the Directors seek to use a methodology assessment of the most appropriate discount rate for the nature that is appropriate in light of the nature, facts and circumstances of assets held in the fund.
of the investment and its materiality in the context of the overall portfolio.
The methodology that is the most appropriate may Sales basis consequently include adjustments based on informed and The expected sale proceeds methodology will be used in cases experience-based judgments, and will also consider the nature where offers have been received as part of an investment sales process.
of the industry and market practice.
Methodologies are applied consistently from period to period except where a change would This may either support the value derived from another result in a better estimation of fair value.
Given the uncertainties methodology or may be used as the valuation.
A marketability inherent in estimating fair value, a degree of caution is applied in discount is applied to the expected sale proceeds to derive the exercising judgments and making necessary estimates.
Quoted investments Cost less fair value adjustment Quoted equity investments are valued at closing bid price at the Any investment in a company that has failed or, in the view of reporting date.
In accordance with International Financial Reporting the Board, is expected to fail within the next 12 months, has the Standards, no discount is applied for liquidity of the stock or any equity shares valued at nil and the fixed income shares and loan dealing restrictions.
instruments valued at the lower of cost and net recoverable amount.
Quoted debt investments will be valued using quoted prices provided by third-party broker information where reliable or will be held at cost less fair value adjustments.
Unquoted investments Unquoted investments are valued using one of the following methodologies: Discounted Cash Flow DCF Limited Partnership share of fund net assets Sales basis: expected sales proceeds Cost less any fair value adjustments required Financials and other information 3i Infrastructure plc 76 Annual report and accounts 2011 Performance highlights Information for shareholders Financial calendar Warning to shareholders boiler room scams Our performance for the year to 31 March 2011 Ex-dividend date for final dividend 15 June 2011 Over the last few years, many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or Record date 17 June 2011 Steady NAV progression correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders, offering Annual General Meeting 5 July 2011 9.2% Total return of 85.5 million, or 9.2% on shareholders equity to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares Final dividend expected to be paid 8 July 2011 in US or UK investments.
These operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
These brokers can be very persistent and Half-yearly results November 2011 Strong portfolio income generation extremely persuasive and a 2006 survey by the Financial Services Authority FSA has reported that the average amount lost by 69.3m More than double the portfolio income generated last year, covering investors is around 20,000.
Registrars the dividend objective for the year It is not just the novice investor that has been duped in this way: For shareholder services, including notifying changes of address, many of the victims had been successfully investing for several years.
the registrar details are as follows: Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, Capita Registrars Jersey Limited Renewed momentum in investment activity offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
12 Castle Street 187.5m If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: St. Helier Four new assets added to the portfolio Jersey JE2 3RT make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation: Channel Islands check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting e-mail: registrars@capita.
je Stable underlying asset performance involved by visiting www.
uk pages register Telephone: 44 0 1534 632310 or the 1.4% Shareholder helpline: 44 0 871 664 0300 report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0845 606 1234 Growth in EBITDA of underlying equity investments over the or visiting www.
uk: and prior year Website if the calls persist, hang up.
For full up-to-date investor relations information including the latest If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible share price, recent reports, results presentations and financial news, Solid investment track record to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation please visit our investor relations website www.
The FSA can be contacted by completing an online form 19.0% Annualised asset IRR since inception at www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts form.
shtml If you would prefer to receive shareholder communications electronically in future, including your annual and half-yearly reports Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses The numbers above are presented according to the investment basis of preparation and are not presented in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards.
and notices of meetings, please go to will be included in the Companys mailings.
com e-comms More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found for details of how to register.
uk Frequently used registrars forms may be found on our website at www.
com e-comms 3i Infrastructure plc Registered office: Overview Review of investments Governance 22 Grenville Street IFC Performance highlights 20 AWG 36 Corporate responsibility report St. Helier 01 Our business 21 Eversholt 39 Board of Directors Jersey JE4 8PX 02 A closer look at our business 22 Oystercatcher 40 Directors report Channel Islands 03 Our portfolio 23 Junior debt portfolio 43 Corporate governance statement Tel: 44 0 1534 711 444 Fax: 44 0 1534 609 333 04 Chairmans statement 24 Elgin, Octagon, Alpha Schools 2 25 I loan notes, T2C Financials and other information Registered in Jersey No.
95682 26 3i India Infrastructure Fund Investment Advisers review 50 Independent auditors report 06 About the Investment Adviser 51 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.
com 06 The Infrastructure asset class Returns and Risk 52 Consolidated and Company statement of Printed by Pureprint Group who are a CarbonNeutral 06 Investment strategy 28 Key performance indicators changes in equity printer certified to ISO 14001 environmental 11 Market and opportunities 29 Returns management system and registered to EMAS the Eco 53 Consolidated and Company balance sheet Management Audit Scheme.
Printed using vegetable 13 Portfolio 30 Balance sheet 54 Consolidated and Company statement of cash oil based inks and 100% renewable energy.
14 Movements in portfolio value 32 Risk flows The report is printed on Amadeus 50% Silk which is 16 Summary of valuation methodology 34 Basis of preparation 55 Significant accounting policies FSC-certified and contains 50% recycled waste and 50% virgin fibre.
17 Underlying asset performance 34 Review report 59 Notes to the accounts 17 Activity since the year end 75 Investment policy FSC Forest Stewardship Council This ensures that there is an audited chain of custody 18 Profile of senior members of the 76 Portfolio valuation methodology from the tree in the well-managed forest through to investment advisory team IBC Information for shareholders the finished document in the printing factory.
ISO 14001 A pattern of control for an environmental management system against which an organisation can be The Directors report for 3i Infrastructure plc for the year to 31 March 2011 has been drawn up in reliance upon applicable English and Jersey law and the liabilities of the accredited by a third party.
Company in connection with that report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
This report may contain certain statements about the future outlook for 3i Infrastructure plc.
Although the Directors believe their expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, any statements about the future outlook may be influenced by factors that could cause actual outcomes and results to be materially different.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2011 3i Infrastructure plc 3i Infrastructure plc 22 Grenville Street, St. Helier, Jersey, Channel Islands JE4 8PX Telephone 44 0 1534 711 444 Fax 0 1534 609 333 www.
com M70111 Annual report and accounts 2011 Annual report online To receive shareholder communications electronically in future, including your annual and half-yearly reports and notices of meetings, please go to: www.
com e-comms for details of how to register
