Accounting policies Basis of preparation Accounting estimates and judgements The financial statements have been prepared in accordance Preparation of the financial statements necessitates the use with International Financial Reporting Standards endorsed by of estimates, assumptions and judgements, which affect the reported values of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the balance sheet date as well as affecting the reported income The financial statements have been prepared on the historical and expenses for the year.
Although the estimates are based cost basis, except that certain of the Groups financial instruments are stated at their fair values and the measurement and financial data, the actual outcome may differ from these obligation less fair value of any assets held to settle the obligation.
The principal accounting policies, which have been identied, where appropriate, in the following notes to the consistently applied, unless otherwise stated, are set out below.
Group financial statements: Statement of compliance note 13 financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with adopted IFRS.
In publishing these note 13 exemption provided by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form part of the approved financial statements.
Going concern The directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the forseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Further detail is contained in the directors' report on page 31.
Standards not affecting the reported results nor the financial position The following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted in the current year.
Their adoption has not had any significant impact on amounts reported in these financial statements.
Effective date 1 July 2010 New standards and interpretations not applied which have not yet been applied and have an effective date after the date of these financial statements: Effective date IAS 24 'Related Party Disclosures' 1 January 2011 Amendment to IFRIC 14 'Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement' 1 January 2011 IFRS 10 'Consolidated financial statements' 1 January 2013 Standards and interpretations not endorsed: 'Financial Instruments: Classication and Measurement' 1 January 2013 Improvements to IFRS 'Improvements to IFRS 2010' 1 July 2010 1 January 2011 Amendments to 'Transfers of financial assets' 1 July 2011 Amendments to 'Deferred Tax: recovery of underlying assets' 1 January 2012 IFRS 11 'Joint arrangements' 1 January 2013 IFRS 12 1 January 2013 IFRS 13 'Fair Value Measurement' 1 January 2013 Amendments to 'Financial statement presentation' 1 July 2012 The directors are still assessing the impact of these standards on the Group's financial results in the period of initial application.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 If the initial accounting for a business combination is Basis of consolidation incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the The consolidated financial information contained within these combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts financial statements incorporates the results, cash ows and for the items for which the accounting is incomplete.
Those financial position of the Company and its subsidiaries for provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement the period to 30 September 2011.
Subsidiaries are entities period, or additional assets or liabilities are recognised, to controlled by the Company and are included from the date that reect new information obtained about facts and circumstances control commences until the date that control ceases.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to affected the amounts recognised at that date.
govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benets from its activities.
The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition to the date the Group obtains complete information All intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition between Group entities are eliminated on consolidation.
date, and is subject to a maximum of one year.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of Revenue impairment.
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benets will ow to the Group and such revenue Business combinations can be reliably measured.
Revenue, net of commissions, is Purchases of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using recognised as services are provided and includes management the acquisition method.
The consideration for each acquisition fees, transaction fees and performance fees.
is measured at the aggregate of the fair values at the acquisition date of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity Initial income from the sale of shares in open end investment instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the period of the asset management service, which is estimated statement as incurred.
based on the Groups experience of the average holding periods by investors.
Where applicable, consideration for an acquisition includes any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration The Group is entitled to earn performance fees from a number arrangement, measured at its fair value at acquisition date.
of clients where the actual performance of the clients Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against the cost of acquisition where they qualify as measurement period outperformance over a set time period.
Performance fees are recognised when the quantum of the fee can be reliably fair value of contingent consideration classied as an asset or estimated and it is probable that the fee will be received.
liability are accounted for in accordance with relevant IFRS.
Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classied Finance revenue as equity are not recognised.
Finance revenue comprises interest and dividends.
Interest The acquirees identiable assets, liabilities and contingent income is recognised using the effective interest rate method liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS as it accrues.
Dividend income is recognised when the Groups right to receive payment is established which, in the case of acquisition date, except that: Finance costs related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and Finance costs comprise interest payable on borrowings recognised using the effective interest rate method.
They also the revolving credit facility.
Interest costs on the liability, expected return on plan assets Exceptional income and costs and the costs of curtailments and settlements are recognised in the income statement.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised directly in other that arise outwith the Groups normal business activities and comprehensive income in the period in which they occur.
which are sufciently material to warrant separate disclosure When the calculation results in a benefit to the Group or then the expenditure incurred is separately recognised on the Company, the recognised asset is limited to the present value face of the income statement as exceptional in order to provide of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future more helpful information to investors.
Leases Other employee benets All Group leases are operating leases, being leases where Bonus payments These are recognised when there is a present legal or ownership of the leased asset.
Rental payments made under operating leases are charged to of past events and a reliable estimate of the obligation can the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of be made.
Lease incentives received by the Group are recognised as a reduction in the rental expense, recognised on a straight Share based payments line basis over the term of the lease.
measured at the fair value of the equity instruments at the grant date.
Pension costs basis over the service period to vesting, based on the Group's The principal pension scheme operated by the Group is estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest.
At a group personal pension scheme.
In addition, overseas each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of dened contribution schemes.
Contributions to these dened contribution pension schemes are recognised as an expense in of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in the income statement as they become payable under the rules of the schemes.
profit or loss such that the cumulative expense reects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to The Group also operates a number of legacy dened benefit equity reserves.
pension schemes which arose on acquisitions, one of which is operated by the Company.
All schemes are closed to new membership and to future service accruals.
The Groups net for the goods or services acquired, measured initially at the obligation in respect of these schemes is calculated separately fair value of the liability.
At each balance sheet date until the for each scheme by estimating the amount of future benefit liability is settled, and at the date of settlement, the fair value that members have earned in return for their service in prior of the liability is remeasured, with any changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss for the year.
value, and the fair value of any scheme assets is deducted.
Employee Benets Trust The benets are discounted at a rate equal to the yield on high credit rated corporate bonds that have maturity dates shares in the Company for the purposes of administering approximating to the terms of the Groups obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualied actuary using the projected unit credit method.
is consolidated into the Group and Company's financial The surplus or deficit in respect of dened benefit schemes is equity.
Any consideration received for such shares is recognised expressed as the excess or shortfall of the fair value of the assets within retained earnings.
No gain or loss is recognised in the of the scheme compared to the present value of the scheme income statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of liabilities and is recognised as an asset or liability of the Group equity shares.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Taxation of the lease Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement Computers, xtures and ttings: three to ten years except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income.
Depreciation is recognised as an expense in the income Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable profit statement.
for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in The carrying value of these assets is reviewed at each reporting respect of previous years.
date to consider whether there is any indication that the value Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on where the carrying value exceeds the estimated recoverable differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities amount, the asset is written down to its recoverable amount, in the financial statements and the corresponding basis used for tax purposes.
being the greater of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Any impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method and is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to An item of property, plant & equipment is derecognised upon apply when the asset is realised or the liability settled.
disposal or when no further economic benets are expected from its use.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be income statement in the year the asset is derecognised.
available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised, except: Intangible assets Goodwill associated with investments in subsidiaries, where the Goodwill, representing the excess of the cost of acquisition over timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be the fair value of the Groups share of the identiable assets, controlled and it is probable that they will not reverse in liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, is capitalised in the foreseeable future.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less initial recognition of goodwill.
An impairment review is carried out at least annually and any impairment is recognised the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a immediately in the income statement and not subsequently transaction that: generating unit for the purpose of impairment testing.
Management contracts and distribution agreements at the time of the transaction, affects neither Intangible assets, such as management contracts and accounting profit nor loss.
distribution agreements acquired as part of a business combination, are capitalised where it is probable that future Property, plant & equipment economic benets attributable to the assets will ow to the Property, plant & equipment is stated at cost less accumulated Group and the fair value of the assets can be measured reliably.
depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Management contracts and distribution agreements are recorded initially at fair value and then amortised, if initial recognition.
Subsequent expenditure is only capitalised appropriate, over their useful lives.
The fair value at the when it is probable that there will be future economic benets date of acquisition is calculated using discounted cash ow attributable to the item and the cost of the item can be methodology and represents the valuation of the net residual measured reliably.
All other expenditure is recognised as an income stream arising from the management contracts or expense in the income statement as incurred.
distribution agreements in place at the date of acquisition.
Property, plant & equipment is depreciated so as to write off The contracts are included in the balance sheet as an the cost of assets, on a straight line basis, over their estimated intangible asset.
useful lives as follows: The useful lives of management contracts in respect of certain recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the open end funds are considered to be indefinite and are therefore extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the not subject to amortisation.
The indefinite nature of these carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had policy remains appropriate.
The Group tests for impairment been recognised.
of these assets annually, or more frequently if there is an indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Financial instruments The recoverable amount is the greater of fair value less costs Financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value plus, to sell and value in use.
Management contracts in respect in the case of investments not at fair value through profit or of segregated mandates and certain open end funds are loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
They are categorised considered to have a nite life and are therefore amortised on as described below.
a straight line basis over their estimated average contract term The fair value of financial instruments that are actively traded of between five and ten years, with amortisation charged to the income statement.
The useful lives of distribution agreements are determined by the expiry date of the agreement.
Software the fair value is determined using valuation techniques.
These Purchased intangible assets have a nite life and are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a instrument which is substantially the same, discounted cash straight line basis according to the useful economic life of the ow analysis and option pricing models.
intangible asset which, for software, is estimated at three years.
Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is Financial investments at fair value through profit or loss include capitalised only when it increases the future economic benets investments acquired principally for the purpose of selling in embodied in the specic asset to which it relates.
the short term or if so designated by management.
They are carried at fair value in the balance sheet and gains or losses are All other expenditure is expensed as incurred.
At each reporting date, an assessment is made as to whether there is any The following assets and liabilities are classied as financial indication that an asset in use may be impaired.
If any such instruments at fair value through profit or loss: indication exists and the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the asset is written down to its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the greater of the fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Seed capital Impairment The Group performs annual impairment reviews in respect of goodwill and intangible xed assets with indefinite lives.
The Group carries out impairment reviews in respect of intangible Investment contract liabilities xed assets with definite lives, property, plant & equipment and Available for sale financial assets are also carried at fair value in other assets, including xed asset investments, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount value reserve until derecognition of the asset, at which time the may not be recoverable.
cumulative amount dealt with through this reserve is recognised An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement in the income statement.
Where there is objective evidence that an available for sale generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable financial asset is impaired, the cumulative impairment loss is reclassied from equity to profit and loss with subsequent value in use and its fair value less costs to sell.
movements recognised in profit and loss.
The following assets are designated as available for sale: units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit on a pro rata basis.
Loans and receivables and other financial liabilities are Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are not reversed.
In recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if there rate method.
has been a change in the estimates used to determine the Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Convertible bonds that can be converted to share capital at Equity instruments the option of the holder, where the number of shares issued Preference share capital does not vary with changes in their fair value, are accounted for The issued preference capital is classied as an element of as compound financial instruments with a liability and equity equity as it is irredeemable, except at the Companys option, component.
Transaction costs that relate to the issue of a and dividend payments are discretionary.
Dividends on compound financial instrument are allocated to the liability and preference shares are recognised as distributions within equity.
equity components in proportion to the allocation of proceeds.
Perpetual subordinated capital securities The equity component of the convertible bonds is calculated as the excess of the issue proceeds over the present value of as an element of equity as the securities are irredeemable, the future interest and principal payments, discounted at the except at the Companys option, and coupon payments are discretionary.
Coupon payments, net of attributable tax, are not have a conversion option.
The interest expense recognised recognised as distributions within equity.
in the income statement is calculated using the effective interest rate method.
Repurchase of share capital When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the The Group has adopted trade date accounting.
Accordingly, amount of the consideration paid, which includes directly a financial investment is recognised on the date the Group attributable costs, is net of any tax effects, and is recognised as commits to its purchase and derecognised on the date on which a deduction from equity.
When these shares are sold or reissued the Group commits to its sale.
subsequently, the amount received is recognised as an increase in equity, and the resulting surplus or deficit on the transaction Cash and cash equivalents is transferred to or from retained earnings.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, call deposits Dividends Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised on the date of payment or, if subject to approval, the date approved by repayable on demand are included as a component of cash shareholders.
and cash equivalents for the purposes of the statement of cash ows.
Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group Investment contracts has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outow of economic its insurance subsidiary, Aberdeen Asset Management Life and benets will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the contracts are accounted for as described in the accounting policy for revenue.
L&P is consolidated in the Group financial statements on a is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as an interest expense.
No provision is established and related policyholder liabilities are carried at fair value, with where a reliable estimate of the obligation cannot be made.
Foreign currencies Amounts received from and paid to investors under these contracts are treated as deposits received or paid and therefore The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, not recorded in the income statement.
Charges to investors due under these contracts are recognised in the income statement.
entity in the Group determines its own functional currency and At the balance sheet date the value of these contracts is stated items included in the financial statements of each entity are at an amount equal to the fair value of the net assets held to measured in that functional currency.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of Investments in subsidiaries the transaction.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets In the Company balance sheet, investments in subsidiaries are and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated carried at cost less any provision for impairment.
at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date and any Hedge of net investment in foreign operation Foreign currency differences arising on the retranslation of a in a foreign currency are translated to the functional currency financial liability designated as a hedge of a net investment using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction and so no in a foreign operation are recognised in other comprehensive income, in the foreign currency translation reserve, to the stated at fair value in a foreign currency are translated at the extent that the hedge is effective.
To the extent that the hedge exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
Where fair is ineffective, such differences are recognised in profit or loss.
value movements in assets and liabilities are reected in the When the hedged part of a net investment is disposed of, the income statement, the corresponding exchange movements associated cumulative amount in foreign currency translation are also recognised in the income statement.
Where fair value reserve is transferred to profit or loss as an adjustment to the movements in assets and liabilities are reected directly in profit or loss on disposal.
other comprehensive income, the corresponding exchange movements are also recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated to sterling at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated to sterling at rates approximating to the exchange rates arising are recognised in other comprehensive income and the accumulated foreign exchange differences in respect of that operation are recycled to the profit and loss account.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011
