2011 overview Notes Governance forming part of the financial statements Financial statements 1 Accounting policies There were no signi cant acquisitions during the period in which this standard would have been relevant.
Reporting entity IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements amended Betfair Group plc the Company is a company incorporated and requires accounting for changes in ownership interests by the Group domiciled in the UK.
in a subsidiary, while maintaining control, to be recognised as an equity transaction.
When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, The consolidated financial statements of the Company as at and for the any interest retained in the former subsidiary will be measured at year ended 30 April 2011 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries fair value with the gain or loss recognised in pro t or loss.
Therefore, together referred to as the Group and the Groups interest in jointly such changes will have no impact on goodwill, nor will it give rise to controlled entities.
The Group is involved in the provision of betting a gain or loss.
Furthermore, the amended standard changes the services and online gaming products.
The Parent Company financial accounting for losses incurred by the subsidiary as well as the loss of statements present information about the Company as a separate control of a subsidiary.
entity and not about its Group.
IFRS 2 Share based payment Group Cash-settled Share-based payment transactions The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended IAS 38 Intangible assets amended Consequential amendments 30 April 2011 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution arising from IFRS 3 revised 2008 of the Directors on 28 June 2011.
IAS 36 Impairment of assets amended Basis of preparation The Group continues to monitor the potential impact of other new standards and interpretations which may be endorsed by the European The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared Union and require adoption by the Group in future accounting periods.
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union.
The Company has elected to Basis of consolidation prepare its Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP: these are presented on pages 96 to 98. i Subsidiaries The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when on the historical cost basis except for the following: the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain bene ts from its derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value: activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently financial instruments at fair value through pro t or loss are measured exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial results at fair value: and of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements non-current assets are stated at the lower of the carrying amount from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
and fair value less costs to sell.
The accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed when necessary to align them with the policies adopted by the Group.
Going concern ii Associates and jointly controlled entities The Group has considerable financial resources.
As a consequence, the equity accounted investments Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the ongoing economic uncertainty.
The Associates are those entities in which the Group has signi cant in uence, Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
Signi cant resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable in uence is presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20 and future, and therefore they continue to adopt the going concern basis 50% of the voting power of another entity.
Jointly controlled entities are in the consolidated financial statements.
those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement and requiring unanimous consent for strategic, Changes in accounting policy financial and operating decisions.
Associates and jointly controlled entities are accounted for using the equity method equity accounted The Group has adopted the following new standards and investments and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups investment interpretations for the year ended 30 April 2011: includes goodwill identi ed on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment losses.
The revised standard requires the Group to apply the following changes: The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the fide nition of a business has been broadened, which is likely comprehensive income and equity movements of equity accounted to result in more acquisitions being treated as business investments, from the date that signi cant in uence or joint control combinations.
commences until the date that signi cant in uence or joint control Contingent consideration will be measured at fair value, ceases.
When the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in an with subsequent changes therein recognised in pro t or loss.
equity accounted investment, the Groups carrying amount is reduced Transaction costs, other than share and debt issue costs, to nil and recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the will be expensed as incurred.
extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations Any pre-existing interest in the acquiree will be measured or made payments on behalf of an investee.
at fair value with the gain or loss recognised in pro t or loss.
Any non-controlling interest will be measured at either fair value, or at its proportionate interest in the identi able assets and liabilities of the acquiree, on a  basis.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 63 Notes forming part of the financial statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued Available-for-sale financial assets Transactions eliminated on consolidation The Groups investments in certain equity securities are classi ed as available-for-sale financial assets.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and assets are reviewed annually for changes in value with any impairment expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing loss recognised through the income statement, and on disposal any the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from realised gains and losses are also recognised through the income transactions with equity accounted investments are eliminated against statement.
the investment to the extent of the Groups interest in the investments.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, On an annual basis the available-for-sale financial assets are reviewed but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
and remeasured on a fair value basis if the fair value is signi cantly different to the value previously recorded.
Foreign currency transactions Financial instruments Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective functional currencies of Group entities at the foreign exchange rate i Classi cation of financial instruments issued by the Group ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are Financial instruments issued by the Group are treated as equity only retranslated to the functional currency at the foreign exchange rate to the extent that they meet the following two conditions: ruling at that date.
The foreign currency gain or loss on monetary items is the difference between amortised cost in the functional currency at they include no contractual obligations upon the Group to deliver the beginning of the period, adjusted for effective interest and payments cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or during the period, and the amortised cost in foreign currency translated financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are at the exchange rate at the end of the period.
Non-monetary assets and potentially unfavourable to the Group: and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
where the instrument will or may be settled in the Companys own Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no that are stated at fair value are retranslated to the functional currency obligation to deliver a variable number of the Companys own equity at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the Companys Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognised exchanging a xed amount of cash or other financial assets for a in the income statement.
xed number of its own equity instruments.
Foreign operations To the extent that this fide nition is not met, the proceeds of issue are classi ed as a financial liability.
Where the instrument so classi ed The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and takes the legal form of the Companys own shares, the amounts fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated to the presented in these consolidated financial statements for called up Groups presentational currency, Sterling, at foreign exchange rates share capital and share premium account exclude amounts in relation ruling at the reporting date.
The income and expenses of foreign operations to those shares.
are translated at an average rate for the year where this rate approximates to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
ii Non-derivative financial instruments Exchange differences arising from this translation of foreign operations Non-derivative financial instruments comprise investments in equity are taken directly to the Translation reserve.
When a foreign operation securities, trade and other receivables, including cash and cash is disposed of, in part or in full, the relevant amount in Translation equivalents, loans and borrowings, and trade and other payables.
reserve is transferred to the income statement.
Non-derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value.
The most signi cant currencies for the Group were translated at the Subsequent to initial recognition non-derivative financial instruments following exchange rates: are measured as described below.
Income and Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Assets and expenses Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part liabilities Cumulative of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash Value of 1 Closing rates average rates and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash ows.
Euro 1.12 1.18 US dollar 1.67 1.56 Cash and cash equivalents do not include client funds deposited in a Australian dollar 1.52 1.64 stakeholder account held by The Sporting Exchange Clients Limited, Romanian Lei 4.57 4.98 a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group, on the basis that they are held on trust for customers and do not belong to and are not at the disposal of the Group.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 64 2011 overview Governance Financial statements Financial instruments continued The liability component of a compound financial instrument is recognised initially at the fair value of a similar liability that does not have an Non-derivative financial instruments measured at fair value equity conversion option.
The equity component is recognised initially through pro t or loss at the difference between the fair value of the compound financial instrument as a whole and the fair value of the liability component.
Any directly attributable transaction costs are allocated to the liability An instrument is classi ed at fair value through pro t or loss if it is held and equity components in proportion to their initial carrying amounts.
for trading or is designated as such upon initial recognition.
Financial instruments are designated at fair value through pro t or loss if the Subsequent to initial recognition, the liability component of a compound Group manages such investments and makes purchase and sale financial instrument is measured at amortised cost using the effective decisions based on their fair value in accordance with the Groups interest method.
The equity component of a compound financial documented risk management or investment strategy.
Upon initial instrument is not remeasured subsequent to initial recognition.
recognition, directly attributable transaction costs are recognised in pro t or loss when incurred.
Financial instruments at fair value through Interest, dividends, losses and gains relating to the financial liability pro t or loss are measured at fair value, and changes therein are are recognised in the income statement.
Distributions to the equity recognised in the income statement.
holders are recognised against equity, net of any tax bene t. iii Other Share capital Other non-derivative financial instruments are measured at amortised i Ordinary shares cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses.
Ordinary shares are classi ed as equity.
Incremental costs directly iv Derivative financial instruments attributable to the issue of ordinary shares and share options are recognised as a deduction from equity, net of any tax effects.
The Group holds derivative financial instruments to hedge its foreign currency risk exposure.
ii Repurchase of share capital treasury shares Derivatives are recognised initially at fair value: attributable transaction When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount costs are recognised in the income statement when incurred.
Subsequent of the consideration paid which includes directly attributable costs, to initial recognition, derivatives are measured at fair value, and is net of any tax effects, and is recognised as a deduction from equity.
changes therein are accounted for as described below.
Repurchased shares are classi ed as treasury shares and are presented as a deduction from total equity.
When treasury shares are sold or reissued Cash ow hedges subsequently, the amount received is recognised as an increase in equity, and the resulting surplus or fide cit on the transaction is transferred to Changes in the fair value of the derivative hedging instrument designated from retained earnings.
as a cash ow hedge are recognised directly in equity to the extent that the hedge is effective.
To the extent that the hedge is ineffective, Share purchase arrangements by the Group are performed through changes in fair value are recognised in the income statement.
The Employee Bene t Trust EBT and are included in the financial statements.
In particular, the EBTs purchase of shares in the Company If the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge results in deductions from in Retained Earnings in the consolidated accounting, expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, then hedge balance sheet.
Upon the EBT selling the shares, the own shares reserve accounting is discontinued prospectively.
The cumulative gain or loss balance decreases credited directly to Retained Earnings.
Transaction previously recognised in equity remains there until the forecast transaction costs relating to the purchase by the Company of its own shares are occurs.
When the hedged item is a nonfinancial asset, the amount written off directly to Retained Earnings.
recognised in equity is transferred to the carrying amount of the asset when it is recognised.
In other cases the amount recognised in equity A cancellation of shares is when the Company opts to buy back its own is transferred to the income statement in the same period that the shares resulting in a reduction in equity.
hedged item affects the income statement.
Earnings per share Compound financial instruments The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share EPS data Compound financial instruments issued by the Group comprise for its ordinary shares.
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the pro t or convertible notes that can be converted to share capital at the option loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by the of the holder, and the number of shares to be issued does not vary with weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the changes in their fair value.
Diluted EPS is determined by the pro t or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, which include awards under share award schemes and share options granted to employees.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 65 Notes forming part of the financial statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued Acquisitions prior to 1 May 2007 Property, plant and equipment The Group has taken advantage of the exemption permitted by IFRS 1 and has not elected to restate business combinations that took place i Recognition and measurement prior to 1 May 2007.
In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 May 2007, goodwill is included at 1 May 2007 on the basis of its deemed cost, Items of property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less which represents the amount recorded under the Groups previous accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
accounting framework which was broadly comparable save that only separable intangibles were recognised and goodwill was amortised.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset.
The cost of self-constructed assets includes the costs of Subsequent measurement materials and direct labour and any other directly attributable to bringing the assets to a working condition for their intended use.
Goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units CGUs and is not Gains and losses on disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
In respect of equity are determined by comparing the proceeds from disposal with the accounted investments, the carrying amount of goodwill is included in carrying amount of property, plant and equipment, and are recognised the carrying amount of the investment in the investee.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units and is not amortised but ii Depreciation is tested annually for impairment.
Depreciation is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line ii Internally generated goodwill and brands basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment.
Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
The estimated useful lives for the current and comparative periods are as follows: iii Research and development Freehold buildings 50 years Expenditure on research activities is recognised in the income statement Leasehold improvements Over the term of the lease or the useful as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
economic life of the asset, if shorter Plant and machinery 10 years Expenditure on development activities is recognised as an internally Fixtures and ttings 5 years generated intangible asset only when the necessary criteria are met: Computer equipment 3 years including demonstrating the technical feasibility of the product and Motor vehicles 3 years having suf cient certainty over the future revenue or cost savings that will be generated from the product.
Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each balance sheet date.
The qualifying expenditure capitalised represents costs directly attributable to the development of the asset.
This expenditure is Goodwill and other intangible assets capitalised from the point at which the above criteria are met up to the point at which the asset is available for use.
If the criteria are not met i Goodwill the expenditure is recognised in the pro t and loss as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Goodwill represents amounts arising on acquisition of subsidiaries, associates and jointly controlled entities.
Capitalised development expenditure assets are amortised on a straight-line basis from the date they are available for use over Acquisitions on or after 1 May 2007 their useful economic life.
In respect of business acquisitions that have occurred since 1 May 2007, iv Other intangible assets goodwill represents the difference between the fair value of consideration for the acquisition and the net fair value of the identi able assets, Identi able intangibles are assets which have nite lives, can be sold liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Identi able intangibles separately or which arise from legal rights regardless of whether those are those which can be sold separately or which arise from legal rights rights are separable.
regardless of whether those rights are separable.
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring in to use, the speci c software.
These costs are amortised over their estimated useful economic life or the life of the software licence contract.
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and less accumulated impairment losses.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 66 2011 overview Governance Financial statements Impairment continued The recoverable amount of an asset or cash generating unit is the greater of its value in use and its fair value less costs to sell.
In assessing v Amortisation value in use, the estimated future cash ows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that re ects current market Amortisation is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line assessments of the time value of money and the risks speci c to the basis over the estimated useful economic lives of intangible assets, asset.
For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped other than goodwill, from the date they are available for use.
The together into the smallest group of assets that generates cash in ows estimated useful economic lives are as follows: from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash in ows of other assets or groups of assets the cash generating unit.
The goodwill Computer software The shorter of the licence period and acquired in a business combination, for the purpose of impairment testing, up to 10 years is allocated to cash generating units that are expected to bene t from Licences The shorter of the licence period and the synergies of the combination.
up to 10 years Wagering technologies 6 years An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset Customer lists 4 years when allocated to a cash generating unit exceeds its estimated Development expenditure 3 years recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income Brands 2 years statement.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash generating Broadcasting technologies 2 years units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the units and then to reduce the carrying amounts of the Impairment other assets in the unit on a pro rata basis.
i Financial assets An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other assets, impairment losses recognised in prior periods are assessed A financial asset is assessed at each reporting date to determine whether at each reporting date for any indications that the loss has decreased there is any objective evidence that it is impaired.
An indicator or no longer exists.
An impairment loss is reversed if there has been of impairment of a financial asset is apparent if objective evidence a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
highlights that one or more events have had a negative effect on the An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets estimated future cash ows of that asset.
carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at amortised loss had been recognised.
cost is calculated as the difference between its carrying amount, and the present value of the estimated future cash ows discounted at the Employee bene ts original effective interest rate.
An impairment loss in respect of an available-for-sale financial asset is calculated by reference to its fair i fide ned contribution plans value and book value.
Signi cant financial assets are tested for impairment on an individual basis.
The remaining financial assets are A fide ned contribution plan is a post-employment bene t plan under assessed collectively in groups that share similar credit risk which the Company pays xed contributions into a separate entity and characteristics.
will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts.
Obligations for contributions to fide ned contribution pension plans are All impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
recognised as an employee bene t expense in the income statement when they are due.
An impairment loss is reversed if the reversal can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised.
For ii Short-term bene ts financial assets measured at amortised cost, the reversal is recognised in the income statement.
For available-for-sale financial assets that are Short-term employee bene t obligations are measured on an undiscounted equity securities, the reversal is recognised directly in equity.
basis and are expensed as the related service is provided.
A liability is recognised for the amount expected to be paid under short-term ii Nonfinancial assets cash bonus or pro t-sharing plans if the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service The carrying amounts of the Groups nonfinancial assets, other than provided by the employee and the obligation can be estimated reliably.
deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication iii Share-based payment transactions exists, then the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
For goodwill and intangible assets that are not yet available for use, the recoverable The following schemes are in place that allow employees to acquire amount is estimated each year at the same time.
shares in the Group: Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 67 Notes forming part of the financial statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued Long-term Senior Executives Incentive Plan SEIP Employee bene ts continued The Long-term Senior Executives Incentive Plan SEIP was approved by the Board on 16 October 2007.
The plan provides for certain senior Share option plans and Save-As-You-Earn schemes management and Directors be granted one-off awards consisting of a cash and restricted shares element.
The scheme came into effect upon Share option plans and Save-As-You-Earn schemes are accounted for the admission of the Groups shares on the London stock exchange.
as equity settled share-based payment schemes on the basis that the Group will not be required to settle its obligations under these schemes The cash was paid on the date of admission to the participants in the in cash.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee scheme.
The restricted shares were granted on the date of admission expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is and half of the restricted shares will vest on the first anniversary of the measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the listing and the next half on the second anniversary of the listing.
employees become unconditionally entitled to the share options and is calculated using an option pricing model, taking into account the The restricted shares in the SEIP are measured consistently with the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The amount treatment of normal restricted shares.
recognised as an expense is adjusted to re ect the actual number of share options that vest.
Stakeholder award scheme Restricted share scheme During the year, the Group issued 309,280 restricted shares and 26,829 phantom shares to the employees of the Group as part of the new The Group provides a restricted share scheme as part of its bonus plan.
The scheme relates to the individual employees Awards made under the terms of the restricted share scheme represent performance during the financial year ended 30 April 2010 for which a conditional right to receive shares in the Company provided that a cash bonus accrual had been recognised.
Subsequent to the year certain Group and individual performance criteria are met.
Restricted ended 30 April 2010 the reward was settled by the issue of equity shares are valued with reference to the market value of the shares instruments.
The restricted shares and phantom shares have a vesting period spanning The shares vest over a three year period and one-third of the total from the first day of the financial year to which they relate to the vest entitlement vest each year.
The first years entitlement can be taken date of 1 August 2011.
The restricted shares in the scheme are convertible in cash at the option of the employee, and accordingly this component into shares upon vest date and they are measured consistently with is accounted for as a cash settled scheme and recorded as a liability.
the treatment of normal restricted shares.
The phantom shares in the If, on the date of settlement, the employee elects to receive shares scheme are only convertible to cash upon the vest date and they are instead of cash, the liability previously recognised is transferred measured based on the market value at the date of grant.
to equity, as the consideration for the equity instruments issued.
Group and treasury share transactions The remaining two-thirds of restricted shares granted cannot be taken in cash and accordingly are accounted for as equity settled schemes.
The Company has recognised an increase in investments corresponding A charge is recognised in employee expenses on a straight-line basis to the IFRS 2 Share-based payment charge.
over the vesting period with a corresponding increase in equity.
Revenue Long-term incentive plan LTIP, Short-term incentive plan STIP and Management incentive plan MIP Revenue is measured as the consideration received from customers and represents amounts received for goods and services provided by the During the 2010 financial year, the Group revised the terms of the Group is, as set out below.
existing restricted shares scheme for directors, executives and senior management with the LTIP, STIP and MIP schemes.
Commission and fee income arising from the Groups betting exchange activities, which comprises both sports betting and exchange games, These bonus schemes entitle the recipients to cash, share options and is recognised on the date the market for an event is settled.
restricted share rewards based on meeting the Group and individual performance criteria over a three year for LTIP and one year period The Sportsbook, Games, and Multiples product revenue represents STIP and MIP.
The schemes have awards in the form of cash, share gains and losses from betting activity.
Open betting liability positions options and restricted shares.
Determining the fair value of each are recognised based on the best estimate of the expenditure that will element is consistent with the measurement outlined above in each be required to settle the position at the balance sheet date, and losses share-based payment category.
arising from these positions are recognised in revenue.
The STIP and the MIP have cash elements which are xed in value and Revenues from pari-mutuel betting products Advanced Deposit Wagering are paid and expensed in the first year that the award is issued.
The cash and Tote products represents a percentage of the stake recognised award represents two thirds of the total award.
There is no option given on settlement of the event.
to the recipient of the award to elect to have these issued in shares.
The cash element issued is classi ed as a cash bonus in the income Commission revenue on spread betting services is recognised on the statement and not a cash settled share-based payment.
This is on the date of the transaction of each trade.
basis that the employee does not have the option to choose whether they receive cash or shares.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 68 2011 overview Governance Financial statements Revenue continued A deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable pro ts will be available against which the temporary Online Poker revenue is recorded as the net income rake earned from difference can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each completed poker games.
reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax bene t will be realised.
During the year, the Group began to operate a new reportable segment relating to High rollers note 2.
The revenue from this segment Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends represents gains and losses, being the amount staked and fees received are recognised at the same time that the liability to pay the related less total payouts from betting activity in the year.
Due to the volatility dividend is recognised.
of returns from such customers, at 31 July 2010, the Directors decided not to continue with this product offering for the foreseable future.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and Revenue also includes amounts received from the management of the amounts used for tax purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial Expenses recognition of goodwill: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable pro t other than in a business i Cost of sales combination, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Cost of sales principally comprises gross pro ts tax, customer payment transaction fees, sporting levies and other data rights charges.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to temporary differences when they reverse, based on the laws ii Operating lease payments that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease right to offset current tax liabilities and assets, and they relate to incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral income taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same taxable part of the total lease expense over the term of the lease.
entity, or on different tax entities, but they intend to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis or their tax assets and liabilities will Finance income and expense be realised simultaneously.
Finance income comprises interest earned on funds invested, changes Operating segments in the fair value of financial assets at fair value through pro t or loss, and gains on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in statement.
Interest income is recognised as it accrues in the income business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, statement, using the effective interest method.
including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Groups other components.
Finance expenses comprise interest expense on borrowings, unwinding of the discount on provisions, changes in the fair value of financial assets Segment information is based on the internal reports regularly reviewed at fair value through pro t or loss, impairment losses recognised on by the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM in order to financial assets, and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised assess each segments performance and to allocate resources to them.
All borrowing costs are recognised in the The CODM is the Chief Executive Of cer CEO.
income statement using the effective interest method.
Leases Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on a net basis, either in finance income or finance expense as appropriate.
Under accounting standards there is a requirement for management to examine the buildings element within each property lease to determine Tax if the lease meets the fide nition of a finance lease and, if so, it should be accounted for as such.
This review involves determining the fair value of Tax expense comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax expense is each property at the inception of the lease and analysing the minimum recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to lease payments between their land and buildings elements.
Based items recognised directly in equity through the Tax reserve, in which on managements review of leases for the years ended 30 April 2011 case it is recognised in equity.
and 2010, all premises leases qualify as operating leases.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 69 Notes forming part of the financial statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued Note 11 Measurement of the recoverable amounts of goodwill and other intangible assets Exceptional items A full impairment review has been performed of all goodwill and Items that are material in size, unusual or infrequent in nature are intangible assets held by the Group on a cash generating unit basis.
The included within operating pro t and disclosed separately in the income impairment review is performed on a value in use basis, which statement.
requires estimation of future net operating cash ows, the time period over which they will occur, an appropriate discount rate and an The separate reporting of these items, which are presented as exceptional appropriate growth rate.
items within the relevant category in the income statement, helps provide a more accurate indication of the Groups underlying Note 18 Accounting for accruals business performance.
The calculation of accruals contains an inherent level of subjectivity.
Accounting estimates and judgements Management considers that the current level of accruals represents managements best estimate of the likely exposure.
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and Note 20 Measurement of share-based payments assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual Judgement and estimation is required in determining the fair value of results may differ from these estimates.
shares at the date of award.
The fair value is estimated using valuation techniques which take into account the awards term, the risk free Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing interest rate and the expected volatility of the market price of shares basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period of comparable businesses to the Group.
in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected.
In particular, information about signi cant areas of estimation Judgements uncertainty and critical judgements in applying accounting policies that have the most signi cant effect on the amounts recognised in the Note 1 Basis of consolidation consolidated financial statements is included in the following notes: Judgement is applied when determining if an acquired entity is Estimates controlled by the Group, and whether the acquired entity meets the criteria to be fide ned as a subsidiary.
Control is presumed to exist when Note 1 Capitalisation of development expenditure the Group owns, directly or indirectly through subsidiaries, more than half of the voting power of an entity.
However if the Group owns half or The Group makes certain estimates surrounding costs included in the less of the voting power of an entity, control may still exist.
In assessing capitalisation of development expenditure incurred for each project.
control, the Group considers whether it has the ability to control on a Judgement is required when considering whether or not a project meets legal or contractual basis rather than whether that control is actually the criteria within IAS 38 Intangible assets.
Judgement is also required exercised.
Speci c examples of where the Group has control of in determining the start and end dates of the projects as well subsidiaries are where it has the power to govern the entitys financial as determining the appropriate useful economic lives of each and operating policies by virtue of statute or agreement and where it capitalised project.
has the power to cast the majority of votes of the entitys governing body.
Note 8 Income tax Note 5 Exceptional items Tax on pro ts is determined according to complex tax laws and regulations.
Where the effect of these laws and regulations is unclear, Judgement has been used by management to identify items that are estimates are used in determining the liability for the tax to be paid on material in size and unusual or infrequent in nature.
They are past pro ts which are recognised in the financial statements.
included within operating profit and disclosed separately in the income statement.
The separate reporting of these items helps to Note 15 Deferred tax provide an indication of the Groups underlying business performance.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management judgement in determining the amounts to be recognised.
In particular, judgement is used when assessing the extent to which deferred tax assets should be recognised, with consideration given to the timing and level of future taxable income.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 70 2011 overview Governance Financial statements Note 14 Business combinations IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, supersedes IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements and SIC-12 Consolidation - Special Purpose Entities.
The Group is required to adopt Judgement and estimation is required in the identi cation and valuation this standard for the year ended 30 April 2014.
It provides a single of separable assets and liabilities on acquisitions.
In particular, in model to be applied in the control analysis for all investees, including the identification and valuation of separable intangible assets and entities that currently are SPEs in the scope of SIC-12.
An investor determining appropriate useful economic lives for these assets, and controls an investee when: also in determining contingent consideration payable in respect of it is exposed or has rights to variable returns from its involvement acquisitions where required by the terms of the agreement.
with that investee: it has the ability to affect those returns through its power over that Note 22 Valuation of derivative financial instruments investee: and there is a link between power and returns.
Judgement is required in the assessment of prospective effectiveness both at hedge inception and during the period over which hedge IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities contains the disclosure accounting is adopted.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments requirements for entities that have interests in subsidiaries, joint can also involve judgement.
Where appropriate, external valuations arrangements i. e. joint operations or joint ventures, associates and from financial institutions are undertaken to support the carrying value or unconsolidated structured entities.
The Group is required to adopt of such items.
this standard for the year ended 30 April 2014.
The required disclosures aim to provide information in order to enable users to evaluate: Future accounting developments the nature of, and risks associated with, an entitys interests in other entities: and IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Amendments to disclosures.
the effects of those interests on the entitys financial position, The Group is required to adopt this standard for the year ended 30 April financial performance and cash ows.
IFRS 7 has been amended to add an explicit statement that the interaction between qualitative and quantitative disclosures better The Group has decided not to early adopt the above standards, and is enables users to evaluate an entitys exposure to risks arising from currently assessing their impact on its financial statements.
There are no other IFRSs or IFRICs in issue but not yet effective that are IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Presentation of statement expected to have a signi cant impact for the Group.
The Group is required to adopt this standard for the year ended 30 April 2012.
IAS 1 has been amended to state that for each component of equity a reconciliation from opening to closing balances is required to be presented in the statement of changes in equity.
That reconciliation is required to show separately changes arising from items recognised in pro t or loss, in other comprehensive income, and from transactions with owners acting in their capacity as owners.
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes Fair value of award credit.
IFRIC 13 amended to state that the fair value of award credits takes into account the amount of discounts or incentives that otherwise would be offered to customers that have not earned the award credits.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments First chapters of new standard on accounting for financial instruments which will replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The Group is required to adopt this standard for the year ended 30 April 2014.
The standard contains two primary measurement categories for financial assets: amortised cost: and fair value.
Financial assets are classi ed into one of these categories on initial recognition.
A financial asset is measured at amortised cost if the following conditions are met: it is held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets in order to collect contractual cash ows, and its contractual terms give rise on speci ed dates to cash ows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal outstanding.
All other financial assets are measured at fair value.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 71 Notes forming part of the financial statements continued 2 Operating segments The revenue from Sports, Games, Poker and the management of customer funds represents the developed and integrated parts of the The Groups continuing operating businesses are organised and managed Groups business and have been grouped together as Core Betfair.
as reportable business segments according to the information which Other investments represent relatively recent additions to the Groups is used by the Groups CODM for which financial information is business and which the CODM considers to be in the early stages of regularly reviewed in making decisions about operating matters.
segments are: The Group focuses its internal management reporting predominantly Core Betfair on revenue, as the products potential to generate revenue is the chief Sports driver of the Groups business and the allocation of resources.
The Games Groups cost base is to a large extent xed in nature.
Corporate Poker expenses, assets and liabilities cannot be allocated to individual Management of customer funds operating segments and are not used by the CODM for making Other investments operating and resource allocation decisions.
However, expenses are Betfair US allocated and reviewed by the CODM between Core Betfair, the LMAX operating segments grouped into Other investments and High rollers High rollers and the analysis of EBITDA for them is summarised below.
Sports consists of the Exchange sports betting product, which offers Management also reviews Group revenue on a geographic basis, markets on Racing, Football and Sports and Specials SAS, plus determined by the location of the customers when known.
This Multiples, Tote, Timeform and Sportsbook.
Games consists of various information is analysed below on the following basis: casino products and bespoke exchange games products.
All of these gaming activities and Poker are played by customers in a number of UK geographical areas.
Europe Rest of World Sports and Games meet the quantitative thresholds required by IFRS 8 Unallocated as reportable segments.
Although Poker and revenue from the management of customer funds do not meet these requirements, the Board has concluded that these segments should be separately disclosed as they are closely monitored by the CODM.
Other investments comprises the LMAX Group LMAX and the Groups US operations including the TVG Network, neither of which individually meets the threshold to be disclosed as a separate segment.
However, the Board has concluded that these segments should also be separately disclosed as they are closely monitored by the CODM.
Similarly, High rollers was also assessed by the Board as being a reportable segment.
Due to the volatility of returns from such customers, at 31 July 2010, the Directors decided not to continue with this product offering for the foreseable future.
The results of the Australian joint venture are consolidated in the Group accounts on an equity accounting basis.
As such only the net assets and the share of losses are presented in the operating segment note below.
If proportional consolidation was applied the Groups share of the Australian joint venture would have increased revenue by 12.3 million 30 April 2010: 9.8 million and decreased EBITDA by 0.1 million 30 April 2010: decrease by 2.4 million.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 72 2011 overview Governance Financial statements 2 Operating segments continued Segmental information for the years ended 30 April 2011 and 30 April 2010 is as follows: Year ended 30 April 2011 Management of customer Core Other High Sports Games Poker funds Betfair Betfair US LMAX investments rollers Group 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Revenue 245,894 58,864 21,889 3,343 329,990 35,156 3,461 38,617 24,704 393,311 Adjusted EBITDA 80,194 1,163 5,800 6,963 6,453 79,684 Exceptional items 19,103 2,108 2,108 16,995 Equity settled share-based payments and associated costs 6,054 359 359 6,413 EBITDA 55,037 586 5,800 5,214 6,453 56,276 Depreciation and amortisation 31,437 Pro t on disposal of available-for-sale financial asset 1,158 Net finance income 1,531 Share of loss of equity accounted investments 911 Pro t before tax 26,617 Total assets 327,699 Total liabilities 112,135 Year ended 30 April 2010 Management of customer Core Other High Sports Games Poker funds Betfair Betfair US LMAX investments rollers Group 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Revenue 223,708 54,216 25,566 2,553 306,043 32,014 2,858 34,872 340,915 Adjusted EBITDA 62,192 4,959 3,749 8,708 53,484 Exceptional items 4,600 4,600 Equity settled share-based payments and associated costs 4,192 4,192 EBITDA 53,400 4,959 3,749 8,708 44,692 Depreciation and amortisation 26,246 Net finance income 2,373 Share of loss of equity accounted investments 3,041 Pro t before tax 17,778 Total assets 296,599 Total liabilities 114,787 Geographical information determined by location of customers is set out below: Year ended 30 April 2011 Rest of UK Europe World Unallocated Group 000 000 000 000 000 Core Betfair 174,028 136,232 16,387 3,343 329,990 Other investments 3,461 35,156 38,617 High rollers 24,704 24,704 Total Group 177,489 136,232 51,543 28,047 393,311 Year ended 30 April 2010 Rest of UK Europe World Unallocated Group 000 000 000 000 000 Core Betfair 163,637 124,996 14,857 2,553 306,043 Other investments 2,858 32,014 34,872 High rollers Total Group 166,495 124,996 46,871 2,553 340,915 Unallocated segment represents revenue from the management of customer funds and High rollers.
Revenues from High rollers have not been allocated to a speci c geographic region as the method of the placement of bets by these customers does not allow such an allocation.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 73 Notes forming part of the financial statements continued 3 Pro t before tax Pro t before tax is stated after charging crediting : 2011 2010 000 000 Equity settled share-based payments and associated costs 6,413 4,192 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 13,470 11,896 Amortisation of capitalised development expenditure 11,028 7,459 Amortisation of other intangibles 6,939 6,891 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 43 19 Rentals payable under operating leases equipment 49 34 Rentals payable under operating leases property 8,580 8,043 Research and non-capitalisable development expenditure 48,366 25,971 Disposal of hedging derivative note 19 993 Auditors remuneration: 2011 2010 000 000 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of these financial statements 101 86 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 574 487 Other services pursuant to legislation review of interim financial statements 55 Tax services 392 432 Transaction advisory 600 1,989 Total 1,722 2,994 Amounts paid to the Companys auditor and their associates in respect of services to the Company, other than the audit of the Companys financial statements, have not been disclosed as the information is required instead to be disclosed on a consolidated basis.
Auditors remuneration in respect of transaction advisory costs relate to work performed on the listing and corporate projects relating to optimisation planning and strategic development.
4 Employee numbers and costs The average number of persons employed by the Group including Directors during the year, analysed by category, was as follows: 2011 2010 No.
Commercial and marketing 263 255 Technology and product 808 608 Operations 674 580 Corporate 293 234 Total 2,038 1,677 The aggregate payroll costs of these persons were as follows: 2011 2010 000 000 Wages and salaries 94,054 79,796 Social security costs 10,750 8,462 Redundancy costs 458 235 Equity settled share-based payments and associated costs note 20 6,413 4,192 Pension costs 2,016 1,501 Total 113,691 94,186 Details on the remuneration of Directors are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 50 to 56.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 74 2011 overview Governance Financial statements 5 Exceptional items 2011 2010 000 000 Costs incurred on corporate projects 19,103 4,600 Release of surplus provisions 2,108 Total 16,995 4,600 During the year ended 30 April 2011, the Group incurred IPO expenses amounting to 15.7 million, comprising professional fees and bonus payments and 3.4 million for corporate projects relating to cost optimisation planning and strategic development.
In addition, the Group released surplus provisions totalling 2.1 million.
6 Pro t on disposal of available-for-sale financial asset 2011 2010 000 000 Pro t on sale of investment 1,158 During the year ended 30 April 2011, the Group disposed of its 5.60% investment in Fine Success Limited note 13.
7 Finance income and expense Recognised in income statement 2011 2010 000 000 Finance income Bank interest receivable 1,113 795 Net foreign exchange gain 433 1,562 Fair value adjustment of convertible loan notes 32 Total 1,546 2,389 2011 2010 000 000 Finance expense Interest expense 15 16 Recognised directly in other comprehensive income 2011 2010 000 000 Foreign exchange differences arising on consolidation 2,853 2,910 Change in fair value of convertible loan notes 23 Change in fair value of hedging derivative 1,261 Disposal of hedging derivative 993 Tax directly recognised in other comprehensive income 928 Finance expense recognised directly in other comprehensive income 2,853 4,259 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Company 2,853 4,259 Non-controlling interest Total 2,853 4,259 2011 2010 000 000 Recognised in: Hedging reserve 1,623 Translation reserve 2,853 2,910 Retained earnings 274 Finance expense recognised directly in other comprehensive income 2,853 4,259 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 75 Notes forming part of the financial statements continued 8 Tax Recognised in the income statement 2011 2010 000 000 Current tax UK current year 7,686 6,132 UK adjustments in respect of prior periods 3,466 4,966 Overseas current year 1,491 2,199 Overseas adjustments in respect of prior periods 1,122 165 Current tax expense 6,833 3,200 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences credit 3,347 541 Tax rate reduction 125 Deferred tax credit 3,222 541 Total tax expense 3,611 2,659 Reconciliation of effective tax rate 2011 2010 000 000 Pro t before tax 26,617 17,778 Total tax expense 3,611 2,659 Pro t for the year 23,006 15,119 Tax using the UK corporation tax rate of 27.8% 2010: 28.0% 7,400 4,978 Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions 6,053 2,370 Non-deductible expenses 2,545 2,005 Tax rate reduction 125 Current year losses for which no deferred tax asset was recognised 1,981 3,219 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 2,387 5,173 Total tax expense 3,611 2,659 Tax recognised directly in equity 2011 2010 000 000 Deferred tax related to effective portion of fair value of cash ow hedges 631 Other deferred tax in relation to equity settled share-based payments 5,162 1,468 Deferred tax 5,162 837 Current tax in relation to equity settled share-based payments 5,091 1,765 Total tax including deferred tax liability on fair value hedges 71 928 Presented as: Amounts within effective portion of changes in fair value of cash ow hedges 631 Tax recognised on income and expenses recognised directly in equity excluding tax on effective portion of changes in fair value of cash ow hedges 71 297 Total tax recognised directly in equity including deferred tax liability on fair value hedges 71 928 The Groups consolidated effective tax rate for the year was 13.6% 30 April 2010: 15.0%.
The tax effect of exceptional items in the current year amounted to a tax credit of 2.2 million 2010: nil.
With effect from 1 April 2011, the UK Statutory rate of corporation tax was reduced to 26.0%.
This resulted in a blended standard statutory rate of 27.8% in the year ended 30 April 2011.
The Budget on 23 March 2011 announced further measures to reduce the UK corporation tax rate to 23.0% by 2014, although these have not been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 76 2011 overview Governance Financial statements 8 Tax continued These changes will reduce the Groups future current tax charge accordingly.
The measurement of deferred tax is based upon the change in rate to 26.0% that applied at the balance sheet date which had the effect of reducing the deferred tax asset recognised at that date by 0.3 million.
It has not yet been possible to quantify the full anticipated effect of the announced further 3.0% rate reduction, although this will further reduce the Groups future current tax charge and reduce the Groups deferred tax asset accordingly.
9 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share The calculation of basic earnings per share for the year ended 30 April 2011 was based on the pro t attributable to ordinary shareholders of 24.2 million 30 April 2010: 15.1 million and a weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding of 106,811,660 30 April 2010: 104,926,368.
2011 2010 Pro t for the year 000 24,157 15,119 Weighted average number of shares 106,811,660 104,926,368 Basic earnings per share 22.6p 14.4p Diluted earnings per share 22.0p 13.8p Diluted earnings per share The calculation of diluted earnings per share for the year ended 30 April 2011 was based on the pro t attributable to ordinary shareholders of 24.2 million 30 April 2010: 15.1 million and a weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding after adjustment for the effect of all dilutive potential ordinary shares of 109,653,974 30 April 2010: 109,769,384, calculated as follows: Pro t used to determine diluted earnings per share 2011 2010 000 000 Pro t for the year 24,157 15,119 Interest expense on convertible loan notes net of tax 11 Pro t used to determine diluted earnings per share 24,157 15,130 Weighted average number of shares diluted 2011 2010 Weighted average number of ordinary shares basic 106,811,660 104,926,368 Effect of share options on issue 2,842,314 4,843,016 Weighted average number of ordinary shares diluted 109,653,974 109,769,384 The average market value of the Companys shares of 10.32 2010: Directors valuation of 10.00 was used to calculate the dilutive effect of share options based on the market value for the year that the options were outstanding.
Licences represent bookmaking licences held by the Group.
Development expenditure represents internally and externally generated costs incurred on development activities.
These costs have been capitalised in accordance with the requirements of IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
The remaining other intangibles represents assets purchased as part of the TVG Network acquisition, being brand, customer lists and broadcasting and wagering technologies.
These are amortised over their estimated useful economic lives which fall between 26 years.
The amortisation charge of intangible assets is recognised within Administrative expenses in the income statement.
Goodwill At 30 April 2011, the carrying amount of goodwill was 53.5 million 2010: 56.2 million allocated across four 2010: four cash generating units CGUs as follows: 2011 2010 000 000 CGU Sports 8,652 8,652 Games 2,780 2,679 Poker 9,957 9,957 TVG 32,066 34,903 Total goodwill net book value at 30 April 53,455 56,191 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 79 Notes forming part of the financial statements continued 11 Goodwill and other intangible assets continued CGUs The goodwill held in the Sports CGU relates to the goodwill recognised from the acquisition of Portway Press Limited Timeform in November 2006 of 6.0 million and BTV Limited Betfair TV of 2.6 million.
The goodwill held in the Games CGU for the current year relates to the goodwill recognised on the acquisition of the assets for TSE Development Romania.
The Poker CGU goodwill for the current and prior year relates to the goodwill recognised on the Poker Champs acquisition in October 2005.
The goodwill of 32.1 million 2010: 34.9 million in respect of the TVG CGU relates to the acquisition of the TVG Network TVG.
All goodwill is recorded in local currency.
Additions during the year are converted at the exchange rate on the date of the transaction and the goodwill at the end of the year is stated at closing exchange rates.
Impairment testing There has been no impairment charge for the year 2010: nil.
In order to determine whether impairments are required the Group estimates the recoverable amount of each CGU.
The calculation is based on projecting future pre-tax cash ows over a five year period and uses a terminal value to incorporate expectations of growth thereafter.
The terminal value is calculated using a perpetuity model, which re ects the expected long-term average growth rate for the business in which the CGU operates.
The budgets for the next financial year form the basis of the cash ow projections for each CGU.
Cash ow projections for the next four financial years re ect managements conservative expectations of the medium term operating performance of the CGUs and growth prospects in each CGUs markets and regions, and have been modelled in line with historic patterns experienced by the Group in recent years.
A discount factor is applied to obtain a value in use which is the recoverable amount, unless the fair value less costs to sell the respective CGU is an amount in excess of the value in use.
The calculation of value in use for goodwill is sensitive to the following key assumptions: i Operating cash ow One of the key drivers of operating cash ow is revenue.
The 2012 revenue gures for each CGU are based on the budget for the next financial year.
For the years 2013 to 2016, the likely organic growth rates were assessed for each region in the CGU, taking account of past experience and historic player patterns.
For all CGUs, the terminal growth rate used was 2.0% 2010: 2.0%.
In all cases management consider the assumed growth rates to be conservative.
ii Discount rate applied The discount rate applied to a CGU represents a pre-tax rate that re ects the Groups weighted average cost of capital adjusted for the risks speci c to the CGU.
For the Sports, Games and Poker CGUs, a pre-tax discount rate of 12.2% 2010: 15.0% has been used in discounting the projected cash ows for each CGU.
The discount rate has been revised following the Groups listing in October 2010 to re ect the latest market assumptions for the Risk-Free rate and the Equity Risk Premium.
For the TVG CGU, a pre-tax discount rate of 13.8% 2010: 15.0% has been used in discounting the projected cash ows for that CGU.
This discount rate differs from the Sports, Games and Poker CGUs due to the inclusion of a Company speci c risk premium as a result of the differing business model operated by TVG.
The calculation of recoverable amount is sensitive to forecast future earnings and the discount rates applied.
Management have considered the effect of either a decrease of up to 10.0% in future planned earnings for all financial years ending 30 April 2016 or an increase in the discount rate for each CGU of up to 2.0%, both of which are considered unlikely.
There are no reasonable possible changes in the key assumptions that would cause the carrying amount of any of the Sports, Games and Poker CGUs to exceed the recoverable amount.
Due to the differing business model used by TVG, the calculation of the recoverable amount is more sensitive to a decrease in future earnings assumptions.
As part of the Groups strategic investment strategy, TVG was purchased during the financial year ended 30 April 2009.
TVG is one of Americas largest legal online wagering businesses and is a digital cable network that combines televised coverage from around 50.0% of US racetracks, allows viewers to bet directly into racecourse tote pools from home, by telephone, online, or via interactive TV.
TVG broadcasts reach over 30 million homes and the Company has operations in California, Oregon and Colorado.
The TVG acquisition allows the Group to be well placed to take advantage of any legislative change in the US markets, and the skills and knowledge that Betfair possess will help the TVG business bene t from current and future opportunities.
TVG is sensitive to the future developments in US Horseracing.
In the coming financial year, the agreed strategy for TVG is to continue its focus on streamlining its business model and improving operating margins.
In view of this, and with reference to recent transactions in the US wagering industry and on the basis of reasonable assumptions used in the impairment review, the Directors consider that there is no impairment of the carrying value of the TVG CGU.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 80 2011 overview Governance Financial statements 12 Investments in subsidiaries, associates and jointly controlled entities The Group and Company have the following principal investments in subsidiaries, associates and jointly controlled entities: Ordinary Country of shares incorporation Principal activity Classi cation held % The Sporting Exchange Limited England Holding company Subsidiary 100 Betfair Limited England Support services Subsidiary 100 Betfair General Betting Limited England Bookmaking Subsidiary 100 Portway Press Limited England Horse racing data Subsidiary 100 Timeform Betfair Racing Club Limited England Horse racing club Subsidiary 100 TSE Global Limited England Trading Subsidiary 100 TSE Development Limited England Intellectual Subsidiary 100 property licensor TSE Holdings Limited England Holding company Subsidiary 100 Winslow One Limited England Holding company Subsidiary 100 Winslow Two England Holding company Subsidiary 100 Winslow Three Limited Cayman Islands Support services Subsidiary 100 Winslow Four Cayman Islands Support services Subsidiary 100 TSE Gibraltar LP Gibraltar Bookmaking Subsidiary 100 TSE Data Processing Limited Ireland Data Centre Subsidiary 100 Polco Limited Malta Intellectual Subsidiary 100 property licensor Betfair Games Limited Malta Online gaming Subsidiary 100 Betfair Casino Limited Malta Online gaming Subsidiary 100 Betfair Counterparty Services Limited Malta Online gaming Subsidiary 100 Betfair Entertainment Limited Malta Online gaming Subsidiary 100 Betfair International ENC Malta Bookmaking Subsidiary 100 Betfair Poker Marketing Limited Malta Marketing activities Subsidiary 100 Betfair Holding Malta Limited Malta Holding company Subsidiary 100 Betfair Poker Holdings Limited Malta Holding company Subsidiary 100 Betfair TV Limited formerly Evanescent Limited Malta Trading Subsidiary 100 Evanescent Services Limited Cayman Islands Trading Subsidiary 100 Betfair Italia S. R. L. Italy Bookmaking Subsidiary 100 TSE Alderney Limited Alderney Bookmaking Subsidiary 100 TSE Holdings Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong Holding company Subsidiary 100 TSE Beijing Management Consulting Co Limited China Support services Subsidiary 100 TSE Development Romania S. R. L. Romania R&D activities Subsidiary 100 TSE Services Limited Cayman Islands Support services Subsidiary 100 TSE US Holdings Inc USA Holding company Subsidiary 100 TSE US LLC USA R&D activities Subsidiary 100 ODS Holdings LLC USA Holding company Subsidiary 100 ODS Technologies LP USA Trading company Subsidiary 100 Betfair US LLC USA Trading Subsidiary 100 LMAX Limited England Trading Subsidiary 74.83 Tradefair Spreads Limited England Spread Betting services Subsidiary 74.83 London Multi Asset Exchange Holdings Limited England Holding company Subsidiary 74.83 Betfair Pty Limited Australia Bookmaking Joint venture 50 Betfair Developments Pty Limited Australia Intellectual Joint venture 50 property licensor Betfair Australasia Pty Limited Australia Holding company Joint venture 50 Sports and Gaming Ventures Holdings Limited Mauritius Trading Joint venture 50 The Sporting Exchange Limited is held directly by Betfair Group Limited.
All other subsidiaries are held indirectly.
Other direct holdings of the Group and Company have been excluded in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 s410, as they are not deemed to be signi cant to these accounts.
A full list of the Group and Company subsidiaries will be included in the next annual return.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 81 Notes forming part of the financial statements continued 12 Investments in subsidiaries, associates and jointly controlled entities continued The interest in the joint ventures of the Group are as follows: 2011 2010 000 000 Share of net liabilities At the beginning of the year 4,910 1,897 Share of operating loss 1,002 3,129 Share of interest receivable 91 88 Contribution of cash into joint venture 230 225 Change in shareholding in joint venture transfer to subsidiary 655 Foreign exchange differences 510 852 At the end of the year 6,101 4,910 Goodwill At the beginning of the year 385 3,984 Change in shareholding in joint venture transfer to subsidiary 3,599 At the end of the year 385 385 Loan At the beginning of the year 4,677 4,122 Reclassi cation of loan from short-term to long-term 2,204 Transfer to subsidiary 375 Foreign exchange differences 794 930 At the end of the year 7,675 4,677 Net book value At the beginning of the year 152 6,209 At the end of the year 1,959 152 The table below presents the summary aggregated financial information of the Groups joint venture Betfair Australiasia Pty Limited at 100%.
2011 2010 000 000 Current assets 6,421 8,898 Non-current assets 8,728 11,217 Current liabilities 20,188 19,561 Revenue 24,573 19,556 Expenses 29,880 24,362 13 Available-for-sale financial asset At 30 April 2011, the available-for-sale financial assets primarily comprises the Groups 11.2% fully diluted holdings of 9.3% non-controlling interest in Kabam Inc. 2.0 million and Featurespace Limited of 14.1% fully diluted holdings of 12.6% 0.1 million.
000 Cost At 1 May 2010 4,385 Disposals 2,270 At 30 April 2011 2,115 On 5 February 2010, the Group entered into an agreement to sell the 5.6% holding of shares in Fine Success Limited for a consideration of US$5.2 million 3.4 million.
The terms of the sale agreement stipulated that the transfer of the investment will only occur once the full consideration is received.
Of the total consideration, US$2.7 million 1.8 million had been received by the year ended 30 April 2010.
As a result, the investment remained recorded as an Available-for-sale investment and the US$2.7 million 1.8 million was recognised in Other payables.
During the year the Group received the remaining consideration of US$2.5 million 1.6 million in cash and the disposal was completed.
A pro t on sale of the available-for-sale investment was recognised in the income statement of 1.2 million.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 82 2011 overview Governance Financial statements 14 Acquisitions On 31 December 2010, the Group through TSE USE LLC purchased 2.3% interest in ODS Technologies LP TVG which represented the remaining non-controlling interest in the Company.
The total payment made was 0.2 million US$0.3 million of which the Group has recognised as goodwill.
The goodwill is attributable to the workforce of the acquired business and the strategic premium relating to market opportunities.
There is no impact on the Group accounts because the acquisition has not changed the Groups obligation to provide financial support to the acquired subsidiary.
15 Deferred tax assets and liabilities Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: Assets Liabilities Total 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 000 000 000 000 000 000 Property, plant and equipment 3,624 2,284 3,624 2,284 Intangible assets 2,100 11,016 8,134 8,916 8,134 Equity settled share-based payments and associated costs 5,436 10,599 5,436 10,599 Value of tax loss carry-forwards 1,398 156 1,398 156 Other 2,081 555 2,081 555 Deferred tax assets liabilities 14,639 13,594 11,016 8,134 3,623 5,460 The Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets in respect of losses of 8.3 million 2010: 6.8 million and unrecognised deferred tax assets in respect of depreciation in excess of capital allowances of 0.9 million 2010: 2.0 million.
These have not been recognised on the basis that there is insuf cient certainty of there being future taxable pro ts in those jurisdictions.
Movements in deferred tax are as follows: Tax value Property, Shareof loss plant and Intangible based carryequipment assets payments forwards Other Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Balance at 1 May 2009 1,544 7,052 11,114 57 5,549 Recognised in income statement 738 1,206 953 75 19 541 Acquisition of subsidiary 2 81 83 Foreign exchange differences 124 124 Recognised in equity 1,468 631 837 Balance at 30 April 2010 2,284 8,134 10,599 156 555 5,460 Balance at 1 May 2010 2,284 8,134 10,599 156 555 5,460 Recognised in income statement 1,340 885 1 1,242 1,526 3,222 Acquisition of subsidiary Foreign exchange differences 103 103 Recognised in equity 5,162 5,162 Balance at 30 April 2011 3,624 8,916 5,436 1,398 2,081 3,623 16 Trade and other receivables 2011 2010 000 000 Trade receivables 2,225 1,869 Other receivables 6,056 4,894 Prepayments and accrued income 12,958 15,073 Amounts due from joint ventures 376 Total 21,239 22,212 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 83 Notes forming part of the financial statements continued 17 Cash and cash equivalents 2011 2010 000 000 Cash and cash equivalents 155,038 150,947 As at 30 April 2011 305.6 million 30 April 2010: 284.0 million was held on trust in The Sporting Exchange Clients Limited, on behalf of the Groups core Betfair business customers and is equal to the amounts deposited into customer accounts.
Cash and cash equivalents do not include client funds on the basis that they are held on trust for customers and do not belong to and are not at the disposal of the Group.
18 Trade and other payables 2011 2010 000 000 Trade payables 5,210 9,689 Other payables 11,253 12,758 Amounts owed to joint ventures 2,951 Other tax and social security 6,834 7,268 Non-trade payables and accrued expenses 61,189 59,142 Total 87,437 88,857 19 Equity Share capital Ordinary shares 2011 2010 No.
As at 1 May 105,385,361 104,450,014 Issued by the Group in relation to: Exercised share options and restricted shares 2,345,474 769,935 Exercised SAYE options 163,899 134,338 Shares cancelled 495 Conversion of convertible loan notes 12,624 New shares issued for cash 10,000 18,450 Total fully paid, ordinary shares of 0.001 each 107,904,239 105,385,361 2011 2010 000 000 Authorised 200,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.001 each 30 April 2010: 200,000,000 200 200 Allotted, called up and fully paid 107,904,239 ordinary shares of 0.001 each 30 April 2010: 105,385,361 108 105 During the year, the Group received consideration of 5.2 million 30 April 2010: 0.6 million for the exercise of 2,345,474 30 April 2010: 769,935 share options and restricted shares and 1.3 million 30 April 2010: 1.1 million for the exercise of 163,899 30 April 2010: 134,338 SAYE options, resulting in total consideration from the issue of shares of 6.5 million 30 April 2010: 1.7 million.
Also, 495 shares were cancelled and 3,000 was remitted upon cancellation of the shares.
Exercise prices ranged from 0.001 to 10.00.
In addition, 10,000 30 April 2010: 18,450 new shares issued for cash during the period for 10.00 a share amounting to a consideration received of 0.1 million 30 April 2010: 0.2 million.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 84 2011 overview Governance Financial statements 19 Equity continued The Employee Bene t Trust held 2,993,801 ordinary shares in the Company as at 30 April 2011 30 April 2010: 2,263,903.
During the year, the Employee Bene t Trust issued 57,713 shares as part of a sale transaction at a price of 10.54 per share resulting in a reduction credit to equity to the own shares reserve of 0.2 million.
Also, in February 2011, the Group, through the Employee Bene t Trust purchased 778,153 shares at a total cost of 7.2 million including the cost of the transaction of 72,000.
Hedging reserve The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash ow hedging instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
In the prior year the Group sold a hedge forward contract resulting in a 1.0 million gain.
Tax reserves Other reserves comprise all tax directly recognised in equity.
Translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences on the revaluation of foreign currency entities and long-term foreign currency balances considered to be quasi-equity in nature.
Non-controlling interest This relates to the issue of shares by the Groups subsidiary LMAX to non-controlling interest for the year ended 30 April 2011.
Non-controlling interest is recognised and will continue to be recognised until such time the non-controlling accumulated losses are greater than their shareholding.
This is in line with the Groups obligations to provide financial support to such subsidiaries.
Reconciliation of movement in equity 2011 2010 000 000 Balance at 1 May 181,812 164,809 Total comprehensive income for the year Pro t for the year 23,006 15,119 Other comprehensive income Foreign exchange differences arising on consolidation 2,853 2,910 Change in fair value of convertible loan note 23 Change in fair value of hedging derivative 1,261 Disposal of hedging derivative 993 Tax directly recognised in other comprehensive income 928 Other comprehensive income 2,853 4,259 Total comprehensive income for the year 20,153 10,860 Transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity Issue of shares 6,619 1,951 Purchase of own share by the EBT 7,225 Sale of own shares by the EBT 117 Equity settled share-based payment transactions 6,324 4,192 Share-based payment liabilities settled by the issue of equity instruments 3,006 Tax directly recognised in equity 71 Total transactions with owners 8,770 6,143 Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control Initial recognition of non-controlling interest on LMAX 4,829 Total changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries 4,829 Balance at 30 April 215,564 181,812 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 85 Notes forming part of the financial statements continued 20 Share-based payments The Group had the following share-based payment schemes in operation during the year: a Share option plans b Save-As-You-Earn SAYE share option schemes c Restricted share scheme d Long-term incentive plan, Short-term incentive plan and Management incentive plan e Senior Executives Incentive Plan f Stakeholder shares scheme.
As at 30 April 2011, 6,322,534 share options and restricted shares 2010: 7,637,753 in the capital of the Group remain outstanding and are exercisable up to 30 April 2021.
In accordance with IFRS 2, the Group has recognised an expense in respect of all share-based awards granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested as at 30 April 2006.
The total expense recognised in respect of these schemes was 6.3 million excluding Employers National Insurance costs for the year ended 30 April 2011 30 April 2010: 4.2 million.
Employers National insurance costs have been included which total 0.1 million.
The fair value of the options Share option plans and Save-As-You-Earn share option schemes is determined using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The expected volatility is based on historical volatilities of traded options in businesses comparable to the Group such as information technology and gaming companies over a period equal in length to the relevant expected life of the option and ending at the date of grant.
The expected term used in the model is based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The expected dividend yield is nil as the Group has not paid any dividends in the past.
a Share option plans Under the Groups share option plans, options may be granted to the Directors and employees to purchase ordinary shares.
No consideration is payable on the grant of an option.
Options typically vest over a period of four years and the term of the options may not exceed ten years.
Share options are granted under a service condition.
There are no market conditions associated with the share option grants.
Options vest subject to continued employment although certain employees may be given extended vesting dates after their employment ceases.
The weighted average exercise price for share options exercised during the year was 2.52 2010: 0.77.
The fair value of the options is expensed over the period that the options vest.
The following assumptions were used in the Black-Scholes pricing model for these options: Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 86 2011 overview Governance Financial statements 20 Share-based payments continued Financial year options granted 2011 2003 2010 Share price at date of grant 9.25 10.00 0.40 10.00 Exercise price 0.001 10.00 0.001 10.00 Expected volatility 42.30% 60.08% 32.51% 62.71% Expected term until exercised 1 5 years 1 5 years Expected dividend yield Nil Nil Risk-free interest rate 0.61% 2.97% 0.65% 5.79% The weighted average fair value of the awards granted during the year ended 30 April 2011 under the share option plan at the date of grant was 3.57 2010: 3.35.
The expense recognised in the income statement excluding Employers National Insurance costs is 1.1 million 2010: 1.6 million.
The Group provides for National Insurance contributions, where necessary, on options which were granted to certain employees on or after 6 April 1999 under its unapproved share option schemes.
The charge is based on the expected timing of future exercises of the share options and the market value of the underlying shares expected at those dates in those cases where the liability has not been passed onto the employee.
b Save-As-You-Earn SAYE share option schemes The Group operates a HMRC approved SAYE share option scheme in which all UK employees can participate.
Participants save a xed amount of up to 250 per month for three years and are then able to use these savings to buy shares in the Group at a price xed at a 20.0% discount to the market value at the start of the savings period.
SAYE options are granted under a service condition.
There are no market conditions associated with the SAYE option grants.
The SAYE options must ordinarily be exercised within six months of completing the relevant savings period, and are satis ed through the issue of new shares.
In line with market practice, the exercise of these options is not subject to any performance condition.
The fair value of the SAYE share options is expensed over the service period based on the Black-Scholes model with the following assumptions: Financial year options granted 2003 2010 Share price at date of grant 2.71 10.00 Exercise price 2.17 8.00 Expected volatility 40.07% 54.40% Expected term until exercised 3.25 years Expected dividend yield Nil Risk-free interest rate 1.92% 5.08% Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 87 Notes forming part of the financial statements continued 20 Share-based payments continued There were no SAYE share options granted during the year ended 30 April 2011.
The weighted average fair value of the options granted in the prior year was 4.54.
The expense recognised in the income statement excluding Employers National Insurance costs is 0.7 million 2010: 0.7 million.
c Restricted shares scheme The Group provided a restricted shares scheme as part of its bonus plan which ceased in the prior year.
In the prior year the bonus plan had been revised with the introduction of the Long-term incentive plan, Short-term incentive plan and Management incentive plan during the year.
Refer to note 20 d. Awards made under the terms of the restricted share scheme represent a conditional right to receive ordinary shares in the Company, provided that the Group achieves speci c performance criteria as well as the individual satisfying their own pre-determined performance criteria over a twelve month period.
The restricted shares have a vesting period of three years from the first day of the financial year to which they relate and one third of the shares will vest each year for three years.
Lapsed Outstanding Granted cancelled Exercised Outstanding Exercise at 1 May during during the during the at 30 April price Exercisable Scheme year 2010 the year year year 2011 before 2007 188,331 76,925 111,406 0.001 2012 2008 299,270 127,007 172,263 0.001 2013 2009 276,276 1,963 52,750 225,489 0.001 2014 763,877 1,963 256,682 509,158 Restricted shares are valued with reference to the market value of the shares on the date of grant 2010: 10.
There were no grants made in the current year.
The weighted average exercise price for share options exercised during the year was 0.001 2010: 0.001.
The expense recognised in the income statement excluding Employers National Insurance costs is 0.3 million 2010: 1.2 million.
d Long-term incentive plan, Short-term incentive plan and Management incentive plan In the prior year, the Group revised the terms of the existing restricted shares scheme for the Directors, executives and senior management with the introduction of the following schemes: Long-term incentive plan LTIP which consists of share options and restricted share awards Short-term incentive plan STIP which consists of cash and restricted share awards Management incentive plan MIP which consists of cash and restricted share awards The schemes have awards in the form of cash, share options and restricted shares.
Determining the fair value of each element is consistent with the measurement outlined above in each share-based payment category.
The level of award granted in each of the schemes is based on the individual performance of the employee and the Group wide performance over the term of the award which is between one and three years.
Lapsed Outstanding Granted cancelled Exercised Outstanding Exercise at 1 May during during the during the at 30 April price Exercisable Scheme year 2010 the year year year 2011 before 2010 5,638 5,638 0.001 2020 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 88 2011 overview Governance Financial statements 20 Share-based payments continued The fair value of the share options in the LTIP scheme is expensed over the three year period that the options vest.
The following assumptions were used in the Black-Scholes pricing model for these options: Financial year options granted 2011 2010 Share price at date of grant 10.00 10.00 Exercise price 10.00 10.00 Expected volatility 52.71% 52.14% Expected term until exercised 4 years 4 years Expected dividend yield Nil Nil Risk-free interest rate 2.28% 2.32% The STIP and the MIP have cash elements which are xed in value and are paid and expensed in the first year that the awards are issued.
The cash award represents two thirds of the total award.
There is no option given to the recipient of the award to elect to have these issued in shares.
The cash element issued is classi ed as a cash bonus in the income statement and not a cash settled share-based payment.
This is on the basis that the employee does not have the option to choose whether they receive cash or shares.
The restricted shares in the LTIP, STIP and MIP are measured consistently with the treatment of normal restricted shares.
The restricted shares in the LTIP scheme vest at the end of the third year.
The vesting period of the STIP and MIP restricted shares vests over the second and third year after the first years cash element is paid.
As at 30 April 2011, the actual number of options, restricted shares and cash component to be awarded has not been determined.
An expense of 1.0 million for the options and restricted shares has been recognised excluding Employers National Insurance costs which is managements best estimate of the charge in respect of these awards for the current year.
The cash element of the scheme has been included in the bonus cash pool for the performance year ended 30 April 2011.
The Employers National Insurance costs amounted to 0.1 million.
e Senior Executives Incentive Plan The Long-term Senior Executives Incentive Plan SEIP was approved by the Board on 16 October 2007.
The plan entailed certain senior management and Directors be granted one-off awards consisting of a cash and restricted shares element.
The scheme came into effect upon the admission of the Groups shares on the London stock exchange.
The cash was paid on the date of admission to the participants in the scheme.
The restricted shares were granted on the date of admission and half will vest on the first anniversary of the listing and the next half on the second anniversary of the listing subject to continued employment.
The restricted shares in the SEIP are measured consistently with the treatment of normal restricted shares.
The expense recognised excluding Employers National Insurance costs is 3.5 million 2010: nil.
The Employers National Insurance costs amounted to 0.3 million.
Lapsed Outstanding Granted cancelled Exercised Outstanding Exercise at 1 May during during the during the at 30 April price Exercisable Scheme year 2010 the year year year 2011 before 2011 704,546 704,546 0.001 2021 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 89 Notes forming part of the financial statements continued 20 Share-based payments continued f Stakeholder award scheme During the year, the Group issued 309,280 restricted shares and 26,829 phantom shares to the employees of the Group as part of the new Stakeholder award scheme.
The scheme relates to the individual employees performance during the financial year ended 30 April 2010 for which a cash bonus accrual had been recognised.
Subsequent to the year ended 30 April 2010 the reward was settled by the issue of equity instruments.
The restricted shares and phantom shares have a vesting period spanning from the first day of the financial year to which they relate to the vest date of 1 August 2011.
The restricted shares in the scheme are convertible into shares upon vest date and they are measured consistently with the treatment of normal restricted shares.
The phantom shares in the scheme are only convertible to cash upon the vest date and they are measured based on the market value at the date of grant 1 May 2010: 10.00.
These are recognised in accruals in the consolidated balance sheet.
The annual true up on equity amounted to 0.3 million and a reduction in Employers National Insurance liability of 0.2 million.
Lapsed Outstanding Granted cancelled Exercised Outstanding Exercise Scheme at 1 May during during the during the at 30 April price Exercisable year 2010 the year year year 2011 before 2010 309,280 35,230 274,050 0.001 2020 21 Employee bene ts fide ned contribution plans In August 2008, the Group introduced a fide ned contribution pension plan available to certain employees.
The total expense shown within pension costs above relating to this plan in the current year was 2.0 million 2010: 1.5 million.
22 Financial instruments a Fair values of financial instruments Trade and other receivables The fair value of trade and other receivables is valued at fair value less any provision for bad debts.
The fair value is estimated using the present value of future cash ows discounted at the market rate of interest at the reporting date.
Trade and other payables The fair value of trade and other payables is estimated as the present value of future cash ows, discounted at the market rate of interest at the balance sheet date if the effect is material.
Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments comprise Sports betting open positions.
The fair value of open Sports bets at the year end has been calculated using the latest available prices on the Companys own markets on relevant sporting events.
The fair value calculation also includes the impact of any hedging activities in relation to these open positions.
Assets or liabilities resulting from open positions are reported gross in financial assets and financial liabilities note 22 d. Cash and cash equivalents The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is estimated as its carrying amount where the cash is repayable on demand.
Where it is not repayable on demand then the fair value is estimated at the present value of future cash ows, discounted at the market rate of interest at the balance sheet date.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 90 2011 overview Governance Financial statements 22 Financial instruments continued The fair values for each class of financial asset and financial liability, together with their carrying amounts are as follows: Carrying Fair Carrying Fair value value value value 2011 2011 2010 2010 000 000 000 000 Trade and other receivables note 16 8,281 8,281 6,763 6,763 Cash and cash equivalents note 17 155,038 155,038 150,947 150,947 Derivative financial liability note 22 c 373 373 35 35 Trade and other payables note 18 16,463 16,463 22,447 22,447 Net financial assets 146,483 146,483 135,228 135,228 The table below sets out fair value measurements using the IFRS 7 fair value hierarchy: Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2011 2011 2011 2011 000 000 000 000 Financial assets liabilities at fair value through income statement: Available-for-sale financial asset note 13 2,115 2,115 Net assets at fair value through income statement 2,115 2,115 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2010 2010 2010 2010 000 000 000 000 Financial assets liabilities at fair value through income statement: Available-for-sale financial asset note 13 4,385 4,385 Net assets at fair value through income statement 4,385 4,385 Categorisation within the hierarchy has been determined on the basis of the lowest level input that is signi cant to the fair value measurement of the relevant asset as follows: Level 1 valued using quoted prices in active markets for identical assets Level 2 valued by reference to valuation techniques using observable inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 Level 3 valued by reference to valuation techniques using inputs that are not based on observable market data.
There have been no transfers during the year between levels 1 and 2. b Cash ow hedges Derivative financial asset used for hedging The Group has taken out a foreign currency forward contract to mitigate any unfavourable movements in the US Dollar against the Sterling in a speci c transaction.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is based on their quoted price.
At 30 April 2011, the fair value of forward exchange contracts was 0.1 million 2010: nil.
Financial risk management The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
Risk management policies and procedures are reviewed regularly and monitored to re ect changes in market conditions and the Groups activities.
The Group aims to develop a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations surrounding risk management.
The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: Liquidity risk Market risk including currency risk and interest risk Credit risk Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 91 Notes forming part of the financial statements continued 22 Financial instruments continued This note presents information about the Groups exposure to the above risks as well as outlining the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing financial risk and the measurement of capital.
c Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have suf cient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
The Group also spreads its cash reserves across several highly rated banks and investments to mitigate counterparty risks.
The Group performs regular cash ow projections to ensure that it has suf cient cash on demand to meet expected operational expenses for a period of at least 90 days.
The Group has no committed lines of credit.
The Groups financial liabilities, including estimated interest payments and excluding the effect of netting agreements summmarised in the table below all have contractual maturities of one year or less as at 30 April 2010.
Carrying amount 2011 2010 000 000 Non-derivative financial liabilities Trade and other payables note 18 16,463 22,447 Derivative financial liabilities Open bet liability within non-trade payables and accrued expenses 373 35 Total 16,836 22,482 The ageing pro le of the trade and other payables is as follows: 30 April 2011 0-30 days 31-60 days 61-90 days 91 days Total 000 000 000 000 000 Trade and other payables 14,975 1,294 109 85 16,463 30 April 2010 0-30 days 31-60 days 61-90 days 91 days Total 000 000 000 000 000 Trade and other payables 20,505 1,041 198 703 22,447 d Market risk Financial risk management Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates will affect the Groups income or the value of its holdings in financial instruments.
The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk.
The management of market risk is performed by the Group under the supervision of the Corporate Risk Committee and according to the guidelines approved by them.
The Group will utilise hedges where there is an identi ed requirement to manage pro t or loss volitility.
Sports betting open positions There are several products which expose the Group to open betting positions resulting in net gains or losses in the income statement.
Amounts received from customers on sportsbook events that have not occurred by the year end are derivative financial instruments and have been designated by the Group on initial recognition as financial liabilities at fair value through pro t and loss.
The carrying amount of the liability is not signi cantly different from the amount that the Group is expected to pay out at maturity of the financial instruments.
Sports bets are non-interest bearing.
There is no interest rate or credit risk associated with open Sports bets.
A currency risk may arise where such bets are denominated in a currency other than the sterling.
This currency risk is not considered signi cant as any payout on such bets is made in the same currency as that in which the bet was originally staked.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 92 2011 overview Governance Financial statements 22 Financial instruments continued Market risk Foreign currency risk The Group is exposed to currency risk on sales and purchases that are denominated in a currency other than Sterling GBP.
The currencies in which these transactions primarily are denominated in are US dollars USD, Euros EUR and Australian dollar AUD.
The Group does not normally hedge against these sales and purchases, and converts the amounts at the spot rate.
However, the Group monitors all foreign currency exposures and where appropriate, will take out a foreign currency hedge to mitigate the risk of unfavourable foreign exchange movements on speci c commitments the Group enters into.
The Groups exposure to foreign currency risk is as follows.
This is based on the carrying amount for monetary financial instruments except derivatives when it is based on notional amounts: 30 April 2011 GBP EUR USD AUD Other Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Cash and cash equivalents 139,831 6,680 7,363 870 294 155,038 Trade payables 3,445 1,544 200 21 5,210 Balance sheet exposure 136,386 5,136 7,163 870 273 149,828 30 April 2010 GBP EUR USD AUD Other Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Cash and cash equivalents 134,546 7,803 7,757 504 337 150,947 Trade payables 4,572 2,030 243 57 6,902 Balance sheet exposure 129,974 5,773 7,514 504 280 144,045 A 15.0% weakening of the following currencies against the pound sterling at 30 April would have increased decreased equity and income statement by the amounts shown below.
This calculation assumes that the change occurred at the balance sheet date and had been applied to risk exposures existing at that date.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular other exchange rates and interest rates, remain constant.
The analysis is performed on the same basis for 2010.
Equity Income statement 2011 2010 2011 2010 000 000 000 000 Foreign currency EUR 272 305 1,179 1,170 USD 35 36 1,299 1,163 AUD 154 75 A 15.0% strengthening of the above currencies against sterling at 30 April would have had the equal but opposite effect on the above currencies to the amounts shown above, on the basis that all other variables remain constant.
Market risk Interest rate risk The Group has no bank loans and therefore is not exposed to interest rate risk on its liabilities.
All other debt is repayable to related parties.
At the balance sheet date the interest rate pro le of the Groups interest-bearing financial instruments was: 2011 2010 000 000 Variable rate instruments Financial assets cash and cash equivalents 155,038 150,947 Sensitivity analysis An increase of 200 and a decrease of 200 basis points in interest rates at the balance sheet date would have increased decreased equity and pro t by the amounts shown below.
The rationale behind the 2.0% sensitivity analysis is that interest rates in the UK have been low due to the economic climate and any increase or decrease greater than 2.0% is unlikely to occur.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 93 Notes forming part of the financial statements continued 22 Financial instruments continued This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant and considers the effect of financial instruments with variable interest rates, financial instrument at fair value through pro t and loss or available-for-sale with xed interest rates and the xed rate element of interest rate swaps.
2011 2010 000 000 Equity Increase Decrease Pro t or loss Increase 3,101 3,019 Decrease 1,098 795 e Credit risk Credit counterparty risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Groups receivables from customers and investments.
Group Treasury policy and objectives in relation to credit risk is to minimise the likelihood that the Group will experience financial loss due to counterparty failure and to ensure that in the event of a single loss, the failure of any single counterparty would not materially impact the financial wellbeing of the Group.
The Group limits its exposure to credit risk by only depositing surplus funds on a short-term basis.
The ring-fenced customer funds held by the Group in trust are spread across leading banking groups with the main aim of reducing risk as opposed to maximising income.
Trade receivables are assessed for risk of default by customers and terms of trade are adjusted accordingly.
Receivables are insured on risk and cost grounds.
As of 30 April 2011, the trade receivables balance was 2.2 million 2010: 1.9 million of which 1.2 million is current and 1.0 million is past due.
An amount of 0.2 million of the trade receivable balance has been provided for.
It is expected the majority of the receivables will be recovered.
Exposure to credit risk The carrying amount of the financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure.
Therefore, the maximum exposure to credit risk at the balance sheet date was 163.3 million 2010: 157.7 million being the total of the carrying amount of the financial assets excluding equity investments, shown in note 22 a.
Capital management The Boards policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor and creditor con dence and to sustain future development of the business.
The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and bene ts for stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
The Group currently has suf cient capital for its needs.
23 Operating leases The Group had total future minimum payments under non-cancellable operating leases as follows: 2011 2010 000 000 Not later than one year 6,657 4,820 Later than one year and not later than five years 21,031 12,352 Later than five years 6,668 2,045 Total 34,356 19,217 Operating lease payments represents rents payable by the Group for of ce properties.
These leases have varying terms, escalation charges and renewal rights.
During the year 8.6 million was recognised as an expense in the income statement in respect of operating leases 2010: 8.0 million.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 94 2011 overview Governance Financial statements 24 Capital commitments Contracted but not provided for in the Financial Statements: 2011 2010 000 000 Capital 586 Marketing 4,332 7,951 Total 4,918 7,951 25 Related parties Group Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Betfair Pty Limited During the year the Group recharged the Australian joint venture, Betfair Pty Limited, the following costs: Salary and related costs amounting to nil 2010: 0.03 million Operational costs amounting to 0.8 million 2010: 1.0 million The outstanding balance as at 30 April 2011 of trading receivable from the Australian joint venture is nil 2010: 2.2 million.
The loans are not interest bearing.
During the year the Australian joint venture recharged the Group the following costs: Salary and related costs amounting to 0.8 million 2010: 0.7 million Operational costs amounting to 2.1 million 2010: 1.9 million The outstanding balance as at 30 April 2011 of loans receivable from the Australian joint venture is 7.7 million 2010: 4.7 million.
In addition to the recharges detailed above, the Group collects revenue on behalf of the joint venture and to a lesser extent the Australian joint venture collects revenue on behalf of the Group.
As at 30 April 2011, the Group owed 3.0 million 2010: 2.0 million to the Australian joint venture.
LMAX Limited During the year, the Group recharged LMAX Limited operating and administrative costs amounting to 1.9 million 2010: 7.2 million.
LMAX Limited recharged the Group for such costs amounting to 0.3 million 2010: 1.3 million The outstanding balance as at 30 April 2011 of trading receivable from LMAX Limited is 0.6 million 2010: 13.3 million.
The loans are interest bearing.
Featurespace Limited During the year the Group was charged 0.4 million 2010: 0.2 million for consultancy services by Featurespace Limited in which the Group have a non-controlling interest.
Transactions with key management personnel Key management personnel compensation, excluding the Groups Directors, is shown in the table below: 2011 2010 000 000 Short-term bene ts 2,469 2,562 Equity-settled share based payments 491 518 Total 2,960 3,080 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 95
