Notes to the financial statements continued 1.
General information and basis of preparation In addition, none of the standards or interpretations General information adopted for the first time in the year have had a Admiral Group plc is a Company incorporated in material impact on the consolidated financial results England and Wales.
Its registered office is at Capital or position of the Group for the year ended 31 Tower, Greyfriars Road, Cardiff CF10 3AZ and its December 2011. shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements comprise the The accounts have been prepared on a going results and balances of the Company and its concern basis.
In considering the appropriateness of subsidiaries together referred to as the Group for this assumption, the Board have reviewed the the year ended 31 December 2011 and comparative Groups projections for the next twelve months and figures for the year ended 31 December 2010.
The beyond, including cash flow forecasts and regulatory financial statements of the Companys subsidiaries capital surpluses.
are consolidated in the Group financial statements.
The Company controls 100% of the voting share The Directors have a reasonable expectation that capital of all its principal subsidiaries, except the company has adequate resources to continue in Rastreator.
The Parent Company operational existence for the foreseeable future.
financial statements present information about the Thus they continue to adopt the going concern Company as a separate entity and not about its basis in preparing the annual financial statements.
In accordance with International Accounting Standard IAS 24, transactions or balances between Further information regarding the companys Group companies that have been eliminated on business activities, together with the factors likely to consolidation are not reported as related party affect its future development, performance and transactions in the consolidated financial position, is set out in the Business review on pages statements.
Further information regarding the financial position of the company, its cash flows, liquidity The consolidated financial statements have been position and borrowing facilities are described in the prepared and approved by the Directors in Business review on pages 11-26.
In addition note 17 accordance with International Financial Reporting to the financial statements includes the companys Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union objectives, policies and processes for managing its EU.
The Company has elected to prepare its Parent capital: its financial risk management objectives: Company financial statements in accordance with details of its financial instruments: and its exposures UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice GAAP.
to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Adoption of new and revised standards The accounting policies set out in note 3 to the The Group has applied all adopted IFRS and financial statements have, unless otherwise stated, interpretations endorsed by the EU at 31 December been applied consistently to all periods presented in 2011, including all amendments to extant standards these Group financial statements.
that are not effective until later accounting periods.
The financial statements are prepared on the There are a number of standards, amendments to historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of standards and interpretations that were issued by 31 financial assets classified as at fair value through December 2011 but have either yet to be endorsed profit or loss.
by the EU, or were endorsed shortly after the year end.
These are as follows: Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, IFRS 9 Financial Instruments directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements operating policies of an entity so as to obtain IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, IFRS 12 Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities potential voting rights that are currently exercisable IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement or convertible are taken into account.
The financial IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements statements of subsidiaries are included in the IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint consolidated financial statements from the date that Ventures control commences until the date that control Amendments to IFRS 12, IFRS 1, IAS 1, IAS 19, ceases.
IFRS 7, and IAS 32 IFRIC interpretation 20: Stripping costs in the production phase of a surface mine None of these standards, amendments to standards or interpretations of current standards above will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements in future periods.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2011 58
