The preparation of financial statements in The most significant sensitivity in the use of the conformity with adopted IFRS requires management projection techniques arises from any future step to make judgements, estimates and assumptions change in claims costs, which would cause future that affect the application of policies and reported claim cost inflation to deviate from historic trends.
amounts of assets and liabilities, income and This is most likely to arise from a change in the expenses.
The estimates and associated regulatory or judicial regime that leads to an assumptions are based on historical experience and increase in awards or legal costs for bodily injury various other factors that are believed to be claims that is significantly above or below the reasonable under the circumstances, the results of historical trend.
which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are The claims provisions are subject to independent not readily apparent from other sources.
The review by the Groups actuarial advisors.
estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed Managements reserving policy is to reserve at a on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting level above best estimate assumptions to allow for estimates are recognised in the year in which the unforeseen adverse claims development.
For further estimate is reviewed if this revision affects only that detail on objectives, policies and procedures for year, or in the year of the revision and future years if managing insurance risk, refer to note 18 of the the revision affects both current and future years.
the extent that a change in an accounting estimate gives rise to changes in assets and liabilities, it is Future changes in claims reserves also impact recognised by adjusting the carrying amount of the profit commission income, as the recognition of related asset or liability in the period of the change.
this income is dependent on the loss ratio booked in the financial statements, and cash receivable 2.
Critical accounting judgements and estimates is dependent on actuarial projections of ultimate Judgements: loss ratios.
In applying the Groups accounting policies as described in note 3, management has primarily 3.
Significant accounting policies applied judgement in the classification of the a Revenue recognition Groups contracts with reinsurers as reinsurance Premiums, ancillary income and profit commission: contracts.
A contract is required to transfer Premiums relating to insurance contracts are significant insurance risk in order to be classified as recognised as revenue proportionally over the such.
Management reviews all terms and conditions period of cover.
Premiums with an inception date of each such contract, and if necessary obtains the after the end of the period are held in the statement opinion of an independent expert at the negotiation of financial position as deferred revenue.
Outstanding stage in order to be able to make this judgement.
collections from policyholders on deferred revenue are recognised within policyholder receivables.
Estimation techniques used in calculation of claims provisions: Revenue earned on the sale of ancillary products Estimation techniques are used in the calculation of and revenue from policies paid by instalments is the provisions for claims outstanding, which credited to the income statement over the period represent a projection of the ultimate cost of settling matching the Groups obligations to provide claims that have occurred prior to the balance sheet services.
Where the Group has no remaining date and remain unsettled at the balance sheet contractual obligations, the revenue is recognised date.
An allowance is made for expected cancellations where the customer may be entitled The key area where these techniques are used to a refund of ancillary amounts charged.
relates to the ultimate cost of reported claims.
A secondary area relates to the emergence of claims Under some of the co-insurance and reinsurance that occurred prior to the balance sheet date, but contracts under which motor premiums are shared had not been reported at that date.
or ceded, profit commission may be earned on a particular year of account, which is usually subject to The estimates of the ultimate cost of reported performance criteria such as loss ratios and expense claims are based on the setting of claim provisions ratios.
The commission is dependent on the on a case-by-case basis, for all but the simplest of ultimate outcome of any year, with revenue being claims.
recognised when loss and expense ratios used in the preparation of the financial statements, move The sum of these provisions are compared with below an agreed threshold.
projected ultimate costs using a variety of different projection techniques including incurred and paid Revenue from Price comparison and Gladiator: chain ladder and an average cost of claim approach Commission from these activities is credited to to allow an actuarial assessment of their likely revenue on the sale of the underlying insurance accuracy.
They include allowance for unreported policy.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2011 59 Notes to the financial statements continued Investment income: Claims: Investment income from financial assets comprises Claims and claims handling expenses are charged interest income and net gains both realised and as incurred, based on the estimated direct and unrealised on financial assets classified as fair value indirect costs of settling all liabilities arising on through profit and loss and interest income on held events occurring up to the balance sheet date.
The provision for claims outstanding comprises b Foreign currency translation provisions for the estimated cost of settling all Functional and presentation currency claims incurred but unpaid at the balance sheet Items included in the financial statements of each of date, whether reported or not.
Anticipated the Groups entities are measured using the currency reinsurance recoveries are disclosed separately of the primary economic environment in which the as assets.
entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Whilst the Directors consider that the gross millions of pounds sterling, which is the Groups provisions for claims and the related reinsurance presentation currency.
recoveries are fairly stated on the basis of the information currently available to them, the ultimate Transactions and balances: liability will vary as a result of subsequent Foreign currency transactions are translated into the information and events and may result in significant functional currency using the exchange rates adjustments to the amounts provided.
prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the Adjustments to the amounts of claims provisions settlement of such transactions, and from the established in prior years are reflected in the income translation at year end exchange rates of monetary statement for the period in which the adjustments assets and liabilities denominated in foreign are made and disclosed separately if material.
The currencies are recognised in the income statement.
methods used, and the estimates made, are reviewed regularly.
Translation differences on non-monetary items, such as equities held at fair value through profit or loss, Provision for unexpired risks is made where are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss.
necessary for the estimated amount required over and above unearned premiums net of deferred Translation of financial statements of foreign acquisition costs to meet future claims and related operations: expenses.
The financial statements of foreign operations whose functional currency is not pounds sterling are Co-insurance: translated into the Group presentation currency The Group has entered into certain co-insurance sterling as follows: contracts under which insurance risks are shared on a proportional basis, with the co-insurer taking a i Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet specific percentage of premium written and being presented are translated at the closing rate at responsible for the same proportion of each claim.
the date of that balance sheet: As the contractual liability is several and not joint, ii Income and expenses for each income statement neither the premiums nor claims relating to the are translated at average exchange rates unless co-insurance are included in the income statement.
this average is not a reasonable approximation Under the terms of these agreements the coof the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on insurers reimburse the Group for the same the transaction dates, in which case income and proportionate share of the costs of acquiring and expenses are translated at the date of the administering the business.
transaction : and iii All resulting exchange differences are recognised Reinsurance assets: in other comprehensive income and in a Contracts entered into by the Group with reinsurers separate component of equity.
under which the Group is compensated for losses on the insurance contracts issued by the Group are On disposal of a foreign operation, the cumulative classified as reinsurance contracts.
A contract is only amount recognised in equity relating to that accounted for as a reinsurance contract where there particular operation is recognised in the income is significant insurance risk transfer between the statement.
c Insurance contracts and reinsurance assets The benefits to which the Group is entitled under Premiums: these contracts are held as reinsurance assets.
The proportion of premium receivable on in-force policies relating to unexpired risks is reported in The Group assesses its reinsurance assets for insurance contract liabilities and reinsurance assets impairment on a regular basis, and in detail every six as the unearned premium provision gross and months.
If there is objective evidence that the asset reinsurers share respectively.
is impaired, then the carrying value will be written down to its recoverable amount.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2011 60 d Intangible assets Deferred acquisition costs: Goodwill: Acquisition costs comprise all direct and indirect All business combinations are accounted for using costs arising from the conclusion of insurance the purchase method.
Goodwill has been recognised contracts.
Deferred acquisition costs represent the in acquisitions of subsidiaries, and represents the proportion of acquisition costs incurred that difference between the cost of the acquisition and corresponds to the unearned premiums provision at the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired.
This balance is held as an intangible asset.
It is amortised over the term of the The classification and accounting treatment of contract as premium is earned.
acquisitions occurring before 1 January 2004 have not been reconsidered in preparing the Groups Software: opening IFRS balance sheet at 1 January 2004 due Purchased software is recognised as an intangible to the exemption available in IFRS 1 First time asset and amortised over its expected useful life adoption.
In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 generally between 2 and 4 years.
The carrying January 2004, goodwill is included at the transition value is reviewed every six months for evidence of date on the basis of its deemed cost, which impairment, with the value being written down if any represents the amount recorded under UK GAAP, impairment exists.
Impairment may be reversed if which was tested for impairment at the transition conditions subsequently improve.
On transition, amortisation of goodwill has ceased as required by IAS 38. e Property and equipment, and depreciation All property and equipment is stated at cost Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated less accumulated depreciation.
Goodwill is allocated to cash calculated using the straight-line method to write generating units CGUs according to business off the cost less residual values of the assets over segment and is reviewed annually for impairment.
These useful economic lives are as follows: The Goodwill held on the balance sheet at 31 December 2011 is allocated solely to the UK car Motor vehicles 4 years insurance segment.
Fixtures, fittings and equipment 4 years Computer equipment 2 to 4 years Impairment of goodwill: Improvements to short leasehold properties 4 years The annual impairment review involves comparing the carrying amount to the estimated recoverable Impairment of property and equipment: amount by allocating the goodwill to CGUs and In the case of property and equipment, carrying recognising an impairment loss if the recoverable values are reviewed at each balance sheet date amount is lower.
Impairment losses are recognised to determine whether there are any indications of through the income statement and are not impairment.
If any such indications exist, the assets subsequently reversed.
recoverable amount is estimated and compared to the carrying value.
The carrying value is the higher The recoverable amount is the greater of the fair of the fair value of the asset, less costs to sell and value of the asset less costs to sell and the value in the assets value in use.
Impairment losses are use of the CGU.
recognised through the income statement.
The value in use calculations use cash flow f Leased assets projections based on financial budgets approved by The rental costs relating to assets held under management covering a three year period.
Cash operating leases are charged to the income flows beyond this period are considered, but not statement on a straight-line basis over the life included in the calculation.
The discount rate of the lease.
applied to the cashflow projections in the value in use calculations is 11.3% 2010: 11.5%, based on the Leases under the terms of which the Group assumes Groups weighted average cost of capital, which is in substantially all of the risks and rewards of line with the market source: Bloomberg.
ownership are classed as finance leases.
Assets acquired under finance leases are included in The key assumptions used in the value in use property, plant and equipment at fair value on calculations are those regarding growth rates and acquisition and are depreciated in the same manner expected changes in pricing and expenses incurred as equivalent owned assets.
Finance lease and hire during the period.
Management estimates growth purchase obligations are included in creditors, and rates and changes in pricing based on past practices the finance costs are spread over the periods of the and expected future changes in the market.
agreements based on the net amount outstanding.
The headroom above the goodwill carrying value is very significant, and there is no foreseeable event that would eliminate this margin.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2011 61 Notes to the financial statements continued g Financial assets investments and receivables Derecognition of financial assets Initial recognition A financial asset is derecognised when the rights to Financial assets within the scope of IAS 39 are receive cashflows from that asset have expired or classified as financial assets at fair value through when the Group transfers the asset and all the profit or loss, loans and receivables or held to attaching substantial risks and rewards relating to maturity investments.
The Group has not held any the asset, to a third party.
derivative instruments in the years ending 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010. h Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, At initial recognition assets are recognised at fair deposits held at call with banks, and other shortvalue and classified according to the purpose for term deposits with original maturities of three which they were acquired.
All cash and cash equivalents are measured at amortised cost.
The Groups investments in money market liquidity funds are designated as financial assets at fair value i Share capital through profit or loss FVTPL at inception.
Shares are classified as equity when there is no obligation to transfer cash or other assets.
This designation is permitted under IAS 39, as the investments in money market funds are managed as j Employee benefits a group of assets and internal performance Pensions: evaluation of this group is conducted on a fair value The Group contributes to a number of defined basis.
contribution personal pension plans for its employees.
The contributions payable to these The Groups deposits with credit institutions are schemes are charged in the accounting period to classified as held to maturity investments, which is which they relate.
consistent with the intention for which they were purchased.
Employee share schemes: The Group operates a number of equity settled Subsequent measurement compensation schemes for its employees.
For Financial assets at FVTPL are stated at fair value, schemes commencing 1 January 2004 and after, the with any resultant gain or loss recognised through fair value of the employee services received in the income statement.
exchange for the grant of free shares under the schemes is recognised as an expense, with a Deposits with fixed maturities, classified as held to corresponding increase in equity.
maturity investments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Movements The total charge expensed over the vesting period in the amortised cost are recognised through the is determined by reference to the fair value of the income statement, as are any impairment losses.
free shares granted as determined at the grant date excluding the impact of non-market vesting Loans and receivables are stated at their amortised conditions.
Non-market conditions such as cost less impairment using the effective interest profitability targets as well as staff attrition rates are method.
Impairment losses are recognised through included in assumptions over the number of free the income statement.
shares to vest under the applicable scheme.
Impairment of financial assets At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its The Group assesses at each balance sheet date assumptions on the number of shares to be granted whether any financial assets or groups of financial with the impact of any change in the assumptions assets held at amortised cost, are impaired.
Financial assets are impaired where there is evidence that one or more events occurring after Refer to note 24 for further details on share the initial recognition of the asset, may lead to a schemes.
reduction in the estimated future cashflows arising from the asset.
k Taxation Income tax on the profit or loss for the periods Objective evidence of impairment may include presented comprises current and deferred tax.
default on cashflows due from the asset and reported financial difficulty of the issuer or Current tax: counterparty.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the period, using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date, and includes any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous periods.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2011 62
