Notes to the Parent Company financial statements Parent Company accounting policies The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the financial statements: 1.
Basis of preparation The accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis.
In considering the appropriateness of this assumption, the Board have reviewed the Companys projections for the next 12 months and beyond, including cash flow forecasts and regulatory capital surpluses.
As a result of this review the Directors have satisfied themselves that it is appropriate to prepare these financial statements on a going concern basis.
The adoption of new accounting standards during the year has not had a material impact on either the current year or comparative figures.
The Admiral Group plc Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards, under the historical cost convention and in accordance with the provisions of Section 396 to the Companies Act 2006.
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and loss account of the Parent Company is not presented.
Under FRS 1 Cash flow statements the Company is exempt from having to present a cash flow statement on the grounds that its cash flows are included in the Groups published consolidated financial statements.
The Parent Company audit fee is not disclosed in these accounts as it is disclosed in the Consolidated financial statements for Admiral Group plc, which precede them at note 10.
Refer to note 27 of the Consolidated financial statements for disclosure of related party transactions.
Investments Shares in Group undertakings are valued at cost less any provision for impairment in value.
Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable.
They are regarded as recoverable to the extent that, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be sufficient taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Employee share schemes The Group operates a number of equity settled compensation schemes for its employees.
For schemes commencing 1 January 2004 and after, the fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of free shares under the schemes is recognised as an expense, with a corresponding increase in equity.
The total charge expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the free shares granted as determined at the grant date excluding the impact of non-market vesting conditions.
Non-market conditions such as profitability targets as well as staff attrition rates are included in assumptions over the number of free shares to vest under the applicable scheme.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its assumptions on the number of shares to be granted with the impact of any change in the assumptions recognised through income.
Refer to note 24 of the consolidated financial statements for further details on share schemes.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2011 83
