The preparation of financial statements in The most significant sensitivity in the use of the conformity with adopted IFRS requires management projection techniques arises from any future step to make judgements, estimates and assumptions change in claims costs, which would cause future that affect the application of policies and reported claim cost inflation to deviate from historic trends.
amounts of assets and liabilities, income and This is most likely to arise from a change in the expenses.
The estimates and associated regulatory or judicial regime that leads to an assumptions are based on historical experience and increase in awards or legal costs for bodily injury various other factors that are believed to be claims that is significantly above or below the reasonable under the circumstances, the results of historical trend.
which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are The claims provisions are subject to independent not readily apparent from other sources.
The review by the Groups actuarial advisors.
estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed Managements reserving policy is to reserve at a on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting level above best estimate assumptions to allow for estimates are recognised in the year in which the unforeseen adverse claims development.
For further estimate is reviewed if this revision affects only that detail on objectives, policies and procedures for year, or in the year of the revision and future years if managing insurance risk, refer to note 18 of the the revision affects both current and future years.
the extent that a change in an accounting estimate gives rise to changes in assets and liabilities, it is Future changes in claims reserves also impact recognised by adjusting the carrying amount of the profit commission income, as the recognition of related asset or liability in the period of the change.
this income is dependent on the loss ratio booked in the financial statements, and cash receivable 2.
Critical accounting judgements and estimates is dependent on actuarial projections of ultimate Judgements: loss ratios.
In applying the Groups accounting policies as described in note 3, management has primarily 3.
Significant accounting policies applied judgement in the classification of the a Revenue recognition Groups contracts with reinsurers as reinsurance Premiums, ancillary income and profit commission: contracts.
A contract is required to transfer Premiums relating to insurance contracts are significant insurance risk in order to be classified as recognised as revenue proportionally over the such.
Management reviews all terms and conditions period of cover.
Premiums with an inception date of each such contract, and if necessary obtains the after the end of the period are held in the statement opinion of an independent expert at the negotiation of financial position as deferred revenue.
Outstanding stage in order to be able to make this judgement.
collections from policyholders on deferred revenue are recognised within policyholder receivables.
Estimation techniques used in calculation of claims provisions: Revenue earned on the sale of ancillary products Estimation techniques are used in the calculation of and revenue from policies paid by instalments is the provisions for claims outstanding, which credited to the income statement over the period represent a projection of the ultimate cost of settling matching the Groups obligations to provide claims that have occurred prior to the balance sheet services.
Where the Group has no remaining date and remain unsettled at the balance sheet contractual obligations, the revenue is recognised date.
An allowance is made for expected cancellations where the customer may be entitled The key area where these techniques are used to a refund of ancillary amounts charged.
relates to the ultimate cost of reported claims.
A secondary area relates to the emergence of claims Under some of the co-insurance and reinsurance that occurred prior to the balance sheet date, but contracts under which motor premiums are shared had not been reported at that date.
or ceded, profit commission may be earned on a particular year of account, which is usually subject to The estimates of the ultimate cost of reported performance criteria such as loss ratios and expense claims are based on the setting of claim provisions ratios.
The commission is dependent on the on a case-by-case basis, for all but the simplest of ultimate outcome of any year, with revenue being claims.
recognised when loss and expense ratios used in the preparation of the financial statements, move The sum of these provisions are compared with below an agreed threshold.
projected ultimate costs using a variety of different projection techniques including incurred and paid Revenue from Price comparison and Gladiator: chain ladder and an average cost of claim approach Commission from these activities is credited to to allow an actuarial assessment of their likely revenue on the sale of the underlying insurance accuracy.
They include allowance for unreported policy.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2011 59
