Shareholder information 150 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Legal notice Certain statements included in this Annual Explanatory note for US investors Report and Accounts contain forward-looking relating to gas and oil reserves information concerning the Groups strategy, andresources operations, financial performance or condition, BG Group continues voluntarily to use outlook, growth opportunities or circumstances theUnited States Securities and Exchange in the countries, sectors or markets in which Commission SEC definition of proved reserves theGroup operates.
By their nature, forwardto report proved gas and oil reserves in this looking statements involve risk and uncertainty Annual Report and Accounts.
BG Group also because they depend on future circumstances, voluntarily adopted the SEC definition of and relate to events, not all of which are within probable reserves in 2009and that is used, the Companys control or can be predicted where appropriate, inthe report.
Although the Company details of BG Groups proved reserves as at believes that the expectations reflected in such 31December 2011, and related supplemental forward-looking statements are reasonable, gas and oil information, see Supplementary noassurance can be given that such expectations information gas and oil, on page 136.
This will prove to have been correct.
Actual results report also contains additional information could differ materially from those set out in the about other BG Group gas and oil reserves and forward-looking statements.
Fora description resources that would not be permitted in SEC of factors that may affect BG Groups business, filings.
For an explanation of terms used in financial performance or results of operations, connection withsuch additional reserves and we urge you to look at the Principal risks and resources information, refer to page 136. uncertainties included in this Annual Report and Accounts, see pages 46 to 51.
No part ofthese results or this report constitutes, or shall be taken toconstitute, aninvitation or inducement toinvest in BGGroup plc or any other entity, andmust notbereliedupon in any way in connection withanyinvestment decision.
The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
References in this report to other reports ormaterials, such as a website address, have been provided to direct the reader to other sources of BG Group information which maybeof interest.
Neither the content of BGGroups website norany website accessible byhyperlinks to BG Groups website nor any additional materials contained or accessible thereon, are incorporated in, orform part of, this report.
BG Group is subject to the regulatory requirements of the Financial Services Authority of the United Kingdom.
