Shareholder information 154 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notice of Annual General Meeting of BG Group plc The thirteenth Annual General Meeting AGM or Meeting of BG Group plc the Company will be held atthe Royal Berkshire Conference Centre, Madejski Stadium, Reading RG2 0FL on Wednesday, 16 May 2012 at 11.30 am forthe transaction of the business set out below.
This Notice contains the resolutions to be Ordinary resolutions Resolution 10 voted on at the Companys AGM.
Resolutions To re-elect Baroness Hogg as a Director 1to 21 are ordinary resolutions that will be Resolution 1 oftheCompany.
passed if more than 50% of the votes cast To receive the Accounts and Reports of the arein favour of the Resolutions.
Resolutions Directors and the auditors for the year ended Resolution 11 22to24 are special resolutions that will be 31 December 2011.
To re-elect Dr John Hood as a Director passed if not less than 75% of the votes cast oftheCompany.
are in favour of the Resolutions.
A poll will Resolution 2 becalled on each of the Resolutions.
Further To approve the Directors Remuneration report Resolution 12 details are set out in the explanatory notes.
as set out on pages 68 to 81 of the Companys To re-elect Martin Houston as a Director Annual Report and Accounts for the year oftheCompany.
Resolution 13 Resolution 3 To re-elect Caio Koch-Weser as a Director To declare a final dividend in respect of the year ofthe Company.
ended 31 December 2011 of 12.96 cents per share payable on 25 May 2012 to holders of Resolution 14 ordinary shares on the register of shareholders To re-elect Sir David Manning as a Director ofthe Company at the close of business on ofthe Company.
Resolution 15 Resolution 4 To re-elect Mark Seligman as a Director To elect Vivienne Cox as a Director oftheCompany.
Resolution 16 Resolution 5 To re-elect Patrick Thomas as a Director To elect Chris Finlayson as a Director oftheCompany.
Resolution 17 Resolution 6 To re-elect Philippe Varin as a Director To elect Andrew Gould as a Director oftheCompany.
Resolution 18 Resolution 7 To re-appoint  LLP To re-elect Peter Backhouse as a Director asauditors of the Company, to hold office ofthe Company.
untilthe conclusion of the next general meeting at which annual accounts are laid Resolution 8 before the Company.
To re-elect Fabio Barbosa as a Director oftheCompany.
Resolution 19 To authorise the Audit Committee to Resolution 9 approvethe remuneration of the auditors.
To re-elect Sir Frank Chapman as a Director ofthe Company.
com Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 155 Resolution 20 Special resolutions andin such manner as the Directors may That, in accordance with Sections 366 and fromtime to time determine, provided that: 367of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, Resolution 22 theCompany, and all companies which are That the Directors be and are hereby a the maximum number of ordinary subsidiaries of the Company during the period empowered pursuant to Sections 570 and 573 shares hereby authorised to be acquired when this Resolution has effect, be and are of the Act to allot equity securities within the is 339 614 578, representing approximately hereby authorised to: meaning of Section 560 of the Act for cash 10% ofthe issued ordinary share capital either pursuant to the authority conferred of the Company as at 15 March 2012: a make political donations to political parties byResolution 21 above or by way of a sale of b the minimum price that may be paid for or independent election candidates up to treasury shares as if Section 561 1 of the Act any such ordinary share is 10 pence, the atotal aggregate amount of 15 000: did not apply to any such allotment, provided nominal value of that share: that this power shall be limited to: b make political donations to political c the maximum price that may be paid organisations other than political parties up a the allotment of equity securities in forany such ordinary share is an amount to a total aggregate amount of 15 000: and connection with an offer of securities in equalto 105% of the average of the middle c incur political expenditure up to a total favour of the holders of ordinary shares on marketquotations for an ordinary share aggregate amount of 20 000, the register of members at such record date inthe Company as derived from the London as the Directors may determine and other Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the during the period beginning with the date persons entitled to participate therein fivebusiness days immediately preceding ofthe passing of this Resolution and ending where the equity securities respectively the day on which the share is contracted atthe conclusion of the next annual general attributable to the interests of the ordinary tobe purchased: meeting of the Company, provided that, in shareholders are proportionate as nearly d the authority hereby conferred shall expire anyevent, the total aggregate amount of all asmay be practicable to the respective at the conclusion of the next annual general political donations and political expenditure number of ordinary shares held or deemed meeting of the Company unless previously incurred by the Company and its subsidiaries tobe held by them on any such record renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in such period shall not exceed 50 000. date, subject to such exclusions or other in general meeting: and arrangements as the Directors may deem For the purposes of this Resolution, necessary or expedient to deal with e the Company may make a contract politicaldonations, political organisations, treasury shares, fractional entitlements topurchase its ordinary shares under the politicalparties and political expenditure orlegal or practical problems arising under authority hereby conferred prior to the have the meanings given to them in Sections the laws of any overseas territory or the expiry of such authority, which contract 363 to365of the Act.
requirements of any regulatory body or willor may be executed wholly or partly stock exchange or by virtue of ordinary after the expiry of such authority, and Resolution 21 shares being represented by depositary maypurchase its ordinary shares in That the Directors be and are hereby generally receipts or any other matter: and pursuance of any such contract.
and unconditionally authorised in accordance b the allotment otherwise than pursuant with Section 551 of the Act to exercise all tosub-paragraph a of this Resolution 22 Resolution 24 thepowers of the Company to allot ordinary toany person or persons of equity That a general meeting, other than an annual sharesin the Company and to grant rights securitiesup to an aggregate nominal general meeting, may be called on not less tosubscribe for, or to convert any security amount of 16 980 728, than 14 clear days notice.
into, ordinary shares in the Company Rights uptoan aggregate nominal amount of and shall expire upon the expiry of the general 114 597 739provided that this authority shall authority conferred by Resolution 21 above, expire at the conclusion of the next annual save that the Directors shall be entitled By order of the Board general meeting of the Company, save that toexercise all the powers of the Company to Steve Allen theDirectors shall be entitled to exercise all make offers or agreements before the expiry Company Secretary the powers of the Company to make offers or of such power which would or might require 15 March 2012 agreements before the expiry of such authority equity securities to be allotted after such which would or might require ordinary shares expiry and the Directors shall be entitled to Registered Office: to beallotted or Rights to be granted after allot equity securities pursuant to any such 100 Thames Valley Park Drive such expiry and the Directors shall be entitled offer or agreement as if the power conferred Reading to allot ordinary shares and grant Rights hereby had not expired.
Berkshire RG6 1PT pursuantto any such offer or agreement United Kingdom asifthis authority had notexpired: and all Resolution 23 unexercised authorities previously granted That the Company be generally and Registered in England & Wales tothe Directors to allot ordinary shares and unconditionally authorised to make market No.
3690065 grant Rights be and are hereby revoked.
purchases within the meaning of Section 693 4 of the Act of ordinary shares of 10penceeach of the Company on such terms www.
com Shareholder information 156 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notice of Annual General Meeting of BG Group plc continued Explanatory notes appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive toholdoffice until the next such meeting.
Director on 1 June 2011 and will succeed Following therecommendation of the Audit This document is important.
If you are in any SirRobert Wilson as Chairman of BG Group plc Committee, Resolution 18 proposes that doubt about its content, you should consult with effect from the conclusion of the Meeting.
 LLP be re-appointed an appropriate independent adviser.
Sir Robert Wilson will retire as aNon-Executive asauditors of the Company.
The Audit Director of the Board with effect from the Committee has approved atender process for If you have sold or transferred all of your conclusion of the Meeting.
Chris Finlayson external audit services tobe carried out during shares in BG Group plc, please send this wasappointed to the Board as an Executive 2012.
Further details can be found on page 63 document and all accompanying documents Director on 15 November 2011 and Vivienne of the Companys Annual Report and Accounts.
tothe purchaser or transferee, or to the Cox was appointed to the Board as a Resolution 19 proposes that the Audit stockbroker, bank or other agent through Non-Executive Director on 8 February 2012.
Committee be authorised to determine the ortowhom the sale or transfer was effected Biographical details for Andrew Gould, levelof the auditors remuneration.
so that they can be passed on to the person ChrisFinlayson and Vivienne Cox are setout who now owns the shares.
on pages 54and 55 of the Companys Annual Political donations Resolution 20 Report and Accounts and are available to view Resolution 20 is designed to deal with rules on Annual Report and Accounts Resolution 1 onlineat www.
com aboutbg political donations and expenditure contained The Directors are required to lay before the inPart 14 of the Act Sections 362 to 379.
Meeting the Accounts of the Company for The Board unanimously recommends the Under Part 14 of the Act, a company may not thefinancial year ended 31 December 2011, election ofeachDirector.
make donations to an EU political party, theDirectors report, the Remuneration report orother EU political organisation, or to an andthe Auditors report on the Accounts.
Re-election of Directors Resolutions 7 to 17 independent election candidate in the EU, All of the Directors covered in these ofmore than 5 000 in total, or incur any Remuneration report Resolution 2 Resolutions are standing for re-election, EUpolitical expenditure, without first It is mandatory for all UK-listed companies inlinewith Section B.
7.1 of the Governance obtaining shareholder approval.
toput their Directors Remuneration report Code which states that all directors of FTSE toan advisory shareholder vote.
As the 350 companies should be subject to annual It is the Companys policy not to make voteisadvisory in nature, payments made election by shareholders.
Biographical contributions to political parties.
There is no orpromised to Directors will not have to be detailsofall of these Directors are set out intention to change that policy.
However, what repaid, reduced orwithheld in the event onpages 54 and 55 of the Annual Report constitutes a political donation, a political thatthe Resolution isnot passed.
andAccounts and are available to view party, a political organisation or political onlineat www.
com aboutbg expenditure under the Act is not clear, as the Declaration of a dividend Resolution 3 legislation is capable of wide interpretation A final dividend for the financial year ended In reviewing therecommendations of and may have the effect of covering a number 31December 2011 of 12.96 cents per ordinary theNominations Committee concerning the ofnormal business activities that would share is recommended by the Directors.
re-election ofNon-Executive Directors, theBoard notbethought to be political donations in Afinaldividend can be paid only after it has has concluded that all Non-Executive Directors theusual sense.
To avoid any possibility of been declared by the shareholders at a general are independent in character and judgement.
inadvertently contravening the Act, the Board meeting.
It is proposed that shareholders In addition, and following the annual evaluation believes that it would be prudent to follow declare this dividend by passing Resolution 3. exercise conducted during theyear, the Board theprocedure specified in the Act to obtain Ifso declared, the final dividend of 12.96 cents considers that each Director continues to shareholder approval for the Company and 8.19 pence will be paid in Pounds Sterling on makean effective and valuable contribution itssubsidiaries to make political donations or 25 May 2012 to ordinary shareholders who were and demonstrates commitment to the role.
incur political expenditure in the forthcoming on the register of members of the Company at year until the conclusion of the annual general the close of business on 13 April 2012.
American Accordingly, the Board unanimously recommends meeting of the Company in 2013.
Depositary Share ADS holders will be entitled the re-election of each of these Directors.
to receive the US Dollar dividend of 12.96 cents This authority will not be used to make any per ADS on25 May 2012.
An interim dividend for Copies of the service contracts and letters of political donations as that expression would the year ended 31 December 2011 of 10.80 cents appointment of all Directors of the Company are normally be understood.
6.63 pence per ordinary share was paid available for inspection during normal business on8September 2011. hours at the registered office of the Company Authority to allot shares Resolution 21 and at the offices of Herbert Smith LLP, Exchange Resolution 21 deals with the Directors Election of Directors Resolutions 4 to 6 House, Primrose Street, London EC2A 2HS on authority to allot ordinary shares.
The Companys Articles of Association require weekdays Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays any Director newly appointed by the Board excluded and will also beavailable for inspection At the last annual general meeting of the toretire at the first annual general meeting at the place of theMeeting from 9.00 am on Company held on 12 May 2011, the Directors following their appointment.
Newly appointed the day of the Meeting until its conclusion.
were given authority to allot ordinary shares in Directors are also subject to annual election the capital of the Company up to a maximum byshareholders pursuant to the UK Corporate Re-appointment and remuneration nominal amount of 114 684 167, representing Governance Code the Governance Code ofauditors Resolutions 18 and 19 approximately 1 3 of the Companys issued inthesame way as all other directors of The Company is required to appoint auditors ordinary share capital excluding treasury FTSE350 companies see further below under ateach general meeting at which annual shares as at 11 March 2011, together with Re-election of Directors.
Andrew Gould was accounts arelaid before the Company, ordinary shares outstanding under BG Groups The Pound Sterling amount payable per share was fixed on 9 February 2012 at the same time as the US Dollar dividend was announced.
The rate of exchange used to determine thePound Sterling amount equivalent was the average of the threebusiness days prior to the announcement of the dividend.
com Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 157 share option schemes.
These principles provide that companies Company at that date excluding treasury atthe conclusion of this years AGM.
should consult shareholders prior to issuing shares.
If the Company bought back the forcash shares representing in excess of 7.5% maximum number ofordinary shares Following the banking crisis in 2008, the of the Companys issued share capital in any permitted pursuant to theexisting authority, Association of British Insurers issued revised rolling three-year period, other than to as well as the authority being sought by the guidelines allowing the allotment of an existingshareholders.
passing of this Resolution, and cancelled them, additional 1 3 of issued ordinary share capital then the total number ofoptions to subscribe relating to a fully pre-emptive rights issue.
Authority to make market purchases for ordinary shares outstanding at that date TheDirectors did not consider it appropriate ofownordinary shares Resolution 23 would represent 0.51% of the issued ordinary toseek authority from shareholders to allot the In certain circumstances, it may be advantageous share capital excluding treasury shares.
As at additional 1 3 of issued share capital last year for the Company to purchase its own ordinary the dateofthis Notice, there were no warrants and are not seeking such authority thisyear.
shares and Resolution 23 seeks authority from tosubscribe for ordinary shares outstanding.
Accordingly, the Board is seeking authority shareholders to do so.
The Resolution specifies toallot ordinary shares in the capital of the the maximum number of shares that may be Notice of general meetings other than Company up to a maximum nominal amount acquired 10% of the Companys issued ordinary annualgeneral meetings Resolution 24 of114 597 739 representing approximately share capital excluding treasury shares and Resolution 24 is a resolution to allow 1 3of theCompanys issued ordinary share the maximum and the minimum prices at theCompany to hold general meetings capital excluding treasury shares as at the which they may be bought.
otherthanannual general meetings date ofthisNotice, together with ordinary on14clear daysnotice.
shares outstanding under BG Groups share Any ordinary shares purchased in this way will option schemes.
The authority will last until be cancelled, unless the Directors determine The minimum notice period for general the conclusion of the next annual general that they are to be held as treasury shares meetings of listed companies is 21 clear days, meetingin 2013. andthe number of ordinary shares in issue will but companies may reduce this period to be reduced accordingly.
Ordinary shares held 14clear days, other than for annual general As at the date of this Notice, the Company intreasury will not automatically be cancelled meetings, provided two conditions are met.
isholding 215 861 931 ordinary shares in treasury, and will not be taken into account in future The first condition is that a company offers representing 6.36% of the Companys issued calculations of earnings per share, unless they facilities for all shareholders to vote by ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares.
are subsequently resold or transferred out electronic means.
This condition is met if oftreasury.
thecompany offers a facility accessible to The Directors have no present intention to allshareholders toappoint a proxy by means allot new ordinary shares other than pursuant Ordinary shares are held in treasury in of awebsite.
Please refer to the note entitled to employee share plans.
accordance with Section 724 of the Act and Appointing aproxy on page 158 for details maybe used to satisfy awards under the onthe Companys arrangements for electronic Disapplication of pre-emption rights Companys share schemes pursuant to Section proxy appointment.
The second condition Resolution 22 727 of the Act.
No dividends are paid, and no isthat there is an annual resolution of Resolution 22 will empower the Directors voting rights may be exercised, on treasury shareholders approving the reduction in the toallot ordinary shares in the capital of the shares while they remain in treasury.
minimum notice period from 21 clear days to Company, pursuant to the authority granted Anytreasury shares sold by the Company 14clear days.
Such a resolution was proposed and under Resolution 21 above, for cash, and to willcounttowards the number of ordinary passed at last years annual general meeting.
sellshares held in treasury, without applying shares that, if Resolution 22 is passed, may The Board is therefore proposing Resolution the pre-emption rights in the Act in certain beissued without offering them first to 24as a special resolution to approve 14 clear circumstances.
Accordingly, the Directors existing shareholders.
days as the minimum period of notice for willbe able to allot: allgeneral meetings of the Company other As the existing shareholder approval to than annual general meetings.
The approval a in connection with an open offer to purchase ordinary shares expires at the will beeffective until the conclusion of the existingshareholders in proportion to conclusion of the Meeting, purchases after Companys next annual general meeting.
their existing holdings up to 1 132 048 595 that date are subject to renewed shareholder ordinary shares representing 1 3 of the approval at the Meeting.
The Directors have no The Directors will consider on a case-by-case Companys issued ordinary share capital, present intention of exercising the authority basis whether the use of the flexibility offered subject to any adjustments such as for topurchase the Companys ordinary shares.
bythe shorter notice period is appropriate, fractional entitlements and overseas The Directors will use the authority to purchase taking into account the circumstances, including shareholders, asthe Directors see fit: and shares only after careful consideration, whether the business of the meeting is takinginto account market conditions, other time-sensitive.
b ordinary shares up to a maximum investment opportunities, appropriate gearing nominalvalue of 16 980 728 representing levels and the overall financial position of the Recommendation approximately 5% of the issued ordinary Company.
The Directors will only purchase The Board considers the above Resolutions share capital of the Company as at the date suchordinary shares after taking into account willpromote the success of the Company of this Notice, otherwise than in connection the effects on earnings per share and the andare in the best interests of the Company with anoffer to existing shareholders.
and its shareholders as a whole.
The Directors unanimously recommend that shareholders The Directors confirm their intention to follow As at the date of this Notice, the total number vote in favour of all the above Resolutions the provisions of the Pre-emption Groups ofoptions to subscribe for ordinary shares asthey intend to do so themselves in Statement of Principles regarding cumulative outstanding was 13 928 801.
This represents respectof their own beneficial holdings.
usage of authorities within a rolling three-year 0.41% ofthe issued share capital of the www.
com Shareholder information 158 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notice of Annual General Meeting of BG Group plc continued Notes to shareholders youshould have one, or if you require Nominated persons additional forms, contact the Companys Any person to whom this Notice is sent who The contents of this Notice, details of the registrar, Equiniti.
As an alternative to isa person nominated under Section 146 ofthe totalnumber of shares in respect of which completing ahardcopy proxy form, proxies Act to enjoy information rights a Nominated members are entitled to exercise voting rights maybe appointed electronically.
Person may, under agreement with the at the Meeting, details of the totals of the shareholder who nominated them, have a voting rights that members are entitled to In order to be valid, an appointment rightto be appointed or to have someone else exercise at the Meeting and, if applicable, any ofproxymust be returned by one of the appointed as a proxy for the AGM.
If Nominated members statements, members resolutions following methods: Persons have no right to appoint such proxy, or if or members matters of business received they have the right but do not wish to exercise bythe Company after the date of this Notice, in hard copy form by post, by courier, or by it, they may, under any such agreement, have can be found at www.
com agm hand to Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, aright to give instructions to the shareholder Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6UT: on how voting rights are to be exercised.
The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of online at www.
co. uk by following theUncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, The statement of the rights of shareholders the on-screen instructions and using the specifies that only those holders of ordinary inrelation to the appointment of proxies in the shareholder reference number printed shares registered in the register of members paragraph above entitled Appointing a proxy onyour proxy card: or ofthe Company as at 6.00 pm on 14 May 2012 does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The or, if the Meeting is adjourned, at 6.00 pm in the case of CREST members, by utilising the rights described in that paragraph can only be onthe date which is two days prior to the CREST electronic proxy appointment service exercised by shareholders of the Company.
adjourned meeting or their duly appointed inaccordance with the procedures set out proxies shall be entitled to attend or vote atthe end of this page.
Total shares and voting rights atthe Meeting or the adjourned meeting As at the date of this Notice, the Companys inrespect of the number of ordinary shares If a proxy form is signed by an agent, the issued share capital consists of 3 612 007 717 registered in their name at that time.
Changes power of attorney or other authority relied on ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
However, to entries on the register of members after to sign it, or a copy which has been certified, the Company holds 215 861 931 ordinary shares 6.00 pm on 14 May 2012 or, if the Meeting must be delivered with the proxy form, unless in treasury and therefore is not permitted to isadjourned, at 6.00 pm on the date which is the power of attorney has already been exercise voting rights in respect of those shares two days prior to the adjourned meeting shall registered with the Company.
while they are held in treasury.
Therefore, be disregarded in determining the rights of the total voting rights in the Company as anyperson to attend or vote at the Meeting In each case, the appointment must be at 15 March 2012 are 3 396 145 786. orthe adjourned meeting.
received by the Company no later than 11.30am on 14 May 2012.
Appointing a corporate representative Voting at the Meeting will be by poll rather A shareholder which is a corporation may thanby show of hands.
This is a more To change your proxy instructions, you may lodge authorise a person or persons to act as its transparent method of voting as member a revised proxy appointment using themethods representative s at the AGM.
In accordance votes are counted according to the number set out above.
The deadline for receipt of proxy with the provisions of the Act, each such ofordinary shares held.
The Chairman appointments see above also applies in representative may exercise on behalf of the willinvite each shareholder, corporate relation to amended instructions.
Where two corporation the same powers as the corporation representative and proxy present at the ormore valid separate appointments of proxy could exercise if it were an individual member Meeting to complete a poll card indicating are received in respect of the same share in of the Company, provided that they do not do how they wish to cast their votes in respect respect of the same meeting, the appointment so in relation to the same ordinary shares.
In addition, the Chairman which is delivered last shall be treated as willcast the votes for which he has been replacing and revoking the other orothers.
Electronic proxy appointment through CREST appointed as proxy.
Poll cards will be collected Ifthe Company cannot determine which proxy CREST members who wish to appoint a atthe end of the Meeting.
Once the results form was delivered last, none ofthe forms shall proxyor proxies through the CREST electronic have been verified by the Companys registrar, be valid.
Where you have appointed a proxy proxy appointment service may do so by using they will be notified to the UK Listing Authority using the hard copy proxy form and would like the procedures described in the CREST Manual and published on the Companys website.
to change the instructions using another hard available via www.
copy proxy form, contact Equiniti.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST Appointing a proxy sponsored members, and those CREST members Shareholders are entitled to appoint a proxy The website address www.
co. uk who have appointed a voting service provider s, toexercise all or any of their rights to attend, isprovided solely for the purposes of enabling should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting speak and vote on their behalf at the AGM.
shareholders to register electronically their service provider s, who will be able to take Ashareholder may appoint more than one appointment of a proxy or proxies for the theappropriate action on their behalf.
proxy in relation to the AGM, provided that AGM.
The Company will not accept any other each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights document or information relating to proceedings In order for a proxy appointment made using attached to a different share or shares held of the Meeting or otherwise which may be CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST bythat shareholder.
A proxy need not be a sent by electronic means to thataddress.
message a CREST Proxy Instruction must shareholder of the Company but must attend beproperly authenticated in accordance with the AGM in order to represent the appointing The return of a completed proxy form, any Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds Euroclear shareholder.
A proxy form which may be used other such instrument, or any CREST Proxy specifications, and must contain the to make such appointment and give proxy Instruction does not preclude a shareholder information required for such instruction, instructions accompanies this Notice.
If you attending the AGM and voting in person asdescribed in the CREST Manual.
donot have a proxy form and believe that ifthey wish to do so.
com Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 159 The message, regardless of whether it All shareholders members attending Any such requisition may be in hard copy constitutes the appointment of a proxy or theMeeting have the right to ask questions.
form or in electronic form: must identify isanamendment to the instruction given to TheCompany will endeavour to answer any theresolution of which notice is to be given apreviously appointed proxy must, in order question relating to the business being dealt or the matter to be included in the business: tobe valid, be transmitted so as to be received with at the Meeting.
However, an answer must be authenticated by the person s by the issuers agent ID RA19 by 11.30 am need not be given if to do so would involve making it: must be received by the Company on14May 2012.
For this purpose, the time the disclosure of confidential information, not later than 3 April 2012, being the date ofreceipt will be taken to be the time orif it is undesirable in the interest ofthe sixclear weeks before the Meeting: and asdetermined by the time stamp applied to Company or the good order of the Meeting inthe case of a matter to be included the message by the CREST Applications Host that the question be answered.
TheCompany inthebusiness only must be accompanied from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve may also answer a question byreference byastatement setting out the grounds the message by enquiry to CREST in the toinformation already provided onthe fortherequest.
After this time Companys website.
any change of instructions to proxies appointed Members satisfying the thresholds in Section through CREST should be communicated to Under Sections 338 and 338A of the Act, 527 of the Act can require the Company to the appointee through other means.
members meeting the threshold requirements publish a statement on its website setting in those Sections the Requisitioning out any matter relating to: a the audit ofthe CREST members and, where applicable, their Members have the right to require Companys Accounts including the Auditors CREST sponsors, or voting service provider s theCompany: report and the conduct of the audit that should note that Euroclear does not make areto be laid before the Meeting: or b any available special procedures in CREST for any i to give to members of the Company circumstances connected with anauditor particular message.
Normal system timings entitled to receive notice of the meeting ofthe Company ceasing to hold office since and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation notice of a resolution which may properly the last annual general meeting, that the to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
be moved and is intended to be moved members propose to raise at the Meeting.
Itisthe responsibility of the CREST member bythe Requisitioning Members at the The Company cannot require the members concerned to take or, if the CREST member Meeting: and or requesting the publication on the website isaCREST personal member, or sponsored topay its expenses.
Where the Company is member, or has appointed a voting service ii to include in the business to be dealt with required to place a statement on its website provider s to procure that his CREST sponsor atthe Meeting any matter other than a under Section 527 of the Act, it must forward orvoting service provider s take s such proposed resolution which may be properly the statement to the Companys auditors action as shall be necessary to ensure that included in the business at the Meeting.
nolater than the time it makes its statement amessage is transmitted by means of the available on the website.
The business which CREST system by any particular time.
In this A resolution may properly be moved or may be dealt with at the Meeting includes connection, CREST members and, where amatter may properly be included in the any statement that the Company has been applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting business of the Meeting unless: required to publish on its website.
service provider s arereferred, in particular, tothose sections ofthe CREST Manual i in the case of a resolution only it would, You may not use any electronic address concerning practical limitations of the ifpassed, be ineffective whether by reason provided in this Notice to communicate CRESTsystem and timings.
of inconsistency with any enactment or withthe Company for any purposes other the Companys constitution or otherwise : than those expressly stated.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST ii it is defamatory of any person: or Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated iii it is frivolous or vexatious.
Electronic communications computer viruses Please note that the Company takes all reasonable precautions to ensure viruses are not present in any electronic communication it sends out.
However, the Company cannot accept responsibility for loss or damage arising from the opening or use of any email or attachments from the Company and recommends that the shareholders subject all messages to viruschecking procedures prior to opening.
Any electronic communication, including the lodgement of an electronic proxy form, received by the Company, or its agents, that is found to contain any virus will not be accepted.
