D A O R F E B3 I 0 3 1 B A S I N G S T O K L E R O A E R D G N I D A E R 3 3 A A327 3 A 2 9 3 3 A33 7 2 5 3 5 A 1 4 A A VASTERN RD M 4 O F X O R D M BENNET ROAD 4 R Shareholder information 160 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 For further directions to the Royal Berkshire Conference Centre visit www.
uk Directions to the Further information on BGGroup can be found at www.
com Annual General Meeting AGM The 2012 AGM will be held at the Royal Berkshire Conference Centre, Madejski Stadium, Reading RG2 0FL at 11.30 am onWednesday, 16 May 2012.
The map shows the location of the conference centre, and details ofhow to reach it.
Refreshments Tea and coffee will be available before the HOW TO GET THERE AGM.
Light refreshments will be available afterthe AGM.
By train Registration and security There will be a free bus service Please allow enough time for registration numbers 50 51 between Reading ahead of the AGM.
The use of cameras Central Stationand the Madejski orotherrecording equipment in and during Stadium.
Due to building works READING theAGM is not permitted.
READING CENTRAL TOWN CENTRE atReading Station, buses will departfrom the Old Bus Station Shareholders with disabilities offStation Hill.
From the main OLD BUS The AGM will be held in the Princess Suite STATION entrance to Reading Central onthe first floor.
Station to the Old BusStation there is a walk ofapproximately The venue is fully accessible, with wheelchair 200 metres whichwill be signposted.
access at the entrance and a wheelchairaccessible lift to the meeting room.
Alternatively, taxis are available fromthe rank outside the ROYAL BERKSHIRE Anyone accompanying a shareholder who HOSPITAL mainentrance ofReading isina wheelchair, or otherwise in need CentralStation journey time ofassistance, will be admitted to the AGM.
An induction loop will be available By car inthePrincess Suite for people with From the M4 Junction 11, take hearingdifficulties.
ROYAL theA33 to Reading and follow BERKSHIRE thesignsto the Madejski Stadium CONFERENCE CENTRE approximate distance 1 mile.
From Reading town centre, taketheA33 and follow signs to theMadejski Stadium and M4 approximate distance 2.5 miles.
MADEJSKI Free parking is available at the STADIUM Conference Centre.
M4 THE WEST & BRISTOL The telephone number of the Conference Centre is 0118 968 1333.
com STATION HILL O A D 4 9 2 3 4 A A A A 4 1 5 5 A 3 9 2 B3 345 A 3 2 9 Proxy Form 2012 Admission Slip and Poll Card If you plan to attend the Annual General Meeting, please bring this slip with you and keep it until the end of the Meeting.
This slip shows that you are entitled to attend the Annual General Meeting to be held at the Royal Berkshire Conference Centre, Voting ID Task ID Shareholder reference number Madejski Stadium, Reading RG2 0FL at 11.30 am on Wednesday 16 May 2012.
This slip will allow you entry into theMeeting with as little delay aspossible.
On the reverse of this slip is your poll card, which you will need to use if you attend the Meeting because a poll will be called on each If you wish, you can submit your proxy form electronically at www.
co. uk using the above numbers.
You will be given full instructions on how to vote at the Meeting.
The Company will not accept any other communications relating to the Annual General Meeting sent to thisaddress.
As a shareholder you are entitled to attend the Annual General Meeting of BG Group plc.
If you are unable to attend, you are entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to exercise all or any of your rights to attend, speak and vote on your behalf.
The Chairman of the Meeting will be appointed as your proxy unless you cross out the words Chairman of the Meeting below and write another proxys name in the space provided.
A proxy need not be a BG Group plc shareholder.
A proxy must vote as you have instructed.
Please indicate for each Resolution how you wish your proxy to vote by placing a cross in the relevant box below in black ink i. e. x If you do not tell your proxy how to vote, your proxy may vote or withhold his her vote as he she thinks t on the Resolutions or any other business at Address Carrier the Meeting including amendments to Resolutions.
Please note that if you appoint a particular Director by name as a proxy your vote will only be cast if that Director is present at the Meeting.
I We appoint the Chairman of the Meeting or as my our proxy to attend, speak and vote on my our behalf at the Annual General Meeting of BG Group plc to be held at 11.30 am onWednesday 16 May 2012, and at any adjournment s of that Meeting.
A poll will be called on each of the Resolutions set out below.
Please indicate here with an X if this proxy form is one of multiple instructions being given Vote Vote Resolutions For Against withheld Resolutions For Against withheld 1 Annual Report and Accounts 14 Re-election of Sir David Manning 2 Remuneration report 15 Re-election of Mark Seligman 3 Declaration of dividend 16 Re-election of Patrick Thomas 4 Election of Vivienne Cox 17 Re-election of Philippe Varin 5 Election of Chris Finlayson 18 Re-appointment of auditors Payments direct to your bank building society account 6 Election of Andrew Gould 19 Remuneration of auditors If you have not already elected to receive dividend payments directly into your bank building society account and 7 Re-election of Peter Backhouse 20 Political donations wish to do so, please complete this instruction.
8 Re-election of Fabio Barbosa 21 Authority to allot shares Shareholder Reference 9 Re-election of Sir Frank Chapman 22 Disapplication of pre-emption rights 2031-064-S 10 Re-election of Baroness Hogg 23 Authority to make market Please see notes on reverse.
purchases of own shares 11 Re-election of Dr John Hood 24 Notice periods for general meetings Account 12 Re-election of Martin Houston Sort code: Number: 13 Re-election of Caio Koch-Weser Special Resolution Building Society reference 2031-062-S or roll number if applicable If this proxy form is signed by someone else on your behalf, their authority must also be returned with the form.
In the case of joint Please forward, until further notice, all dividends or interest that may from time to time become payable to me us in respect of any shares holdings, any one holder may sign this form, but, if more than one joint holder votes the same shares, the only vote which will count held in BG Group plc, to the above nominated bank or building society, or to such other branch of the organisation as the bank or building isthe vote of the jointholder whose name is listed first on BG Group plcs share register.
In the case of a corporation, the proxy must society may from time to time request.
Compliance with this request will discharge BG Group plc from any further liability in respect of beexecuted under its common seal or under the hand of a duly authorised of cer or attorney.
Even if you complete and return the such dividends or other monies.
proxy form, you may still attend the Meeting and vote in person should you decide to do so.
Signature 1 Signature 2 Date Please sign here All registered holders must sign to con rm this Please detach and post this form in the reply paid envelope to Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6UT.
Please mark this box if you are signing To be valid, this form must be received no later than 11.30 am on Monday 14 May 2012.
Signature 3 Signature 4 onbehalf of the shareholder To appoint more than one proxy, additional proxy forms may be obtained by contacting Equiniti on 0871 384 2064 calls to this number under a power of attorney are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Other telephony provider costs may vary.
Non-UK callers should dial 44 0 121 415 7029. orother authority.
Lines are open Monday to Friday 8.30 am to 5.30 pm, or you mayphotocopy this form.
Please note that each proxy must be appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares.
Please indicate next to each proxys name the number of shares in relation to which he she is authorised to act as your proxy.
A vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes for and against a Resolution.
indd 01-02 1 19 03 2012 10:41 9 03 2012 10:41 Poll Card 2012 Vote Vote Resolutions For Against withheld Resolutions For Against withheld BG GROUP IS NOT BRITISH GAS 1 Annual Report and Accounts 14 Re-election of Sir David Manning 2 Remuneration report 15 Re-election of Mark Seligman BG Group is not British Gas, the UK supplier of gas, electricity and home services.
The British Gas 3 Declaration of dividend 16 Re-election of Patrick Thomas business in the UK is owned and operated by Centrica plc.
Any British Gas service or shareholder enquiries must be directed to Centrica plc, not BG Group.
BG Group cannot answer any questions 4 Election of Vivienne Cox 17 Re-election of Philippe Varin regarding the British Gas business in the UK at the BG Group AGM.
5 Election of Chris Finlayson 18 Re-appointment of auditors 6 Election of Andrew Gould 19 Remuneration of auditors 7 Re-election of Peter Backhouse 20 Political donations 8 Re-election of Fabio Barbosa 21 Authority to allot shares 9 Re-election of Sir Frank Chapman 22 Disapplication of pre-emption rights 10 Re-election of Baroness Hogg 23 Authority to make market purchases of own shares 11 Re-election of Dr John Hood 24 Notice periods for general meetings 12 Re-election of Martin Houston Special Resolution 13 Re-election of Caio Koch-Weser Please sign here A vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes for and against a Resolution.
Notes Why we recommend that your dividend should To take advantage of this method of payment, be paid directly into an account please complete the details overleaf as follows: More secure than cheques sent by post.
Sort code and account number As quoted on your cheque book or statement.
Building society details Funds transferred to your account on payment date.
If you are unsure of the correct reference number details, Avoid inconvenience and cost of lost, stolen, spoiled or yourbuilding society will be able to advise you.
Signature s Tax voucher is sent to your registered address.
Please sign the form overleaf.
For joint holdings all holders must sign.
If you are signing on behalf of the shareholder under a power Allows the Company to trace you more easily if your mail of attorney, for example, you must provide the Registrar, Equiniti, isreturned undelivered.
with the document that evidences your authority to sign.
How to complete your payment instructions Sign up by telephone This form must be completed in BLOCK CAPITALS and If you hold 1 500 shares or fewer you can provide your bank or building in black ink.
society details over the telephone on 0871 384 2064 callstothis number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Other If you are not entering information in a eld please leave telephony provider costs may vary.
Non-UK callers should dial itblank and do not cross it through.
Lines are open Monday to Friday 8.30 am to 5.30 pm.
Please note that this instruction is speci c to the holding Overseas holders detailed overleaf.
A service has been established to provide shareholders in over Once completed, return the form to Equiniti Limited, Aspect 30countries with the opportunity to receive BG Group dividends House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6UT using intheir local currency.
For an administration fee, shareholders can the prepaid envelope provided.
have their dividends automatically converted from Pounds Sterling into their local currency and paidinto their bank account.
For further details please contact Equiniti on 44 0 121 415 7029.
indd 03-04 1 19 03 2012 10:41 9 03 2012 10:41 A world leader in natural gas We are a leading natural gas company inthe global energy market operating responsibly and delivering value to our shareholders.
We do this by connecting competitively priced resources to high-value markets.
BGGroup was formed following the demergers of British Gas andBG plc.
Two other companies operate as a result of the demergers: Centrica plc and National Grid plc.
More information, including contact information for Centrica and National Grid, can be found at www.
com demerger BGGroup is not British Gas BGGroup is not British Gas, the UK supplier of gas, electricity and home services.
The British Gas business intheUK is owned and operated by Centrica plc.
Any British Gas service or shareholder enquiries must be directed toCentrica plc, not BGGroup.
This Annual Report and Accounts has been 4 printed on Think Bright paper.
Thispaper is made from 50% recovered fibre and is fully recyclable.
It has been independently certified according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council FSC.
Thepulps used are 100% ECF Elemental Chlorine Free and it is manufactured at amill that has been accredited ISO14001 and BS EN ISO9001.
The inks used are all vegetable oil-based.
BG Group plc 100 Thames Valley Park Drive Reading, Berkshire RG6 1PT United Kingdom www.
com Registered in England & Wales No.
3690065 Designed and produced by Addison, www.
co. uk Printed at Pureprint Group Limited, ISO14001, FSC certified and CarbonNeutral
