Business review 4 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Where we operate BGGroup is an internationally diversified, integrated energy company, with a specialism in gas.
The Group hasinterests in 25countries on five continents.
Exploration and Production Lique ed Natural Gas Transmission and Distribution Alaska, USA Power Generation Norway Kazakhstan United Kingdom Exploration and Production E&P Italy Lique ed Natural Gas LNG Areas of Palestinian USA Transmission and Distribution T&D 1 Authority Tunisia China Power Generation Norway Algeria Thailand Kazakhstan United Kingdom Libya Egypt 2 Singapore Italy Trinidad and Tobago Nigeria Philippines USA Tunisia China Areas of Malaysia Palestinian India Tanzania Authority Algeria Thailand Brazil Egypt Bolivia BG ADVANCE Madagascar Trinidad and Tobago Nigeria Philippines Australia Key responsibilities : Kenya Chile Uruguay Group technical functions: Geology and Geophysics, Petroleum India Singapore Engineering and Developments, Operations and WellEngineering, Tanzania Economics, Commercial, and Contracts andProcurement.
Argentina Brazil Managing exploration, capital projects, IT and technology, Bolivia HSSEandasset integrity.
Madagascar Australia Coordination and development of BGGroup strategy and portfolio.
Longer-term planning, capability development and the optimal Chile Uruguay deployment of technical and commercial people across the Group.
Argentina Managing the Groups technical and commercial governance andassurance processes including well risk management.
Supporting the regions in achieving high levels of safety, technicalexcellence and long-term competitive advantage.
byGlobal Energy Marketing and Shipping and BG Advance.
From 1 January 2012, BG Group is managed across For further information on these changes, see Chairmans  ofBGAdvance and the Chief Financial three regions: Americas andEurope: Africa, Central and statement andChiefExecutives statement on pages 8 to 11.
Officer also changed with effect from this date.
South Asia: and Australia and East Asia, each supported www.
com Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 5 During 2011, BG Group managed its business on an integrated basis across four regions, supported by BG Advance AMERICAS AND GLOBAL LNG EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA AFRICA, MIDDLE EAST AND ASIA AUSTRALIA Exploration and production Exploration and production Exploration and production Exploration and production activities inBolivia, Trinidad activities in the UK North Sea.
activities in Egypt, India, activities from an extensive coal andTobago and theUSA.
Joint operator of the super-giant Thailand and Tunisia.
seam gas CSG acreage position.
Material resources undergoing Karachaganak oil and gas Exploration acreage and or Production for Queensland appraisal and field development condensate field in Kazakhstan.
Exploration acreage and inAlgeria, areas of the Exploration acreage in shale gas Alliance with EXCO Resources, discovered resources in Norway.
Palestinian Authority, China, play and deep gas sands play.
Inc. to develop US shale gas.
LNG regasification and storage Kenya, Madagascar, Nigeria Developing two-train, Exporting LNG from Trinidad capacity in the UK.
8.5million tonnes per annum and Tobago.
Gas marketing and pipeline Exporting LNG from Egypt.
LNG project on Curtis Island, LNG regasification capacity capacity in the UK, including Interests in two Indian gas near Gladstone, Queensland, inChile and the USA.
theCentral Area Transmission distribution companies.
Control of Companhia fide System CATS pipeline.
Power generation interests Power generation plant GsdeSo Paulo Comgs, Power generation interests inthe Philippines.
LNG aggregator agreement tosupply Singapore market.
Exploration and Production E&P Lique ed Natural Gas LNG Transmission and Distribution T&D Power Generation Norway Kazakhstan United Kingdom Italy USA Tunisia China Areas of Palestinian Authority Algeria Thailand Egypt Trinidad and Tobago Nigeria Philippines Kenya India Singapore Tanzania Brazil Bolivia Madagascar Australia Chile Uruguay Argentina Headquartered in UK.
For more information on production Exclusive right to supply only.
by country refer to page 24 www.
