Shareholder information 148 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Presentation of non-GAAP measures BG Group publishes certain additional information BG Group also uses financial instruments, ofresults in this manner is intended to provide in a non-statutory format in order to provide including derivatives, to manage foreign additional information to explain further the readers with an increased insight into the exchange and interest rate exposure.
These underlying trends in the business.
The disclosure underlying performance of the business.
The instruments are required to be recognised re-calculates the current year profit on the basis measures the Group uses areexplained below.
atfair value or amortised cost on the balance that the US$ UK exchange rate and the sheet inaccordance with IAS 39.
Most of these upstream commodity prices were the same Business performance instruments have been designated either asinthe previous year, providing a comparable Business performance excludes discontinued ashedges of foreign exchange movements base in respect of these two factors.
operations and disposals, certain re-measurements associated with the Groups net investments and impairments see below as exclusion inforeign operations, or as hedges of interest Net borrowings or funds and return ofthese items provides a clear and consistent rate risk.
Where these instruments represent onaverage capital employed presentation of the underlying operating economic hedges but cannot be designated BG Group provides an analysis of the amounts performance of the Groups ongoingbusiness.
ashedges under IAS 39, unrealised movements included within net borrowings or funds in fair value, together with foreign exchange asthis is an important liquidity measure BG Group uses commodity instruments movements associated with the underlying forthe Group.
tomanage price exposures associated with borrowings, are recorded in the income itsmarketing and optimisation activity.
statement and disclosed separately as disposals, Return on average capital employed Thisactivity enables the Group to take re-measurements and impairments.
represents profit before tax excluding advantage of commodity price movements.
disposals, re-measurements and impairments Itis considered more appropriate to include Realised gains and losses relating to the plus net interest payable on net borrowings, both unrealised and realised gains and instruments referred to above are included in asa percentage of average capital employed.
lossesarising from the mark-to-market Business performance.
This presentation best Further information on these measures is ofderivatives associated with this activity reflects the underlying performance of the provided on page 145. inBusiness performance.
business since it distinguishes between the temporary timing differences associated with Disposals, certain re-measurements re-measurements under IAS 39 rules and actual andimpairments realised gains and losses.
BG Groups commercial arrangements for marketing gas include the use of long-term gas BG Group has also separately identified profits sales contracts.
While the activity surrounding and losses associated with the disposal of these contracts involves the physical delivery non-current assets, impairments of non-current ofgas, certain gas sales contracts are classified assets and certain restructuring costs when as derivatives under the rules of International material, as they require separate disclosure in Accounting Standard IAS 39, Financial order to provide a clearer understanding of the Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, results for the period.
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board, and are required to be measured at fair For a reconciliation between the overall results value at the balance sheet date.
Unrealised and Business performance and details of gainsand losses on these contracts reflect the disposals, re-measurements and impairments, comparison between current market gas prices see note 1, page 99, note 8, page 110 and note 4, and the actual prices to be realised under the gas page 108. sales contracts and are disclosed separately as disposals, re-measurements and impairments.
Joint ventures and associates Under International Financial Reporting BG Group also uses commodity instruments Standards, the results from jointly controlled tomanage certain price exposures in respect of entities joint ventures and associates, optimising the timing and location of its physical accounted for under the equity method, are gas and liquefied natural gas commitments.
required to be presented net of finance costs These instruments are also required to be andtax on the face of the income statement.
measured at fair value at the balance sheet date Given the relevance of these businesses within under IAS 39 and, where practical, have been BG Group, the results of joint ventures and designated as formal hedges.
However, IAS 39 associates are presented before interest and tax, does not always allow the matching of fair and after tax.
This approach provides additional values to the economically hedged value of the information on the source of BG Groups related commodity, resulting in unrealised operating profits.
For a reconciliation between movements in fair value being recorded in the operating profit and earnings, including and income statement.
These movements in fair excluding the results of joint ventures and value, together with any unrealised gains and associates, see note 1, page 99. losses associated with discontinued hedge accounting relationships that continue Exchange rates and prices torepresent economic hedges, are disclosed BG Group may also disclose certain information, separately as disposals, re-measurements asindicated, at constant US$ UK exchange andimpairments.
