Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2011 | 55 computation are followed in these financial statements as are Notes applied in the Groups last annual audited financial statements, except that a change has been made to the allocation of 1.
General Information finance costs between revenue and capital such that those costs associated with the fixed income bond fund have been charged in Alliance Trust PLC was incorporated in the United Kingdom under full to revenue expenses.
The address of the registered office is given on page 92.
The nature of the Groups operations Basis of accounting and its principal activities are a global investment trust.
Both the parent Company financial statements and the Group Critical accounting estimates and judgements financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards The preparation of the financial statements necessarily requires IFRSs, as adopted by the European Union Adopted IFRSs.
the exercise of judgement both in application of accounting policies which are set out below and in the selection of The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost assumptions used in the calculation of estimates.
These estimates basis, except that investments and investment properties are stated and judgements are reviewed on an ongoing basis and are at fair value.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out continually evaluated based on historical experience and other below.
Where presentational guidance set out in the Statement of factors.
However, actual results may differ from these estimates.
Recommended Practice SORP for investment trusts issued by The most significantly affected components of the financial the Association of Investment Companies AIC in January 2003 statements and associated critical judgements are as follows: as revised in January 2009 is consistent with the requirements of IFRS, then the Directors have sought to prepare the financial Valuation of unlisted investments statements on a basis compliant with the recommendations of the Investments which are not listed or which are not frequently traded SORP.
The Group and the Company have prepared the financial are stated at Directors best estimate of fair value.
In arriving at their statements under the revised provisions save for the matters noted estimate, the Directors make use of recognised valuation techniques below.
The Company allocates direct costs, including expenses and may take account of recent arms length transactions in the incidental to the purchase and sale of investments and incentive same or similar instruments.
Where no reliable fair value can be awards deemed to be performance related pursuant to the SORP estimated, investments may be carried at cost less any provision against capital profits.
However, the Company does not comply for impairment.
With respect specifically to investments in private with the recommendation of the SORP that either a proportion equity, whether through funds or partnerships, the Directors rely of all indirect expenditure or no indirect expenditure is allocated on unaudited valuations of the underlying listed investments as against capital profits.
The Company allocates indirect expenditure supplied by the managers of those funds or partnerships.
The against revenue profits save that two thirds of the costs of bank Directors regularly review the principles applied by the managers indebtedness, an indirect cost, are allocated against capital profits to those valuations to ensure they are in compliance with the save for the costs associated with seeding the fixed income bond above policies.
fund which are all charged to revenue.
The allocation of the costs of bank indebtedness reflects the long term return expected from Defined benefit scheme the Companys investment portfolio.
The estimation of the expected cash flows used in the calculation Adopted IFRS of defined benefit schemes liabilities includes a number of assumptions around mortality and inflation rates applicable to Amendments to the following IFRS were applicable for the year defined benefits.
More detail is given in note 26 of the financial ended 31 January 2011 but had no impact on the financial statements.
The Directors take actuarial advice when selecting statements: these assumptions and when selecting the discount rate used to t '34 4IBSF CBTFE QBZNFOUT BNFOENFOUT SFMBUJOH UP DBTI calculate the defined benefit scheme liabilities.
settled share based payment transactions t '34 PO DVSSFOU BTTFUT IFME GPS TBMF BOE EJTDPOUJOVFE 2.
"Summary of Significant Accounting Policies operations t ""4 $BTI PX TUBUFNFOUT SFMBUJOH UP UIF DMBTTJDBUJPO PG Going concern investment activities The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company t ""4 -FBTFT SFMBUJOH UP UIF DMBTTJDBUJPO PG MBOE MFBTFT has sufficient resources to continue operational existence for the forseeable future."
"Accordingly the financial statements have been t ""4 'JOBODJBM JOTUSVNFOUT QSFTFOUBUJPO SFMBUJOH UP UIF prepared on a going concern basis."
"presentation of rights issues Changes in accounting policies t ""4 NQBJSNFOU PG BTTFUT SFMBUJOH UP UIF JOUFSBDUJPO XJUI IFRS 8 Operating Segments The same accounting policies, presentations and methods of 56 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2011 t ""4 'JOBODJBM JOTUSVNFOUT o SFDPHOJUJPO BOE NFBTVSFNFOU All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are relating to loan repayment penalties on embedded derivatives, eliminated on consolidation."
business combination contracts and cash flow hedge Presentation of income statement accounting.
In order better to reflect the activities of an investment trust IFRS not yet applied company and in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC, supplementary information which analyses the income statement The following standards and interpretations which have been between items of a revenue and capital nature has been adopted by the European Union but are not effective for the year presented alongside the income statement.
In accordance with ended 31 January 2011 and have not been applied in preparing the Companys status as a UK investment company under section the financial statements, are relevant to the financial statements of 833 of the Companies Act 2006, net capital returns may not be the Group and the Company: distributed by way of dividend.
"t '34 'JOBODJBM JOTUSVNFOUT EJTDMPTVSF JO SFMBUJPO UP USBOTGFST of financial assets Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the t ""4 ODPNF 5BYFTJNJUFE TDPQF BNFOENFOU SFDPWFSZ PG cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of underlying assets the identifiable assets and liabilities of the subsidiary, associate or t ""4 3FMBUFE 1BSUZ 5SBOTBDUJPOT EFOJUJPO PG SFMBUFE QBSUJFT jointly controlled entity at the date of the acquisition."
"Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently O 0DUPCFS UIF ""4# JTTVFE '34 o 'JOBODJBM OTUSVNFOUT measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses."
This standard is effective for accounting periods commencing Goodwill which is recognised as an asset is reviewed for after 1st January 2013 and is designed to replace the existing impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised IAS39 but has not yet been fully adopted by the European Union.
immediately in profit or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
The standard covers the following areas: For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to t OJUJBM NFBTVSFNFOU PG OBODJBM JOTUSVNFOUT each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from t 4VCTFRVFOU NFBTVSFNFOU PG OBODJBM BTTFUT the synergies of the combination.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or t 4VCTFRVFOU NFBTVSFNFOU PG OBODJBM MJBCJMJUJFT more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be t %FSFDPHOJUJPO PG OBODJBM BTTFUT impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss t %FSFDPHOJUJPO PG OBODJBM MJBCJMJUJFT is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill t %FSJWBUJWFT allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit prorata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
"t &NCFEEFE EFSJWBUJWFT On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled t 3FDMBTTJDBUJPO entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the t ""NFOEFE '34 EJTDMPTVSFT determination of the profit or loss on disposal."
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to The changes will be applicable to the financial statements of the IFRSs has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject Company and Group for the year ended 31 December 2013 and to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off are expected to impact the Company and Groups accounting for to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated financial assets and liabilities and the disclosure thereof.
and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss Basis of consolidation on disposal.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial Revenue recognition statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Dividend income from investments is recognised when the Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 January each year.
shareholders rights to receive payment have been established, Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern normally the ex-dividend date.
the financial and operating policies of an invested entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Where the Company has an Where the Group has elected to receive its dividends in the form investment in over 50% of the issued share capital of an Open of additional shares rather than cash, the amount of cash dividend Ended Investment Company OEIC, the Company will treat foregone is recognised as income.
Any excess in the value of the OEIC as a subsidiary.
Third party investment in the OEICs is shares received over the amount of cash dividend foregone is recognised in the balance sheet as a liability.
Distributions to these recognised as a capital gain in the income statement.
investors are treated as finance costs in the income statement and Rental income from investment property and income from are disclosed in note 5 on page 62 of the financial statements.
mineral rights is recognised on a time apportioned basis.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2011 | 57 Interest income is accrued on a time apportioned basis, by Share based payments reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest The Group operates two share based payment schemes, the rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated All Employee Share Ownership Plan AESOP and the Long Term future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset Incentive Plan LTIP.
The cost of the AESOP is recognised as a to that assets net carrying amount.
The grant date fair value of options Special dividends receivable are treated as repayment of capital or granted to employees under the LTIP is recognised as an as income depending on the facts of each particular case.
employee expense, with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the employees become unconditionally Underwriting commission is recognised as earned.
The amount recognised as an expense Savings and pension plan transaction charges and set-up fees may be adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options are accounted for on the date on which the underlying that vest.
For share based compensation schemes settled by the transaction occurs.
Annual charges are applied over the period to Company a recharge equal to the cost during the period is made which they relate.
Expenses connected with rental income and mineral rights are included as administrative expenses.
Investment incentive plan The LTIP Investments was introduced during the year and is a Foreign currencies discretionary plan for members of the investment team.
It consists Transactions in currencies other than Sterling are recorded at of matching awards which are based upon the proportion of the rates of exchange applicable to the dates of the transactions.
annual bonus set aside in the scheme by the participants either At each balance sheet date, monetary items and non-monetary in the form of cash or units in the funds which they manage.
The assets and liabilities that are fair valued and are denominated awards are settled in cash at the end of a three year performance in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on period subject to meeting predefined performance targets.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included as capital net profit or loss for the period where Pension costs investments are classified as fair value through profit or loss.
Employer contributions to pension arrangements for staff are charged against revenue.
Expenses Contributions in respect of the defined benefit scheme are All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
In respect of calculated by reference to actuarial valuations carried out for the the analysis between revenue and capital items presented within Trustees at intervals of not more than three years, and represent a the income statement, all expenses have been presented as charge to cover the accruing liabilities on a continuing basis.
revenue items except as follows: Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full through equity in t &YQFOTFT XIJDI BSF JODJEFOUBM UP UIF BDRVJTJUJPO PG BO the period in which they occur.
investment are included within the cost of that investment.
t &YQFOTFT XIJDI BSF JODJEFOUBM UP UIF EJTQPTBM PG BO JOWFTUNFOU Taxation are deducted from the disposal proceeds of the investment.
The Company carries on its business as an investment trust and t 5IF %JSFDUPST IBWF EFUFSNJOFE UP BMMPDBUF BOOVBM CPOVT conducts its affairs so as to qualify as such under the provisions of and Incentive Plan costs which relate to the achievement Section 1158 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010. of investment manager performance objectives and total The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable shareholder return performance objectives against capital and deferred tax.
profits and those that relate to the achievement of other The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
corporate targets or job performance objectives against revenue Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income profits save for those costs associated with the fixed income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that bond fund which are all allocated to the revenue costs.
are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes t 5IF %JSFDUPST IBWF EFUFSNJOFE UP BMMPDBUF UXP UIJSET PG UIF items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for cost of bank indebtedness incurred to finance investment current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or against capital profits with the balance being allocated against substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
revenue profits save for those costs associated with the fixed In line with the recommendations of the SORP, the allocation income bond fund which are all allocated to revenue costs.
method used to calculate tax relief on expenses presented against capital returns in the supplementary information in the income Operating leases statement is the marginal basis.
Under this basis, if taxable Charges for operating leases are debited to the income statement income is capable of being offset entirely by expenses presented on an accruals basis.
Note 27 Operating lease commitments in the revenue return column of the income statement, then no discloses the commitments to pay charges for leases expiring tax relief is transferred to the capital return column.
58 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2011 Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable authorised in the UK.
These are valued at closing prices.
temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to Investments in property are initially recognised at cost and the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available then valued at fair value based on an independent professional against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
valuation at the reporting dates, with changes in fair value Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary recognised through the income statement.
Disposals of differences arise from the initial recognition of goodwill or from investment property are recognised when contracts for sale have the initial recognition other than in a business combination of been exchanged and the sale has been completed.
other asset and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the In respect of unquoted instruments, or where the market for tax profit nor the accounting profit.
a financial instrument is not active, fair value is established by Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary using valuation techniques, which may include using recent differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates arms length market transactions between knowledgeable, willing and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able parties, if available, reference to the current fair value of another to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is instrument that is substantially the same, discounted cash flow probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the analysis and option pricing models.
Where there is a valuation foreseeable future.
technique commonly used by market participants to price the The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each instrument and that technique has been demonstrated to provide balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer reliable estimates of prices obtained in actual market transactions, probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all that technique is utilised.
Where no reliable fair value can be or part of the asset to be recovered.
estimated for such unquoted equity instruments, they are carried at cost, subject to any provision for impairment.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Investments in subsidiaries are valued at net asset value as Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except the Directors consider this to approximate to the fair value of when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in those entities.
which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Valuation of mineral rights is based upon the gross income Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally received from the asset in the previous twelve months multiplied enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax by appropriate factors for gas and oil.
liabilities and where they relate to income taxes levied by the Foreign exchange gains and losses for fair-value designated same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current investments are included within the changes in its fair value.
tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Cash and cash equivalents Neither the Company or the Group recognise deferred tax assets Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and demand deposits or liabilities on capital profits or losses on the basis that the with banks including certain bank accounts held in foreign investment trust status of the Company means no tax is due on currencies which are readily convertible to sterling and are subject such profits or losses.
to insignificant risk of change in value.
Financial instruments Other receivables Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the Other receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Group shall offset nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated financial assets and financial liabilities if the Group has a legally irrecoverable amounts.
enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and interests Office premises and intends to settle on a net basis.
Office premises are valued by chartered surveyors on the basis of Investments market value in accordance with the RICS Appraisal and Valuation Standards.
No depreciation has been charged on these assets as, Investments are recognised and derecognised on the trade in the opinion of the Board, any provision for depreciation would date where a purchase or sale is made under a contract whose be immaterial in relation to the expenses for the year and the terms require delivery within the timeframe established by the assets of the Company.
market concerned, and are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs.
Investments are principally designated as fair value through profit and loss upon initial recognition not including transaction costs.
Listed investments are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value, which is either the bid price or the last traded price, depending on the convention of the exchange on which the investment is quoted.
"Listed investments include Collective Investment Schemes Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2011 | 59 Intangible assets t ""NPVOUT CZ XIJDI PUIFS BTTFUT BOE MJBCJMJUJFT WBMVFE BU GBJS value differ from their book value The external costs associated with the development and procurement of significant technology systems are capitalised t #VZ CBDL BOE DBODFMMBUJPO PG PXO TIBSFT when it is probable that the expected future economic benefit Translation reserve of that system will flow to the entity."
They are stated at cost less This reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from accumulated amortisation.
On the completion of each project the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries.
amortisation is charged so as to write off the value of these assets over periods up to five years.
Revaluation reserve Motor vehicles and other fixed assets This reserve is used to record changes in the valuation of the Companys office premises.
A downward revaluation in office Motor vehicles and certain other fixed assets are held at cost less premises is charged to the income statement to the extent that accumulated depreciation, which is charged to write off the value there is no earlier upward revaluation in this reserve for those of the asset over three years.
Financial liabilities and equity Merger reserve Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements This reserve was created as part of the arrangements for the entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences acquisition of the assets of Second Alliance Trust PLC.
a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all Capital Redemption reserve of its liabilities.
This reserve was created on the cancellation and repayment of the Bank borrowings Companys preference share capital.
Further movements in these reserves reflect the nominal value of the buy back and cancellation Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the of a portion of the share capital of the Company.
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption Revenue reserves and direct issue costs, are accounted for through the income Net revenue profits and losses of the Company and its subsidiaries statement on an accruals basis using the effective interest rate and the fair value costs of share based payments which are method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument revenue in nature are dealt with in this reserve.
to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Other payables Other payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Buy backs and cancellation of shares The costs of aquiring own shares for cancellation together with any associated trading costs are written back to distributable reserves.
Share capital is reduced by the nominal value of the shares bought back with an equivilant entry made to the capital redemption reserve.
"Realised and unrealised capital reserves A description of each of the reserves follows: Capital reserve The following are dealt with through this reserve: t BJOT BOE MPTTFT PO SFBMJTBUJPO PG JOWFTUNFOUT t $IBOHFT JO GBJS WBMVF PG JOWFTUNFOUT t 3FBMJTFE FYDIBOHF EJGGFSFODFT PG B DBQJUBM OBUVSF t 1VSDIBTFT PG TIBSFT CZ UIF 5SVTUFF PG UIF &NQMPZFF Benefit Trust t ""NPVOUT SFDPHOJTFE JO SFMBUJPO UP TIBSF CBTFE QBZNFOUT XIJDI are capital in nature"
