Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2011 | 55 computation are followed in these financial statements as are Notes applied in the Groups last annual audited financial statements, except that a change has been made to the allocation of 1.
General Information finance costs between revenue and capital such that those costs associated with the fixed income bond fund have been charged in Alliance Trust PLC was incorporated in the United Kingdom under full to revenue expenses.
The address of the registered office is given on page 92.
The nature of the Groups operations Basis of accounting and its principal activities are a global investment trust.
Both the parent Company financial statements and the Group Critical accounting estimates and judgements financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards The preparation of the financial statements necessarily requires IFRSs, as adopted by the European Union Adopted IFRSs.
the exercise of judgement both in application of accounting policies which are set out below and in the selection of The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost assumptions used in the calculation of estimates.
These estimates basis, except that investments and investment properties are stated and judgements are reviewed on an ongoing basis and are at fair value.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out continually evaluated based on historical experience and other below.
Where presentational guidance set out in the Statement of factors.
However, actual results may differ from these estimates.
Recommended Practice SORP for investment trusts issued by The most significantly affected components of the financial the Association of Investment Companies AIC in January 2003 statements and associated critical judgements are as follows: as revised in January 2009 is consistent with the requirements of IFRS, then the Directors have sought to prepare the financial Valuation of unlisted investments statements on a basis compliant with the recommendations of the Investments which are not listed or which are not frequently traded SORP.
The Group and the Company have prepared the financial are stated at Directors best estimate of fair value.
In arriving at their statements under the revised provisions save for the matters noted estimate, the Directors make use of recognised valuation techniques below.
The Company allocates direct costs, including expenses and may take account of recent arms length transactions in the incidental to the purchase and sale of investments and incentive same or similar instruments.
Where no reliable fair value can be awards deemed to be performance related pursuant to the SORP estimated, investments may be carried at cost less any provision against capital profits.
However, the Company does not comply for impairment.
With respect specifically to investments in private with the recommendation of the SORP that either a proportion equity, whether through funds or partnerships, the Directors rely of all indirect expenditure or no indirect expenditure is allocated on unaudited valuations of the underlying listed investments as against capital profits.
The Company allocates indirect expenditure supplied by the managers of those funds or partnerships.
The against revenue profits save that two thirds of the costs of bank Directors regularly review the principles applied by the managers indebtedness, an indirect cost, are allocated against capital profits to those valuations to ensure they are in compliance with the save for the costs associated with seeding the fixed income bond above policies.
fund which are all charged to revenue.
The allocation of the costs of bank indebtedness reflects the long term return expected from Defined benefit scheme the Companys investment portfolio.
The estimation of the expected cash flows used in the calculation Adopted IFRS of defined benefit schemes liabilities includes a number of assumptions around mortality and inflation rates applicable to Amendments to the following IFRS were applicable for the year defined benefits.
More detail is given in note 26 of the financial ended 31 January 2011 but had no impact on the financial statements.
The Directors take actuarial advice when selecting statements: these assumptions and when selecting the discount rate used to t '34 4IBSF CBTFE QBZNFOUT BNFOENFOUT SFMBUJOH UP DBTI calculate the defined benefit scheme liabilities.
settled share based payment transactions t '34 PO DVSSFOU BTTFUT IFME GPS TBMF BOE EJTDPOUJOVFE 2.
"Summary of Significant Accounting Policies operations t ""4 $BTI PX TUBUFNFOUT SFMBUJOH UP UIF DMBTTJDBUJPO PG Going concern investment activities The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company t ""4 -FBTFT SFMBUJOH UP UIF DMBTTJDBUJPO PG MBOE MFBTFT has sufficient resources to continue operational existence for the forseeable future."
"Accordingly the financial statements have been t ""4 'JOBODJBM JOTUSVNFOUT QSFTFOUBUJPO SFMBUJOH UP UIF prepared on a going concern basis."
"presentation of rights issues Changes in accounting policies t ""4 NQBJSNFOU PG BTTFUT SFMBUJOH UP UIF JOUFSBDUJPO XJUI IFRS 8 Operating Segments The same accounting policies, presentations and methods of"
