Notes to Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies Dual Listed Companies structure and basis Basis of preparation of preparation of financial statements This general purpose financial report for the year ended 30 June 2011 has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Merger terms Australian Corporations Act 2001 and the UK Companies Act 2006 On 29 June 2001, BHP Billiton Limited previously known as and with: BHP Limited, an Australian listed company, and BHP Billiton Plc Australian Accounting Standards, being Australian equivalents previously known as Billiton Plc, a United Kingdom UK listed to International Financial Reporting Standards and interpretations company, entered into a Dual Listed Company DLC merger.
as issued by the Australian Accounting Standards Board AASB This was effected by contractual arrangements between the effective as of 30 June 2011: Companies and amendments to their constitutional documents.
International Financial Reporting Standards and interpretations as The effect of the DLC merger is that BHP Billiton Limited and its adopted by the European Union EU effective as of 30 June 2011: subsidiaries the BHP Billiton Limited Group and BHP Billiton Plc International Financial Reporting Standards and interpretations and its subsidiaries the BHP Billiton Plc Group operate together as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board effective as a single economic entity the Group.
Under the arrangements: as of 30 June 2011. the shareholders of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have The above standards and interpretations are collectively referred a common economic interest in both Groups: to as IFRS in this report.
the shareholders of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc take key decisions, including the election of Directors, through a joint The principal standards that have been adopted for the first time electoral procedure under which the shareholders of the two in these financial statements are: Companies effectively vote on a joint basis: Improvements to IFRSs 2009 AASB 2009-4 Amendments BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have a common Board to Australian Accounting Standards arising from the Annual of Directors, a unified management structure and joint objectives: Improvements Project and AASB 2009-5 Further Amendments dividends and capital distributions made by the two Companies to Australian Accounting Standards arising from the Annual are equalised: Improvements Project include a collection of minor amendments BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc each executed a deed to IFRS.
These amendments include a requirement to classify poll guarantee, guaranteeing subject to certain exceptions the expenditures which do not result in a recognised asset as a cash contractual obligations whether actual or contingent, primary flow from operating activities.
This has resulted in exploration cash or secondary of the other incurred after 29 June 2001 together flows of US$1,030 million for the year ended 30 June 2010 2009: with specified obligations existing at that date.
US$1,009 million, which were not recognised as assets, being reclassified from net investing cash flows to net operating cash If either BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc proposes to pay flows in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement.
a dividend to its shareholders, then the other Company must pay The following standards may have an impact on the Group in future a matching cash dividend of an equivalent amount per share to its reporting periods but are not yet effective: shareholders.
If either Company is prohibited by law or is otherwise unable to declare, pay or otherwise make all or any portion of such IFRS 9 AASB 9 Financial Instruments modifies the classification and a matching dividend, then BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc will, measurement of certain classes of financial assets and liabilities: so far as it is practicable to do so, enter into such transactions with IFRS 10 AASB 10 Consolidated Financial Statements is a replacement each other as the Boards agree to be necessary or desirable so as to of IAS 27 AASB 127 Consolidations.
The revised standard enable both Companies to pay dividends as nearly as practicable at introduces a new, single definition of control which may impact the same time.
which entities are consolidated into the Group: IFRS 11 AASB 11 Joint Ventures modifies the definition of joint control The DLC merger did not involve the change of legal ownership of and focuses on the rights and obligations of joint arrangements to any assets of BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc, any change determine the accounting treatment.
It distinguishes between joint of ownership of any existing shares or securities of BHP Billiton Limited operations and joint ventures and may require use of the equity or BHP Billiton Plc, the issue of any shares or securities or any payment method for certain investments in jointly controlled entities which by way of consideration, save for the issue by each Company of are currently proportionately consolidated: one special voting share to a trustee company which is the means by which the joint electoral procedure is operated.
IFRS 13 AASB 13 Fair Value Measurement replaces fair value measurement guidance in individual IFRSs with a single source Accounting for the DLC merger of fair value measurement guidance: The basis of accounting for the DLC merger was established under Amendments to IAS 19 AASB 119 Employee Benefits.
These Australian and UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice GAAP, amendments require all actuarial gains and losses to be recognised pursuant to the requirements of the Australian Securities and immediately in other comprehensive income and require the Investments Commission ASIC Practice Note 71 Financial Reporting expected return on plan assets recognised in the income statement by Australian Entities in Dual-Listed Company Arrangements, an to be calculated based on the rate used to discount the defined order issued by ASIC under section 340 of the Corporations Act 2001 benefit obligation.
on 2 September 2002, and in accordance with the UK Companies Act 1985.
In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 1 AASB 1 These standards are available for early adoption in the 30 June 2011 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, financial year as permitted by the Australian Corporations Act 2001 the same basis of accounting is applied under International Financial but have not been applied in the preparation of these financial Reporting Standards.
Accordingly, these financial statements statements.
None of these standards have been endorsed by the EU consolidate the Group as follows: and hence are not available for early adoption in the EU.
The potential impacts on the financial statements of the Group of adopting these Results for the years ended 30 June 2011, 30 June 2010 and 30 June standards have not yet been determined unless otherwise indicated.
2009 are of the consolidated entity comprising the BHP Billiton Limited Group and the BHP Billiton Plc Group.
Basis of measurement Assets and liabilities of the BHP Billiton Limited Group and the The financial statements are drawn up on the basis of historical cost BHP Billiton Plc Group were consolidated at the date of the merger principles, except for derivative financial instruments and certain other at their existing carrying amounts.
financial assets which are carried at fair value.
Selected financial information of the BHP Billiton Limited single Currency of presentation parent entity is presented in note 36 to the financial statements.
All amounts are expressed in millions of US dollars, unless otherwise Financial statements of the BHP Billiton Plc single parent entity stated, consistent with the predominant functional currency of the are presented on page 235 of the Annual Report.
166 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information 1 Accounting policies continued Change in accounting policy Business combinations The accounting policies have been consistently applied by all entities Business combinations that occurred between 1 July 2004 and included in the Group consolidated financial statements and are 30 June 2009 were accounted for by applying the purchase method consistent with those applied in all prior years presented other than of accounting, whereby the purchase consideration of the combination changes required by the adoption of new and amended accounting is allocated to the identifiable net assets acquired.
Business combinations standards as discussed above and a change in accounting policy prior to 1 July 2004 have been accounted for in accordance with the relating to dividend equivalent payment entitlements of employee Groups previous policies under Australian GAAP and UK GAAP and share awards.
As permitted by IFRS 2 Share-based Payment, the Group has elected Business combinations in the current financial year are accounted to incorporate the value of dividend equivalent payment entitlements for by applying the acquisition method of accounting, whereby the into the grant date fair value of the associated equity-settled identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities identifiable share-based payment awards.
Previously, the Group elected to net assets are measured on the basis of fair value at the date measure and recognise the dividend equivalent payment as a separate of acquisition.
Goodwill This change in accounting policy was made to simplify the administration Where the fair value of consideration paid for a business combination and accounting for dividend equivalent payments and better integrate exceeds the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net the accounting into the fair value basis of measuring employee share assets acquired, the difference is treated as purchased goodwill.
Following this change in accounting policy, an employee benefit Where the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets provision of US$75 million was reversed US$16 million tax expense acquired exceeds the cost of acquisition, the difference is immediately and an additional share-based payments expense of US$48 million recognised in the income statement.
The recognition and measurement was recognised with a corresponding increase in the Employee share of goodwill attributable to a non-controlling interest in a business awards reserve US$10 million income tax credit.
Comparative combination is determined on a transaction by transaction basis.
amounts have not been restated.
Goodwill is not amortised, however its carrying amount is assessed annually against its recoverable amount as explained below under Principles of consolidation Impairment of non-current assets.
On the subsequent disposal or The financial statements of the Group include the consolidation of termination of a previously acquired business, any remaining balance BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc and their respective subsidiaries.
of associated goodwill is included in the determination of the profit Subsidiaries are entities controlled by either parent entity.
Control or loss on disposal or termination.
exists where either parent entity has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from Intangible assets its activities.
Subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial Amounts paid for the acquisition of identifiable intangible assets, report from the date control commences until the date control ceases.
such as software and licences, are capitalised at the fair value Where the Groups interest is less than 100 per cent, the interest of consideration paid and are recorded at cost less accumulated attributable to outside shareholders is reflected in non-controlling amortisation and impairment charges.
The effects of all transactions between entities within with a finite life are amortised on a straight-line basis over their the Group have been eliminated.
expected useful life, which is typically no greater than eight years.
The Group has no identifiable intangible assets for which the Joint ventures expected useful life is indefinite.
The Group undertakes a number of business activities through joint ventures.
Joint ventures are established through contractual Foreign currencies arrangements that require the unanimous consent of each of the The Groups reporting currency and the functional currency of venturers regarding the strategic financial and operating policies the majority of its operations is the US dollar as this is assessed of the venture joint control.
The Groups joint ventures are of to be the principal currency of the economic environments in two types: which they operate.
Jointly controlled entities Transactions denominated in foreign currencies currencies other A jointly controlled entity is a corporation, partnership or other entity than the functional currency of an operation are recorded using in which each participant holds an interest.
A jointly controlled entity the exchange rate ruling at the date of the underlying transaction.
operates in the same way as other entities, controlling the assets Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are of the joint venture, earning its own income and incurring its own translated using the rate of exchange ruling at year end and the gains liabilities and expenses.
Interests in jointly controlled entities are or losses on retranslation are included in the income statement, with accounted for using the proportionate consolidation method, whereby the exception of foreign exchange gains or losses on foreign currency the Groups proportionate interest in the assets, liabilities, revenues provisions for site closure and rehabilitation, which are capitalised in and expenses of jointly controlled entities are recognised within each property, plant and equipment for operating sites.
applicable line item of the financial statements.
The share of jointly Exchange variations resulting from the retranslation at closing rate controlled entities results is recognised in the Groups financial of the net investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures arising after statements from the date that joint control commences until the 1 July 2004 are accounted for in accordance with the policy stated date at which it ceases.
Exchange variations arising before this date were transferred to retained earnings at the date of transition to IFRS.
Jointly controlled assets The Group has certain contractual arrangements with other participants Subsidiaries and joint ventures that have functional currencies other to engage in joint activities involving the joint ownership of assets than US dollars translate their income statement items to US dollars dedicated to the purposes of each venture.
These arrangements do at the date of each transaction.
Assets and liabilities are translated not create a jointly controlled entity as the venturers directly derive at exchange rates prevailing at year end.
Exchange variations resulting the benefits of operation of their jointly owned assets, rather than from the retranslation at closing rate of the net investment in such deriving returns from an interest in a separate entity.
subsidiaries and joint ventures, together with differences between their income statement items translated at actual and closing rates, The financial statements of the Group include its share of the assets in are recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve.
For the such joint ventures, together with the liabilities, revenues and expenses purpose of foreign currency translation, the net investment in a foreign arising jointly or otherwise from those operations.
All such amounts operation is determined inclusive of foreign currency intercompany are measured in accordance with the terms of each arrangement, balances for which settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur which are usually in proportion to the Groups interest in the jointly in the foreseeable future.
The balance of the foreign currency controlled assets.
translation reserve relating to a foreign operation that is disposed of, or partially disposed of, is recognised in the income statement at the time of disposal.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 167 Notes to Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued Share-based payments value of the final sales price adjustment is re-estimated continuously and changes in fair value are recognised as an adjustment to revenue.
The fair value at grant date of equity settled share awards granted In all cases, fair value is estimated by reference to forward market prices.
on or after 8 November 2002 is charged to the income statement over the period for which the benefits of employee services are Revenue is not reduced for royalties and other taxes payable from the expected to be derived.
The corresponding accrued employee Groups production.
entitlement is recorded in the employee share awards reserve.
The Group separately discloses sales of Group production from sales The fair value of awards is calculated using an option pricing of third party products due to the significant difference in profit model which considers the following factors: margin earned on these sales.
exercise price expected life of the award Exploration and evaluation expenditure current market price of the underlying shares Exploration and evaluation activity involves the search for mineral and petroleum resources, the determination of technical feasibility and the expected volatility assessment of commercial viability of an identified resource.
expected dividends Exploration and evaluation activity includes: risk-free interest rate researching and analysing historical exploration data market-based performance hurdles gathering exploration data through topographical, geochemical non-vesting conditions and geophysical studies For equity-settled share awards granted on or before 7 November exploratory drilling, trenching and sampling 2002 and that remained unvested at 1 July 2004, the estimated determining and examining the volume and grade of the resource cost of share awards is charged to the income statement from grant surveying transportation and infrastructure requirements date to the date of expected vesting.
The estimated cost of awards conducting market and finance studies is based on the market value of shares at the grant date or the intrinsic value of options awarded, adjusted to reflect the impact Administration costs that are not directly attributable to a specific of performance conditions, where applicable.
exploration area are charged to the income statement.
Licence costs paid in connection with a right to explore in an existing exploration Where awards are forfeited because non-market based vesting area are capitalised and amortised over the term of the permit.
conditions are not satisfied, the expense previously recognised is proportionately reversed.
Where awards are cancelled because Exploration and evaluation expenditure including amortisation non-market based vesting conditions are not satisfied, the amount of capitalised licence costs is charged to the income statement that would have been recognised over the remaining vesting period as incurred except in the following circumstances, in which case is recognised immediately.
Upon forfeiture and cancellation, the the expenditure may be capitalised: relevant balance in the reserve is transferred to retained earnings.
In respect of minerals activities: Where shares in BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc are acquired the exploration and evaluation activity is within an area of by on-market purchases prior to settling vested entitlements, the cost interest which was previously acquired in a business combination of the acquired shares is carried as treasury shares and deducted and measured at fair value on acquisition: or from equity.
When awards are satisfied by delivery of acquired shares, any difference between their acquisition cost and the remuneration the existence of a commercially viable mineral deposit has expense recognised is charged directly to retained earnings.
The tax been established: effect of awards granted is recognised in income tax expense, except In respect of petroleum activities: to the extent that the total tax deductions are expected to exceed the exploration and evaluation activity is within an area of interest the cumulative remuneration expense.
In this situation, the excess for which it is expected that the expenditure will be recouped by of the associated current or deferred tax is recognised in other future exploitation or sale: or comprehensive income and forms part of the employee share exploration and evaluation activity has not reached a stage which awards reserve.
permits a reasonable assessment of the existence of commercially recoverable reserves.
Sales revenue Revenue from the sale of goods and disposal of other assets is Capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure considered recognised when persuasive evidence, usually in the form of an to be tangible is recorded as a component of property, plant and executed sales agreement, or an arrangement exists, indicating there equipment at cost less impairment charges.
Otherwise, it is recorded has been a transfer of risks and rewards to the customer, no further as an intangible asset such as licences.
As the asset is not available work or processing is required by the Group, the quantity and quality for use, it is not depreciated.
All capitalised exploration and evaluation of the goods has been determined with reasonable accuracy, the price expenditure is monitored for indications of impairment.
Where a is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured.
potential impairment is indicated, assessment is performed for each This is generally when title passes.
area of interest in conjunction with the group of operating assets representing a cash generating unit to which the exploration is In the majority of sales for most commodities, sales agreements attributed.
Exploration areas at which reserves have been discovered specify that title passes on the bill of lading date, which is the date but that require major capital expenditure before production can the commodity is delivered to the shipping agent.
For these sales, begin are continually evaluated to ensure that commercial quantities revenue is recognised on the bill of lading date.
For certain sales of reserves exist or to ensure that additional exploration work is under principally coal sales to adjoining power stations and diamond way or planned.
To the extent that capitalised expenditure is no longer sales, title passes and revenue is recognised when the goods have expected to be recovered it is charged to the income statement.
Development expenditure In cases where the terms of the executed sales agreement allow for When proved reserves are determined and development is sanctioned, an adjustment to the sales price based on a survey of the goods by capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is reclassified as the customer for instance an assay for mineral content, recognition assets under construction, and is disclosed as a component of property, of the sales revenue is based on the most recently determined plant and equipment.
All subsequent development expenditure is estimate of product specifications.
capitalised and classified as assets under construction.
Development For certain commodities, the sales price is determined on a provisional expenditure is net of proceeds from the sale of ore extracted during basis at the date of sale: adjustments to the sales price subsequently the development phase.
On completion of development, all assets occurs based on movements in quoted market or contractual prices up included in assets under construction are reclassified as either plant to the date of final pricing.
The period between provisional invoicing and equipment or other mineral assets.
and final pricing is typically between 60 and 120 days.
Revenue on provisionally priced sales is recognised based on the estimated fair value of the total consideration receivable.
The revenue adjustment mechanism embedded within provisionally priced sales arrangements has the character of a commodity derivative.
Accordingly, the fair 168 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information 1 Accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment Fair value is determined as the amount that would be obtained from the sale of the asset in an arms length transaction between Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost less accumulated knowledgeable and willing parties.
Fair value for mineral assets is depreciation and impairment charges.
Cost is the fair value of generally determined as the present value of the estimated future consideration given to acquire the asset at the time of its acquisition cash flows expected to arise from the continued use of the asset, or construction and includes the direct cost of bringing the asset to including any expansion prospects, and its eventual disposal, using the location and condition necessary for operation and the estimated assumptions that an independent market participant may take future cost of closure and rehabilitation of the facility.
These cash flows are discounted at an appropriate Other mineral assets rate to arrive at a net present value of the asset.
Other mineral assets comprise: Value in use is determined as the present value of the estimated future Capitalised exploration, evaluation and development expenditure cash flows expected to arise from the continued use of the asset in including development stripping for properties now in production: its present form and its eventual disposal.
Value in use is determined Mineral rights and petroleum interests acquired: by applying assumptions specific to the Groups continued use and Capitalised production stripping as described below in Overburden cannot take into account future development.
are different to those used in calculating fair value and consequently the value in use calculation is likely to give a different result usually Depreciation of property, plant and equipment lower to a fair value calculation.
The carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment including In testing for indications of impairment and performing impairment initial and any subsequent capital expenditure are depreciated to calculations, assets are considered as collective groups and referred their estimated residual value over the estimated useful lives of the to as cash generating units.
Cash generating units are the smallest specific assets concerned, or the estimated life of the associated mine, identifiable group of assets, liabilities and associated goodwill that field or lease, if shorter.
Estimates of residual values and useful lives generate cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows are reassessed annually and any change in estimate is taken into from other assets or groups of assets.
account in the determination of remaining depreciation charges.
Depreciation commences on the date of commissioning.
The major The impairment assessments are based on a range of estimates and categories of property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a unit assumptions, including: of production and or straight-line basis using estimated lives indicated Estimates assumptions: Basis: below.
However, where assets are dedicated to a mine, field or lease Future production proved and probable reserves, and are not readily transferable, the below useful lives are subject to resource estimates and, in certain the lesser of the asset categorys useful life and the life of the mine, cases, expansion projects field or lease: Commodity prices forward market and contract Buildings 25 to 50 years prices, and longer-term price Land not depreciated protocol estimates Plant and equipment 3 to 30 years straight-line Exchange rates current forward market Mineral rights and based on reserves exchange rates Petroleum interests on a unit of production basis Discount rates cost of capital risk-adjusted Capitalised exploration, based on reserves on a appropriate to the resource evaluation and unit of production basis development expenditure Overburden removal costs Overburden and other mine waste materials are often removed Leased assets during the initial development of a mine site in order to access the Assets held under leases which result in the Group receiving mineral deposit.
This activity is referred to as development stripping.
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset The directly attributable costs inclusive of an allocation of relevant finance leases are capitalised at the lower of the fair value overhead expenditure are initially capitalised as assets under of the property, plant and equipment or the estimated present construction.
Capitalisation of development stripping costs ceases value of the minimum lease payments.
at the time that saleable material begins to be extracted from the The corresponding finance lease obligation is included within interest mine.
On completion of development, all capitalised development bearing liabilities.
The interest element is allocated to accounting stripping included in assets under construction is transferred to other periods during the lease term to reflect a constant rate of interest mineral assets.
on the remaining balance of the obligation.
Production stripping commences at the time that saleable materials Operating lease assets are not capitalised and rental payments are begin to be extracted from the mine and normally continues throughout included in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the the life of a mine.
The costs of production stripping are charged to the lease term.
Provision is made for the present value of future operating income statement as operating costs when the ratio of waste material lease payments in relation to surplus lease space when it is first to ore extracted for an area of interest is expected to be constant determined that the space will be of no probable future benefit.
When the ratio of waste to ore is not Operating lease incentives are recognised as a liability when received expected to be constant, production stripping costs are accounted and subsequently reduced by allocating lease payments between for as follows: rental expense and reduction of the liability.
All costs are initially charged to the income statement and classified as operating costs.
Impairment of non-current assets When the current ratio of waste to ore is greater than the estimated Formal impairment tests are carried out annually for goodwill.
Formal life-of-mine ratio, a portion of the stripping costs inclusive of an impairment tests for all other assets are performed when there is an allocation of relevant overhead expenditure is capitalised to other indication of impairment.
The Group conducts annually an internal mineral assets.
review of asset values which is used as a source of information to assess for any indications of impairment.
External factors, such as In subsequent years when the ratio of waste to ore is less than the changes in expected future prices, costs and other market factors estimated life-of-mine ratio, a portion of capitalised stripping costs are also monitored to assess for indications of impairment.
If any is charged to the income statement as operating costs.
such indication exists an estimate of the assets recoverable amount The amount of production stripping costs capitalised or charged in is calculated, being the higher of fair value less direct costs to sell a financial year is determined so that the stripping expense for the and the assets value in use.
financial year reflects the estimated life-of-mine ratio.
Changes to If the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the estimated life-of-mine ratio are accounted for prospectively the asset is impaired and an impairment loss is charged to the income from the date of the change.
statement so as to reduce the carrying amount in the balance sheet to its recoverable amount.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 169 Notes to Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued Inventories Provision for employee bene ts Inventories, including work in progress, are valued at the lower Provision is made in the financial statements for all employee benefits, of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined primarily on including on-costs.
In relation to industry-based long service leave the basis of average costs.
For processed inventories, cost is derived funds, the Groups liability, including obligations for funding shortfalls, on an absorption costing basis.
Cost comprises cost of purchasing is determined after deducting the fair value of dedicated assets of raw materials and cost of production, including attributable mining such funds.
Liabilities for wages and salaries, including non-monetary benefits, annual leave and accumulating sick leave obliged to be settled within Finance costs 12 months of the reporting date, are recognised in sundry creditors Finance costs are generally expensed as incurred except where they or provision for employee benefits in respect of employees services relate to the financing of construction or development of qualifying up to the reporting date and are measured at the amounts expected assets requiring a substantial period of time to prepare for their to be paid when the liabilities are settled.
Liabilities for non-accumulating intended future use.
sick leave are recognised when the leave is taken and measured at the Finance costs are capitalised up to the date when the asset is ready rates paid or payable.
The amount of finance costs capitalised before The liability for long service leave for which settlement within 12 months the effects of income tax for the period is determined by applying of the reporting date cannot be deferred is recognised in the current the interest rate applicable to appropriate borrowings outstanding provision for employee benefits and is measured in accordance with during the period to the average amount of capitalised expenditure annual leave described above.
The liability for long service leave for for the qualifying assets during the period.
which settlement can be deferred beyond 12 months from the reporting Taxation date is recognised in the non-current provision for employee benefits Taxation on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and and measured as the present value of expected future payments to be deferred tax.
Taxation is recognised in the income statement except made in respect of services provided by employees up to the reporting to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, date.
Consideration is given to expected future wage and salary levels, in which case the tax is recognised in equity.
experience of employee departures and periods of service.
Expected future payments are discounted using market yields at the reporting Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income date on national government bonds with terms to maturity and for the year using rates enacted or substantively enacted at the currency that match, as closely as possible, the estimated future year end, and includes any adjustment to tax payable in respect cash outflows.
Superannuation, pensions and other post-retirement bene ts Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, The Group operates or participates in a number of pension including providing for the tax effect of temporary differences between the superannuation schemes throughout the world.
The funding of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting schemes complies with local regulations.
The assets of the schemes purposes and the amounts used for tax assessment or deduction are generally held separately from those of the Group and are purposes.
Where an asset has no deductible or depreciable amount administered by trustees or management boards.
for income tax purposes, but has a deductible amount on sale or abandonment for capital gains tax purposes, that amount is included For defined contribution schemes or schemes operated on an in the determination of temporary differences.
The tax effect of certain industry-wide basis where it is not possible to identify assets attributable temporary differences is not recognised, principally with respect to to the participation by the Groups employees, the pension charge goodwill: temporary differences arising on the initial recognition of is calculated on the basis of contributions payable.
assets or liabilities other than those arising in a business combination For defined benefit schemes, the cost of providing pensions is charged or in a manner that initially impacted accounting or taxable profit : to the income statement so as to recognise current and past service and temporary differences relating to investments in subsidiaries, costs, interest cost on defined benefit obligations, and the effect jointly controlled entities and associates to the extent that the Group of any curtailments or settlements, net of expected returns on plan is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and the assets.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
temporary difference is not expected to reverse in the foreseeable An asset or liability is consequently recognised in the balance sheet future.
The amount of deferred tax recognised is based on the based on the present value of defined benefit obligations, less any expected manner and timing of realisation or settlement of the unrecognised past service costs and the fair value of plan assets, carrying amount of assets and liabilities, with the exception of items except that any such asset cannot exceed the total of unrecognised that have a tax base solely derived under capital gains tax legislation, past service costs and the present value of refunds from and using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at period end.
reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Defined benefit To the extent that an items tax base is solely derived from the obligations are estimated by discounting expected future payments amount deductible under capital gains tax legislation, deferred using market yields at the reporting date on high-quality corporate tax is determined as if such amounts are deductible in determining bonds in countries that have developed corporate bond markets.
However, where developed corporate bond markets do not exist, A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable the discount rates are selected by reference to national government that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset bonds.
In both instances, the bonds are selected with terms to maturity can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance and currency that match, as closely as possible, the estimated future sheet date and amended to the extent that it is no longer probable cash flows.
that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Deferred tax assets and Certain Group companies provide post-retirement medical benefits liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the to qualifying retirees.
In some cases the benefits are provided through same taxation authority and the Group has both the right and the medical care schemes to which the Group, the employees, the retirees intention to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net or and covered family members contribute.
In some schemes there is no simultaneous basis.
funding of the benefits before retirement.
These schemes are recognised Royalties and resource rent taxes are treated as taxation arrangements on the same basis as described above for defined benefit when they have the characteristics of a tax.
This is considered to be pension schemes.
the case when they are imposed under government authority and the Closure and rehabilitation amount payable is calculated by reference to revenue derived net of any allowable deductions after adjustment for temporary differences.
The mining, extraction and processing activities of the Group normally For such arrangements, current and deferred tax is provided on the give rise to obligations for site closure or rehabilitation.
Closure and same basis as described above for other forms of taxation.
Obligations rehabilitation works can include facility decommissioning and arising from royalty arrangements that do not satisfy these criteria are dismantling: removal or treatment of waste materials: site and land recognised as current provisions and included in expenses.
The extent of work required and the associated costs are dependent on the requirements of relevant authorities and the Groups environmental policies.
170 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information 1 Accounting policies continued Provisions for the cost of each closure and rehabilitation program Derivatives, including those embedded in other contractual are recognised at the time that environmental disturbance occurs.
arrangements but separated for accounting purposes because they When the extent of disturbance increases over the life of an operation, are not clearly and closely related to the host contract, are initially the provision is increased accordingly.
Costs included in the provision recognised at fair value on the date the contract is entered into and encompass all closure and rehabilitation activity expected to occur are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method of progressively over the life of the operation and at the time of closure recognising the resulting gain or loss on remeasurement depends in connection with disturbances at the reporting date.
Routine operating on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, costs that may impact the ultimate closure and rehabilitation activities, and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The measurement such as waste material handling conducted as an integral part of of fair value is based on quoted market prices.
Where no price a mining or production process, are not included in the provision.
information is available from a quoted market source, alternative Costs arising from unforeseen circumstances, such as the contamination market mechanisms or recent comparable transactions, fair value caused by unplanned discharges, are recognised as an expense and is estimated based on the Groups views on relevant future prices, liability when the event gives rise to an obligation which is probable net of valuation allowances to accommodate liquidity, modelling and capable of reliable estimation.
and other risks implicit in such estimates.
The timing of the actual closure and rehabilitation expenditure is Forward exchange contracts held for hedging purposes are accounted dependent upon a number of factors such as the life and nature of the for as either cash flow or fair value hedges.
Interest rate swaps held asset, the operating licence conditions, the principles of the Groups for hedging purposes are generally accounted for as fair value hedges.
Charter and the environment in which the mine operates.
Expenditure Derivatives embedded within other contractual arrangements and may occur before and after closure and can continue for an extended the majority of commodity-based transactions executed through period of time dependent on closure and rehabilitation requirements.
derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting.
The majority of the expenditure is expected to be paid over periods Fair value hedges of up to 50 years with some payments into perpetuity.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and Closure and rehabilitation provisions are measured at the expected qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, value of future cash flows, discounted to their present value and together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset determined according to the probability of alternative estimates or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
Any difference of cash flows occurring for each operation.
Discount rates used are between the change in fair value of the derivative and the hedged specific to the country in which the operation is located.
Significant risk constitutes ineffectiveness of the hedge and is recognised judgements and estimates are involved in forming expectations of immediately in the income statement.
future activities and the amount and timing of the associated cash Cash ow hedges flows.
Those expectations are formed based on existing environmental and regulatory requirements or, if more stringent, Group environmental The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that policies which give rise to a constructive obligation.
are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in equity in the hedging reserve.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective When provisions for closure and rehabilitation are initially recognised, portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
the corresponding cost is capitalised as an asset, representing part of the cost of acquiring the future economic benefits of the operation.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled to the income The capitalised cost of closure and rehabilitation activities is recognised statement in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
in property, plant and equipment and depreciated accordingly.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the The value of the provision is progressively increased over time as recognition of a non-financial asset for example, plant and equipment the effect of discounting unwinds, creating an expense recognised purchases or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously in financial expenses.
deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the measurement of the initial carrying amount of the asset or liability.
Closure and rehabilitation provisions are also adjusted for changes in estimates.
Those adjustments are accounted for as a change in When a hedging instrument expires or is sold or terminated, or the corresponding capitalised cost, except where a reduction in the when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, provision is greater than the undepreciated capitalised cost of the any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains related assets, in which case the capitalised cost is reduced to nil in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately and the remaining adjustment is recognised in the income statement.
recognised in the income statement.
When a hedged forecast In the case of closed sites, changes to estimated costs are recognised transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative hedge immediately in the income statement.
Changes to the capitalised cost gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred result in an adjustment to future depreciation.
Adjustments to the to the income statement.
estimated amount and timing of future closure and rehabilitation cash Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting flows are a normal occurrence in light of the significant judgements Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting.
Factors influencing those changes include: Changes in the fair value of any derivative instrument that does revisions to estimated reserves, resources and lives of operations: not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately developments in technology: in the income statement.
regulatory requirements and environmental management strategies: Available for sale and trading investments changes in the estimated extent and costs of anticipated activities, Available for sale and trading investments are measured at fair value.
including the effects of inflation and movements in foreign Gains and losses on the remeasurement of trading investments are exchange rates: recognised directly in the income statement.
Gains and losses on movements in interest rates affecting the discount rate applied.
the remeasurement of available for sale investments are recognised Financial instruments directly in equity and subsequently recognised in the income statement when realised by sale or redemption, or when a reduction in fair value All financial assets are initially recognised at the fair value of consideration is judged to represent an impairment.
Subsequently, financial assets are carried at fair value or amortised cost less impairment.
Where non-derivative financial assets are carried Application of critical accounting policies and estimates at fair value, gains and losses on remeasurement are recognised The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires directly in equity unless the financial assets have been designated as management to make judgements and estimates and form assumptions being held at fair value through profit or loss, in which case the gains that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the and losses are recognised directly in the income statement.
Financial disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements, assets are designated as being held at fair value through profit or and the reported revenue and expenses during the periods presented loss when this is necessary to reduce measurement inconsistencies therein.
On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its judgements for related assets and liabilities.
All financial liabilities other than and estimates in relation to assets, liabilities, contingent liabilities, derivatives are initially recognised at fair value of consideration revenue and expenses.
Management bases its judgements and received net of transaction costs as appropriate initial cost and estimates on historical experience and on other factors it believes subsequently carried at amortised cost.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 171 Notes to Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form Overburden removal costs recorded on the balance sheet or charged the basis of the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not to the income statement may change due to changes in stripping readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from ratios or the units of production basis of depreciation.
these estimates under different assumptions and conditions.
Decommissioning, site restoration and environmental provisions may change where changes in estimated reserves affect expectations The Group has identified the following critical accounting policies about the timing or cost of these activities.
under which significant judgements, estimates and assumptions are The carrying amount of deferred tax assets may change due made and where actual results may differ from these estimates under to changes in estimates of the likely recovery of the tax benefits.
different assumptions and conditions and may materially affect financial results or the financial position reported in future periods.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure Further details of the nature of these assumptions and conditions The Groups accounting policy for exploration and evaluation may be found in the relevant notes to the financial statements.
expenditure results in certain items of expenditure being capitalised for an area of interest where it is considered likely to be recoverable Reserve estimates by future exploitation or sale or where the activities have not reached Reserves are estimates of the amount of product that can be a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the existence of economically and legally extracted from the Groups properties.
This policy requires management to make certain estimates In order to estimate reserves, estimates are required about a range and assumptions as to future events and circumstances, in particular of geological, technical and economic factors, including quantities, whether an economically viable extraction operation can be established.
grades, production techniques, recovery rates, production costs, Any such estimates and assumptions may change as new information transport costs, commodity demand, commodity prices and becomes available.
If, after having capitalised the expenditure under exchange rates.
the policy, a judgement is made that recovery of the expenditure is unlikely, the relevant capitalised amount will be written off to the Estimating the quantity and or grade of reserves requires the size, income statement.
shape and depth of ore bodies or fields to be determined by analysing geological data such as drilling samples.
This process may require Development expenditure complex and difficult geological judgements to interpret the data.
Development activities commence after project sanctioning by the The Group determines and reports ore reserves in Australia and the appropriate level of management.
Judgement is applied by management UK under the principles incorporated in the Australasian Code for in determining when a project is economically viable.
In exercising Reporting Exploration Results of Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves this judgement, management is required to make certain estimates December 2004, known as the JORC Code.
The JORC Code requires and assumptions similar to those described above for capitalised the use of reasonable investment assumptions when reporting exploration and evaluation expenditure.
Any such estimates and reserves.
As a result, management will form a view of forecast sales assumptions may change as new information becomes available.
prices, based on current and long-term historical average price trends.
If, after having commenced the development activity, a judgement For example, if current prices remain above long-term historical is made that a development asset is impaired, the appropriate averages for an extended period of time, management may assume amount will be written off to the income statement.
that lower prices will prevail in the future and as a result, those lower Property, plant and equipment recoverable amount prices are used to estimate reserves under the JORC Code.
Lower price assumptions generally result in lower estimates of reserves.
In accordance with the Groups accounting policy, each asset or cash generating unit is evaluated every reporting period to determine Reserve reporting requirements for SEC United States of America whether there are any indications of impairment.
If any such indication filings are specified in Industry Guide 7, which requires economic exists, a formal estimate of recoverable amount is performed and assumptions to be based on current economic conditions which may an impairment loss recognised to the extent that carrying amount differ from assumptions based on reasonable investment assumptions.
The recoverable amount of an asset Accordingly, for SEC filings, we test our reserve estimates derived or cash generating group of assets is measured at the higher of fair under JORC against assumed current economic conditions.
Current value less costs to sell and value in use.
economic conditions are based on the three-year historical average The determination of fair value and value in use requires management contract prices for commodities, such as iron ore and coal, and the to make estimates and assumptions about expected production and three-year historical average for commodities that are traded on the sales volumes, commodity prices considering current and historical London Metal Exchange, such as copper and nickel.
However, we only prices, price trends and related factors, reserves see Reserve report a different reserve in the US if, based on the US SEC pricing estimates above, operating costs, closure and rehabilitation costs assumptions test, the reserve will be lower than that reported under and future capital expenditure.
These estimates and assumptions JORC in Australia and the UK.
are subject to risk and uncertainty: hence there is a possibility that Oil and gas reserves reported in Australia and the UK, and the US for changes in circumstances will alter these projections, which may SEC filing purposes are based on the average of prices prevailing on impact the recoverable amount of the assets.
In such circumstances, the first day of each month for the past 12 months as required under some or all of the carrying amount of the assets may be further the SEC Rules Modernisation of Oil & Gas Reporting.
Reserves reported impaired or the impairment charge reduced with the impact recorded in prior periods are based on the prices prevailing at the time of the in the income statement.
estimates as previously required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
69 Disclosures about Oil and Gas Producing Activities, fide ned bene t pension schemes issued by the US Financial Accounting Standards Board.
The Groups accounting policy for defined benefit pension schemes requires management to make judgements as to the nature of benefits Because the economic assumptions used to estimate reserves change provided by each scheme and thereby determine the classification from period to period, and because additional geological data is of each scheme.
For defined benefit schemes, management is required generated during the course of operations, estimates of reserves to make annual estimates and assumptions about future returns on may change from period to period.
Changes in reported reserves classes of scheme assets, future remuneration changes, employee may affect the Groups financial results and financial position attrition rates, administration costs, changes in benefits, inflation rates, in a number of ways, including the following: exchange rates, life expectancy and expected remaining periods of Asset carrying amounts may be affected due to changes in service of employees.
In making these estimates and assumptions, estimated future cash flows.
management considers advice provided by external advisers, such as Depreciation, depletion and amortisation charged in the income actuaries.
Where actual experience differs to these estimates, actuarial statement may change where such charges are determined by gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
Refer to note 29 for the units of production basis, or where the useful economic lives details of the key assumptions.
172 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information 1 Accounting policies continued Provision for closure and rehabilitation profits.
Deferred tax liabilities arising from temporary differences in investments, caused principally by retained earnings held in foreign The Groups accounting policy for the recognition of closure and tax jurisdictions, are recognised unless repatriation of retained rehabilitation provisions requires significant estimates and assumptions earnings can be controlled and are not expected to occur in the such as: requirements of the relevant legal and regulatory framework: foreseeable future.
the magnitude of possible contamination: and the timing, extent and costs of required closure and rehabilitation activity.
These uncertainties Assumptions about the generation of future taxable profits and may result in future actual expenditure differing from the amounts repatriation of retained earnings depend on managements estimates currently provided.
These depend on estimates of future production and sales volumes, commodity prices, reserves, operating costs, The provision recognised for each site is periodically reviewed and closure and rehabilitation costs, capital expenditure, dividends and updated based on the facts and circumstances available at the time.
Judgements are also required Changes to the estimated future costs for operating sites are recognised about the application of income tax legislation.
These judgements in the balance sheet by adjusting both the closure and rehabilitation and assumptions are subject to risk and uncertainty, hence there is asset and provision.
For closed sites, changes to estimated costs are a possibility that changes in circumstances will alter expectations, recognised immediately in the income statement.
which may impact the amount of deferred tax assets and deferred In addition to the uncertainties noted above, certain closure and tax liabilities recognised on the balance sheet and the amount rehabilitation activities are subject to legal disputes and depending of other tax losses and temporary differences not yet recognised.
on the ultimate resolution of these issues, the final liability for these In such circumstances, some or all of the carrying amount of matters could vary.
recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities may require adjustment, resulting in a corresponding credit or charge to the income statement.
Taxation The Groups accounting policy for taxation requires managements Rounding of amounts judgement as to the types of arrangements considered to be a tax Amounts in these financial statements have, unless otherwise on income in contrast to an operating cost.
Judgement is also required indicated, been rounded to the nearest million dollars.
in assessing whether deferred tax assets and certain deferred tax Comparatives liabilities are recognised on the balance sheet.
Deferred tax assets, including those arising from unrecouped tax losses, capital losses, Where applicable, comparatives have been adjusted to present them foreign tax credits and temporary differences, are recognised only on the same basis as current period figures.
where it is considered more likely than not that they will be recovered, which is dependent on the generation of sufficient future taxable Exchange rates The following exchange rates relative to the US dollar have been applied in the financial statements: Average Average Average year ended year ended year ended As at As at As at 30 June 2011 30 June 2010 30 June 2009 30 June 2011 30 June 2010 30 June 2009 a Australian dollar 0.99 0.88 0.75 1.07 0.85 0.81 Brazilian real 1.68 1.80 2.08 1.57 1.81 1.95 Canadian dollar 1.00 1.06 1.16 0.97 1.06 1.16 Chilean peso 486 529 582 470 545 530 Colombian peso 1,843 1,970 2,205 1,779 1,920 2,159 South African rand 7.01 7.59 9.01 6.80 7.68 7.82 Euro 0.73 0.72 0.73 0.69 0.82 0.71 UK pound sterling 0.63 0.63 0.63 0.62 0.66 0.60 a Displayed as US$ to A$1 based on common convention.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 173 Notes to Financial Statements continued 2 Segment reporting Business segments The Group operates nine Customer Sector Groups aligned with the commodities which we extract and market, reflecting the structure used by the Groups management to assess the performance of the Group: Customer Sector Group Principal activities Petroleum Exploration, development and production of oil and gas Aluminium Mining of bauxite, refining of bauxite into alumina and smelting of alumina into aluminium metal Base Metals Mining of copper, silver, lead, zinc, molybdenum, uranium and gold Diamonds and Specialty Products Mining of diamonds and titanium minerals: potash development Stainless Steel Materials Mining and production of nickel products Iron Ore Mining of iron ore Manganese Mining of manganese ore and production of manganese metal and alloys Metallurgical Coal Mining of metallurgical coal Energy Coal Mining of thermal energy coal Group and unallocated items represent Group centre functions.
Exploration and technology activities are recognised within relevant segments.
It is the Groups policy that inter-segment sales are made on a commercial basis.
b Underlying EBIT is earnings before net finance costs, taxation and any exceptional items.
Underlying EBITDA is Underlying EBIT, before depreciation, amortisation and impairments.
c Refer to note 6. d Refer to note 3.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 177 Notes to Financial Statements continued 3 Exceptional items Exceptional items are those items where their nature and amount is considered material to the financial statements.
Such items included within the Groups profit for the year are detailed below.
Gross Tax Net Year ended 30 June 2011 US$M US$M US$M Exceptional items by category Withdrawn offer for PotashCorp 314 314 Newcastle steelworks rehabilitation 150 45 105 Release of income tax provisions 718 718 Reversal of deferred tax liabilities 1,455 1,455 164 2,128 1,964 Exceptional items are classified by nature of expense as follows: Closure and rehabilitation Year ended 30 June 2011 External provisions US$M services released Gross Withdrawn offer for PotashCorp 314 314 Newcastle steelworks rehabilitation 150 150 314 150 164 Withdrawn offer for Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan Inc. PotashCorp : The Group withdrew its offer for PotashCorp on 15 November 2010 following the Boards conclusion that the condition of the offer relating to receipt of a net benefit as determined by the Minister of Industry under the Investment Canada Act could not be satisfied.
The Group incurred fees associated with the US$45 billion debt facility US$240 million, investment bankers, lawyers and accountants fees, printing expenses and other charges US$74 million in progressing this matter during the period up to the withdrawal of the offer, which were expensed as operating costs in the year ended 30 June 2011.
Newcastle steelworks rehabilitation: The Group recognised a decrease of US$150 million US$45 million tax charge to rehabilitation obligations in respect of former operations at the Newcastle steelworks Australia following a full review of the progress of the Hunter River Remediation Project and estimated costs to completion.
Release of income tax provisions: The Australian Taxation Office ATO issued amended assessments in prior years denying bad debt deductions arising from the investments in Beenup and Boodarie Iron and the denial of capital allowance claims made on the Boodarie Iron project.
The Group challenged the assessments and was successful on all counts before the Full Federal Court.
The ATO obtained special leave in September 2010 to appeal to the High Court in respect of the denial of capital allowance claims made on the Boodarie Iron project.
The Groups position in respect of the capital allowance claims on the Boodarie Iron project was confirmed by the High Court in June 2011.
As a result of these appeals, US$138 million was released from the Groups income tax provision in September 2010 and US$580 million in June 2011.
Reversal of deferred tax liabilities: Consistent with the functional currency of the Groups operations, eligible Australian entities elected to adopt a US dollar tax functional currency from 1 July 2011.
As a result, the deferred tax liability relating to certain US dollar denominated financial arrangements has been derecognised, resulting in a credit to income tax expense of US$1,455 million.
178 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information 3 Exceptional items continued Gross Tax Net Year ended 30 June 2010 US$M US$M US$M Exceptional items by category Pinal Creek rehabilitation 186 53 133 Disposal of Ravensthorpe nickel operations 653 196 457 Restructuring of operations and deferral of projects 298 12 286 Renegotiation of power supply agreements 229 50 179 Release of income tax provisions 128 128 312 59 253 Exceptional items are classified by nature of expense as follows: Contract cancellation, Impairment Funding redundancy impairment received for and other reversal Closure and past and restructuring of property, rehabilitation future costs Embedded Year ended 30 June 2010 plant and provisions rehabilitation incurred derivative US$M equipment released costs released revaluations Gross Renegotiation of power supply agreements 229 229 Restructuring of operations and deferral of projects 292 6 298 Disposal of the Ravensthorpe nickel operations 611 42 653 Pinal Creek rehabilitation 130 56 186 319 130 56 36 229 312 Pinal Creek rehabilitation: On 22 February 2010 a settlement was reached in relation to the Pinal Creek US groundwater contamination which resulted in other parties taking on full responsibility for groundwater remediation and partly funding the Group for past and future rehabilitation costs.
As a result, a gain of US$186 million US$53 million tax expense was recognised reflecting the release of rehabilitation provisions and cash received.
Disposal of Ravensthorpe nickel operations: On 9 December 2009, the Group announced it had signed an agreement to sell the Ravensthorpe nickel operations Australia.
The sale was completed on 10 February 2010.
As a result of the sale, impairment charges recognised as exceptional items in the financial year ended 30 June 2009 were partially reversed totalling US$611 million US$183 million tax expense.
In addition, certain obligations that remained with the Group were mitigated and related provisions released: together with minor net operating costs this resulted in a gain of US$42 million US$13 million tax expense.
Restructuring of operations and deferral of projects: Continuing power supply constraints impacting the Groups three Aluminium smelter operations in southern Africa, and temporary delays with the Guinea Alumina project, gave rise to charges for the impairment of property, plant and equipment and restructuring provisions.
A total charge of US$298 million US$12 million tax benefit was recognised by the Group in the year ended 30 June 2010.
Renegotiation of power supply arrangements: Renegotiation of long-term power supply arrangements in southern Africa impacted the value of embedded derivatives contained within those arrangements.
A total charge of US$229 million US$50 million tax benefit was recognised by the Group in the year ended 30 June 2010.
Release of income tax provisions: The ATO issued amended assessments in prior years denying bad debt deductions arising from the investments in Hartley, Beenup and Boodarie Iron and the denial of capital allowance claims made on the Boodarie Iron project.
BHP Billiton lodged objections and was successful on all counts in the Federal Court and the Full Federal Court.
The ATO has not sought to appeal the Boodarie Iron bad debt disallowance to the High Court which resulted in a release of US$128 million from the Groups income tax provisions.
The ATO sought special leave to appeal to the High Court in relation to the Beenup bad debt disallowance and the denial of the capital allowance claims on the Boodarie Iron project and was granted special leave only in relation to the denial of the capital allowance claims on the Boodarie Iron project.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 179 Notes to Financial Statements continued 3 Exceptional items continued Gross Tax Net Year ended 30 June 2009 US$M US$M US$M Exceptional items by category Suspension of Ravensthorpe nickel operations 3,615 1,076 2,539 Announced sale of Yabulu refinery 510 175 685 Withdrawal or sale of other operations 665 23 688 Deferral of projects and restructuring of operations 306 86 220 Newcastle steelworks rehabilitation 508 152 356 Lapsed offers for Rio Tinto 450 93 357 6,054 1,209 4,845 Exceptional items are classified by nature of expense as follows: Contract Impairments Closure cancellation, of property, and redundancy Year ended 30 June 2009 plant and rehabilitation and other Inventory Rio Tinto a US$M equipment provisions closure costs impairments offer costs Gross Suspension of Ravensthorpe nickel operations 3,260 228 127 3,615 Announced sale of Yabulu refinery 510 510 Withdrawal or sale of other operations 463 34 137 31 665 Deferral of projects and restructuring of operations 217 80 9 306 Newcastle steelworks rehabilitation 508 508 Lapsed offers for Rio Tinto 450 450 4,450 542 445 167 450 6,054 a Impairments recorded in respect of Ravensthorpe nickel operations have been calculated by reference to fair value less costs to sell, based on an internal valuation.
Impairments recorded in respect of Yabulu refinery have been calculated with respect to the sale proceeds expected to be received.
Suspension of Ravensthorpe nickel operations: On 21 January 2009, the Group announced the suspension of operations at Ravensthorpe nickel operations Australia and as a consequence stopped the processing of the mixed nickel cobalt hydroxide product at Yabulu Australia.
As a result, an impairment charge and increased provisions for contract cancellation, redundancy and other closure costs of US$3,615 million US$1,076 million tax benefit were recognised.
This exceptional item did not include the loss from operations of Ravensthorpe nickel operations of US$173 million.
Announced sale of Yabulu re nery: On 3 July 2009, the Group announced the sale of the Yabulu nickel operations.
As a result, impairment charges of US$510 million US$ nil tax benefit were recognised in addition to those recognised on suspension of the Ravensthorpe nickel operations.
As a result of the sale, deferred tax assets of US$175 million were no longer expected to be realised by the Group and were recognised as a charge to income tax expense.
The remaining assets and liabilities of the Yabulu operations were classified as held for sale as at 30 June 2009.
Withdrawal or sale of other operations: As part of the Groups regular review of the long-term viability of operations, a total charge of US$665 million US$23 million tax expense was recognised primarily in relation to the decisions to cease development of the Maruwai Haju trial mine Indonesia, sell the Suriname operations, suspend copper sulphide mining operations at Pinto Valley US and cease the pre-feasibility study at Corridor Sands Mozambique.
The remaining assets and liabilities of the Suriname operations were classified as held for sale as at 30 June 2009.
Deferral of projects and restructuring of operations: As part of the Groups regular review of the long-term viability of continuing operations, a total charge of US$306 million US$86 million tax benefit was recognised primarily in relation to the deferral of expansions at the Nickel West operations Australia, deferral of the Guinea Alumina project Guinea and the restructuring of the Bayside Aluminium Casthouse operations South Africa.
Newcastle steelworks rehabilitation: The Group recognised a charge of US$508 million US$152 million tax benefit for additional rehabilitation obligations in respect of former operations at the Newcastle steelworks Australia.
The increase in obligations related to changes in the estimated volume of sediment in the Hunter River requiring remediation and treatment, and increases in estimated treatment costs.
Lapsed offers for Rio Tinto: The Groups offers for Rio Tinto lapsed on 27 November 2008 following the Boards decision that it no longer believed that completion of the offers was in the best interests of BHP Billiton shareholders.
The Group incurred fees associated with the US$55 billion debt facility US$156 million cost, US$31 million tax benefit, investment bankers, lawyers and accountants fees, printing expenses and other charges US$294 million cost, US$62 million tax benefit in progressing this matter over the 18 months up to the lapsing of the offers, which were expensed in the year ended 30 June 2009.
180 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information 4 Other income 2011 2010 2009 US$M US$M US$M Dividend income 12 16 33 Royalties 27 12 11 Losses gains on sale of property, plant and equipment 12 76 48 Gains on sale of investments 53 22 8 Gains losses on sale of subsidiaries and operations 16 18 Commission income 142 118 106 Insurance recoveries 10 21 88 Other income 299 247 313 Total other income 531 528 589 5 Expenses 2011 2010 2009 US$M US$M US$M Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in progress 394 501 11 Raw materials and consumables used 8,148 6,371 6,227 Employee benefits expense 5,299 4,661 4,147 External services including transportation 11,705 9,538 9,725 Third party commodity purchases 3,758 4,478 5,785 Net foreign exchange losses gains 1,074 112 324 Research and development costs before crediting related grants 74 65 156 a Fair value change on derivatives 63 259 560 Impairment of available for sale financial assets 2 71 Government royalties paid and payable 2,887 1,653 1,905 Depreciation and amortisation expense 5,039 4,759 3,871 Exploration and evaluation expenditure incurred and expensed in the current period 981 1,030 1,009 Exploration and evaluation expenditure previously capitalised, written off b as unsuccessful or abandoned 73 256 96 b Impairment of property, plant and equipment 11 89 4,439 Reversal of previously written off capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure 1 b Reversal of previously impaired property, plant and equipment 10 630 Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets 34 Operating lease rentals 451 390 409 All other operating expenses 1,295 764 1,661 Total expenses 40,454 33,295 38,640 2011 2010 2009 US$M US$M US$M Aggregate employee benefits expense Wages, salaries and redundancies 4,834 4,271 3,877 c Employee share awards 199 210 164 Social security costs 18 13 15 Pensions and other post-retirement obligations costs refer to note 29 406 336 289 5,457 4,830 4,345 Less employee benefits expense classified as exploration and evaluation expenditure above 158 169 198 Employee benefits expense 5,299 4,661 4,147 a Fair value change on derivatives includes realised losses of US$40 million 2010: US$95 million realised losses: 2009: US$219 million realised losses and unrealised losses of US$23 million 2010: US$164 million unrealised losses: 2009: US$779 million unrealised gains.
b Includes exceptional items of US$ nil 2010: US$319 million: 2009: US$4,450 million.
Refer to note 3. c Employee share awards expense is US$199.140 million 2010: US$210.490 million: 2009: US$163.820 million.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 181 Notes to Financial Statements continued 6 Net finance costs 2011 2010 2009 US$M US$M US$M Financial expenses a Interest on bank loans and overdrafts 19 24 47 a Interest on all other borrowings 471 460 527 Finance lease and hire purchase interest 12 14 15 Dividends on redeemable preference shares 1 Discounting on provisions and other liabilities 411 359 315 Discounting on post-retirement employee benefits 128 130 132 b Interest capitalised 256 301 149 Fair value change on hedged loans 140 131 390 Fair value change on hedging derivatives 110 138 377 Exchange variations on net debt 51 5 49 806 674 852 Financial income c Interest income 141 117 198 Expected return on pension scheme assets 104 98 111 245 215 309 Net finance costs 561 459 543 a Includes interest expense on financial liabilities carried at amortised cost of US$161 million 2010: US$274 million: 2009: US$338 million.
b Interest has been capitalised at the rate of interest applicable to the specific borrowings financing the assets under construction or, where financed through general borrowings, at a capitalisation rate representing the average interest rate on such borrowings.
For the year ended 30 June 2011, the capitalisation rate was 2.87 per cent 2010: 3.5 per cent: 2009: 4.25 per cent.
c Includes interest income on financial assets carried at amortised cost of US$141 million 2010: US$117 million: 2009: US$198 million.
7 Income tax and deferred tax 2011 2010 2009 US$M US$M US$M Total taxation expense comprises: Current tax expense 8,845 5,395 6,078 Deferred tax expense 1,536 1,168 799 7,309 6,563 5,279 Total taxation expense attributed to geographical jurisdiction UK 21 178 319 Australia 3,503 3,798 3,158 Rest of world 3,785 2,587 1,802 7,309 6,563 5,279 182 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information 7 Income tax and deferred tax continued 2011 2010 2009 % US$M % US$M % US$M Factors affecting income tax expense for the period Income tax expense differs to the standard rate of corporation tax as follows: Profit before taxation 31,255 19,572 11,617 Tax on profit at standard rate of 30 per cent 30.0 9,377 30.0 5,872 30.0 3,485 Investment and development allowance 1.0 298 1.4 279 1.2 142 a Amounts over under provided in prior years 1.3 397 1.0 181 0.1 16 Initial recognition derecognition of tax assets 13 0.2 42 2.5 290 Non-deductible depreciation, amortisation and exploration expenditure 0.4 109 0.5 92 0.7 91 Tax rate differential on foreign income 0.1 32 0.5 94 0.2 26 Tax on remitted and unremitted foreign earnings 0.8 251 1.1 221 1.7 196 Non tax-effected operating losses and capital gains 0.3 108 0.8 152 2.9 338 Exchange variations and other translation adjustments 4.7 1,473 0.5 106 3.8 444 Tax rate changes 0.1 17 0.1 17 b Other 3.7 1,168 0.3 60 0.8 92 Income tax expense 20.8 6,481 31.2 6,112 41.1 4,784 Royalty related taxation net of income tax benefit 2.6 828 2.3 451 4.3 495 Total taxation expense 23.4 7,309 33.5 6,563 45.4 5,279 a Includes exceptional items of US$718 million 2010: US$128 million: 2009: US$ nil for the release of tax provisions following the Groups position being confirmed with respect to ATO amended assessments.
Refer to note 3. b Includes exceptional items of US$1,455 million 2010: US$ nil: 2009: US$ nil for the reversal of deferred tax liabilities following the election of eligible Australian entities to adopt a USD tax functional currency.
Income tax recognised in components of other comprehensive income is as follows: 2011 2010 2009 US$M US$M US$M Income tax effect of: Actuarial losses on pension and medical schemes 26 15 62 Available for sale investments: Net valuation losses gains taken to equity 37 16 21 Net valuation gains losses transferred to the income statement Cash flow hedges: Losses gains taken to equity 5 245 Realised losses transferred to the income statement 1 7 Unrealised gains transferred to the income statement 15 Gains transferred to the initial carrying amount of hedged items 5 Exchange fluctuations on translation of foreign operations taken to equity Exchange fluctuations on translation of foreign operations transferred to the income statement Employee share awards taken directly to retained earnings on exercise 70 39 27 Accrued employee entitlements for unvested awards 13 69 89 a Total income tax credit charge relating to components of other comprehensive income 120 111 253 a Included within total income tax relating to components of other comprehensive income is US$47 million relating to deferred taxes and US$73 million relating to current taxes 2010: US$75 million and US$36 million: 2009: US$ 297 million and US$44 million.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 183 Notes to Financial Statements continued 7 Income tax and deferred tax continued The movement for the year in the Groups net deferred tax position is as follows: 2011 2010 2009 US$M US$M US$M Net deferred tax asset liability At the beginning of the financial year 267 872 370 Income tax credit charge recorded in the income statement 1,536 1,168 799 Income tax credit charge recorded directly in equity 47 75 297 Acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries and operations 49 6 Exchange variations and other movements 6 3 6 At the end of the financial year 1,310 267 872 The composition of the Groups net deferred tax asset and liability recognised in the balance sheet and the deferred tax expense credited charged to the income statement is as follows: Credited charged to Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities the income statement 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2009 US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M Type of temporary difference Depreciation 679 805 1,429 2,661 1,364 938 692 Exploration expenditure 657 555 2 15 84 112 95 Employee benefits 228 216 292 232 59 49 39 Closure and rehabilitation 715 401 1,351 1,123 544 119 128 Resource rent tax 459 223 1,187 657 294 175 256 Other provisions 123 94 97 76 43 14 28 Deferred income 80 69 6 49 32 60 293 Deferred charges 134 36 491 421 169 11 47 Investments, including foreign tax credits 1,607 1,592 773 612 146 69 179 Foreign exchange gains and losses 93 29 669 1,026 234 353 316 Non tax-depreciable fair value adjustments, revaluations and mineral rights 30 23 122 179 51 148 119 Tax-effected losses 964 1,600 17 666 242 378 Other 96 138 244 276 464 400 23 Total 3,993 4,053 2,683 4,320 1,536 1,168 799 2011 2010 US$M US$M Unrecognised deferred tax assets Tax losses and tax credits 1,598 652 Investments in subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities 7 6 Other deductible temporary differences 3,112 2,189 Total unrecognised deferred tax assets 4,717 2,847 Unrecognised deferred tax liabilities Investments in subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities 2,096 1,782 Total unrecognised deferred tax liabilities 2,096 1,782 184 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information 7 Income tax and deferred tax continued Tax losses At 30 June 2011, the Group had income and capital tax losses with a tax benefit of US$1,254 million 2010: US$437 million which are not recognised as deferred tax assets.
The Group recognises the benefit of tax losses only to the extent of anticipated future taxable income or gains in relevant jurisdictions.
The gross amount of tax losses carried forward that have not been tax effected expire as follows: Rest of Total Australia UK world losses Year of expiry US$M US$M US$M US$M Income tax losses Not later than one year 2 2 Later than one year and not later than two years 38 38 Later than two years and not later than five years 214 214 Later than five years and not later than ten years 89 89 Later than ten years and not later than twenty years 163 163 Unlimited 764 53 817 764 559 1,323 Capital tax losses Unlimited 2,873 100 2,973 Gross amount of tax losses not recognised 2,873 764 659 4,296 Tax effect of total losses not recognised 862 200 192 1,254 Tax credits At 30 June 2011, the Group had US$344 million of tax credits that have not been recognised 2010: US$215 million.
Deductible temporary differences At 30 June 2011, the Group had deductible temporary differences for which deferred tax assets of US$3,119 million 2010: US$2,195 million have not been recognised because it is not probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the Group can utilise the benefits.
The deductible temporary differences do not expire under current tax legislation.
Temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities At 30 June 2011, deferred tax liabilities of US$2,096 million 2010: US$1,782 million associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities have not been recognised because the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is not probable that such differences will reverse in the foreseeable future.
8 Earnings per share 2011 2010 2009 Basic earnings per ordinary share US cents 429.1 228.6 105.6 Diluted earnings per ordinary share US cents 426.9 227.8 105.4 a Basic earnings per American Depositary Share US cents 858.2 457.2 211.2 a Diluted earnings per American Depositary Share US cents 853.8 455.6 210.8 Basic earnings US$M 23,648 12,722 5,877 b Diluted earnings US$M 23,648 12,743 5,899 The weighted average number of shares used for the purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share reconciles to the number used to calculate basic earnings per share as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Weighted average number of shares Million Million Million Basic earnings per ordinary share denominator 5,511 5,565 5,565 c Shares and options contingently issuable under employee share ownership plans 29 30 33 d Diluted earnings per ordinary share denominator 5,540 5,595 5,598 a Each American Depositary Share ADS represents two ordinary shares.
b Diluted earnings are calculated after adding back dividend equivalent payments of US$ nil 2010: US$21 million: 2009: US$22 million that would not be made if potential ordinary shares were converted to fully paid.
As permitted by IFRS 2 Share-based Payment, from 1 July 2010 the Group has elected to incorporate the value of dividend equivalent payment entitlements into the grant date fair value of the associated equity-settled share-based payment awards.
Previously, the Group elected to measure and recognise the dividend equivalent payment as a separate cash-settled share-based payment.
Comparative amounts have not been restated.
c The calculation of the number of ordinary shares used in the computation of basic earnings per share is the aggregate of the weighted average number of ordinary shares of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc outstanding during the period after deduction of the number of shares held by the Billiton share repurchase scheme, the Billiton Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust, and the BHP Bonus Equity Plan Trust and adjusting for the BHP Billiton Limited bonus share issue.
Included in the calculation of fully diluted earnings per share are shares contingently issuable under Employee Share Ownership Plans.
d Diluted earnings per share calculation excludes 464,369 of instruments 2010: 2,177,884: 2009: nil which are considered antidilutive.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 185 Notes to Financial Statements continued 9 Dividends 2011 2010 2009 US$M US$M US$M Dividends paid payable during the period BHP Billiton Limited 3,076 2,787 2,754 BHP Billiton Plc Ordinary shares 2,003 1,831 1,809 a BHP Billiton Plc Preference shares 5,079 4,618 4,563 Dividends declared in respect of the period BHP Billiton Limited 3,331 2,921 2,754 BHP Billiton Plc Ordinary shares 2,183 1,920 1,809 a BHP Billiton Plc Preference shares 5,514 4,841 4,563 2011 2010 2009 US cents US cents US cents Dividends paid during the period per share Prior year final dividend 45.0 41.0 41.0 Interim dividend 46.0 42.0 41.0 91.0 83.0 82.0 Dividends declared in respect of the period per share Interim dividend 46.0 42.0 41.0 Final dividend 55.0 45.0 41.0 101.0 87.0 82.0 Dividends are declared after period end in the announcement of the results for the period.
Interim dividends are declared in February and paid in March.
Final dividends are declared in August and paid in September.
Dividends declared are not recorded as a liability at the end of the period to which they relate.
Subsequent to year end, on 24 August 2011, BHP Billiton declared a final dividend of 55.0 US cents per share US$2,943 million, which will be paid on 29 September 2011 2010: 45.0 US cents per share US$2,504 million: 2009: 41.0 US cents per share US$2,281 million.
Each American Depositary Share ADS represents two ordinary shares of BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc.
Dividends declared on each ADS represent twice the dividend declared on BHP Billiton ordinary shares.
BHP Billiton Limited dividends for all periods presented are, or will be, fully franked based on a tax rate of 30 per cent.
2011 2010 2009 US$M US$M US$M Franking credits as at 30 June 3,971 3,861 2,506 Franking credits arising from the payment of current tax payable 3,218 818 1,265 b Total franking credits available 7,189 4,679 3,771 a 5.5 per cent dividend on 50,000 preference shares of 1 each declared and paid annually 2010: 5.5 per cent: 2009: 5.5 per cent.
b The payment of the final 2011 dividend declared after 30 June 2011 will reduce the franking account balance by US$757 million.
186 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information 10 Trade and other receivables 2011 2010 US$M US$M Current Trade receivables 6,219 5,092 Provision for doubtful debts 151 147 Total trade receivables 6,068 4,945 a Employee Share Plan loans 3 3 Other receivables 2,126 1,595 b Total current receivables 8,197 6,543 Non-current a Employee Share Plan loans 21 21 Interest bearing loans receivable 1,044 683 Other receivables 1,028 677 b Total non-current receivables 2,093 1,381 2011 2010 US$M US$M Movement in provision for doubtful debts At the beginning of the financial year 147 176 Charge credit for the year: Underlying charge to the income statement 5 4 Released to the income statement 1 19 Utilised 14 At the end of the financial year 151 147 a Under the terms of the BHP Billiton Limited Employee Share Plan, shares have been issued to employees for subscription at market price less a discount not exceeding 10 per cent.
Interest free employee loans are full recourse and are available to fund the purchase of such shares for a period of up to 20 years, repayable by application of dividends or an equivalent amount.
Refer to note 32. b Disclosures relating to receivables from related parties are set out in note 31.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 187 Notes to Financial Statements continued 11 Other financial assets 2011 2010 US$M US$M Current At fair value Cross currency and interest rate swaps 49 23 Forward exchange contracts 26 28 Commodity contracts 173 240 Other derivative contracts 16 1 Total current other financial assets 264 292 Non-current At fair value Cross currency and interest rate swaps 705 595 Commodity contracts 41 42 Other derivative contracts 11 4 111 Shares available for sale 580 657 a Other investments available for sale 162 105 Total non-current other financial assets 1,602 1,510 a Includes investments held by BHP Billiton Energy Coal South Africa Rehabilitation Trust Fund.
The future realisation of this investment is intended to fund environmental obligations relating to the closure of the South African coal operations, and consequently this investment, while under the Groups control, is not available for the general purposes of the Group.
Any income from this investment is reinvested or applied to meet these obligations.
The Group retains responsibility for these environmental obligations until such time as the former mine sites have been rehabilitated in accordance with the relevant environmental legislation.
These obligations are therefore included under non-current provisions.
12 Inventories 2011 2010 US$M US$M Current a Raw materials and consumables at net realisable value 4 at cost 1,960 1,518 1,964 1,518 a Work in progress at net realisable value 4 18 at cost 2,315 2,129 2,319 2,147 a Finished goods at net realisable value 136 300 at cost 1,735 1,369 1,871 1,669 Total current inventories 6,154 5,334 Non-current Raw materials and consumables at cost 142 124 Work in progress at cost 209 209 Finished goods at cost 12 10 Total non-current inventories 363 343 a US$23 million of inventory write-downs were recognised during the year 2010: US$33 million: 2009: US$219 million.
Inventory write-downs of US$8 million made in previous periods were reversed during the year 2010: US$21 million: 2009: US$1 million.
188 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information 13 Property, plant and equipment Plant Other Assets Exploration Land and and mineral under and buildings equipment assets construction evaluation Total Year ended 30 June 2011 US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M Cost At the beginning of the financial year 6,148 50,560 15,750 10,719 1,968 85,145 Additions 38 1,596 499 11,003 281 13,417 Acquisitions of subsidiaries and operations 5 673 4,125 4,803 Disposals 35 694 51 7 114 901 Exchange variations taken to reserve 2 199 30 231 Transfers and other movements 1,743 7,329 78 9,194 4 204 At the end of the financial year 7,901 59,663 20,275 12,521 2,131 102,491 Accumulated depreciation At the beginning of the financial year 1,965 22,520 4,422 662 29,569 Charge for the year 321 3,991 625 66 5,003 Impairments for the year 11 73 84 Reversals of impairments 10 10 Disposals 26 619 51 113 809 Exchange variations taken to reserve 167 26 193 Transfers and other movements 14 32 11 7 At the end of the financial year 2,274 26,028 5,033 688 34,023 Net book value at 30 June 2011 5,627 33,635 15,242 12,521 1,443 68,468 Plant Other Assets Exploration Land and and mineral under and buildings equipment assets construction evaluation Total Year ended 30 June 2010 US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M Cost At the beginning of the financial year 5,708 47,533 14,812 8,298 1,444 77,795 Additions 53 975 622 9,452 314 11,416 Acquisitions of subsidiaries and operations 508 508 Disposals 117 870 6 24 1,017 Disposals of subsidiaries and operations 352 2,348 109 5 2,814 Exchange variations taken to reserve 1 179 38 2 1 217 Transfers and other movements 857 5,449 39 7,028 235 526 At the end of the financial year 6,148 50,560 15,750 10,719 1,968 85,145 Accumulated depreciation At the beginning of the financial year 2,168 22,141 4,113 341 28,763 Charge for the year 235 3,813 618 66 4,732 Impairments for the year 3 86 256 345 Reversals of impairments 121 426 83 1 631 Disposals 85 770 6 24 885 Disposals of subsidiaries and operations 239 1,925 26 2,190 Exchange variations taken to reserve 166 35 201 Transfers and other movements 4 233 159 24 364 At the end of the financial year 1,965 22,520 4,422 662 29,569 Net book value at 30 June 2010 4,183 28,040 11,328 10,719 1,306 55,576 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 189 Notes to Financial Statements continued 14 Intangible assets 2011 2010 Other Other Goodwill intangibles Total Goodwill intangibles Total US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M Cost At the beginning of the financial year 370 497 867 398 426 824 Additions 211 211 85 85 Disposals 3 3 8 8 Exchange variations taken to reserve 2 2 1 1 Transfers and other movements 37 37 28 5 33 At the end of the financial year 370 744 1,114 370 497 867 Accumulated amortisation and impairments At the beginning of the financial year 180 180 163 163 Charge for the year 36 36 27 27 Disposals 2 2 8 8 Exchange variations taken to reserve 1 1 1 1 Transfers and other movements 5 5 1 1 At the end of the financial year 210 210 180 180 a Total intangible assets 370 534 904 370 317 687 a The Groups aggregate net book value of goodwill is US$370 million 2010: US$370 million, representing less than one per cent of net equity at 30 June 2011 2010: less than one per cent.
The goodwill is allocated across a number of cash generating units CGUs in different Customer Sector Groups, with no CGU or Customer Sector Group accounting for more than US$150 million of total goodwill.
15 Trade and other payables 2011 2010 US$M US$M Current Trade creditors 6,667 4,470 Other creditors 3,051 1,997 Total current payables 9,718 6,467 Non-current Other creditors 555 469 Total non-current payables 555 469 190 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information 16 Interest bearing liabilities 2011 2010 US$M US$M Current Unsecured bank loans 484 393 Notes and debentures 2,458 1,424 Secured bank loans 160 184 Finance leases 63 63 Secured other 18 Unsecured other 332 126 Unsecured bank overdrafts and short-term borrowings 4 1 Total current interest bearing liabilities 3,519 2,191 Non-current Unsecured bank loans 526 361 Notes and debentures 10,122 12,012 a Secured bank loans 580 424 b Redeemable preference shares 15 15 Finance leases 129 162 a Unsecured other 448 250 a Secured other 568 349 Total non-current interest bearing liabilities 12,388 13,573 a Includes US$591 million 2010: US$324 million proportionate share of bank loans and other borrowings arranged by jointly controlled entities to fund the financing of joint venture partners.
While the Group chose to finance the joint ventures directly and not to participate in the external borrowing programs arranged by the joint ventures, the Group recognises its share of those borrowings on proportionate consolidation of the assets and liabilities of each venture refer to note 1.
A corresponding amount of interest bearing loans receivable is recognised in other receivables refer to note 10, reflecting the direct funding of the Groups contribution to each joint venture.
b Comprises 150 2010: 150 Series A preferred shares issued by BHP Billiton Foreign Holdings Inc. at US$100,000 each fully paid, cumulative, non-participating.
The shares are redeemable at par at the option of BHP Billiton Foreign Holdings Inc. after 3 August 2013 and at the option of the holder of the shares after 3 February 2016.
17 Other financial liabilities 2011 2010 US$M US$M Current Cross currency and interest rate swaps 53 282 Forward exchange contracts 3 6 Commodity contracts 196 194 Other derivative contracts 36 29 Total current other financial liabilities 288 51 1 Non-current Cross currency and interest rate swaps 17 4 Commodity contracts 23 41 Other derivative contracts 56 51 Total non-current other financial liabilities 79 266 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 191 Notes to Financial Statements continued 18 Provisions 2011 2010 US$M US$M Current a Employee benefits 1,334 1,054 b Restructuring 40 55 c Closure and rehabilitation 378 378 d Post-retirement employee benefits 21 18 Other 483 394 Total current provisions 2,256 1,899 Non-current a Employee benefits 209 257 b Restructuring 38 49 c Closure and rehabilitation 7,615 6,264 d Post-retirement employee benefits 694 621 Other 713 242 Total non-current provisions 9,269 7,433 a The expenditure associated with total employee benefits will occur in a pattern consistent with when employees choose to exercise their entitlement to benefits.
b Total restructuring provisions include provision for business terminations of US$13 million 2010: US$15 million.
c Total closure and rehabilitation provisions include provision for closed sites of US$1,753 million 2010: US$1,973 million.
d The provision for post-retirement employee benefits includes pension liabilities of US$273 million 2010: US$295 million and post-retirement medical benefit liabilities of US$442 million 2010: US$344 million.
The non-current provision includes Non-executive Directors retirement benefits of US$1 million 2010: US$1 million.
Post-retirement Employee Closure and employee benefits Restructuring rehabilitation benefits Other Total US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M At the beginning of the financial year 1,311 104 6,642 639 636 9,332 Amounts capitalised 1,293 1,293 Acquisition of subsidiaries and operations 4 4 Charge credit for the year: Underlying 978 39 184 67 792 2,060 Discounting 7 404 128 539 Expected return on pension scheme assets 104 104 Exchange variations 225 22 269 47 49 612 Released during the year 56 54 413 119 642 Actuarial loss taken to retained earnings 113 113 Exchange variations taken to reserve 16 2 18 Utilisation 917 40 407 181 158 1,703 Transfers and other movements 2 1 4 4 3 At the end of the financial year 1,543 78 7,993 715 1,196 11,525 192 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information 19 Share capital BHP Billiton Limited BHP Billiton Plc 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M Share capital Balance at the beginning of the financial year 1,227 1,227 1,227 1,116 1,116 1,116 a Shares bought back and cancelled 44 46 Balance at the end of the financial year 1,183 1,227 1,227 1,070 1,116 1,116 Treasury shares Balance at the beginning of the financial year 1 1 1 524 524 513 Purchase of shares by ESOP Trusts 351 216 132 118 58 37 Employee share awards exercised following vesting 351 216 132 103 58 26 a Shares bought back 3,678 a Shares cancelled 3,595 Balance at the end of the financial year 1 1 1 622 524 524 b BHP Billiton Limited BHP Billiton Plc 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 c c c c c c Shares Shares Shares Shares Shares Shares Share capital issued Ordinary shares fully paid 3,211,654,687 3,358,444,496 3,358,444,496 2,138,367,191 2,231,121,202 2,231,121,202 Comprising Shares held by the public 3,211,607,567 3,358,397,376 3,358,397,376 2,110,963,849 2,206,076,344 2,206,130,916 Treasury shares 47,120 47,120 47,120 27,403,342 25,044,858 24,990,286 Ordinary shares paid to A$1.36 110,000 110,000 d Special Voting Share of no par value 1 1 1 e 5.5% Preference shares of 1 each 50,000 50,000 50,000 Special Voting Share d of US$0.50 par value 1 1 1 BHP Billiton Limited BHP Billiton Plc 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 Shares Shares Shares Shares Shares Shares Movement in shares held by the public Opening number of shares 3,358,397,376 3,358,397,376 3,358,260,180 2,206,076,344 2,206,130,916 2,206,662,027 f Partly paid shares becoming fully paid 110,000 85,000 Purchase of shares by ESOP Trusts 8,997,229 6,304,733 5,274,136 3,664,620 2,081,566 1,447,706 Employee share awards exercised following vesting 8,997,229 6,304,733 5,326,332 3,487,873 2,026,994 916,595 a Shares bought back 146,899,809 94,935,748 g Closing number of shares 3,211,607,567 3,358,397,376 3,358,397,376 2,110,963,849 2,206,076,344 2,206,130,916 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 193 Notes to Financial Statements continued 19 Share capital continued BHP Billiton Limited BHP Billiton Plc 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 Shares Shares Shares Shares Shares Shares Movement in Treasury shares Opening number of shares 47,120 47,120 99,316 25,044,858 24,990,286 24,459,175 Purchase of shares by ESOP Trusts 8,997,229 6,304,733 5,274,136 3,664,620 2,081,566 1,447,706 Employee share awards exercised following vesting 8,997,229 6,304,733 5,326,332 3,487,873 2,026,994 916,595 a Shares bought back 94,935,748 a Shares cancelled 92,754,011 Closing number of shares 47,120 47,120 47,120 27,403,342 25,044,858 24,990,286 BHP Billiton Limited 2011 2010 2009 Shares Shares Shares Movement in shares partly paid to A$1.36 Opening number of shares 110,000 110,000 195,000 f Partly paid shares becoming fully paid 110,000 85,000 Closing number of shares 110,000 110,000 a On 15 November 2010, BHP Billiton announced the reactivation of the remaining US$4.2 billion component of its previously suspended US$13 billion buy-back program and subsequently announced an expanded US$10 billion capital management program on 16 February 2011.
This expanded program was completed on 29 June 2011 through a combination of on-market and off-market buy-backs.
In accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006 and with the resolutions passed at the 2010 Annual General Meetings, BHP Billiton Limited purchased fully paid shares in BHP Billiton Plc on-market and then transferred those shares to BHP Billiton Plc for nil consideration and cancellation.
BHP Billiton Plc shares bought back as part of this program but not cancelled at 30 June 2011 are accounted for as Treasury shares within the share capital of BHP Billiton Plc.
An off-market tender buy-back of BHP Billiton Limited shares was completed on 11 April 2011.
In accordance with the structure of the buy-back, US$44 million was allocated to the share capital of BHP Billiton Limited and US$6,301 million was allocated to retained earnings.
These shares were then cancelled.
Details of the purchases are shown in the table below.
Cost per share represents the average cost per share for BHP Billiton Plc shares and final cost per share for BHP Billiton Limited shares.
Purchased by: BHP Billiton Limited BHP Billiton Plc Total cost Year ended Shares purchased Number Cost per share US$M Shares US$M Shares US$M i 30 June 2011 BHP Billiton Plc 94,935,748 23.96 3,678 94,935,748 3,678 BHP Billiton Limited 146,899,809 A$40.85 6,345 146,899,809 6,345 i Cost per share represents the average cost per share paid on-market by BHP Billiton Limited for BHP BIlliton Plc shares in 2011.
Since the commencement of the buy-back in 2006 the average cost per share was 15.67. b An Equalisation Share US$0.50 par value has been authorised to be issued to enable a distribution to be made by BHP Billiton Plc Group to the BHP Billiton Limited Group should this be required under the terms of the DLC merger.
The Directors have the ability to issue the Equalisation Share if required under those terms.
The Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited allows the Directors of that Company to issue a similar Equalisation Share.
There has been no movement in this class of share.
c The total number of BHP Billiton Limited shares of all classes is 3,211,654,688 of which 99.99 per cent are ordinary shares fully paid 2010: 3,358,554,497, 99.99 per cent: 2009: 3,358,554,497, 99.99 per cent.
Any surplus remaining after payment of preferred distributions shall be payable to the holders of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares in equal amounts per share.
d Each of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc issued one Special Voting Share to facilitate joint voting by shareholders of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc on Joint Electorate Actions.
There has been no movement in these shares.
e Preference shares have the right to repayment of the amount paid up on the nominal value and any unpaid dividends in priority to the holders of any other class of shares in BHP Billiton Plc on a return of capital or winding up.
The holders of preference shares have limited voting rights if payment of the preference dividends are six months or more in arrears or a resolution is passed changing the rights of the preference shareholders.
There has been no movement in these shares, all of which are held by JP Morgan plc.
f During the year ended 30 June 2011, 110,000 partly paid shares were paid up and become fully paid shares.
70,000 of these partly paid shares were also entitled to 79,928 bonus shares which were satisfied via on-market purchase.
g During the period 1 July 2011 to 6 September 2011, 36,418 fully paid ordinary shares in BHP Billiton Limited were issued on the exercise of Group Incentive Scheme awards.
194 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information 20 Other equity 2011 2010 2009 US$M US$M US$M Reserves a Share premium account Balance at the beginning of the financial year 518 518 518 Balance at the end of the financial year 518 518 518 b Foreign currency translation reserve Balance at the beginning of the financial year 15 24 3 Exchange fluctuations on translation of foreign operations taken to equity 19 1 27 Exchange fluctuations on translation of foreign operations transferred to the income statement 10 Total other comprehensive income 19 9 27 Balance at the end of the financial year 34 15 24 c Employee share awards reserve Balance at the beginning of the financial year 557 434 372 Deferred tax arising on accrued employee entitlement for unexercised awards 13 69 89 Total other comprehensive income 13 69 89 Accrued employee entitlement for unvested awards 266 170 185 Employee share awards exercised 121 88 34 Employee share awards forfeited 9 28 Balance at the end of the financial year 680 557 434 d Hedging reserve cash flow hedges Balance at the beginning of the financial year 9 417 Net loss gain on cash flow hedges taken to equity 15 710 Net realised losses on cash flow hedges transferred to the income statement 2 22 Net unrealised gains on cash flow hedges transferred to the income statement 48 Net gains on cash flow hedges transferred to the initial carrying amount of hedged items 26 Deferred tax relating to cash flow hedges 4 232 Total other comprehensive income 9 426 Balance at the end of the financial year 9 e Financial assets reserve Balance at the beginning of the financial year 348 202 162 Net valuation losses gains on available for sale investments taken to equity 71 160 3 Net valuation gains losses on available for sale investments transferred to the income statement 38 2 58 Deferred tax relating to revaluations 37 16 21 Total other comprehensive income 72 146 40 Balance at the end of the financial year 276 348 202 f Share buy-back reserve Balance at the beginning of the financial year 118 118 118 BHP Billiton Plc shares cancelled 46 Balance at the end of the financial year 164 118 118 g Non-controlling interest contribution reserve Balance at the beginning of the financial year 350 Issue of share options to non-controlling interests 43 Distribution to option holders 21 10 Equity contributed 317 Balance at the end of the financial year 329 350 Total reserves 2,001 1,906 1,305 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 195 Notes to Financial Statements continued 20 Other equity continued 2011 2010 2009 US$M US$M US$M Retained earnings Balance at the beginning of the financial year 44,801 36,831 35,756 Profit for the year 23,648 12,722 5,877 Actuarial losses on pension and medical schemes 105 38 224 Tax recognised directly in other comprehensive income 94 54 89 Total comprehensive income 23,637 12,738 5,742 Dividends 5,126 4,618 4,563 BHP Billiton Limited share buy-back refer to note 19 6,301 BHP Billiton Plc share buy-back refer to note 19 3,595 Employee share awards exercised, net of employee contributions and forfeitures 285 150 104 Balance at the end of the financial year 53,131 44,801 36,831 2011 2010 2009 US$M US$M US$M Non-controlling interests Balance at the beginning of the financial year 804 757 708 Profit for the year 298 287 461 Actuarial losses on pension and medical schemes 8 3 Net valuation gains on available for sale investments taken to equity 1 7 Net valuation gains on available for sale investments transferred to the income statement 9 Tax recognised directly in other comprehensive income 2 Total comprehensive income 284 294 458 Issue of share options to non-controlling interests 16 Distribution to option holders 17 6 Dividends 90 277 406 Equity contributed 12 20 3 Balance at the end of the financial year 993 804 757 a The share premium account represents the premium paid on the issue of BHP Billiton Plc shares recognised in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006. b The foreign currency translation reserve represents exchange differences arising on the translation of non-US dollar functional currency operations within the Group into US dollars.
c The employee share awards reserve represents the accrued employee entitlements to share awards that have been charged to the income statement and have not yet been exercised.
d The hedging reserve represents hedging gains and losses recognised on the effective portion of cash flow hedges.
The cumulative deferred gain or loss on the hedge is recognised in the income statement when the hedged transaction impacts the income statement, or is recognised as an adjustment to the cost of non-financial hedged items.
e The financial assets reserve represents the revaluation of available for sale financial assets.
Where a revalued financial asset is sold or impaired, the relevant portion of the reserve is transferred to the income statement.
f The share buy-back reserve represents the par value of BHP Billiton Plc shares which were purchased and subsequently cancelled.
The cancellation of the shares creates a non-distributable reserve.
g The non-controlling interest contribution reserve represents the excess of consideration received over the book value of net assets attributable to the equity instruments held by non-controlling interests.
21 Contingent liabilities Contingent liabilities at balance date, not otherwise provided for in the financial statements, are categorised as arising from: 2011 2010 US$M US$M Jointly controlled entities a Bank guarantees 12 7 b Actual or potential litigation 1,384 878 Other 1 1,397 885 Subsidiaries and jointly controlled assets including guarantees a Bank guarantees 1 1 b Actual or potential litigation 693 455 Other 4 3 698 459 Total contingent liabilities 2,095 1,344 a The Group has entered into various counter-indemnities of bank and performance guarantees related to its own future performance in the normal course of business.
b Actual or potential litigation amounts relate to a number of actions against the Group, none of which are individually significant and where the liability is not probable and therefore the Group has not provided for such amounts in these financial statements.
Additionally, there are a number of legal claims or potential claims against the Group, the outcome of which cannot be foreseen at present, and for which no amounts have been included in the table above.
196 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information 22 Commitments 2011 2010 US$M US$M Capital expenditure commitments Due not later than one year 5,307 4,311 Due later than one year and not later than two years 1,419 491 Due later than two years and not later than three years 531 17 1 Due later than three years and not later than four years 35 16 Due later than four years and not later than five years 1 Total capital expenditure commitments 7,293 4,989 Lease expenditure commitments Finance leases Due not later than one year 88 95 Due later than one year and not later than two years 54 60 Due later than two years and not later than three years 50 51 Due later than three years and not later than four years 51 49 Due later than four years and not later than five years 46 49 Due later than five years 93 140 Total commitments under finance leases 382 444 Future financing charges 93 111 Right to reimbursement from joint venture partner 97 108 Finance lease liability 192 225 a Operating leases Due not later than one year 861 695 Due later than one year and not later than two years 640 580 Due later than two years and not later than three years 453 601 Due later than three years and not later than four years 208 255 Due later than four years and not later than five years 192 98 Due later than five years 1,197 830 Total commitments under operating leases 3,551 3,059 b Other expenditure commitments Due not later than one year 3,473 2,793 Due later than one year and not later than two years 1,486 1,291 Due later than two years and not later than three years 947 1, 111 Due later than three years and not later than four years 564 768 Due later than four years and not later than five years 546 444 Due later than five years 2,059 1,923 Total commitments for other expenditure 9,075 8,330 a Operating leases are entered into as a means of acquiring property, plant and equipment.
Rental payments are generally fixed, but with inflation escalation clauses on which contingent rentals are determined.
Certain leases contain extension and renewal options.
b Other expenditure commitments include the supply of goods and services, royalties, exploration expenditure and chartering costs.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 197 Notes to Financial Statements continued 23 Notes to the consolidated cash ow statement Cash and cash equivalents For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash equivalents include highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to cash and with a maturity of less than 90 days, bank overdrafts and interest bearing liabilities at call.
2011 2010 2009 US$M US$M US$M Cash and cash equivalents comprise: Cash 1,361 1,369 1,156 Short-term deposits 8,723 11,087 9,677 a Total cash and cash equivalents 10,084 12,456 10,833 Bank overdrafts and short-term borrowings refer to note 16 4 1 2 Total cash and cash equivalents, net of overdrafts 10,080 12,455 10,831 a Cash and cash equivalents include US$170 million 2010: US$330 million: 2009: US$368 million which is restricted by legal or contractual arrangements.
Signi cant non-cash investing and nancing transactions Property, plant and equipment of US$2 million 2010: US$56 million: 2009: US$59 million was acquired under finance leases.
Property, plant and equipment of US$ nil 2010: US$236 million: 2009: US$ nil was acquired under vendor financing arrangements.
Disposal of subsidiaries and operations The Group disposed of the following subsidiaries and operations during the year ended: 30 June 2011 There were no disposals of subsidiaries or operations.
30 June 2010 Esidulini game reserve Kendilo coal operation Manganese Metal Company Pty Ltd Pering mine Ravensthorpe nickel operations Suriname Bauxite Mines and the Paranam Refinery Yabulu nickel refinery 30 June 2009 BHP Asia Pacific Nickel Pty Ltd Mayaniquel SA Minera Geleen SA PT Gag Nickel Sociedad Contractual Minera Otway 198 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information 23 Notes to the consolidated cash ow statement continued The carrying amount of assets and liabilities disposed are as follows: 2011 2010 2009 US$M US$M US$M Cash and cash equivalents 137 Trade and other receivables 11 1 Inventories 169 Current tax assets 9 Other current assets 11 6 Property, plant and equipment 682 35 Trade and other payables 66 1 Interest bearing liabilities 27 Current tax payable 1 Provisions 590 a Net identifiable assets 335 41 Gross consideration 351 23 Less cash balances disposed of 137 Net consideration 214 23 Comprising of: Cash 214 17 Deferred consideration 6 Total net consideration received 214 23 Gains losses on sale of subsidiaries and operations 16 18 a Net identifiable assets disposed of in the year ended 30 June 2010 include property, plant and equipment of US$58 million, current tax assets of US$9 million and provisions of US$301 million classified as held for sale in 2009.
Acquisition of subsidiaries and operations The Group acquired the following subsidiaries and operations during the year ended: 30 June 2011 Other than the business combination described in note 24, there were no acquisitions of subsidiaries or operations.
30 June 2010 100 per cent of Athabasca Potash Inc. 100 per cent of United Minerals Corporations NL 30 June 2009 100 per cent of Anglo Potash Limited The fair values of assets and liabilities acquired, excluding those acquired through business combinations refer to note 24, are as follows: 2011 2010 2009 US$M US$M US$M Property, plant and equipment 508 270 Net identifiable assets 508 270 Consideration paid 508 270 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 199 Notes to Financial Statements continued 24 Business combinations Business combination during the year ended 30 June 2011 On 31 March 2011, the Group completed the acquisition of 100 per cent of Chesapeake Energy Corporations Chesapeake interests in its Fayetteville Shale gas assets, and associated midstream pipeline system Fayetteville Shale gas business, located in Arkansas US, for US$4,819 million.
The acquisition was funded from the Groups cash resources.
The Fayetteville Shale upstream gas assets include approximately 487,000 acres of leasehold and producing natural gas properties and approximately 3,000 wells of which the Group operates approximately 800 wells.
Midstream assets consist of gas gathering systems including extensive pipeline infrastructure and associated compression stations.
The acquisition marks the entry of the Group into the shale gas business in the US.
Acquisition-related costs of US$17 million have been expensed and included in other operating expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement and in operating cash flows in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement.
The provisionally determined fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired comprising the Fayetteville Shale gas business as of the date of the acquisition are as follows: 2011 US$M Property, plant and equipment 4,803 Inventories 3 a Trade and other receivables 38 Trade and other payables 21 Provisions 4 Net identifiable assets 4,819 b Consideration paid 4,819 a This represents the gross contractual amount for trade and other receivables.
b Including US$12 million accrued as at 30 June 2011.
Provisional estimates of fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities approximate the consideration paid to Chesapeake and therefore no goodwill or bargain purchase gain has been recognised in respect of the acquisition.
The fair values are provisional due to the complexity of the valuation process.
The finalisation of the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired will be completed within 12 months of the acquisition.
From the date of the acquisition to 30 June 2011, Fayetteville contributed revenue of US$107 million and a net profit of US$26 million to the Group.
The results of the combined Group and Fayetteville Shale gas business for the year ended 30 June 2011, as though the acquisition had occurred as of the beginning of that period, has not been presented.
The Group considered that compiling such information was impracticable owing to the lack of suitable information for the Fayetteville Shale gas business for the nine months preceding the acquisition.
Business combination subsequent to the year ended 30 June 2011 On 14 July 2011, the Group announced it had entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Petrohawk Energy Corporation Petrohawk by means of an all-cash tender offer for all of the issued and outstanding shares of Petrohawk to be followed by a second-step merger, representing a total equity value of approximately US$12.1 billion and a total enterprise value of approximately US$15.1 billion, including the assumption of net debt.
On 21 August 2011, the Group announced that all conditions to the closing of the tender offer to acquire all outstanding shares of common stock of Petrohawk for US$38.75 per share net to the seller in cash, without interest, less any applicable withholding taxes, have been satisfied.
The acquisition date of Petrohawk by the Group was 20 August 2011 and the transaction closed on 25 August 2011.
The Group has entered into certain retention arrangements with the employees of Petrohawk.
Pursuant to these arrangements, the Group will make retention payments at different intervals subject to mandatory service requirements and grant restricted share awards in BHP Billiton Limited with vesting dates ranging from 31 December 2012 to 22 August 2014.
All cash amounts paid to employees will be accounted for as a post-combination employee benefit expense.
Payments of US$13.8 million have been made since the acquisition date.
Petrohawk is an oil and natural gas company based in the United States.
It owns a number of shale gas assets in Texas and Louisiana and associated midstream pipeline systems.
The transaction provides BHP Billiton with operated positions in the resource areas of the Eagle Ford, Haynesville shale and the Permian Basin.
Due to the timing of the transaction, management is in the preliminary stages of determining values of the assets and liabilities acquired and the associated accounting for the business combination.
Accordingly, certain disclosures relating to the business combination such as the fair value of net assets acquired and acquisition-related transaction costs have not been presented.
There were no business combinations entered into by the Group in the previous financial year.
200 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information 25 Subsidiaries Significant subsidiaries of the Group, which are those with the most significant contribution to the Groups net profit or net assets, are as follows: The Groups effective interest Country 2011 2010 Name of incorporation Principal activity % % BHP Billiton Aluminium Australia Pty Ltd Australia Bauxite mining and alumina refining 100 100 BHP Billiton Aluminium RAA Pty Ltd Australia Bauxite mining and alumina refining 100 100 BHP Billiton Aluminium Worsley Pty Ltd Australia Bauxite mining and alumina refining 100 100 BHP Billiton Canada Inc. Canada Diamond mining 100 100 BHP Billiton Direct Reduced Iron Pty Ltd Australia Hot briquette iron plant closed 100 100 BHP Billiton Energy Coal Australia Pty Ltd Australia Holding company 100 100 BHP Billiton Energy Coal South Africa Limited South Africa Coal mining 100 100 BHP Billiton Finance BV Netherlands Finance 100 100 BHP Billiton Finance Ltd Australia Finance 100 100 a BHP Billiton Finance USA Ltd Australia Finance 100 100 BHP Billiton Foreign Holdings Inc.
US Holding company 100 100 BHP Billiton Group Operations Pty Ltd Australia Administrative services 100 100 BHP Billiton International Services Limited UK Service company 100 100 BHP Billiton Iron Ore Pty Limited Australia Service company 100 100 BHP Billiton Marketing AG Switzerland Marketing and trading 100 100 BHP Billiton Marketing Inc.
US Marketing and trading 100 100 BHP Billiton Metais SA Brazil Alumina refining and aluminium smelting 100 100 BHP Billiton Minerals Pty Ltd Australia Iron ore, coal, silver, lead and zinc mining 100 100 BHP Billiton Mitsui Coal Pty Ltd Australia Coal mining 80 80 BHP Billiton Nickel West Pty Ltd Australia Nickel mining, smelting, refining and administrative services 100 100 BHP Billiton Olympic Dam Corporation Pty Ltd Australia Copper and uranium mining 100 100 BHP Billiton Petroleum Americas Inc.
US Hydrocarbons exploration and production 100 100 BHP Billiton Petroleum Arkansas Inc.
US Hydrocarbons production 100 BHP Billiton Petroleum Australia Pty Ltd Australia Hydrocarbons production 100 100 BHP Billiton Petroleum Bass Strait Pty Ltd Australia Hydrocarbons production 100 100 BHP Billiton Petroleum Colombia Corporation Canada Hydrocarbons exploration and production 100 100 BHP Billiton Petroleum Deepwater Inc.
US Hydrocarbons exploration, development and production 100 100 BHP Billiton Petroleum Fayetteville LLC US Hydrocarbons exploration and production 100 BHP Billiton Petroleum GOM Inc.
US Hydrocarbons exploration 100 100 BHP Billiton Petroleum North West Shelf Pty Ltd Australia Hydrocarbons production 100 100 BHP Billiton Petroleum Great Britain Limited UK Hydrocarbons production 100 100 BHP Billiton Petroleum International Exploration Pty Ltd Australia Hydrocarbons development and production 100 100 BHP Billiton Petroleum New Ventures Corporation Canada Hydrocarbons exploration and production 100 100 BHP Billiton Petroleum Sabah Corporation Canada Hydrocarbons exploration and production 100 100 BHP Billiton Petroleum Pty Ltd Australia Hydrocarbons exploration and production 100 100 BHP Billiton Petroleum Victoria Pty Ltd Australia Hydrocarbons development 100 100 BHP Billiton SA Holdings Limited South Africa Holding company 100 100 BHP Billiton SA Limited South Africa Holding and service company 100 100 BHP Billiton Shared Business Services Pty Ltd Australia Service company 100 100 BHP Billiton Shared Services Malaysia Sdn.
Malaysia Service company 100 100 BHP Billiton SSM Development Pty Ltd Australia Holding company 100 100 BHP Billiton Trinidad 2c Limited Canada Hydrocarbons development 100 100 BHP Billiton World Exploration Inc. Canada Minerals exploration 100 100 BHP Canadian Diamonds Company Canada Diamond mining 100 100 BHP Chile Inc.
US Service company 100 100 BHP Coal Holdings Pty Limited Australia Holding company 100 100 BHP Coal Pty Limited Australia Holding company and coal mining 100 100 BHP Copper Inc.
US Holding company and copper mining 100 100 BHP Escondida Inc.
US Holding company 100 100 BHP Iron Ore Jimblebar Pty Ltd Australia Iron ore mining 100 100 BHP Navajo Coal Company US Coal mining 100 100 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 201 Notes to Financial Statements continued 25 Subsidiaries continued The Groups effective interest Country 2011 2010 Name of incorporation Principal activity % % BHP Petroleum Pakistan Pty Ltd Australia Hydrocarbons exploration and production 100 100 BHP Queensland Coal Investments Pty Ltd Australia Holding company and coal mining 100 100 BHPB Freight Pty Ltd Australia Transport services 100 100 Billiton Aluminium SA Limited South Africa Aluminium smelting 100 100 Billiton Marketing Holding BV Netherlands Holding company 100 100 Broken Hill Proprietary USA Inc.
US Service company 100 100 Cerro Matoso SA Colombia Nickel mining and ferro-nickel smelting 99.9 99.9 Coal Mines Australia Pty Ltd Australia Coal exploration 100 100 Compaa Minera Cerro Colorado Limitada Chile Copper mining 100 100 Dendrobium Coal Pty Ltd Australia Coal mining 100 100 Endeavour Coal Pty Ltd Australia Coal mining 100 100 Groote Eylandt Mining Company Pty Ltd Australia Manganese mining 60 60 Hillside Aluminium Limited South Africa Aluminium smelting 100 100 b Hotazel Manganese Mines Proprietary Limited South Africa Manganese ore mining and processing 54.6 54.6 Hunter Valley Energy Coal Pty Ltd Australia Coal mining 100 100 Illawarra Coal Holdings Pty Ltd Australia Coal mining 100 100 Illawarra Services Pty Ltd Australia Coal mining 100 100 Minera Spence SA Chile Copper mining 100 100 Rio Algom Limited Canada Holding company 100 100 Samancor AG Switzerland Marketing 60 60 Samancor Manganese Proprietary Limited South Africa Manganese mining and manganese alloys 60 60 San Juan Coal Company US Coal mining 100 100 Tasmanian Electro Metallurgical Company Pty Ltd Australia Manganese alloys 60 60 UMAL Consolidated Pty Ltd Australia Holding company and coal mining 100 100 United Iron Pty Ltd Australia Iron ore exploration 100 100 WMC Finance USA Limited Australia Finance 100 100 a BHP Billiton Finance USA Ltd is 100 per cent owned by BHP Billiton Limited.
BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have each fully and unconditionally guaranteed BHP Billiton Finance USA Ltds debt securities.
b The Groups effective interest in Hotazel Manganese Mines Proprietary Limited will reduce to 44.4 per cent pursuant to a Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment transaction in South Africa.
c A complete list of the Groups subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities will be attached to BHP Billiton Plcs annual return made to the UK Registrar of Companies.
26 Interests in jointly controlled entities The Groups significant interests in jointly controlled entities, which are those with the most significant contribution to the Groups net profit or net assets, are listed below.
All entities included below are subject to joint control as a result of governing contractual arrangements.
a Ownership interest Major shareholdings in Country of Reporting 2011 2010 a jointly controlled entities incorporation Principal activity date % % Caesar Oil Pipeline Company LLC US Hydrocarbons transportation 31 May 25 25 Cleopatra Gas Gathering Company LLC US Hydrocarbons transportation 31 May 22 22 Guinea Alumina Corporation Ltd British Virgin Islands Bauxite mine and alumina refinery prospect 31 Dec 33.33 33.33 Mozal SARL Mozambique Aluminium smelting 30 June 47.1 47.1 Compaa Minera Antamina SA Peru Copper and zinc mining 30 June 33.75 33.75 b Minera Escondida Limitada Chile Copper mining 30 June 57.5 57.5 Phola Coal Processing Plant Pty Ltd South Africa Coal handling and processing plant 30 June 50 50 c Richards Bay Minerals South Africa Mineral sands mining and processing 31 Dec 37.76 37.76 Samarco Minerao SA Brazil Iron ore mining 31 Dec 50 50 Carbones del Cerrejn LLC Anguilla Coal mining in Colombia 31 Dec 33.33 33.33 Newcastle Coal Infrastructure Group Pty Limited Australia Coal export terminal 30 June 35.5 35.5 202 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information 26 Interests in jointly controlled entities continued Group share 2011 2010 US$M US$M Net assets of jointly controlled entities Current assets 3,743 3,352 Non-current assets 8,232 7,21 2 Current liabilities 2,560 2,162 Non-current liabilities 3,409 2,388 Net assets 6,006 6,014 Group share 2011 2010 2009 US$M US$M US$M Share of jointly controlled entities profit Revenue 11,600 8,642 6,130 Net operating costs 5,443 4,597 4,103 Operating profit 6,157 4,045 2,027 Net finance costs 368 68 129 Income tax expense 1,462 903 465 Profit after taxation 4,327 3,074 1,433 Group share 2011 2010 US$M US$M Share of contingent liabilities and expenditure commitments relating to jointly controlled entities Contingent liabilities 1,397 885 Capital expenditure commitments 1,156 274 Other expenditure commitments 867 1,455 a The ownership interest at the Groups and the jointly controlled entitys reporting date are the same.
When the annual financial reporting date is different to the Groups, financial information is obtained as at 30 June in order to report on a consistent annual basis with the Groups reporting date.
b While the Group holds a 57.5 per cent interest in Minera Escondida Limitada, the entity is subject to effective joint control due to participant and management agreements which result in the operation of an Owners Council, whereby significant commercial and operational decisions are determined on aggregate voting interests of at least 75 per cent of the total ownership interest.
Accordingly the Group does not have the ability to unilaterally control, and therefore consolidate, the investment in accordance with IAS 27 AASB 127 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements.
c Richards Bay Minerals comprises two legal entities, Richards Bay Mining Proprietary Limited and Richards Bay Titanium Proprietary Limited, in each of which the Group has a 50 per cent interest and which function as a single economic entity.
After deducting non-controlling interests in subsidiaries of Richards Bay Minerals, the Groups economic interest in the operations of Richards Bay Minerals is 37.76 per cent.
d A complete list of investments in subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities will be attached to BHP Billiton Plcs annual return made to the UK Registrar of Companies.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 203 Notes to Financial Statements continued 27 Interests in jointly controlled assets The principal jointly controlled assets in which the Group has an interest and which are proportionately consolidated in the financial statements are as follows: The Groups effective interest 2011 2010 Name Country of operation Principal activity % % Atlantis US Hydrocarbons exploration and production 44 44 Bass Strait Australia Hydrocarbons production 50 50 Fayetteville refer to note 24 US Hydrocarbons exploration and production 0.03100 Liverpool Bay UK Hydrocarbons production 46.1 46.1 Mad Dog US Hydrocarbons exploration and production 23.9 23.9 Minerva Australia Hydrocarbons exploration and production 90 90 Neptune US Hydrocarbons exploration and production 35 35 North West Shelf Australia Hydrocarbons production 8.3316.67 8.3316.67 Ohanet Algeria Hydrocarbons exploration and production 45 45 Pyrenees Australia Hydrocarbons exploration and production 4071.43 4071.43 ROD Integrated Development Algeria Hydrocarbons exploration and production 3845 3845 Shenzi US Hydrocarbons exploration and production 44 44 Stybarrow Australia Hydrocarbons exploration and production 50 50 Greater Angostura Trinidad and Tobago Hydrocarbons production 45 45 Zamzama Pakistan Hydrocarbons exploration and production 38.5 38.5 Alumar Brazil Alumina refining 36 36 Aluminium smelting 40 40 Worsley Australia Bauxite mining and alumina refining 86 86 EKATI Canada Diamond mining 80 80 Mt Goldsworthy Australia Iron ore mining 85 85 Mt Newman Australia Iron ore mining 85 85 Yandi Australia Iron ore mining 85 85 Central Queensland Coal Associates Australia Coal mining 50 50 Gregory Australia Coal mining 50 50 2011 2010 US$M US$M Share of contingent liabilities and capital expenditure commitments relating to jointly controlled assets a Contingent liabilities 299 120 a Capital expenditure commitments 4,329 4,103 a Included in contingent liabilities and capital expenditure commitments for the Group.
Refer to notes 21 and 22 respectively.
204 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information 28 Financial risk management The Group financial risk management strategy The financial risks arising from the Groups operations comprise market, liquidity and credit risk.
These risks arise in the normal course of business, and the Group manages its exposure to them in accordance with the Groups Portfolio Risk Management Strategy.
The objective of the strategy is to support the delivery of the Groups financial targets while protecting its future financial security and flexibility by taking advantage of the natural diversification provided by the scale, diversity and flexibility of the Groups operations and activities.
A Cash Flow at Risk CFaR framework is used to measure the aggregate and diversified impact of financial risks upon the Groups financial targets.
The principal measurement of risk is CFaR measured on a portfolio basis which is defined as the worst expected loss relative to projected business plan cash flows over a one-year horizon under normal market conditions at a confidence level of 95 per cent.
The CFaR framework includes Board-approved limits on the quantum of the CFaR relative to the Groups financial targets.
Market risk The Groups activities expose it to market risks associated with movements in interest rates, foreign currencies and commodity prices.
Under the strategy outlined above, the Group seeks to achieve financing costs, currency impacts, input costs and commodity prices on a floating or index basis.
This strategy gives rise to a risk of variability in earnings which is measured under the CFaR framework.
In executing the strategy, financial instruments are potentially employed in three distinct but related activities.
The following table summarises these activities and the key risk management processes.
Activity Key risk management processes 1 Risk mitigation Assessment of portfolio CFaR against Board-approved limits Hedging of revenues with financial instruments may be executed to mitigate risk at the portfolio level when CFaR exceeds the Board-approved limits.
Similarly, and on an exception Execution of transactions within approved basis, hedging for the purposes of mitigating risk related to specific and significant mandates expenditure on investments or capital projects will be executed if necessary to support the Groups strategic objectives.
2 Economic hedging of commodity sales, operating costs and debt instruments Assessment of portfolio CFaR against Board-approved limits Where group commodity production is sold to customers on pricing terms that deviate from the relevant index target, and where a relevant derivatives market exists, financial instruments may Measuring and reporting the exposure in customer be executed as an economic hedge to align the revenue price exposure with the index target.
commodity contracts and issued debt instruments Where debt is issued in a currency other than the US dollar and or at a fixed interest rate, Executing hedging derivatives to align the total group fair value hedges may be executed to align the debt exposure with the Groups functional exposure to the index target currency of US dollars and or to swap to a floating interest rate.
3 Strategic financial transactions Exposures managed within value at risk and stop loss limits Opportunistic transactions may be executed with financial instruments to capture value from perceived market over under valuations.
Execution of transactions within approved mandates Primary responsibility for identification and control of financial risks, including authorising and monitoring the use of financial instruments for the above activities and stipulating policy thereon, rests with the Financial Risk Management Committee under authority delegated by the Group Management Committee.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 205 Notes to Financial Statements continued 28 Financial risk management continued Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on its outstanding borrowings and investments from the possibility that changes in interest rates will affect future cash flows or the fair value of fixed interest rate financial instruments.
Interest rate risk is managed as part of the Portfolio Risk Management Strategy and within the overall CFaR limit.
The majority of the Groups debt is raised under central borrowing programs.
The Group has entered into interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps to convert most of the centrally managed debt into US dollar floating interest rate exposures.
As at 30 June 2011, the Group holds US$827 million 2010: US$2,577 million of centrally managed fixed interest rate borrowings that have not been swapped to floating interest rates, arising principally from debt raised prior to the DLC merger.
The Groups earnings are sensitive to changes in interest rates on the floating interest rate component of the Groups net borrowings.
The fair value of interest rate swaps, cross currency interest rate swaps, currency swaps and forward exchange contracts in fair value hedge relationships used to hedge both interest rate and foreign currency risks are as follows: Fair value 2011 2010 US$M US$M Interest rate swaps US dollar swaps Pay floating receive fixed Not later than one year 49 13 Later than one year but not later than two years 109 90 Later than two years but not later than five years 248 200 Later than five years 172 288 Cross currency interest rate swaps Euro to US dollar swaps Pay floating receive fixed Not later than one year 10 Later than two years but not later than five years 134 17 Euro to US dollar swaps Pay fixed receive fixed Later than two years but not later than five years 42 Later than five years 174 Forward exchange contracts Euro to US dollar foreign exchange contract Pay US dollar receive Euro Not later than one year 53 282 Total fair value of derivatives 701 162 Based on the net debt position as at 30 June 2011, taking into account interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps, it is estimated that a one percentage point increase in the US LIBOR interest rate will decrease the Groups profit after taxation and equity by US$25 million 2010: decrease of US$2 million.
This assumes that the change in interest rates is effective from the beginning of the financial year and the fixed floating mix and balances are constant over the year.
However, interest rates and the net debt profile of the Group may not remain constant in the coming financial year and therefore such sensitivity analysis should be used with care.
206 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information 28 Financial risk management continued Currency risk The US dollar is the functional currency of most operations within the Group and as a result currency exposures arise from transactions and balances in currencies other than the US dollar.
The Groups potential currency exposures comprise: translational exposure in respect of non-functional currency monetary items transactional exposure in respect of non-functional currency expenditure and revenues The Groups foreign currency risk is managed as part of the Portfolio Risk Management Strategy within the overall CFaR limit.
Translational exposure in respect of non-functional currency monetary items Monetary items, including financial assets and liabilities, denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of an operation are periodically restated to US dollar equivalents, and the associated gain or loss is taken to the income statement.
The exception is foreign exchange gains or losses on foreign currency provisions for closure and rehabilitation at operating sites which are capitalised in property, plant and equipment.
The following table shows the foreign currency risk arising from financial assets and liabilities which are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the operations.
Net financial assets liabilities by currency of denomination US$ A$ SA rand GBP Other Total 2011 US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M Functional currency of Group operation US dollars 4,344 187 23 1,414 5,548 Australian dollars 1 1 UK pounds sterling 3 3 4 4,344 187 23 1,414 5,552 Net financial assets liabilities by currency of denomination US$ A$ SA rand GBP Other Total 2010 US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M Functional currency of Group operation US dollars 1,398 90 31 942 2,219 Australian dollars 1 1 UK pounds sterling 4 4 3 1,398 90 31 942 2,216 The principal non-functional currencies to which the Group is exposed are the Australian dollar, South African rand and UK pound sterling.
Based on the Groups net financial assets and liabilities as at 30 June 2011, a weakening of the US dollar against these currencies as illustrated in the table below, with all other variables held constant, would increase decrease profit after taxation and equity as follows: 2011 2010 US$M US$M Profit after Profit after Currency movement taxation Equity taxation Equity 1 cent movement in Australian dollar 33 33 9 8 0.2 rand movement in South African rand 7 4 2 5 1 pence movement in UK pound sterling The Groups financial asset and liability profile may not remain constant, and therefore these sensitivities should be used with care.
Transactional exposure in respect of non-functional currency expenditure and revenues Certain operating and capital expenditure is incurred by some operations in currencies other than their functional currency.
To a lesser extent, certain sales revenue is earned in currencies other than the functional currency of operations, and certain exchange control restrictions may require that funds be maintained in currencies other than the functional currency of the operation.
These currency risks are managed as part of the Portfolio Risk Management Strategy and within the overall CFaR limit.
When required under this strategy the Group enters into forward exchange contracts.
The net fair value of forward exchange contracts outstanding to manage short-term foreign currency cash flows relating to operating activities is an asset of US$23 million 2010: an asset of US$22 million.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 207 Notes to Financial Statements continued 28 Financial risk management continued Commodity price risk Contracts for the sale and physical delivery of commodities are executed whenever possible on a pricing basis intended to achieve a relevant index target.
Where pricing terms deviate from the index, derivative commodity contracts are used when available to return realised prices to the index.
Contracts for the physical delivery of commodities are not typically financial instruments and are carried in the balance sheet at cost typically at nil : they are therefore excluded from the fair value and sensitivity tables below.
Accordingly, the financial instrument exposures set out in the tables below do not represent all of the commodity price risks managed according to the Groups objectives.
Movements in the fair value of contracts included in the tables below are offset by movements in the fair value of the physical contracts, however only the former movement is recognised in the Groups income statement prior to settlement.
The risk associated with commodity prices is managed as part of the Portfolio Risk Management Strategy and within the overall CFaR limit.
Financial instruments with commodity price risk included in the following tables are those entered into for the following activities: economic hedging of prices realised on commodity contracts as described above purchases and sales of physical contracts that can be cash-settled derivatives embedded within other supply contracts All such instruments are carried in the balance sheet at fair value.
Forward commodity and other derivative contracts 2011 2010 Fair value Fair value Fair value Fair value of asset of liability of asset of liability US$M US$M US$M US$M Aluminium 7 30 21 26 Copper 111 102 83 84 Zinc 2 2 29 19 Lead 6 8 40 26 Silver 18 27 4 9 Nickel 25 13 47 36 Iron ore 2 5 2 Energy coal 16 41 21 31 Metallurgical coal 2 Petroleum 4 24 33 Gas 129 52 111 31 Freight 24 7 38 13 Other 3 Total 344 311 394 315 Comprising: Current 189 232 241 223 Non-current 155 79 153 92 The Groups exposure at 30 June 2011 to the impact of movements in commodity prices upon the financial instruments, other than those designated as embedded derivatives, is set out in the following table.
2011 2010 Impact on Impact on equity and equity and profit after profit after taxation of 10% taxation of 10% Net exposure movement in Net exposure movement in receive market price receive market price Units of exposure deliver US$M deliver US$M Aluminium 000 tonnes 74 18 8 2 Copper 000 tonnes 29 27 20 18 Zinc 000 tonnes 8 2 4 Lead 000 tonnes 9 2 13 Silver Million ounces 1 1 3 3 Nickel 000 tonnes 1 3 1 2 Iron ore 000 tonnes 1,102 18 273 3 Energy coal 000 tonnes 1,089 13 1,370 13 Petroleum 000 barrels 25 2 Gas 000 therms Freight Time charter days 1,823 3 1,490 4 000 voyage charter tonnes 165 510 1 208 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information 28 Financial risk management continued Provisionally priced commodity sales contracts Not included in the above tables are provisionally priced sales volumes for which price finalisation, referenced to the relevant index, is outstanding at balance date.
Provisional pricing mechanisms embedded within these sales arrangements have the character of a commodity derivative and are carried at fair value as part of trade receivables.
The Groups exposure at 30 June 2011 to the impact of movements in commodity prices upon provisionally invoiced sales volumes is set out in the following table.
2011 2010 Impact on Impact on equity and equity and profit after profit after taxation of 10% taxation of 10% Net exposure movement in Net exposure movement in receive market price receive market price Units of exposure deliver US$M deliver US$M Copper 000 tonnes 239 145 237 100 The sensitivities in the above tables have been determined as the absolute impact on fair value of a 10 per cent increase in commodity prices at each reporting date, while holding all other variables, including foreign currency and exchange rates, constant.
The relationship between commodity prices and foreign currencies is complex and movements in foreign exchange can impact commodity prices.
The sensitivities should therefore be used with care.
Liquidity risk The Groups liquidity risk arises from the possibility that it may not be able to settle or meet its obligations as they fall due and is managed as part of the Portfolio Risk Management Strategy and within the overall CFaR limit.
Operational, capital and regulatory requirements are considered in the management of liquidity risk, in conjunction with shortand long-term forecast information.
Additional liquidity risk arises on debt related derivatives due to the possibility that a market for derivatives might not exist in some circumstances.
To counter this risk the Group only uses derivatives in highly liquid markets.
During the year ended 30 June 2011, Moodys Investors Service made no change to the Groups long-term credit rating of A1 the short-term credit rating is P-1.
Standard & Poors made no change to the Groups long-term credit rating of A the short-term credit rating is A-1.
The Groups strong credit profile, diversified funding sources and committed credit facilities ensure that sufficient liquid funds are maintained to meet its daily cash requirements.
The Groups policy on counterparty credit exposure ensures that only counterparties of a high credit standing are used for the investment of any excess cash.
There were no defaults on loans payable during the period.
Standby arrangements and unused credit facilities Details of major standby and support arrangements are as follows: Facility Facility available Used Unused available Used Unused 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M a Revolving credit facility 4,000 4,000 3,000 3,000 b Other facilities 61 61 58 58 Total financing facilities 4,061 4,061 3,058 3,058 a The multi-currency revolving credit facility is available for general corporate purposes and matures in December 2015.
This facility is used for general corporate purposes and as backup for the commercial paper programs.
The interest rates under this facility are based on an interbank rate plus a margin.
The applicable margin is typical for a credit facility extended to a company with the Groups credit rating.
b Other bank facilities are arranged with a number of banks with the general terms and conditions agreed on a periodic basis.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 209 Notes to Financial Statements continued 28 Financial risk management continued Maturity pro le of financial liabilities The maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities based on the contractual amounts, taking into account the derivatives related to debt, is as follows: Bank loans, Expected Obligations debentures future Derivatives under Other and other interest related to Other finance financial loans payments net debt derivatives leases liabilities Total 2011 US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M Due for payment: In one year or less or on demand 3,702 720 54 247 67 9,429 14,219 In more than one year but not more than two years 1,946 588 44 34 44 2,656 In more than two years but not more than three years 2,715 499 6 30 33 3,283 In more than three years but not more than four years 179 369 4 31 7 590 In more than four years but not more than five years 2,971 347 9 53 29 3,409 In more than five years 3,733 867 4 38 381 5,023 15,246 3,390 54 314 253 9,923 29,180 Carrying amount 15,700 53 314 192 9,921 26,180 Bank loans, Expected Obligations debentures future Derivatives under Other and other interest related to Other finance financial loans payments net debt derivatives leases liabilities Total 2010 US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M Due for payment: In one year or less or on demand 2,038 741 54 241 77 6,245 9,288 In more than one year but not more than two years 2,286 689 346 37 64 30 3,452 In more than two years but not more than three years 1,827 567 10 19 23 5 2,451 In more than three years but not more than four years 2,837 475 10 10 23 4 3,359 In more than four years but not more than five years 134 357 11 11 23 536 In more than five years 5,841 1,124 143 3 85 323 7,519 14,963 3,953 466 321 295 6,607 26,605 Carrying amount 15,524 456 321 225 6,770 23,296 The amounts presented in the tables above comprise the contractual undiscounted cash flows, and therefore will not always agree with the amounts presented in the balance sheet.
The Group holds derivatives related to net debt, commodities and currencies that are classified as other financial assets when they are expected to generate cash inflows refer to note 11. Credit risk Credit risk arises from the non-performance by counterparties of their contractual financial obligations towards the Group.
To manage credit risk the Group maintains Group-wide procedures covering the application for credit approvals, granting and renewal of counterparty limits and daily monitoring of exposures against these limits.
As part of these processes the financial viability of all counterparties is regularly monitored and assessed.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is limited to the total carrying value of relevant financial assets on the balance sheet as at the reporting date.
The Groups credit risk exposures are categorised under the following headings: Counterparties The Group conducts transactions with the following major types of counterparties: Receivables counterparties The majority of sales to the Groups customers are made on open terms.
Payment guarantee counterparties A proportion of sales to Group customers occur via secured payment mechanisms.
Derivative counterparties Counterparties to derivative contracts consist of a diverse number of financial institutions and industrial counterparties in the relevant markets.
Cash investment counterparties As part of managing cash flow and liquidity, the Group holds short-term cash investments with a range of approved financial institutions.
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk with any single counterparty or group of counterparties.
210 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information 28 Financial risk management continued Geographic The Group trades in all major geographic regions.
Countries in which the Group has a significant credit risk exposure include South Africa, Australia, the US, Japan and China.
Where appropriate, secured payment mechanisms and other risk mitigation instruments are used to protect revenues from credit risk losses.
Industry In line with our asset portfolio, the Group sells into a diverse range of industries and customer sectors.
This diversity means that the Group is not materially exposed to any individual industry or customer.
The following table shows the Groups receivables at the reporting date that are exposed to credit risk and the ageing and impairment profile thereon.
Receivables R eceivables past due but not impaired Receivables neither past Gross past due and due nor Less than amount impaired impaired 30 days 31 to 60 days 61 to 90 days Over 90 days 2011 US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M Trade receivables 6,219 151 5,782 230 3 4 49 Other receivables 4,242 20 3,880 74 6 13 249 Total 10,461 171 9,662 304 9 17 298 Receivables Receivables past due but not impaired Receivables neither past Gross past due and due nor Less than amount impaired impaired 30 days 31 to 60 days 61 to 90 days Over 90 days 2010 US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M Trade receivables 5,092 147 4,907 27 6 1 4 Other receivables 2,994 15 2,864 32 10 3 70 Total 8,086 162 7,771 59 16 4 74 Receivables are deemed to be past due or impaired with reference to the Groups normal terms and conditions of business.
These terms and conditions are determined on a case-by-case basis with reference to the customers credit quality and prevailing market conditions.
Receivables that are classified as past due in the above tables are those that have not been settled within the terms and conditions that have been agreed with that customer.
For an analysis of movements in impaired trade receivables, refer to note 10.
The credit quality of the Groups customers is monitored on an ongoing basis and assessed for impairment where indicators of such impairment exist.
The solvency of each debtor and their ability to repay the receivable is considered in assessing receivables for impairment.
In certain circumstances the Group may seek collateral as security for the receivable.
Where receivables have been impaired, the Group actively seeks to recover the amounts in question and enforce compliance with credit terms.
No other financial assets were past due or impaired at 30 June 2011 30 June 2010: nil.
Fair values All financial assets and financial liabilities, other than derivatives, are initially recognised at the fair value of consideration paid or received, net of transaction costs as appropriate, and subsequently carried at fair value or amortised cost, as indicated in the tables below.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date the contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
This measurement of fair value is principally based on quoted market prices.
Where no price information is available from a quoted market source, alternative market mechanisms or recent comparable transactions, fair value is estimated based on the Groups views on relevant future prices, net of valuation allowances to accommodate liquidity, modelling and other risks implicit in such estimates.
The financial assets and liabilities are presented by class in the tables below at their carrying values, which generally approximate to the fair values.
In the case of US$827 million 2010: US$2,577 million of centrally managed fixed rate debt not swapped to floating rate, the fair value at 30 June 2011 is US$977 million 2010: US$3,031 million.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 211 Notes to Financial Statements continued 28 Financial risk management continued Financial assets and liabilities Other financial assets and Available Held at fair liabilities at Loans and for sale value through amortised receivables securities profit or loss cost Total 2011 Notes US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 23 10,084 10,084 a Trade and other receivables 10 7,600 1,003 8,603 Cross currency and interest rate swaps 11 754 754 Forward exchange contracts 11 26 26 Commodity contracts 11 214 214 Other derivative contracts 11 130 130 Interest bearing loans receivable 10 1,044 1,044 Shares 11 580 580 Other investments 11 162 162 Total financial assets 18,728 742 2,127 21,597 Non-financial assets 81,294 Total assets 102,891 Financial liabilities b Trade and other payables 15 9,906 9,906 Cross currency and interest rate swaps 17 53 53 Forward exchange contracts 17 3 3 Commodity contracts 17 219 219 Other derivative contracts 17 92 92 Unsecured bank overdrafts and short-term borrowings 16 4 4 Unsecured bank loans 16 1,010 1,010 c Notes and debentures 16 12,580 12,580 Secured bank and other loans 16 1,326 1,326 Redeemable preference shares 16 15 15 Finance leases 16 192 192 Unsecured other 16 780 780 Total financial liabilities 367 25,813 26,180 Non-financial liabilities 18,956 Total liabilities 45,136 a Excludes input taxes of US$643 million included in other receivables.
Refer to note 10. b Excludes input taxes of US$367 million included in other payables.
Refer to note 15. c Includes US$11,753 million of centrally managed fixed rate debt swapped to floating rate under fair value hedges, and is consequently fair valued for interest rate risk.
212 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information 28 Financial risk management continued Financial assets and liabilities continued Other financial assets and Available Held at fair liabilities at Loans and for sale value through amortised receivables securities profit or loss cost Total 2010 Notes US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 23 12,456 12,456 a Trade and other receivables 10 5,938 812 6,750 Cross currency and interest rate swaps 11 618 618 Forward exchange contracts 11 28 28 Commodity contracts 11 282 282 Other derivative contracts 11 112 112 Interest bearing loans receivable 10 683 683 Shares 11 657 657 Other investments 11 105 105 Total financial assets 19,077 762 1,852 21,691 Non-financial assets 67,161 Total assets 88,852 Financial liabilities b Trade and other payables 15 6,755 6,755 Cross currency and interest rate swaps 17 456 456 Forward exchange contracts 17 6 6 Commodity contracts 17 235 235 Other derivative contracts 17 80 80 Unsecured bank overdrafts and short-term borrowings 16 1 1 Unsecured bank loans 16 754 754 c Notes and debentures 16 13,436 13,436 Secured bank and other loans 16 957 957 Redeemable preference shares 16 15 15 Finance leases 16 225 225 Unsecured other 16 376 376 Total financial liabilities 777 22,519 23,296 Non-financial liabilities 16,227 Total liabilities 39,523 a Excludes input taxes of US$491 million included in other receivables.
Refer to note 10. b Excludes input taxes of US$181 million included in other payables.
Refer to note 15. c Includes US$10,847 million of centrally managed fixed rate debt swapped to floating rate under fair value hedges, and is consequently fair valued for interest rate risk.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 213 Notes to Financial Statements continued 28 Financial risk management continued Valuation hierarchy The carrying amount of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value is principally calculated with reference to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Movements in the fair value of financial assets and liabilities may be recognised through the income statement or in other comprehensive income.
The following table shows the Groups financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value with reference to the nature of valuation inputs used.
a b c Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 2011 US$M US$M US$M US$M Financial assets and liabilities Trade and other receivables 1,003 1,003 Cross currency and interest rate swaps 701 701 Forward exchange contracts 23 23 Commodity contracts 5 5 Other derivative contracts 4 42 38 Investments available for sale 10 172 560 742 Total 10 1,890 602 2,502 a b c Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 2010 US$M US$M US$M US$M Financial assets and liabilities Trade and other receivables 812 812 Cross currency and interest rate swaps 162 162 Forward exchange contracts 22 22 Commodity contracts 47 47 Other derivative contracts 9 41 32 Investments available for sale 13 112 637 762 Total 13 1,146 678 1,837 a Valuation is based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial assets and liabilities.
b Valuation is based on inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the financial asset or liability, either directly i. e. as unquoted prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
c Valuation is based on inputs that are not based on observable market data.
Level 3 financial assets and liabilities The following table shows the movements in the Groups Level 3 financial assets and liabilities.
2011 2010 US$M US$M Balance at the beginning of the financial year 678 590 Additions 78 141 Disposals 38 8 a Realised gains losses recognised in the income statement 12 229 a Unrealised losses gains recognised in the income statement 11 21 b Unrealised losses gains recognised in other comprehensive income 116 147 Transfers to receivables 1 Transfers from property, plant and equipment 16 Balance at the end of the financial year 602 678 a Realised and unrealised gains and losses recognised in the income statement are recorded in expenses.
Refer to note 5. b Unrealised gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income are recorded in the financial assets reserve.
214 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information 28 Financial risk management continued Sensitivity of Level 3 financial assets and liabilities The carrying amount of financial assets and liabilities that are valued using inputs other than observable market data are calculated using appropriate valuation models, including discounted cash flow modelling, with inputs such as commodity prices, foreign exchange rates and inflation.
The potential effect of using reasonably possible alternative assumptions in these models, based on a change in the most significant input by 10 per cent while holding all other variables constant, is shown in the following table.
Significant inputs are assessed individually for each financial asset and liability.
Profit after taxation Equity Carrying 10% increase 10% decrease 10% increase 10% decrease value in input in input in input in input 2011 US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M Financial assets and liabilities Other derivative contracts 42 24 24 24 24 Investments available for sale 560 67 88 Total 602 24 24 43 64 Profit after taxation Equity Carrying 10% increase 10% decrease 10% increase 10% decrease value in input in input in input in input 2010 US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M Financial assets and liabilities Other derivative contracts 41 20 21 20 21 Investments available for sale 637 128 140 Total 678 20 21 108 119 Capital management The Groups strategy is focused on owning and operating large, long-life, low-cost, expandable, upstream assets and the Group continually reviews its portfolio to identify assets which do not fit this strategy.
The Group will invest capital in assets where they fit our strategy.
The Groups priorities for cash flow are: reinvestment in projects that carry attractive rates of return regardless of the economic climate commitment to a solid A credit rating returning excess capital to shareholders firstly with its progressive dividends policy and thereafter via dividends and capital management for example share buy-backs The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, being the ratio of net debt to net debt plus net assets.
2011 2010 US$M US$M Cash and cash equivalents 10,084 12,456 Current debt 3,519 2,191 Non-current debt 12,388 13,573 Net debt 5,823 3,308 Net assets 57,755 49,329 Gearing 9.2% 6.3% 29 Pension and other post-retirement obligations fide ned contribution pension schemes and multi-employer pension schemes The Group contributed US$336 million 2010: US$276 million: 2009: US$231 million to defined contribution plans and multi-employer defined contribution plans.
These contributions are expensed as incurred.
fide ned bene t pension schemes The Group has closed all defined benefit schemes to new entrants.
Defined benefit pension schemes remain operating in Australia, the US, Canada, South America, Europe and South Africa for existing members.
Full actuarial valuations are prepared and updated annually to 30 June by local actuaries for all schemes.
The Projected Unit Credit valuation method is used.
The Group operates final salary schemes that provide final salary benefits only, non-salary related schemes that provide flat dollar benefits and mixed benefit schemes that consist of a final salary defined benefit portion and a defined contribution portion.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 215 Notes to Financial Statements continued 29 Pension and other post-retirement obligations continued fide ned bene t post-retirement medical schemes The Group operates a number of post-retirement medical schemes in the US, Canada and South Africa.
Full actuarial valuations are prepared by local actuaries for all schemes.
All of the post-retirement medical schemes in the Group are unfunded.
The following tables set out details in respect of the Groups defined benefit pension and post-retirement medical schemes.
Balance sheet disclosures The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: Defined benefit pension schemes Post-retirement medical schemes 2011 2010 2011 2010 US$M US$M US$M US$M Present value of funded defined benefit obligation 1,948 1,673 Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligation 95 89 437 343 Fair value of defined benefit scheme assets 1,866 1,547 Scheme deficit 177 215 437 343 Unrecognised surplus 80 69 Unrecognised past service credits 5 1 Adjustment for employer contributions tax 16 11 Net liability recognised in the balance sheet 273 295 442 344 The Group has no legal obligation to settle these liabilities with any immediate contributions or additional one-off contributions.
The Group intends to continue to contribute to each defined benefit pension and post-retirement medical scheme in accordance with the latest recommendations of each scheme actuary.
Income statement disclosures The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: Defined benefit pension schemes Post-retirement medical schemes 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M Current service cost 62 54 58 5 6 5 Interest cost 105 108 110 23 22 22 Expected return on pension scheme assets 104 98 111 Past service costs 1 1 3 5 Gains losses on settlements curtailments 1 4 7 3 Total expense 63 64 54 31 21 25 Recognised in employee benefits expense 62 54 55 8 6 3 Recognised in net finance costs 1 10 1 23 22 22 Recognised in other income 7 Statement of Comprehensive Income SOCI disclosures The amounts recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income are as follows: Defined benefit pension schemes Post-retirement medical schemes 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M Actuarial losses gains 51 1 239 68 25 Limit on net assets and other adjustments 6 14 12 Total amount recognised in the SOCI 45 13 227 68 25 Total cumulative amount a recognised in the SOCI 313 268 255 120 52 27 a Cumulative amounts are calculated from the transition to IFRS on 1 July 2004.
The actual return on assets for the defined benefit pension schemes is as follows: Defined benefit pension schemes 2011 2010 2009 US$M US$M US$M Actual return on assets 136 175 117 216 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information 29 Pension and other post-retirement obligations continued The changes in the present value of defined benefit obligations are as follows: Defined benefit pension schemes Post-retirement medical schemes 2011 2010 2011 2010 US$M US$M US$M US$M Defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the financial year 1,762 1,736 343 310 Current service cost 62 54 5 6 Interest cost 105 108 23 22 Contributions by scheme participants 3 3 Actuarial losses on benefit obligation 83 76 68 25 Benefits paid to participants 159 164 22 18 Past service costs 1 3 Curtailment gains 1 7 Exchange variations 187 2 19 5 Other adjustments 53 2 Defined benefit obligation at the end of the financial year 2,043 1,762 437 343 The changes in the fair value of scheme assets for defined benefit pension schemes are as follows: Defined benefit pension schemes 2011 2010 US$M US$M Fair value of scheme assets at the beginning of the financial year 1,547 1,455 Expected return on scheme assets 104 98 Actuarial gains on scheme assets 32 77 Employer contributions 159 162 Contributions by scheme participants 3 3 Benefits paid 159 164 Exchange variations 157 1 Other adjustments 23 83 Fair value of scheme assets at the end of the financial year 1,866 1,547 The fair values of defined benefit pension scheme assets segregated by major asset class are as follows: Fair Value 2011 2010 US$M US$M Asset class Bonds 1,193 884 Equities 393 391 Property 19 22 Cash and net current assets 61 49 Insured annuities 190 187 Other 10 14 Total 1,866 1,547 Scheme assets classified as Other as at 30 June 2011 primarily comprise investments in private equity in Australia.
The fair value of scheme assets includes no amounts relating to any of the Groups own financial instruments or any of the property occupied by or other assets used by the Group.
The investment strategy is determined by each plans fiduciary body in consultation with the Group.
In general, the investment strategy for each plan is set by reference to the duration and risk profile of the plan, as well as the plans solvency level.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 217 Notes to Financial Statements continued 29 Pension and other post-retirement obligations continued Actuarial assumptions The principal actuarial assumptions at the reporting date expressed as weighted averages for defined benefit pension schemes are as follows: Australia Americas Europe South Africa 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 % % % % % % % % Discount rate 5.1 5.4 5.0 5.5 5.6 5.3 8.6 8.8 Future salary increases 4.3 4.0 4.6 4.5 5.0 4.7 7.6 6.9 Future pension increases n a n a 4.0 4.0 2.7 2.6 6.1 5.9 Expected rate of return on pension scheme assets 5.9 5.8 5.2 5.9 5.3 5.6 8.7 9.4 The principal actuarial assumptions at the reporting date expressed as weighted averages for post-retirement medical schemes are as follows: Americas South Africa 2011 2010 2011 2010 % % % % Discount rate 4.8 5.2 8.6 9.0 Medical cost trend rate ultimate 4.2 4.2 7.7 7.3 Assumptions regarding future mortality can be material depending upon the size and nature of the plan liabilities.
Post-retirement mortality assumptions in the Americas, Europe and South Africa are based on post-retirement mortality tables that are standard in these regions.
The overall expected rate of return on assets is the weighted average of the expected rate of return on each applicable asset class and reflects the long-term target asset allocation as at the reporting date.
For bonds, the expected rate of return reflects the redemption yields available on corporate and government bonds, as applicable, as at the reporting date.
For all other asset classes, the expected rate of return reflects the rate of return expected over the long term.
For the main funds, these tables imply the following expected future lifetimes in years for employees aged 65 as at the balance sheet date: US males 19.8, US females 21.6: Canadian males 19.4, Canadian females 21.8: Netherlands males 21.4, Netherlands females 23.9: UK males 22.5, UK females 24.9: South African males 18.0, South African females 22.3.
The present value of defined benefit obligations, fair value of scheme assets and associated experience adjustments for the defined benefit pension and post-retirement medical schemes are shown for the current year and the previous four years as follows: Defined benefit pension schemes 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M Present value of defined benefit obligation 2,043 1,762 1,736 1,889 1,787 Fair value of defined benefit scheme assets 1,866 1,547 1,455 1,768 1,756 Deficit in the schemes 177 215 281 121 31 Experience gain loss adjustments to scheme liabilities 1 16 2 8 7 Experience gain loss adjustments to scheme assets 32 77 228 130 101 Post-retirement medical schemes 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M Present value of defined benefit obligation 437 343 310 328 380 Experience loss gain adjustments to scheme liabilities 3 7 4 8 1 Experience adjustments to scheme liabilities do not include the effect of changes in actuarial assumptions.
218 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information 29 Pension and other post-retirement obligations continued Estimated contributions for the defined benefit pension and post-retirement medical schemes are as follows: Defined benefit Post-retirement pension medical schemes schemes US$M US$M Estimated employer contributions for the year ending 30 June 2012 125 25 Estimated contributions by scheme participants for the year ending 30 June 2012 3 The impact of a one percentage point variation in the medical cost trend rate for the post-retirement medical schemes on the Groups results is as follows: 2011 2010 US$M US$M Effect of an increase in the medical cost trend of 1% point on: Total of current service and interest cost 5 3 Defined benefit obligation 49 31 Effect of a decrease in the medical cost trend of 1% point on: Total of current service and interest cost 4 3 Defined benefit obligation 40 26 30 Key Management Personnel Key Management Personnel compensation comprises: 2011 2010 2009 US$ US$ US$ Short-term employee benefits 22,482,359 21,851,956 20,015,590 Post-employment benefits 3,270,906 5,281,930 2,870,982 Share-based payments 28,682,260 23,196,103 19,127,612 Total 54,435,525 50,329,989 42,014,184 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 219 Notes to Financial Statements continued 30 Key Management Personnel continued Equity Instrument disclosures relating to Key Management Personnel BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares under award At 30 June Exercised At Scheme 2009 Granted Lapsed Matched 30 June 2010 Marius Kloppers LTIP Performance 833,327 250,000 1,083,327 GIS Deferred 123,429 46,951 27,582 142,798 Shareplus 328 194 160 362 Marcus Randolph LTIP Performance 817,676 120,000 110,000 827,676 GIS Deferred 68,675 25,126 23,648 70,153 Shareplus 329 190 157 362 Alex Vanselow LTIP Performance 867,676 120,000 110,000 877,676 GIS Deferred 24,847 27,727 24,847 27,727 Shareplus 325 193 157 361 Karen Wood LTIP Performance 664,187 90,000 80,000 674,187 GIS Deferred 89,150 23,686 58,372 54,464 PSP 25,846 25,846 Shareplus 325 193 157 361 J. Michael Yeager LTIP Performance 962,702 120,000 1,082,702 GIS Deferred 82,833 29,877 26,460 86,250 Shareplus 344 138 134 348 Total 4,561,999 854,275 487,520 4,928,754 BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares under option At 30 June At Scheme 2009 Granted Lapsed Exercised 30 June 2010 Alex Vanselow GIS Options 153,768 153,768 Total 153,768 153,768 BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares under award At 30 June Exercised At Scheme 2009 Granted Lapsed Matched 30 June 2010 Marius Kloppers LTIP Performance 675,000 225,000 450,000 Alberto Calderon LTIP Performance 556,993 120,000 676,993 GIS Deferred 29,133 33,343 29,133 33,343 Shareplus 344 193 156 381 Andrew Mackenzie LTIP Performance 325,839 120,000 445,839 GIS Deferred 12,476 12,476 Shareplus 175 175 Total 1,587,309 286,187 254,289 1,619,207 BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares under option At 30 June At Scheme 2009 Granted Lapsed Exercised 30 June 2010 Alberto Calderon GIS Options 143,227 143,227 Andrew Mackenzie GIS Options 16,119 16,119 Total 143,227 16,119 159,346 a All awards and options that are vested are exercisable.
No options have been granted to Key Management Personnel since the end of the financial year.
Further information on options and rights, including grant dates and exercise dates regarding options granted to Key Management Personnel under the employee share ownership plan, is set out in note 32.
b Closing balances represent the holding at year end or the holding at date of appointment or resignation as a KMP.
c Ms Hewsons and Mr Broomheads balance reflects their holdings at appointment date, 31 March 2010. d Baroness Vaderas balance reflects her holding at appointment date, 1 January 2011.
222 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information 30 Key Management Personnel continued Directors and their personally related entities receive the same dividends and bonus share entitlements as those available to other holders of the same class of shares.
Refer to note 32 for details of the employee share ownership plans referred to above.
Transactions with Key Management Personnel During the year, there were no purchases from the Group 2010: US$ nil: 2009: Alex Vanselow US$29,613.
There are no amounts payable at 30 June 2011 2010: US$ nil.
Loans with Key Management Personnel There are US$ nil loans 2010: US$ nil with Key Management Personnel.
Transactions with personally related entities A number of Directors or former Directors of the Group hold or have held positions in other companies, where it is considered they control or significantly influence the financial or operating policies of those entities.
One of those entities, Fluor Corporation, was considered to be a personally related entity of Mr Alan Boeckmann until Mr Boeckmanns resignation as an Executive Director of Fluor Corporation on 2 February 2011.
During the period in which Fluor Corporation was considered a personally related entity, Fluor Corporation provided products and services to the Group totalling US$244.767 million 2010: US$426.368 million: 2009: US$222.821 million in accordance with normal terms and conditions.
As at 30 June 2011, no amounts were owed by the Group to personally related entities 2010: Fluor Corporation US$7.083 million.
31 Related party transactions Subsidiaries The percentage of ordinary shares held in significant subsidiaries is disclosed in note 25 to the financial statements.
Jointly controlled entities The percentage interest held in significant jointly controlled entities is disclosed in note 26 to the financial statements.
Key Management Personnel Disclosures relating to Key Management Personnel are set out in note 30 to the financial statements.
Transactions with related parties a b Jointly controlled entities Other related parties 2011 2010 2011 2010 US$M US$M US$M US$M Sales of goods services 295.683 233.026 1.841 Purchases of goods services 434.758 346.156 Interest income 31.319 20.970 Loans made to related parties 292.247 323.688 a Disclosures in respect of transactions with jointly controlled entities represent the amount of such transactions which do not eliminate on proportionate consolidation.
b Excludes transactions with post-employment benefit plans for the benefit of Group employees.
Transactions between each parent company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties of that company, are eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Outstanding balances with related parties a Jointly controlled entities Other related parties 2011 2010 2011 2010 US$M US$M US$M US$M Trade amounts owing to related parties 228.852 44.561 Other amounts owing to related parties 41.544 Trade amounts owing from related parties 96.604 38.566 Other amounts owing from related parties 657.456 323.688 a Disclosures in respect of amounts owing to from jointly controlled entities represent those balances which do not eliminate upon proportionate consolidation.
Terms and conditions Sales to and purchases from related parties of goods and services are made in arms length transactions at normal market prices and on normal commercial terms.
Outstanding balances at year end are unsecured and settlement occurs in cash.
Other amounts owing from related parties represent secured loans made to jointly controlled entities under co-funding arrangements.
Such loans are made on an arms length basis with interest charged at market rates and are due to be repaid between 22 December 2014 and 30 June 2030.
No guarantees are provided or received for any related party receivables or payables.
No provision for doubtful debts has been recognised in relation to any outstanding balances and no expense has been recognised in respect of bad or doubtful debts due from related parties.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 223 Notes to Financial Statements continued 32 Employee share ownership plans Employee share awards current plans Number of Number of Number of awards awards on Number of awards vested and issue at the awards Number of remaining exercisable beginning of issued awards Number of at the end of at the end of the financial during the vested and awards the financial the financial 2011 year year exercised lapsed year year BHP Billiton Limited a Group Incentive Scheme Deferred Shares 2,591,472 166,654 1,747,477 31,117 979,532 659,511 a Group Incentive Scheme Options 1,605,668 663,815 6,493 935,360 935,360 weighted average exercise price A$ 31.51 28.77 29.15 33.47 33.47 weighted average share price A$ 42.25 weighted average contractual term for outstanding options days a Group Incentive Scheme Performance Shares 3,541 3,541 a Group Short Term Incentive Plan Deferred Shares 867,717 939,359 118,628 38,926 1,649,522 a Group Short Term Incentive Plan Options 247,906 87,254 335,160 weighted average exercise price A$ 38.41 41.78 39.29 weighted average share price A$ weighted average contractual term for outstanding options days 150 a Long Term Incentive Plan Performance Shares 17,790,696 590,000 4,382,309 466,968 13,531,419 1,223,312 a Management Award Plan Restricted Shares 4,408,244 2,452,996 283,648 369,983 6,207,609 b Shareplus Matched Shares 2,432,760 1,076,579 1,095,254 259,901 2,154,184 BHP Billiton Plc Group Incentive Scheme Deferred Shares 842,747 53,195 522,227 14,974 358,741 259,727 Group Incentive Scheme Options 1,248,847 30,389 766,831 22,262 490,143 443,635 weighted average exercise price 11.38 23.71 11.22 8.82 12.51 11.52 weighted average share price 20.95 weighted average contractual term for outstanding options days 293 Group Short Term Incentive Plan Deferred Shares 420,997 359,440 58,953 6,174 715,310 Group Short Term Incentive Plan Options 29,457 66,555 96,012 weighted average exercise price 16.44 22.08 20.35 weighted average share price weighted average contractual term for outstanding options days 307 Long Term Incentive Plan Performance Shares 7,024,705 240,000 1,616,087 187,245 5,461,373 712,042 Management Award Plan Restricted Shares 1,810,541 848,950 101,921 199,490 2,358,080 Shareplus Matched Shares 607,931 260,990 285,382 66,748 516,791 224 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information 32 Employee share ownership plans continued Fair value and assumptions in the calculation of fair value Weighted average fair value of awards granted Estimated during Risk-free Estimated Share price volatility c the year interest life of at grant of share Dividend d e 2011 US$ rate awards date price yield BHP Billiton Limited Group Incentive Scheme Deferred Shares 31.71 n a 3 years A$37.11 n a 2.69% Group Incentive Scheme Options Group Short Term Incentive Plan Deferred Shares 31.71 n a 3 years A$37.11 n a 2.69% Group Short Term Incentive Plan Options 8.84 4.80% 3 years A$37.11 30.0% 2.69% Long Term Incentive Plan Performance Shares 19.48 1.85% 5 years A$37.11 33.0% 2.69% Management Award Plan Restricted Shares 30.84 n a 3 years A$37.11 n a 2.69% Shareplus Matched Shares 39.02 4.26% 3 years A$47.29 n a 2.87% BHP Billiton Plc Group Incentive Scheme Deferred Shares 25.98 n a 3 years 16.95 n a 2.91% Group Incentive Scheme Options 6.98 2.23% 3 years 16.95 35.0% 2.91% Group Short Term Incentive Plan Deferred Shares 25.98 n a 3 years 16.95 n a 2.91% Group Short Term Incentive Plan Options 6.98 2.23% 3 years 16.95 35.0% 2.91% Long Term Incentive Plan Performance Shares 15.93 1.85% 5 years 16.95 33.0% 2.91% Management Award Plan Restricted Shares 25.21 n a 3 years 16.95 n a 2.91% Shareplus Matched Shares 35.45 3.19% 3 years 22.95 n a 3.24% BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 225 Notes to Financial Statements continued 32 Employee share ownership plans continued Employee share awards current plans Number of Number of Number of awards awards on Number of awards vested and issue at the awards Number of remaining exercisable beginning of issued awards Number of at the end of at the end of the financial during the vested and awards the financial the financial 2010 year year exercised lapsed year year BHP Billiton Limited Group Incentive Scheme Deferred Shares 3,709,437 153,367 1,249,998 21,334 2,591,472 671,873 Group Incentive Scheme Options 1,985,321 321,509 58,144 1,605,668 525,536 weighted average exercise price A$ 29.92 22.14 29.15 31.51 36.36 weighted average share price A$ 44.76 weighted average contractual term for outstanding options days 56 Group Incentive Scheme Performance Shares 77,651 63,242 10,868 3,541 3,541 Group Short Term Incentive Plan Deferred Shares 891,037 20,081 3,239 867,717 Group Short Term Incentive Plan Options 268,558 20,652 247,906 weighted average exercise price A$ 38.41 38.41 38.41 weighted average share price A$ weighted average contractual term for outstanding options days 420 Long Term Incentive Plan Performance Shares 20,331,131 700,000 2,771,669 468,766 17,790,696 760,150 Management Award Plan Restricted Shares 2,352,947 2,413,149 129,160 228,692 4,408,244 Shareplus Matched Shares 2,082,831 1,469,556 952,917 166,710 2,432,760 BHP Billiton Plc Group Incentive Scheme Deferred Shares 1,468,731 45,819 666,987 4,816 842,747 206,894 Group Incentive Scheme Options 1,413,717 16,119 144,884 36,105 1,248,847 296,106 weighted average exercise price 11.14 18.68 10.72 8.09 11.38 12.53 weighted average share price 18.11 weighted average contractual term for outstanding options days 56 Group Incentive Scheme Performance Shares 41,022 36,188 4,834 Group Short Term Incentive Plan Deferred Shares 424,555 3,558 420,997 Group Short Term Incentive Plan Options 32,989 3,532 29,457 weighted average exercise price 16.44 16.44 16.44 weighted average share price weighted average contractual term for outstanding options days 420 Long Term Incentive Plan Performance Shares 8,258,750 240,000 1,185,345 288,700 7,024,705 338,954 Management Award Plan Restricted Shares 959,610 962,000 21,151 89,918 1,810,541 Shareplus Matched Shares 616,595 332,151 292,899 47,916 607,931 226 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information 32 Employee share ownership plans continued Fair value and assumptions in the calculation of fair value Weighted average fair value of awards granted Estimated during Risk-free Estimated Share price volatility c the year interest life of at grant of share Dividend d e 2010 US$ rate awards date price yield BHP Billiton Limited Group Incentive Scheme Deferred Shares 25.22 n a 3 years A$33.90 n a 3.98% Group Incentive Scheme Options Group Short Term Incentive Plan Deferred Shares 25.22 n a 3 years A$33.90 n a 3.98% Group Short Term Incentive Plan Options 7.37 5.35% 3 years A$33.90 35.0% 3.98% Long Term Incentive Plan Performance Shares 9.49 2.58% 5 years A$33.90 31.0% 3.98% Management Award Plan Restricted Shares 24.21 n a 3 years A$33.90 n a 3.98% Shareplus Matched Shares 33.59 2.51% 3 years A$44.29 n a 3.28% BHP Billiton Plc Group Incentive Scheme Deferred Shares 21.83 n a 3 years 14.25 n a 3.58% Group Incentive Scheme Options 6.59 3.02% 3 years 14.25 40.0% 3.58% Group Short Term Incentive Plan Deferred Shares 21.83 n a 3 years 14.25 n a 3.58% Group Short Term Incentive Plan Options 6.59 3.02% 3 years 14.25 40.0% 3.58% Long Term Incentive Plan Performance Shares 8.32 2.58% 5 years 14.25 31.0% 3.58% Management Award Plan Restricted Shares 21.04 n a 3 years 14.25 n a 3.58% Shareplus Matched Shares 28.63 3.42% 3 years 19.44 n a 2.97% BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 227 Notes to Financial Statements continued 32 Employee share ownership plans continued Employee share awards current plans Number of Number of Number of awards awards on Number of awards vested and issue at the awards Number of remaining exercisable beginning of issued awards Number of at the end of at the end of the financial during the vested and awards the financial the financial 2009 year year exercised lapsed year year BHP Billiton Limited Group Incentive Scheme Deferred Shares 3,422,157 1,980,820 1,621,584 71,956 3,709,437 874,599 Group Incentive Scheme Options 1,331,293 1,182,159 522,906 5,225 1,985,321 483,068 weighted average exercise price A$ 25.05 29.15 15.95 11.11 29.92 22.74 weighted average share price A$ 35.14 weighted average contractual term for outstanding options days 340 Group Incentive Scheme Performance Shares 639,287 523,548 38,088 77,651 77,651 Long Term Incentive Plan Performance Shares 20,260,877 1,350,000 7,750 1,271,996 20,331,131 Management Award Plan Restricted Shares 2,484,233 15,556 115,730 2,352,947 Shareplus Matched Shares 985,333 1,270,067 91,125 81,444 2,082,831 BHP Billiton Plc Group Incentive Scheme Deferred Shares 1,456,483 679,170 599,621 67,301 1,468,731 367,762 Group Incentive Scheme Options 641,124 957,588 172,951 12,044 1,413,717 289,088 weighted average exercise price 10.60 10.89 7.90 8.59 11.14 8.81 weighted average share price 14.34 weighted average contractual term for outstanding options days 364 Group Incentive Scheme Performance Shares 150,687 101,865 7,800 41,022 41,022 Long Term Incentive Plan Performance Shares 8,194,079 550,839 486,168 8,258,750 Management Award Plan Restricted Shares 1,052,500 8,666 84,224 959,610 Shareplus Matched Shares 305,468 405,841 68,280 26,434 616,595 Fair value and assumptions in the calculation of fair value Weighted average fair value of awards granted Estimated during Risk-free Estimated Share price volatility c the year interest life of at grant of share Dividend d e 2009 US$ rate awards date price yield BHP Billiton Limited Group Incentive Scheme Deferred Shares 24.94 6.39% 3 years n a n a n a Group Incentive Scheme Options 8.46 6.39% 3 years A$44.40 30.0% 2.05% Long Term Incentive Plan Performance Shares 15.74 3.30% 5 years A$44.40 28.9% 2.05% Management Award Plan Restricted Shares 39.97 n a 3 years A$44.40 n a 2.05% Shareplus Matched Shares 23.79 5.93% 3 years A$42.06 n a 1.47% BHP Billiton Plc Group Incentive Scheme Deferred Shares 19.90 5.69% 3 years n a n a n a Group Incentive Scheme Options 6.34 5.69% 3 years 18.41 35.0% 1.65% Long Term Incentive Plan Performance Shares 13.55 3.30% 5 years 18.41 28.9% 1.65% Management Award Plan Restricted Shares 34.84 n a 3 years 18.41 n a 1.65% Shareplus Matched Shares 19.82 6.52% 3 years 17.44 n a 1.53% 228 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information 32 Employee share ownership plans continued f Employee share awards past plans Number Number Number of awards of awards of awards at the remaining at exercisable beginning of Number of Number of Number of the end of at the end of the financial awards awards awards the financial the financial 2011 year issued exercised lapsed year year BHP Billiton Limited Employee Share Plan Options 865,295 580,445 284,850 284,850 weighted average exercise price A$ 8.37 8.41 8.30 8.30 Employee Share Plan Shares 8,210,218 1,249,799 6,960,419 6,960,419 Executive Share Scheme Partly Paid Shares 189,918 189,918 Performance Share Plan Performance Rights 58,563 58,563 58,563 BHP Billiton Plc Co-Investment Plan 22,996 4,640 16,111 2,245 2,245 Number Number Number of awards of awards of awards at the remaining at exercisable beginning of Number of Number of Number of the end of at the end of the financial awards awards awards the financial the financial 2010 year issued exercised lapsed year year BHP Billiton Limited Employee Share Plan Options 1,632,133 766,838 865,295 865,295 weighted average exercise price A$ 8.38 8.39 8.37 8.37 Employee Share Plan Shares 9,134,763 924,545 8,210,218 8,210,218 Executive Share Scheme Partly Paid Shares 189,918 189,918 189,918 Performance Share Plan Performance Rights 95,038 36,475 58,563 58,563 BHP Billiton Plc Co-Investment Plan 24,047 1,051 22,996 22,996 Number Number Number of awards of awards of awards at the remaining at exercisable beginning of Number of Number of Number of the end of at the end of the financial awards awards awards the financial the financial 2009 year issued exercised lapsed year year BHP Billiton Limited Employee Share Plan Options 4,620,131 2,229,098 758,900 1,632,133 1,632,133 weighted average exercise price A$ 7.59 7.25 6.10 8.38 8.38 Employee Share Plan Shares 11,039,818 1,905,055 9,134,763 9,134,763 Executive Share Scheme Partly Paid Shares 274,918 85,000 189,918 189,918 Performance Share Plan Performance Rights 357,607 262,569 95,038 95,038 BHP Billiton Plc Co-Investment Plan 27,776 3,729 24,047 24,047 Restricted Share Scheme 76,633 26,915 49,718 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 229 Notes to Financial Statements continued 32 Employee share ownership plans continued h i Employee share awards summary Awards outstanding at: g Month of issue 30 June 2011 6 September 2011 Exercise price Exercise period release date BHP Billiton Limited Employee Share Plan Options November 2001 247,590 247,590 A$8.30 Oct 2004 Sep 2011 November 2001 37,260 37,260 A$8.29 Oct 2004 Sep 2011 284,850 284,850 Employee Share Plan Shares October 1997 1,257,026 1,232,245 Oct 1997 Oct 2017 May 1995 2,088,436 2,061,589 May 1995 May 2015 May 1994 1,465,808 1,443,092 May 1994 May 2014 May 1993 1,171,944 1,153,358 May 1993 May 2013 May 1992 977,205 966,880 May 1992 May 2012 6,960,419 6,857,164 Group Incentive Scheme Deferred Shares December 2010 166,654 166,654 Aug 2012 Aug 2015 December 2009 153,367 Aug 2011 Aug 2014 December 2008 431,398 385,211 Aug 2010 Aug 2013 December 2007 172,905 148,403 Aug 2009 Aug 2012 December 2006 55,208 Aug 2008 Aug 2011 Options December 2008 652,626 638,078 A$29.15 Aug 2010 Aug 2013 December 2007 280,171 280,171 A$43.61 Aug 2009 Aug 2012 December 2006 2,563 A$26.28 Aug 2008 Aug 2011 1,914,892 1,618,517 Group Short Term Incentive Plan Deferred Shares December 2010 895,530 887,571 Aug 2012 Aug 2015 December 2009 753,992 480,135 Aug 2011 Aug 2014 Options December 2010 87,254 87,254 A$41.78 Aug 2012 Aug 2015 December 2009 247,906 247,906 A$38.41 Aug 2011 Aug 2014 1,984,682 1,702,866 Long Term Incentive Plan Performance Shares December 2010 590,000 590,000 Aug 2015 Aug 2020 December 2009 700,000 700,000 Aug 2014 Aug 2019 December 2008 1,350,000 1,350,000 Aug 2013 Aug 2018 December 2007 4,914,986 4,906,318 Aug 2012 Aug 2017 December 2006 4,753,121 2,049,987 Aug 2011 Aug 2016 December 2005 888,647 752,272 Aug 2010 Aug 2015 December 2004 334,665 321,065 Aug 2009 Aug 2014 13,531,419 10,669,642 Management Award Plan December 2010 2,354,574 2,324,170 Aug 2013 Aug 2016 December 2009 2,064,218 2,013,441 Aug 2012 Aug 2015 November 2008 and March 2009 1,788,817 1,073,329 Aug 2011 Aug 2014 6,207,609 5,410,940 Performance Share Plan Performance Rights November 2001 LTI 58,563 Oct 2004 Aug 2011 58,563 Shareplus September 2010 to June 2011 1,018,079 1,000,601 Apr 2013 September 2009 to June 2010 1,136,105 1,121,243 Apr 2012 2,154,184 2,121,844 230 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information 32 Employee share ownership plans continued h i Employee share awards summary continued Awards outstanding at: g Month of issue 30 June 2011 6 September 2011 Exercise price Exercise period release date BHP Billiton Plc Co-Investment Plan October 2001 2,245 1,739 Oct 2003 Sep 2011 2,245 1,739 Group Incentive Scheme Deferred Shares December 2010 53,195 53,195 Aug 2012 Aug 2015 December 2009 45,819 Aug 2011 Aug 2014 December 2008 176,212 170,185 Aug 2010 Aug 2013 December 2007 74,678 66,332 Aug 2009 Aug 2012 December 2006 8,837 Aug 2008 Aug 2011 Options December 2010 30,389 30,389 23.71 Aug 2012 Aug 2015 December 2009 16,119 16,119 18.68 Aug 2011 Aug 2014 December 2008 355,021 338,249 10.89 Aug 2010 Aug 2013 December 2007 56,566 56,566 16.51 Aug 2009 Aug 2012 December 2006 32,048 9.72 Aug 2008 Aug 2011 848,884 731,035 Group Short Term Incentive Plan Deferred Shares December 2010 341,196 341,196 Aug 2012 Aug 2015 December 2009 374,114 226,914 Aug 2011 Aug 2014 Options December 2010 66,555 66,555 22.08 Aug 2012 Aug 2015 December 2009 29,457 29,457 16.44 Aug 2011 Aug 2014 811,322 664,122 Long Term Incentive Plan Performance Shares December 2010 240,000 240,000 Aug 2015 Aug 2020 December 2009 240,000 240,000 Aug 2014 Aug 2019 December 2008 550,839 550,839 Aug 2013 Aug 2018 December 2007 1,818,784 1,808,701 Aug 2012 Aug 2017 December 2006 1,899,708 1,034,129 Aug 2011 Aug 2016 December 2005 505,125 460,375 Aug 2010 Aug 2015 December 2004 206,917 187,917 Aug 2009 Aug 2014 5,461,373 4,521,961 Management Award Plan December 2010 813,150 808,994 Aug 2013 Aug 2016 December 2009 806,722 803,278 Aug 2012 Aug 2015 November 2008 and March 2009 738,208 497,500 Aug 2011 Aug 2014 2,358,080 2,109,772 Shareplus September 2010 to June 2011 246,437 239,306 Apr 2013 September 2009 to June 2010 270,354 263,764 Apr 2012 516,791 503,070 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 231 Notes to Financial Statements continued 32 Employee share ownership plans continued a Awards were made to senior management under four active employee ownership plans in BHP Billiton for the year ended 30 June 2011: the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, Group Incentive Scheme GIS, Management Award Plan MAP and Group Short Term Incentive Plan GSTIP.
These awards take the form of Performance Shares, Deferred Shares and or Options, and Restricted Shares in either BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc.
Awards made are subject to performance hurdles LTIP and service conditions all plans.
Subject to the performance conditions and service conditions being met and the extent to which they are met, the awards will vest and the participant will become entitled to the appropriate number of ordinary shares or, if relevant, entitled to exercise options over the relevant number of ordinary shares.
Awards under the plans do not confer any rights to participate in a share issue: however, there is discretion under each of the plans to adjust the awards in response to a variation of BHP Billitons share capital.
A description of the plans follows: i GIS and GSTIP The GIS awards are split equally between a cash award being a percentage of base salary and a grant of Deferred Shares and or Options.
The GSTIP is a replacement plan to the GIS for certain employees below the GMC and was first introduced during the year ended 30 June 2009.
Awards are split equally between a cash award being a percentage of base salary and a grant of Deferred Shares and or Options.
Deferred Shares and or Options are subject to a two-year vesting period before they can be exercised.
If, during that period, an individual resigns without the Remuneration Committees consent, or is dismissed for cause, their entitlement is forfeited.
Deferred Shares and or Options in respect of the year ended 30 June 2011 will be awarded during the year ending 30 June 2012. ii LTIP and MAP The LTIP awards are in the form of Performance Shares, and are awarded annually.
The performance hurdle applicable to the awards granted requires the Groups Total Shareholder Return TSR over a five-year performance period to be greater than a combination of the weighted average TSR of a peer group of companies and of the Morgan Stanley Capital Index World.
To the extent that the performance hurdle is not achieved, awards are forfeited.
For all Performance Shares to vest, the Groups TSR must exceed the weighted average TSR of the Index by a specified percentage, determined each year by the Remuneration Committee.
Since the establishment of the LTIP in 2004, this percentage has been set each year at 5.5 per cent.
For performance between the weighted average TSR of the Index and 5.5 per cent per annum above the Index, vesting occurs on a sliding scale.
The MAP is a replacement plan to the LTIP for employees below the GMC.
Under the MAP participants receive an Award of Restricted Shares, the number of which is determined by role, performance and organisational level.
There are no performance conditions attached to the Award and all the shares that have been granted will vest at the end of three years providing participants remain in employment over that time.
Participants in all award plans are eligible to receive a payment equal to the dividend amount that would have been earned on the underlying shares represented by the Deferred Shares, Options, Restricted Shares and Performance Shares awarded to those participants the Dividend Equivalent Payment.
The Dividend Equivalent Payment is made to the participants once the underlying shares are issued or transferred to them.
No Dividend Equivalent Payment is made in respect of Deferred Shares, Options and Performance Shares that lapse.
b Shareplus, an all-employee share purchase plan, commenced in April 2007.
Employees may contribute up to US$5,000 to acquire shares Acquired Shares in any Plan year.
On the third anniversary of the start of a Plan year, the Company will match the number of Acquired Shares held by the employee at that time with Matched Shares.
The employees have no beneficial entitlement to the Matched Shares until they are awarded.
Acquired Shares are purchased on a quarterly basis.
Employees can sell their Acquired Shares at any time.
If, prior to the third anniversary, an individual sells their Acquired Shares, resigns without the Remuneration Committees consent or is dismissed for cause, their entitlement to Matched Shares is forfeited.
c The fair value of awards as presented in the tables above represents the fair value at grant date.
The fair values of awards granted were estimated using a Monte Carlo simulation methodology, Black-Scholes option pricing technique and net present value technique.
d The risk-free interest rate used is an applicable government bond rate.
e Historical volatility has been used to estimate the volatility of the share price.
f Awards issued under these plans occurred before 7 November 2002 and as such are exempt from the provisions of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
Details of these plans have been provided here for information purposes only.
g Exercise price on awards issued is equal to the exercise price as per awards outstanding.
h Shares issued on exercise of BHP Billitons employee share ownership plans include shares purchased on-market.
i In respect of employee share awards, the Group utilises the following trusts: i The Billiton Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust is a discretionary trust for the benefit of all employees of BHP Billiton Plc and its subsidiaries.
The trustee is an independent company, resident in Jersey.
The trust uses funds provided by BHP Billiton Plc and or its subsidiaries as appropriate to acquire ordinary shares to enable awards to be made or satisfied under the LTIP, MAP, GIS, GSTIP, RSS, CIP, Shareplus and other employee share schemes operated by BHP Billiton Plc from time to time.
The ordinary shares may be acquired by purchase in the market or by subscription at not less than nominal value.
The Trust has waived its rights to dividends on shares held to meet future awards under Shareplus.
ii The BHP Performance Share Plan Trust is a discretionary trust established to distribute shares under selected BHP Billiton Limited employee share plan schemes.
The trustee of the trust is BHP Billiton Employee Plan Pty Ltd, an Australian company.
The trust uses funds provided by BHP Billiton Limited and or its subsidiaries to acquire shares on market to satisfy exercises made under the LTIP, MAP, GIS, GSTIP and PSP.
iii The BHP Billiton Limited Executive Incentive Scheme Trust is a discretionary trust established for the purposes of holding shares in BHP Billiton Limited to satisfy exercises made under the LTIP, MAP, GIS, GSTIP, Shareplus and other employee share schemes operated by BHP Billiton Limited from time to time.
232 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information 33 Employees 2011 2010 2009 Number Number Number a Average number of employees Petroleum 2,308 2,178 2,105 Aluminium 4,599 4,471 4,938 Base Metals 7,602 7,434 7,731 Diamonds and Specialty Products 1,737 1,689 1,923 Stainless Steel Materials 3,412 3,481 4,039 Iron Ore 4,047 3,624 3,254 Manganese 2,426 2,549 2,532 Metallurgical Coal 4,019 3,533 3,892 Energy Coal 8,752 8,762 8,437 Group and unallocated 1,855 1,849 2,139 40,757 39,570 40,990 a Average employee numbers include Executive Directors, 100 per cent of employees of subsidiary companies, and our share of proportionately consolidated entities and operations.
Part-time employees are included on a full-time equivalent basis.
Employees of businesses acquired or disposed of during the year are included for the period of ownership.
People employed by contractors are not included.
34 Auditors remuneration 2011 2010 2009 US$M US$M US$M Fees payable to the Groups auditor for audit services Audit of the Groups annual report 4.216 4.135 4.011 a Audit of subsidiaries and associates pursuant to legislation 10.069 10.428 11.312 Total audit services 14.285 14.563 15.323 Fees payable to the Groups auditor for other services b Other services pursuant to legislation 7.034 5.744 6.050 c Other services relating to taxation 0.065 0.068 d Other services relating to corporate finance 1.243 2.308 3.571 e All other services 1.104 1.021 0.762 Total other services 9.381 9.138 10.451 Total fees 23.666 23.701 25.774 All amounts were paid to KPMG or KPMG affiliated firms.
a This amount primarily includes the statutory audit of subsidiaries and other audit work performed in relation to the Groups Annual Report by KPMG non-head office teams, as well as audit fees of US$0.045 million 2010: US$0.093 million: 2009: US$0.079 million for pension funds.
For UK purposes this would be classified as a separate component of other services.
b Mainly comprises review of half year reports, audit work in relation to compliance with section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act and assurance in respect of the Groups sustainability reporting.
c Mainly comprises tax compliance services.
d Mainly comprises services in connection with acquisitions, divestments and debt raising transactions.
e Mainly comprises advice on accounting matters and performing other procedures of an audit nature.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 233 Notes to Financial Statements continued 35 Subsequent events On 9 August 2011, the Group signed a Heads of Agreement with Leighton Holdings to acquire the HWE Mining subsidiaries that provide contract mining services to its Western Australia Iron Ore operations.
The Heads of Agreement relates to the mining equipment, people and related assets that service the Area C, Yandi and Orebody 23 25 operations.
These operations collectively account for almost 70 per cent of Western Australia Iron Ores total material movement.
The purchase price is US$735 million A$705 million, subject to working capital adjustments.
Subject to due diligence, definitive agreements and relevant internal and regulatory approvals, the transaction is expected to close during the fourth quarter of calendar year 2011.
On 18 August 2011, the Group arranged a new unsecured 364-day multicurrency term and revolving credit facility for an amount of US$7.5 billion consisting of two tranches: a US$5 billion term loan and US$2.5 billion revolving credit facility.
On 21 August 2011, the Group announced that all conditions to the closing of the tender offer to acquire all of the issued and outstanding shares of Petrohawk have been satisfied and on 25 August 2011, the Group announced that the acquisition was completed.
Refer to note 24 for more information.
Other than the matters outlined above or elsewhere in these financial statements, no matters or circumstances have arisen since the end of the financial year that have significantly affected, or may significantly affect, the operations, results of operations or state of affairs of the Group in subsequent accounting periods.
36 BHP Billiton Limited BHP Billiton Limited does not present unconsolidated parent company financial statements.
Selected financial information of the BHP Billiton Limited parent company is as follows: 2011 2010 US$M US$M Income Statement information for the year ended 30 June 2011 Profit after taxation for the year 14,102 7,501 Total comprehensive income 14,164 7,403 Balance Sheet information as at 30 June 2011 Current assets 6,264 16,045 Total assets 43,554 51,243 Current liabilities 10,296 22,574 Total liabilities 18,254 30,536 Share capital 894 938 Employee share awards reserve 527 435 Retained earnings 23,879 19,334 Total equity 25,300 20,707 Parent company guarantees BHP Billiton Limited has guaranteed certain financing arrangements available to subsidiaries of US$5,081 million at 30 June 2011 2010: US$5,824 million.
Under the terms of a deed poll guarantee, the Company has guaranteed certain current and future liabilities of BHP Billiton Plc.
At 30 June 2011, the guaranteed liabilities amounted to US$35 million 2010: US$14 million.
BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have severally, fully and unconditionally guaranteed the payment of the principal and premium, if any, and interest, including certain additional amounts which may be payable in respect of the notes issued by BHP Billiton Finance USA Ltd. BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have guaranteed the payment of such amounts when they become due and payable, whether on an interest payment date, at the stated maturity of the notes, by declaration or acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise.
At 30 June 2011, the guaranteed liabilities amounted to US$6,225 million 2010: US$6,825 million.
234 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information BHP Billiton Plc BHP Billiton Plc is exempt from presenting an unconsolidated parent company profit and loss account in accordance with section 408 of the UK Companies Act 2006.
BHP Billiton Plc is required to present its unconsolidated parent company balance sheet and certain notes to the balance sheet on a stand-alone basis as at 30 June 2011 and 2010.
BHP Billiton Plc unconsolidated parent company Balance Sheet BHP Billiton Plc 2011 2010 Notes US$M US$M Fixed assets Investments Subsidiaries 2 3,131 3,131 3,131 3,131 Current assets Amounts owed by Group undertakings amounts due within one year 2,722 2,766 Debtors and prepayments 1 1 Cash including money market deposits 3 3 2,726 2,770 Creditors amounts falling due within one year 3 1,017 1,055 Net current assets 1,709 1,715 Total assets less current liabilities 4,840 4,846 Provisions for liabilities and charges 4 23 Net assets before pension liabilities 4,817 4,846 Pension liabilities 4, 8 11 9 Net assets after pension liabilities 4,806 4,837 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 5 1,070 1,1 16 Treasury shares 5 539 524 Share premium account 5 518 518 Share buy-back reserve 5 164 11 8 Profit and loss account 5 3,593 3,609 Equity shareholders funds 5 4,806 4,837 The BHP Billiton Plc unconsolidated parent company financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 6 September 2011 and signed on its behalf by: Jacques Nasser AO Marius Kloppers Chairman Chief Executive Officer BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 235 BHP Billiton Plc continued 1 Principal accounting policies iv Deferred taxation Tax-effect accounting is applied in respect of corporation tax.
i Basis of accounting Full provision is made for deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax The BHP Billiton Plc entity accounts are prepared in accordance with assets that represent the tax effect of timing differences which the UK Companies Act 2006 and applicable UK Generally Accepted arise from the recognition in the accounts of items of revenue and Accounting Practice UK GAAP using the historical cost convention expense in periods different to those in which they are taxable or and have been applied on a consistent basis with the year ended deductible for corporation tax purposes.
Deferred tax assets and 30 June 2010. liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply The Company has applied the exemption within FRS 29 Financial when the timing differences are expected to reverse.
Instruments: Disclosures available to parent entity accounts presented v Share-based payments in consolidated financial statements that are publicly available where The accounting policy is consistent with the Groups policy set out disclosures are presented on a group basis.
The Groups financial risk in note 1 of the consolidated financial statements of the BHP Billiton management disclosures are presented in note 28 of the consolidated Group and is applied with respect to all rights and options granted financial statements of the BHP Billiton Group.
over BHP Billiton Plc shares including those granted to employees ii Foreign currencies of other Group companies.
However, the cost of rights and options The accounting policy is consistent with the Groups policy set out in granted is recovered from subsidiaries of the Group where the note 1 of the consolidated financial statements of the BHP Billiton Group.
Details of the Employee Share Ownership Plans and the Billiton Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust the iii Investments Trust are contained in note 32 of the consolidated financial Fixed asset investments are stated at cost less provisions for statements of the BHP Billiton Group.
BHP Billiton Plc is the Trusts impairments.
Fixed asset investments are assessed to ensure carrying sponsoring company and so the financial statements of BHP Billiton amounts do not exceed estimated recoverable amounts.
The carrying Plc represent the combined financial statements of the Company amount of each income generating unit is reviewed at least annually and the Trust.
to evaluate whether the carrying amount is recoverable, or more vi Revenue recognition regularly if an event or change in circumstances indicates that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.
If the asset is Interest income is recognised on an accruals basis.
Dividend income determined to be impaired, an impairment loss will be recorded and is recognised on declaration by subsidiaries.
the asset written down based on the amount by which the asset vii Treasury shares carrying amount exceeds the higher of net realisable value and value The consideration paid for the repurchase of BHP Billiton Plc shares in use.
Value in use is generally determined by discounting expected which are held as treasury shares is recognised as a reduction in future cash flows using a risk-adjusted pre-tax discount rate shareholders funds and represents a reduction in distributable reserves.
appropriate to the risks inherent in the asset.
viii Pension costs and other post-retirement bene ts The accounting policy is consistent with the Groups policy set out in note 1 of the consolidated financial statements of the BHP Billiton Group.
2 Fixed assets At 30 June 2011 the Company held an investment of US$3,131 million 2010: US$3,131 million in BHP Billiton Group Ltd which represents 100 per cent of the ordinary shares on issue and US$73,710 2010: US$73,710 in BHP Billiton Finance Plc which represents 99 per cent of the ordinary shares on issue.
BHP Billiton Group Ltd and BHP Billiton Finance Plc are included in the consolidation of the BHP Billiton Group.
3 Creditors amounts falling due within one year 2011 2010 US$M US$M a Amounts owed to Group undertakings 1,015 1,050 Accruals 2 5 Total creditors 1,017 1,055 a The audit fee payable in respect of the audit of the BHP Billiton Plc parent company financial statements was a nominal amount refer to note 34 of the BHP Billiton Group financial statements for fees for the Group as a whole.
This has been included within amounts owed to Group undertakings.
4 Provisions for liabilities and charges Pension Employee liabilities benefits Total US$M US$M US$M At 1 July 2010 9 9 Charge for the year 1 24 25 Actuarial loss taken to profit and loss account reserve 1 1 Utilisation 1 1 At 30 June 2011 11 23 34 236 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information 5 Shareholders funds Share Share Profit Share Treasury premium buy-back and loss b capital shares account reserve account Total US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M Balance at 1 July 2010 1,116 524 518 118 3,609 4,837 a Profit for the financial year 2,037 2,037 Actuarial loss on pension plan 1 1 Total recognised gains for the financial year 2,036 2,036 Dividends for the financial year 2,017 2,017 Share cancellation 46 46 Purchase of shares by ESOP trusts 118 118 Accrued entitlement for unvested employee share awards 63 63 Employee share awards exercised following vesting, net of employee contributions and forfeitures 103 98 5 Net movement for the financial year 46 15 46 16 31 Balance at 30 June 2011 1,070 539 518 164 3,593 4,806 a Profit for the financial year ended 30 June 2010 was US$3,520 million.
b Shares held by the Billiton Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust for 2011 were 1,107,947 shares with a market value of US$27 million 2010: 931,200 shares with a market value of US$24 million.
6 Parent company guarantees Under the terms of a deed poll guarantee, BHP Billiton Plc has guaranteed certain current and future liabilities of BHP Billiton Limited.
At 30 June 2011, the guaranteed liabilities amounted to US$5,891 million 2010: US$6,770 million.
BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited have severally, fully and unconditionally guaranteed the payment of the principal and premium, if any, and interest, including certain additional amounts which may be payable in respect of the notes issued by BHP Billiton Finance USA Ltd. BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited have guaranteed the payment of such amounts when they become due and payable, whether on an interest payment date, at the stated maturity of the notes, by declaration or acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise.
7 Financing facilities BHP Billiton Plc is a party to a revolving credit facility.
Refer to note 28 of the BHP Billiton Group financial statements.
8 Pension liabilities The BHP Billiton Group operates the UK Executive fund in the UK.
A full actuarial valuation is prepared by the independent actuary to the fund as at 30 June 2011.
Amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: 2011 2010 US$M US$M Present value of funded defined benefit obligation 17 15 Fair value of defined benefit scheme assets 6 6 Scheme deficit 11 9 Net liability recognised in the balance sheet 11 9 The changes in the present value of defined benefit obligations are as follows: 2011 2010 US$M US$M Defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the financial year 15 14 Interest cost 1 1 Actuarial loss on benefit obligations 1 2 Benefits paid to participants 1 1 Currency exchange losses gains 1 1 Defined benefit obligation at the end of the financial year 17 15 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 237 BHP Billiton Plc continued 8 Pension liabilities continued The changes in the fair value of scheme assets are as follows: 2011 2010 US$M US$M Fair value of scheme assets at the beginning of the financial year 6 5 Actuarial gain on scheme assets 1 Fair value of scheme assets at the end of the financial year 6 6 The fair values of defined benefit pension scheme assets segregated by major asset class and the expected rates of return are as follows: 2011 2010 2011 2010 US$M US$M % % Bonds 4 1 4.1 4.3 Equities 1 2 8.1 8.3 Cash and net current assets 4.1 4.3 Other 1 3 5.4 5.5 Total 6 6 6.2 5.1 The overall expected rate of return on assets is the weighted average of the expected rate of return on each applicable asset class and reflects the long-term target asset allocation as at the reporting date.
The actual return on assets for the year ended 30 June 2011 is US$1 million 2010: US$1 million.
The major assumptions used by the actuary are as follows: 2011 2010 % % Salary increases n a 5.0 Pension increases 3.5 3.5 Discount rate 5.4 5.5 Inflation 3.5 3.5 The primary post-retirement mortality tables used are PNA00U2011 with an allowance for medium cohort improvement factors.
These tables are standard mortality tables.
The present value of defined benefit obligations, fair value of scheme assets and associated experience adjustments are shown for the current year and the previous four years as follows: 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M Present value of defined benefit obligation 17 15 14 17 17 Fair value of defined benefit scheme assets 6 6 5 6 7 Scheme deficit 11 9 9 11 10 Experience adjustments to scheme liabilities 1 2 1 Experience adjustments to scheme assets 1 1 1 9 Employee numbers 2011 2010 Number Number Average number of employees during the year including Executive Directors 1 1 238 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011
