1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 2.2.
2 Petroleum Customer Sector Group continued Minerao Rio do Norte We own 14.8 per cent of Minerao Rio do Norte MRN, which Delivery commitments owns and operates a large bauxite mine in Brazil.
We have delivery commitments of natural gas and LNG of approximately 3,147 billion cubic feet through 2031 78 per cent Alumar Alumar is an integrated alumina re nery aluminium smelter.
Australia and 22 per cent Other and crude, condensate and natural gas liquids NGL commitments of 15.6 million barrels through 2012 We own 36 per cent of the Alumar re nery and 40 per cent of the smelter.
The operations, and their 74 per cent Australia, eight per cent United States and 18 per cent Other.
We have suf cient proved reserves and production capacity integrated port facility, are located at So Lus in the Maranho province of Brazil.
Alumar sources bauxite from MRN.
During FY2011 to ful l these delivery commitments.
Further information can be found in Section 2.13.1. approximately 31 per cent of Alumars alumina production was used to feed the smelter, while the remainder was exported.
3 Aluminium Customer Sector Group of Alumars FY2011 saleable production was 1,108 kilotonnes kt Our Aluminium CSG is a portfolio of assets at three stages of alumina and 174 kt of aluminium.
The Alumar re nery completed of the aluminium value chain: mining bauxite, re ning bauxite a signi cant expansion in October 2009. into alumina, and smelting alumina into aluminium metal.
Hillside and Bayside We are the worlds seventh-largest producer of aluminium, Our Hillside and Bayside smelters are located at Richards Bay, with total production in FY2011 of 1.2 million tonnes Mt of South Africa.
Hillsides capacity of approximately 715 kilotonnes aluminium.
We also produced 13.6 Mt of bauxite and 4.0 Mt per annum ktpa makes it the largest aluminium smelter in of alumina.
the southern hemisphere and it is one of the most ef cient.
During FY2011, we consumed 35 per cent of our alumina production Following the mothballing of the potlines B and C in support in our aluminium smelters and we sold the balance to other of a national energy conservation scheme, Bayside has reduced smelters.
Our alumina sales are a mixture of long-term contract smelting capacity to approximately 95 ktpa since 2009.
Hillside sales at LME-linked prices and spot sales at negotiated prices.
imports alumina from our Worsley re nery and both Hillside and Prices for our aluminium sales are generally linked to prevailing Bayside source power from Eskom, the South African state utility, LME prices.
under long-term contracts with prices linked to the LME price of aluminium except for Hillside Potline 3, the price of which Boddington Worsley is linked to the South African and US producer price indices.
Boddington Worsley is an integrated bauxite mining alumina re ning operation.
The Boddington bauxite mine in Western Mozal Australia supplies bauxite ore to the Worsley alumina re nery We own 47.1 per cent of and operate the Mozal aluminium via a 51 kilometre long conveyor.
We own 86 per cent of the mine smelter in Mozambique, which has a total capacity of approximately and the re nery.
It is our sole integrated bauxite mining alumina 563 ktpa.
Mozal sources power generated by Hydro Cahora Basa re ning asset.
Worsley, one of the largest and lowest-cost re neries via Motraco, a transmission joint venture between Eskom and in the world, is undergoing a major expansion see Development the national electricity utilities of Mozambique and Swaziland.
Our share of Worsleys FY2011 production Our share of Mozals FY2011 production was 264 kt.
Worsleys export customers include our own Hillside, Bayside and Mozal smelters in southern Africa.
Boddington has a reserve life of 18 years.
Information on Aluminium mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
This table should be read in conjunction with the production see section 2.3.
2 and reserve tables see section 2.13.2.
Type of Mine and Mine & Means Title, Leases Mineralisation Power Facilities, Location of Access Ownership Operator or Options History Style Source Use & Condition Bauxite Boddington bauxite mine Boddington, Public road BHP Billiton 86% BHP Billiton Mining lease from Opened 1983 Open-cut JV owned Crushing plant 123 km Worsley Western Australia powerline Ore transported Sojitz Significantly Surficial Nominal capacity: southeast of Alumina Government expires connected to Worsley Alumina 4% extended 2000 gibbsite-rich 13 mtpa bauxite Perth, Western Pty Ltd 2025, 21-year to Worsley alumina refinery Japan Alumina lateritic weathering Australia renewal available alumina by a 51 km Associates 10% of Darling Range refinery site conveyor 2 sub-leases from rocks Ownership Alcoa of Australia structure of operator as per Worsley JV Minerao Rio do Norte Porto Trombetas, Sealed road and BHP Billiton MRN Mining rights Production Open-cut On-site fuel Crushing facilities, Par, Brazil rail connects 14.8% granted by Brazilian commenced 1979 oil generators long distance Lateritic weathering mine area with Government until conveyors, Alcoa and Expanded 2003 of nepheline Porto Trombetas reserves exhausted wash plant affiliates 18.2% syenite occurring village, accessed Vale 40% primarily as Nominal capacity: by air or river Rio Tinto gibbsite in 18 mtpa washed Alcan 12% a clay matrix bauxite Votorantim 10% overlain by Village and airport Hydro 5% clay sediments Drying and ship loading facilities near Porto Trombetas BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 21 2 Information on the Company continued Information on Aluminium smelters and re neries Smelter, Refinery Title, Leases Nominal Production or Processing Plant Location Ownership Operator or Options Product Capacity Power Source Aluminium and alumina Hillside Aluminium smelter Richards Bay, 100% BHP Billiton Freehold title Standard 715 ktpa primary Eskom national power 200 km north to property, aluminium aluminium supplier under of Durban, plant, equipment ingots long-term contracts KwaZulu-Natal Leases over Contract prices province, harbour facilities for Hillside 1 and 2 South Africa linked to LME aluminium price Prices for Hillside 3 linked to SA and US producer price index Bayside Aluminium smelter Richards Bay, 100% BHP Billiton Freehold title Primary 95 ktpa primary Eskom, under 200 km north to property, aluminium, aluminium on long-term contract of Durban, plant, equipment slab products remaining Potline A Contract price linked South Africa to LME aluminium price Mozal Aluminium smelter 17 km from BHP Billiton 47.1% BHP Billiton 50-year Standard 563 ktpa Motraco Maputo, government aluminium Mitsubishi 25% Mozambique concession ingots Industrial to use the land Development Corporation Renewable of South Africa for 50 years Ltd 24% Mozambique Government 3.9% Worsley Alumina refinery 55 km BHP Billiton 86% BHP Billiton 2,480 ha refinery Metallurgical 3.5 mtpa JV owned on-site coal northeast Worsley lease from grade alumina power station, third Sojitz Alumina 4% of Bunbury, Alumina Western Australian party on-site gas-fired Japan Alumina Western Pty Ltd Government steam power Associates 10% Australia Expires 2025 generation plant Ownership structure 21-year renewal of operator as available per Worsley JV Alumar Alumina refinery and So Luis, Aluminium smelter: Alcoa All assets Alumina and Refinery: Electronorte Brazilian aluminium smelter Maranho, BHP Billiton 40% operates held freehold aluminium ingots 3.5 mtpa alumina public power generation Brazil Alcoa 60% both facilities concessionaire, Smelter: 450 ktpa 20-year contract Alumina refinery: primary aluminium BHP Billiton 36% Alcoa 35.1% Abalco SA Alcoa affiliate 18.9% Rio Tinto 10% 22 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 2.2.
3 Aluminium Customer Sector Group continued security of supply and competitive power costs in the long term, we supported the construction of an LNG facility to supply gas to Development projects the Northern grid system, which has been operating since June 2010.
Worsley Ef ciency and Growth project We have also signed off-take agreements underwriting the In May 2008, we announced the Boards approval of an expansion construction of a 460 megawatt MW coalred power plant, with project to increase the capacity of the Worsley re nery from supply beginning in CY2012.
To address limitations on the availability 3.5 million tonnes per annum mtpa of alumina to 4.6 mtpa of water, we desalinate and carefully manage our use and re-use of 100 per cent capacity through expanded mining operations at available water, and are exploring alternative sources including Boddington, additional re nery capacity and upgraded port further desalination of seawater.
The capital cost estimate for the project, encompassing the Olympic Dam development of the Marradong mine, re nery expansion Olympic Dam is already a signi cant producer of copper cathode and connection to a multi-fuel cogeneration unit, has increased and uranium oxide and a re ner of smaller amounts of gold and from US$1.964 billion to US$2.995 billion BHP Billiton share.
We are exploring a series of staged development First production is now scheduled for the first quarter of CY2012.
options that would make our wholly owned Olympic Dam operation Guinea Alumina one of the worlds largest producers of copper, the largest producer We have a one-third interest in a joint venture that is undertaking of uranium and a signi cant producer of gold see Development a feasibility study into the construction of a 10 mtpa bauxite mine, projects below.
an alumina re nery with processing capacity exceeding 3.3 mtpa Production in FY2011 was higher than in FY2010 when the haulage and associated infrastructure approximately 110 kilometres from system in the Clark Shaft at Olympic Dam was damaged.
Olympic the port of Kamsar in Guinea.
Dam produced 194.1 kt FY2010 103.3 kt of copper cathode, 4,045 tonnes FY2010 2,279 tonnes of uranium oxide, 111,368 ounces 2.2.
4 Base Metals Customer Sector Group FY2010 65,494 ounces of re ned gold and 982 kilo-ounces Our Base Metals CSG is one of the worlds premier producers FY2010 500 kilo-ounces of re ned silver in FY2011.
of copper, silver, lead and uranium, and a leading producer of zinc.
Our portfolio of large, low-cost mining operations includes Antamina the Escondida mine in Chile, the worlds largest single producer We own 33.75 per cent of Antamina, a large, low-cost, long-life of copper, and Olympic Dam in South Australia, already a major copper zinc mine in Peru.
Opened in 2001, its reserves will support producer of copper and uranium and with the potential for mining at current rates for a further 17 years.
Our share of Antaminas signi cant expansion.
FY2011 production was 97.8 kt of copper in concentrate, and 91,470 tonnes of zinc in concentrate.
Antamina also produces smaller Our total copper production in FY2011 was 1.1 million tonnes Mt.
amounts of molybdenum and lead bismuth concentrate.
In addition to conventional mine development, we continue to pursue advanced treatment technologies, such as leaching low-grade Pampa Norte Spence Operation chalcopyrite ores which we believe have the potential to recover Our wholly owned Spence copper mine produces copper cathode.
copper from ores previously uneconomic to treat.
During FY2011, we produced 179.8 kt of copper cathode.
Spences We market five primary products: copper concentrates, copper current reserves will support mining at current rates for a further cathodes, uranium oxide, lead concentrates and zinc concentrates.
We sell most of our copper, lead and zinc concentrates to smelters Pampa Norte Cerro Colorado Operation under long-term volume contracts at prices based on the LME Our wholly owned Cerro Colorado mine in Chile remains a signi cant price for the contained metal, typically set three or four months producer of copper cathode, although production levels have declined after shipment, less treatment charges and re ning charges in recent years as grades have declined.
Production in FY2011 was collectively referred to as TCRCs that are negotiated with 92.4 kt of copper cathode.
Our current mine plan sees production the smelters mostly on an annual or bi-annual basis.
Some of the continuing until FY2021.
ores we mine contain quantities of silver and gold, which remain In addition, we are currently evaluating the extent of deeper in the base metal concentrates we sell.
We receive payment credits chalcopyrite that may support further mine plan extension options for the silver and gold recovered by our customers in the smelting in both the Spence and Cerro mines.
Cannington We sell most of our copper cathode production to wire rod mills, Our wholly owned Cannington mine in northwest Queensland is brass mills and casting plants around the world under annual one of the worlds largest producers of silver.
In FY2011, Cannington contracts with prices at premiums to LME prices.
We sell uranium produced concentrates containing 243,364 tonnes of lead, 60,657 oxide to electricity generating utilities, principally in western Europe, tonnes of zinc and approximately 35,225 kilo-ounces of silver.
North America and north Asia.
Uranium is typically sold under The current mine plan sees production continuing until 2019. a mix of longer-term and shorter-term contracts.
A signi cant portion of our uranium production is sold into xed price contracts, North America Pinto Valley although increasingly sales are based on exible pricing terms.
As a result of the global economic slowdown in FY2009, we made the decision to cease sulphide mining and milling operations at We have six assets, with Pampa Norte having two operations: our Pinto Valley Mine located in Arizona, US, placing the operations Escondida on care and maintenance.
Our 57.5 per cent owned and operated Escondida mine is the largest We continue to produce copper cathode at Pinto Valley and the and one of the lowest-cost copper producers in the world.
In FY2011, neighbouring Miami Unit from our residual solvent extraction our share of Escondida production was 390.5 kilotonnes kt of electrowinning SXEW operations.
Current reserves are expected payable copper in concentrate and 179.1 kt of copper cathode.
to support these operations for approximately four years.
Our reserves will support mining for a further 35 years at the current production rates.
The availability of key inputs like power and water at competitive prices is an important focus at Escondida.
To ensure BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 23 2 Information on the Company continued Information on Base Metals mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
Type of Mine and Mine & Means Title, Leases Mineralisation Facilities, Location of Access Ownership Operator or Options History Style Power Source Use & Condition Copper Escondida Atacama Public road BHP Billiton BHP Billiton Mining concession Original 2 open-cut Escondida 2 concentrator Desert, 170 km 57.5% of Minera from Chilean construction pits: Escondida owned plants extract Copper cathode southeast of Escondida Government completed 1990 and Escondida transmission copper concentrate transported by Antofagasta, Limitada MEL valid indefinitely Norte lines connect to from sulphide privately owned Subsequent Chile subject to payment Chiles northern ore by flotation rail to ports Rio Tinto 30% expansion Escondida and of annual fees power grid extraction process at Antofagasta JECO Corporation projects cost Escondida Norte and Mejillones consortium US$3.0 billion mineral deposits Electricity 2 solvent extraction comprising 100% are adjacent purchased plants produce Copper Mitsubishi, but distinct under contract copper cathode concentrate Sulphide Nippon Mining supergene enriched transported Leach copper Nominal capacity: and Metals 10% porphyry by Escondidaproject cost 3.2 mtpa copper Jeco 2 Ltd 2.5% copper deposits owned US$1.0 billion concentrate pipeline to 100% 330 ktpa its Coloso copper cathode First production port facilities 2006 Spence Atacama Public road 100% BHP Billiton Mining concession Development Open-cut Group-owned Processing and Desert, 150 km from Chilean cost of transmission crushing facilities, Copper cathode Supergene enriched northeast of Government US$1.1 billion lines connect to separate dynamic transported porphyry copper Antofagasta, valid indefinitely approved 2004 Chiles northern on-off leach by rail to ports deposit that Chile subject to payment power grid pads, solvent at Mejillones First copper includes copper of annual fees extraction plant, and Antofagasta produced 2006 oxide ores overlying Electricity electrowinning plant a sulphide zone purchased under contract Nominal capacity: 1 200 ktpa copper cathode Cerro Colorado Atacama Public road 100% BHP Billiton Mining concession Commercial Open-cut Long-term 2 primary, secondary Desert, 120 km from Chilean production contracts with and tertiary Copper cathode Supergene east of Iquique, Government commenced northern Chile crushers, leaching trucked to enriched and Chile valid indefinitely 1994 power grid pads, solvent port at Iquique oxidised porphyry subject to payment extraction plant, Expansions copper deposit of annual fees electrowinning plant 1995 and 1998 that consists of a sulphide enrichment Nominal capacity: 2 zone overlayed 120 ktpa by oxide ore chrysocolla brochantite Pinto Valley 125 km east Public road 100% BHP Billiton Freehold title Acquired 1996 Pinto Valley: Salt River 2 SXEW operations of Phoenix, to the land as part of open-pit Project at Pinto Valley Copper cathode Arizona, US Magma Copper and Miami trucked to Miami Unit: acquisition domestic in-situ leach customers Sulphide mining Porphyry copper operations deposit of discontinued low-grade primary 3 1998 mineralisation Residual SXEW production continues 1 Current production approximately 180 ktpa due to lower copper grades.
2 Current production approximately 92.4 ktpa due to lower copper grades.
24 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report Information on Base Metals mining operations continued Type of Mine and Mine & Means Title, Leases Mineralisation Facilities, Location of Access Ownership Operator or Options History Style Power Source Use & Condition Copper uranium Olympic Dam 560 km Public road 100% BHP Billiton Mining lease Acquired 2005 Underground Supplied via Automated train northwest granted by as part of WMC a 275 kV and trucking Copper cathode Large poly-metallic of Adelaide, South Australian acquisition powerline from network.
Crushing, trucked to ports deposit of iron South Australia Government Port Augusta, storage and ore Uranium oxide Copper oxide-copper-gold expires 2036 transmitted by hoisting facilities transported production mineralisation ElectraNet by road and rail Right of extension began 1988 2 grinding circuits to ports for 50 years to extract copper Throughput concentrate from raised to sulphide ore 9 mtpa in 1999 Flash furnace Optimisation produces copper project anodes, which are completed 2002 then refined to New copper produce copper solvent 4 cathodes extraction plant Nominal capacity: commissioned 200 ktpa 2004 copper cathode Copper zinc Antamina Andes Public road BHP Billiton Compaa Mining rights Commercial Open-cut Long-term Primary crusher, mountain 33.75% of Minera from Peruvian production contracts concentrator Copper and zinc Zoned porphyry range, 270 km Compaa Minera Antamina Government commenced 2001 with individual nominal capacity concentrates and skarn deposit north of Lima, Antamina S. A. S. A. held indefinitely, power 94,000 tpd, copper transported by Capital cost with central north-central subject to payment producers and zinc flotation pipeline to port Xstrata 33.75% US$2.3 billion Cu-only ores and Peru of annual fees circuits, bismuth of Huarmey Teck Cominco 100% an outer band of and supply of moly cleaning circuit 22.5% Cu-Zn ore zone Molybdenum information Mitsubishi 10% 300 km concentrate and lead bismuth on investment pipeline design concentrates and production throughput transported 2.3 dry mtpa by truck Port facilities at Huarmey Silver, lead and zinc Cannington 300 km Public road and 100% BHP Billiton Mining leases Concentrate Underground On-site power Beneficiation plant: southeast Group-owned granted by production Broken Hill-type station primary and of Mt Isa, airstrip Queensland commenced silver-lead-zinc operated under secondary grinding Queensland, Government 1997, subsequent sulphide deposit contract circuits, pre-flotation Product trucked Australia expire 2029 projects improved circuits, flotation to Yurbi, then by mill throughput circuits, leaching rail to public port and metal circuits, concentrate recovery filtration circuit, paste plant Nominal milling capacity: 3.2 mtpa 4 Electrowon copper cathode and uranium oxide concentrate produced by leaching and solvent extracting flotation tailings.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 25 2 Information on the Company continued 2.2.
4 Base Metals Customer Sector Group continued 2.2.
5 Diamonds and Specialty Products Customer Sector Group Development projects Our Diamonds and Specialty Products CSG operates our Olympic Dam diamonds and titanium minerals businesses and the exploration The first phase of the Olympic Dam Project ODP1 to develop and development of a potash business.
an open-pit mine moved into feasibility stage in March 2011.
The proposed expansion would be a progressive development Diamonds requiring construction activity to increase production to up to The EKATI diamond mine in the Northwest Territories of Canada is 750,000 tonnes per annum tpa of copper, 19,000 tpa of uranium the cornerstone of our diamonds business.
EKATI has produced on oxide and 800,000 ounces of gold.
The Group released a draft average more than three million carats per year of rough diamonds Environmental Impact Statement EIS in May 2009 and prepared over the last four years.
The grade of ore we process uctuates from and submitted a supplementary EIS in December 2010 for review by year to year, resulting in variations in carats produced.
In addition, the Australian, South Australian and Northern Territory Governments the proportion of our production consisting of high-value carats in response to more than 4,000 public submissions on the project.
larger and or higher-quality stones and low-value carats smaller The final supplementary EIS was released in May 2011.
Government and or lower-quality stones uctuates from year to year.
The mine decisions on the project are expected in the second half of CY2011.
life based on the mine plan is seven years from 30 June 2011.
After that, the expansion project will depend on successfully EKATI consists of our 80 per cent interest in the Core Zone Joint completing all required feasibility studies and on Board approval Venture, comprising existing operations and our 58.8 per cent of the final investment case.
interest in the Buffer Zone Joint Venture, primarily focusing Yeelirrie on exploration targets.
The project at the proposed Yeelirrie uranium oxide mine is in Annual sales from EKATI 100 per cent terms represented pre-feasibility stage, with a focus on technology developments, approximately three per cent of current world rough diamond resource size and improving project economics.
The work currently supply by weight and approximately 11 per cent by value in FY2011.
includes resource fide nition and estimation, processing test work, We sell most of our rough diamonds to international diamond buyers ongoing environment studies, community consultation and capital through our Antwerp sales of ce.
We also offer for sale, an amount and operating cost evaluation.
of the EKATI production to Canadian manufacturers based in the Escondida Northwest Territories.
Exploration of the Escondida lease and early drilling results have Titanium minerals resulted in an announcement of extensive additional mineralisation Our principal interest in titanium minerals consists of our in close proximity to existing infrastructure and processing facilities, 37.76 per cent economic interest in Richards Bay Minerals RBM.
including the Pampa Escondida and Pinta Verde prospects.
In FY2011, RBM is one of the largest and lowest-cost producers of titania Escondida has expensed US$128 million US$74 million our share slag, high-purity pig iron, rutile and zircon from mineral sands.
Approximately 90 per cent of the titanium dioxide slag produced The Escondida Ore Access project provides access to higher-grade by RBM is suitable for the chloride process of titanium dioxide ore and moved into execution phase during FY2011.
In addition, pigment manufacture and is sold internationally under a variety the Laguna Seca Debottlenecking project which will provide of short, medium and long-term contracts.
additional processing capacity also moved into execution phase.
Potash Organic Growth Project 1, which is the replacement of the Los Our potash strategy is to build a material industry position over the Colorados concentrator allowing access to higher-grade ore and long term.
We continue advancing the Jansen Project, a green eld additional processing capacity, moved into the feasibility phase.
potash project, in Saskatchewan, Canada.
Jansen progressed into Antamina the feasibility study phase an advanced stage of our project In FY2011, Antamina continued execution of the expansion project.
With a total investment of US$1.3 billion US$434.7 million our Based on the current schedule, Jansen is expected to start producing share, the project will expand milling capacity by 38 per cent saleable potash in CY2015.
Jansen is designed ultimately to produce to 130,000 tonnes per day tpd.
The expansion project includes approximately eight million tonnes per annum mtpa of agricultural a new SAG mill, a new 55 kilometre power transmission line, grade potash with an estimated 70-year life.
an expanded truck shop facility and upgrades to the crushing and tailing systems, otation circuit and port capacity.
Commissioning We are also continuing to study other potential projects in the of the project is scheduled to start at the end of CY2011.
Our share Saskatchewan potash basin, including Young, Boulder and Melville, of the capital expenditures in the project totalled US$147 million and are progressing these projects in the context of our development in FY2011.
In addition, Antamina announced an increase to portfolio.
We are conducting an extensive potash exploration its estimated Ore Reserves during the second half of FY2011.
program including 3D seismic survey and drilling programs.
Refer to section 2.13.2 for further details.
Our permit positions for potash extend over 14,500 square kilometres Resolution Copper in the Saskatchewan basin and have expiry dates between 2013 and 2016.
We hold a 45 per cent interest in the Resolution Copper project in Arizona, US, operated by Rio Tinto 55 per cent interest.
On 15 November 2010, we announced the withdrawal of our offer to Resolution Copper is undertaking a pre-feasibility study into acquire all of the issued and outstanding common shares of Potash a substantial underground copper mine and processing facility.
Corporation of Saskatchewan Inc. We determined that the condition of our offer relating to receipt of a net bene t determination by the Resolution Copper continued to advance the sinking of the No.
10 Minister of Industry under the Investment Canada Act could not Shaft in order to gain access to the ore deposit for characterisation be satis ed, and accordingly, the offer was withdrawn.
work of mineralisation and geotechnical conditions.
Work also continued towards gaining approval from the US Congress for a Federal Land Exchange to access the ore deposit.
26 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report Information on Diamonds and Specialty Products mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
Type of Mine and Mine & Means Title, Leases Mineralisation Facilities, Location of Access Ownership Operator or Options History Style Power Source Use & Condition Diamonds EKATI diamond mine 310 km Aircraft Core Zone JV: BHP Billiton Mining leases Production Fox: open-cut JV owned and Crushers, northeast of granted began 1997 Koala and Koala operated diesel washers scrubber Ice road open BHP Billiton 80% Yellowknife, by Canadian North: underground power station and grinder approximately Mine and Buffer Zone JV: Northwest Government and heavy 10 weeks processing Eocene age BHP Billiton Territories, until 2019 media separator per year plant began kimberlite pipes 58.8% Canada operating 1998 dominantly Magnetics and Remaining volcaniclastic infill X-ray sorters for Ownership interest held diamond recovery increased with by 2 individuals acquisition of Fuel storage Dia Met Minerals Ltd in 2001 Titanium minerals Richards Bay Minerals 1050 km north Public road BHP Billiton Rio Tinto Long-term RBM formed 1976 Beach sand Eskom 4 beach sand dredge of Richards Bay, 37.76% economic renewable mineral dredging national mines, minor Product Fifth mine KwaZulu-Natal, interest through leases from South utility supplementary transported added 2000 Quaternary age South Africa 50% interest in African Government company dry mining by public rail coastal dune In 2006 the 2 legal subject to to port deposits heavy Gravity separation one mining entities that South African mineral sands produces heavy pond closed comprise RBM, Mining Charter concentrated mineral concentrate Richards Bay Application lodged by wave and which is trucked to Mining Pty Ltd for conversion wind action central processing and Richards Bay to New Order plant to produce Titanium Pty Ltd Mining Rights rutile, zircon and RBM functions see section 2.7.
1 ilmenite as a single Smelter processes economic entity ilmenite to produce titanium dioxide slag and high-purity iron Nominal titanium slag capacity: 1.05 mtpa Development projects 2.2.
6 Stainless Steel Materials Customer Sector Group Jansen Potash Project Our Stainless Steel Materials CSG is primarily a supplier of nickel to the stainless steel industry.
Nickel is an important component of the We are currently executing the ground freezing program.
The ground most commonly used types of stainless steel.
We also supply nickel will be frozen using a closed system of refrigeration pipes through to other markets, including the specialty alloy, foundry, chemicals which brine is circulated.
On 24 June 2011, we approved US$488 million and refractory material industries.
We are the worlds fourth-largest of pre-commitment spending to fund early-stage site preparation producer of nickel and we sell our nickel products under a mix of for surface construction, procurement of long lead time items and long-term, medium-term and spot volume contracts, with prices the first 350 metres of shaft sinking at Jansen.
On 30 June 2011, the linked to the LME nickel price.
Saskatchewan Ministry of Environment approved our Environmental Impact Statement for the development of the Jansen project.
Our nickel business comprises two assets: Diamonds Nickel West On 9 May 2011, we approved the Misery open-pit project at the EKATI Nickel West is the name for our wholly owned Western Australian diamond mine in the Northwest Territories, Canada.
This project nickel asset, which consists of an integrated system of mines, consists of a pushback of the existing Misery open-pit which was concentrators, a smelter and a re nery.
We mine nickel-bearing mined from 2001 to 2005.
Stripping operations are expected to sulphide ore at our Mt Keith, Leinster and Cliffs operations north begin in October 2011, with ore production beginning late 2015 of Kalgoorlie.
We operate concentrator plants at Mt Keith and and final production from Misery in mid 2017.
The estimated at Leinster, which also concentrate ore from Cliffs.
Leinster and capital expenditure required to complete the execution phase Mt Keith have reserve lives of eight and 13 years respectively, is US$323 million BHP Billiton share.
both have options for further expansion.
Cliffs is a high-grade underground mine with a reserve life of three years.
The extraction of ore at Cliffs commenced in FY2008.
We also operate the Kambalda concentrator south of Kalgoorlie, where we source ore through tolling and concentrate purchase arrangements with third parties in the Kambalda region.
We also have regular purchase agreements in place for the direct purchase of concentrate, which we re-pulp, dry and blend with other concentrate processed at Kambalda.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 27 2 Information on the Company continued 2.2.
6 Stainless Steel Materials Customer Cerro Matoso Sector Group continued Cerro Matoso, our 99.94 per cent owned nickel asset in Colombia, combines a lateritic nickel ore deposit with a low-cost ferronickel We transport concentrate from Leinster, Mt Keith and Kambalda smelter.
Cerro Matoso is the worlds second-largest producer of to our Kalgoorlie smelter, where it is processed into nickel ferronickel and is one of the lowest-cost producers of ferronickel.
matte, containing approximately 67 per cent nickel.
In FY2011, The smelter produces high-purity, low-carbon ferronickel granules.
we exported approximately 60 per cent of our nickel matte Cerro Matoso has an estimated current reserve life of 31 years.
We processed the remaining nickel matte at our Production in FY2011 was 40 kilotonnes kt of nickel in ferronickel Kwinana nickel re nery, which produces nickel metal in the form, which was below the nominal capacity of 50 kilotonnes form of LME grade briquettes, and nickel powder together per annum ktpa of nickel in ferronickel form as production with a range of saleable by-products.
was impacted by the planned Line 1 furnace replacement.
During FY2011, production of nickel metal from the Kwinana nickel re nery continued to be impacted by a restriction in hydrogen supply, resulting in the redirection of matte feed stocks for external sale.
We are constructing a new hydrogen plant at the Kwinana nickel re nery and construction is expected to be completed in FY2012.
Production in FY2011 was 112,700 tonnes of contained nickel.
Information on Stainless Steel Materials mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
Type of Mine and Mine & Means Title, Leases Mineralisation Facilities, Location of Access Ownership Operator or Options History Style Power Source Use & Condition Nickel Mt Keith Western Private road 100% BHP Billiton Leases over Officially Open-cut On-site third Concentration Australia the land from commissioned party gas-fired plant with a Nickel Disseminated Western Australian 1995 by WMC turbines nominal capacity: concentrate textured magmatic Government 11.5 mtpa of ore transported by Mt Keith was nickel-sulphide Natural gas road to Leinster Key leases acquired as part mineralisation, sourced from nickel operations expire 20122032 of acquisition of associated with North West for drying and WMC in 2005 a metamorphosed Shelf NWS Renewals on-shipping ultramafic intrusion gas fields at government discretion Transported through Goldfields Gas Pipeline under contract to 2037 Leinster Western Public road 100% BHP Billiton Leases over Production Underground On-site third Concentration Australia the land from commenced 1967 and open-cut party gas-fired plant with a Nickel Western Australian turbines nominal capacity: concentrate Leinster was Steeply dipping Government 3 mtpa of ore shipped by acquired as part disseminated and Natural gas road and rail Key leases expire of acquisition of massive textured sourced from to Kalgoorlie 20132031 WMC in 2005 nickel-sulphide NWS gas fields nickel smelter mineralisation, Renewals at Transported associated with government through metamorphosed discretion Goldfields ultramafic Gas Pipeline lava flows under contract and intrusions to 2037 Cliffs Western Private road 100% BHP Billiton Leases over Production Underground Supplied from Mine site Australia the land from commenced 2008 Mt Keith Nickel ore Steeply dipping Western Australian transported Cliffs was massive textured Government by road to acquired as part nickel-sulphide Leinster nickel Key leases expire of acquisition of mineralisation, operations 20252028 WMC in 2005 associated with for further Renewals at metamorphosed processing government ultramafic discretion lava flows 28 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report Information on Stainless Steel Materials mining operations Type of Mine and Mine & Means Title, Leases Mineralisation Facilities, Location of Access Ownership Operator or Options History Style Power Source Use & Condition Nickel continued Cerro Matoso S. A. Montelibano, Public road BHP Billiton BHP Billiton Existing mining Mining Open-cut National Ferronickel smelter Crdoba, 99.94% concessions commenced 1980 electricity and refinery Nickel-laterite Colombia renewable in 2012 grid under integrated with Employees and Nickel production mineralisation with 30-year contracts the mine former employees started 1982 formed from extension until 2042 expiring 0.06% residual weathering Beneficiation plant: Ownership December 2012 Further extension of ophiolitic primary and increased to is possible at peridotite Domestic secondary crusher 53% in 1989 that time natural gas and to 99.94% Nominal capacity: for drier and in 2007 50 ktpa of nickel in kiln operation ferronickel form Expansion project supplied by Actual capacity to double pipeline from installed capacity depends on nickel national grid completed 2001 grade from the mine Gas supply contracts expire over next 10 years Information on Stainless Steel Materials smelters, re neries and processing plants Smelter, Refinery Title, Leases Nominal Production or Processing Plant Location Ownership Operator or Options Product Capacity Power source Nickel Kambalda Nickel concentrator 56 km south 100% BHP Billiton Mineral leases Concentrate 1.6 mtpa ore On-site third party of Kalgoorlie, over the land from containing gas-fired turbines Ore sourced through Western Western Australian approximately 13% tolling and concentrate Natural gas sourced Australia Government expire nickel purchase arrangements from NWS gas fields 2028 with third parties Gas transported through Renewals at in Kambalda region Goldfields Gas Pipeline government under contract to 2037 discretion Kalgoorlie Nickel smelter Kalgoorlie, 100% BHP Billiton Freehold title Matte containing 110 ktpa On-site third party Western over approximately 67% nickel matte gas-fired turbines Australia the property nickel Natural gas sourced from NWS gas fields Gas transported through Goldfields Gas Pipeline under contract to 2037 Kwinana Nickel refinery 30 km south 100% BHP Billiton Freehold title over LME grade nickel 65 ktpa Power generated by of Perth, the property briquettes, nickel metal Southern Cross Energy, Western nickel powder distributed via Western Australia Powers network Also intermediate products, including copper sulphide, , ammonium-sulphate BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 29 2 Information on the Company continued 2.2.
6 Stainless Steel Materials Customer six expansion projects to increase our system production capacity from 69 million tonnes per annum mtpa to 155 mtpa 100 per cent Sector Group continued basis.
Our share of FY2011 production was 122.7 million tonnes Mt Development projects of ore. We now have additional projects in various stages of the Cerro Matoso Nickel Ore Smelting System project life cycle including construction to further increase system In 2010, the Nickel Ore Smelting System project was approved to capacity see Development projects below.
The project replaces the 27-year-old Our Pilbara reserve base is relatively concentrated, allowing us Line 1 furnace to improve operational reliability and accommodate to plan our development around a series of integrated mining hubs changes in the mineralogy of the ore feed.
Construction completion joined to the orebodies by conveyors or spur lines.
This approach and ramp-up to stable production is expected during the first half enables us to maximise the value of installed infrastructure of FY2012.
by using the same processing plant and rail infrastructure for Cerro Matoso expansion options a number of orebodies.
Blending ore at the hub gives us greater Cerro Matoso has undertaken conceptual studies on options exibility to respond to changing customer requirements as well for expanding production.
During the second half of FY2011, as changing properties in the ore being mined and reduces the the Cerro Matoso Heap Leach project progressed into feasibility.
Mt Keith Talc co-processing We have also continued to explore and re ne our understanding of existing tenements.
Our proven ore reserves are high-grade, In 2009, the Mt Keith Talc redesign project was approved to move into execution phase.
This will enable Mt Keith to process talcose with average iron content ranging from 57.1 per cent at Yandi to 63.8 per cent at Mt Newman.
The reserve lives of our mines ore to supplement the current ore supply.
The project involves the installation of additional grinding and otation equipment within at current production levels range from 13 years at Mt Goldsworthy JV Northern to 42 years at Jimblebar.
the existing circuits at Mt Keith and the addition of a high-magnesium oxide concentrate otation circuit.
This project will allow Mt Keith Samarco to treat talcose ores, which make up approximately 25 per cent of We are a 5050 joint venture partner with Vale at the Samarco the remaining Mt Keith ore reserve and which were not previously operations in Brazil.
During FY2008, Samarco completed an able to be processed economically.
The project is expected to be expansion project consisting of the construction of a third pellet commissioned in FY2012.
plant, a mine expansion, a new concentrator, port enhancements and a second slurry pipeline.
7 Iron Ore Customer Sector Group Our Iron Ore CSG consists of our Western Australia Iron Ore WAIO In FY2011, our share of production was 10.9 Mt of pellets.
Samarcos asset and a 50 per cent interest in the Samarco joint venture in total ore reserve is about 2.0 billion tonnes.
We are one of the leading iron ore producers in the world.
introduced the use of natural gas at its pelletising plants allowing We sell lump and fines product produced in Australia and pellets for cleaner production and better quality products.
from our operations in Brazil.
In April 2011, Samarco shareholders approved a US$3.5 billion Western Australia Iron Ore WAIO BHP Billiton share US$1.75 billion expansion project consisting WAIOs operations involve a complex integrated system of mines of a fourth pellet plant, a new concentrator and a third slurry pipeline.
and more than 1,000 kilometres of rail infrastructure and port The project will increase Samarcos iron ore pellet production capacity facilities in the Pilbara region of northern Western Australia.
by 8.3 Mt to 30.5 mtpa 100 per cent share.
First pellet production Our strategy is to maximise output utilising available infrastructure is expected in the first half of CY2014.
We have been expanding our WAIO operations in response to increasing demand for iron ore.
Since 2001, we have completed Information on Iron Ore mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
Type of Mine and Mine & Means Title, Leases Mineralisation Facilities, Location of Access Ownership Operator or Options History Style Power Source Use & Condition Iron ore Mt Newman JV Pilbara region, Public road BHP Billiton 85% Mt Mining lease Production began Open-cut Alinta Dewaps Newman Hub: Western Whaleback under the Iron Ore Mt Whaleback Newman gas-fired primary and Iron ore shipped Mitsui ITOCHU Bedded ore types Australia orebodies Mt Newman orebody 1969 power station via secondary crushing by Mt Newman Iron 10% classified as per 29 and 30 Agreement Act Mt Newman and screening plants Mt Whaleback JV owned rail to ITOCHU Minerals Production from the host Archaean operated by 1964 expires JV owned nominal capacity Orebodies JVs Nelson Point and Energy of orebodies 18, 23, or Proterozoic iron BHP Billiton 2030 with right power lines 58 mtpa : heavy 18, 23, 25, shipping Australia 5% 25, 29 and 30 formation, which to successive media beneficiation 29, 30 facilities and Orebodies complements are Brockman, renewals of plant, stockyard Finucane Island 18, 23 production from Marra Mamba 21 years blending facility, shipping and 25 Mt Whaleback and Nimingarra single cell rotary facilities, operated by First ore from car dumper, Port Hedland independent Newman Hub train-loading facility contractors as part of RGP4 Orebody 23 25: construction primary and delivered 2009 secondary crushing and screening plant 30 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report Information on Iron Ore mining operations continued Type of Mine and Mine & Means Title, Leases Mineralisation Facilities, Location of Access Ownership Operator or Options History Style Power Source Use & Condition Iron ore continued Yandi JV Pilbara region, Road BHP Billiton 85% Independent Mining lease Development Open-cut Alinta Dewaps 2 processing plants, Western contract under the Iron Ore began 1991 Newman gas-fired primary crusher and Iron ore shipped Mitsui Iron Ore Bedded and Australia mining Marillana Creek power station overland conveyor by operating Corporation 7% First shipment channel ore types.
company Agreement Act via Mt Newman joint venture ITOCHU Minerals 1992 Bedded ores Ore delivered 1991 expires 2012 JV owned owned rail to and Energy of are classified to 2 train-loading Capacity expanded with renewal power lines Finucane Island Australia 8% as per the host facilities between 19942003 rights to a further and Nelson Proterozoic A third processing 42 years Point shipping banded iron plant is in the facilities, formation names, commissioning Port Hedland which for Yandi is phase expected Brockman and Our railway capacity 45 mtpa Channel spur links Iron Deposits Yandi mine are Cainozoic to Newman fluvial sediments main line Jimblebar Pilbara region, Road Jimblebar lease: Independent Mining lease under Production Open-cut Alinta Dewaps Primary and Western 100% contract the Iron Ore commenced 1989 Newman gas-fired secondary Iron ore shipped Bedded ore types Australia mining McCameys power station crushing plant by Mt Newman Entitled to 85% Ore blended classified based company Monster via Mt Newman JV owned rail production with ore from on the host Nominal capacity: Agreement JV owned to Port Hedland from Wheelara Mt Whaleback and Archaean or 14 mtpa Authorisation power lines via 32 km spur deposit under satellite orebodies Proterozoic Act 1972 expires line linking sublease with 18, 23, 25, 29 banded iron 2030 with rights to Newman ITOCHU Minerals and 30 to create formation names, to successive main line and Energy of Mt Newman blend which are renewals of Australia, Mitsui Brockman and 21 years Iron Ore and Marra Mamba 4 separate subsidiaries of Chinese steelmakers Mt Goldsworthy JV Pilbara region, Road BHP Billiton 85% Independent 4 mineral leases Operations Open-cut mine Yarrie and Area C: Western contract under the Iron Ore commenced Mt includes Area C, Nimingarra: Alinta ore processing plant, Iron ore Mitsui Iron Ore Australia mining Mt Goldsworthy Goldsworthy 1966, Yarrie and Dewaps Port primary crusher and shipped by Corporation 7% company Agreement Act at Shay Gap 1973 Nimingarra Hedland gas-fired overland conveyor Area C Mt Goldsworthy and ITOCHU 1964 and the Iron power station Yarrie JV owned rail Minerals and Original Bedded ore types Nominal capacity: Ore Goldsworthy under long-term Nimingarra to JVs Finucane Energy of Goldsworthy mine classified as per 42 mtpa Nimingarra contracts Island and Australia 8% closed 1982 the host Archaean Yarrie: Agreement Act Nelson or Proterozoic Area C: Alinta Shay Gap mine mobile in-pit 1972, expire Point shipping iron formation Dewaps Port closed 1993 crushing plant between 2014 and facilities, names, which Newman gas-fired Nominal capacity: Mining at 2028, with rights to Port Hedland are Brockman, power station 1.5 mtpa Nimingarra mine successive renewals Marra Mamba under long-term Goldsworthy ceased 2007, has Primary crushers of 21 years.
and Nimingarra contracts JV railway spur since continued at Yarrie and A number of links Area C from adjacent Nimingarra in care smaller mining mine to Newman Yarrie area and maintenance leases granted main line We opened Area C Combined nominal under the Mining mine in 2003 capacity: 8 mtpa Act 1978 expire in 2026 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 31 2 Information on the Company continued Information on Iron Ore mining operations continued Type of Mine and Mine & Means Title, Leases Mineralisation Facilities, Location of Access Ownership Operator or Options History Style Power Source Use & Condition Iron ore continued Samarco Southeast Public road BHP Billiton 50% Mining Operates as Production began at Open-cut Samarco holds Facilities with Brazil concessions independent Germano mine 1977, interests in capacity to process Conveyors Vale 50% Itabirites granted by business with own at Alegria complex 2 hydroelectric and pump 24 mtpa transports iron metamorphic Brazilian management team 1992 power plants ore concentrate and ore to quartz-hematite Government which supply 20% produce and ship beneficiation Two expansions rock and friable as long of its electricity 22.2 mtpa pellets plant completed with a hematite ores as Alegria 100% basis second pellet plant Additional Two slurry complex built in 1997 and a power from other pipelines mined third pellet plant hydroelectric transport pellet according to and second pipeline power plants feed to pellet agreed plan built in 2008 under long-term plants on coast contracts expiring In April 2011, Iron pellets CY2014 Samarcos exported via shareholders port facilities approved the fourth pellet plant Western Australia Iron Ore Acquisition of HWE Development projects Mining Subsidiaries Western Australia Iron Ore On 9 August 2011, BHP Billiton signed a non-binding Heads of Construction of Rapid Growth Project 5 RGP5 is ongoing.
Agreement with Leighton Holdings to acquire the HWE Mining Our share of project expenditure to 30 June 2011 amounted to subsidiaries that provide contract mining services to its US$4.8 billion.
This project, which was announced in November Western Australia Iron Ore operations.
The Heads of Agreement 2008, will substantially double track the Newman main rail line, relates to the mining equipment, people and related assets that construct two new shipping berths on the Finucane Island side service the Area C, Yandi and Orebody 23 and 25 operations.
These of the Port Hedland harbour and add crushing, screening and operations collectively account for almost 70 per cent of WAIOs stockpiling facilities at Yandi.
The purchase price is US$735 million In March 2011, we announced approval of an additional US$7.4 billion A$705 million, subject to working capital adjustments.
Subject BHP Billiton share US$6.6 billion of capital expenditure to continue to due diligence, fide nitive agreements and relevant internal and production growth in our WAIO operations.
This investment is regulatory approvals, the transaction is expected to close during the final approval of projects initiated in 2010, with pre-commitment the fourth quarter of CY2011.
funding of US$2.3 billion BHP Billiton share US$2.1 billion.
West Africa It will deliver an integrated operation with a minimum capacity We are carrying out exploration activities in Guinea and Liberia, of 220 mtpa 100 per cent basis, with first production expected from Jimblebar early in CY2014.
At Nimba, in Guinea, we have completed our concept study and are now undertaking a pre-feasibility study to determine This additional investment includes: the optimal investment alternative by assessing viability, US$3.4 billion BHP Billiton share US$3.3 billion to develop sustainability impacts and management implications of operations the Jimblebar mine and rail links, and procure mining equipment in this area.
During the year, our Mineral Development Agreement and rolling stock to deliver an initial capacity of 35 mtpa, with the Government of Liberia was rati ed by the Liberian Legislature expandable to 55 mtpa: and became effective.
This agreement enables the further exploration US$2.3 billion BHP Billiton share US$1.9 billion to further develop and development of our mineral leases in Liberia.
Port Hedland, including two additional berths and shiploaders, 2.2.
8 Manganese Customer Sector Group a car dumper, connecting conveyor routes and associated rail Our Manganese CSG produces a combination of ores and alloys works and rolling stock: from sites in South Africa and Australia.
We are the worlds largest US$1.7 billion BHP Billiton share US$1.4 billion for port blending producer of manganese ore and among the top three global facilities and rail yards to enable ore blending, expand resource producers of manganese alloy.
Manganese alloy is a key input into life and prepare for the future growth of the business beyond the the steelmaking process.
Manganese high-grade ore is particularly inner harbour.
valuable to alloy producers because of the value in use differential Western Australia Iron Ore Rio Tinto joint venture over low-grade ore, which is the degree to which high-grade On 5 June 2009, together with Rio Tinto, we signed core principles ore is proportionately more ef cient than low-grade ore in the to establish a production joint venture covering the entirety of alloying process.
both companies Western Australia iron ore assets.
This resulted Our strategy is to focus on upstream resource businesses.
Manganese in the signing of fide nitive agreements on 5 December 2009. alloy smelters are a key conduit of manganese units into steelmaking The completion of these agreements was subject to a number and enable us to access markets with an optimal mix of ore and of conditions, including regulatory approvals.
alloy, optimise production to best suit market conditions and give After the agreements were signed, it became apparent that the us technical insight into the performance of our ores in smelters.
necessary regulatory approvals required to allow the deal to close Approximately 80 per cent of ore production is sold directly were unlikely to be achieved.
As a result, both parties agreed to to external customers and the remainder is used as feedstock dissolve the proposed joint venture.
32 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 2.2.
8 Manganese Customer Sector Group continued GEMCO As a result of its location near our own port facilities and its We own and manage all manganese mining operations and alloy simple, open-cut mining operation, GEMCO is one of the worlds plants through a joint venture with Anglo American in which lowest-cost manganese ore producers.
These simple operations, we own 60 per cent.
Our joint venture interests are held through combined with its high-grade ore and relative proximity to Samancor Manganese, which operates our global Manganese Asian export markets, make GEMCO unique among the worlds assets.
In South Africa, Samancor owns 74 per cent of Hotazel manganese mines.
FY2011 production of manganese was Manganese Mines Pty Ltd HMM and 100 per cent of Metalloys.
4,086 kt, 20 per cent higher than FY2010 production.
This gives BHP Billiton an effective interest of 44.4 per cent in Alloy Plants HMM and 60 per cent in Metalloys.
The remaining 26 per cent of HMM is owned under the terms of South African Black Economic Metalloys Empowerment BEE legislation, which re ects our commitment to The Samancor Manganese Metalloys alloy plant is one of the largest economic transformation in South Africa.
In Australia, we have an manganese alloy producers in the world.
Due to its size and access effective interest of 60 per cent in Groote Eylandt Mining Company to high-quality feedstock from Hotazel operations, it is also one Pty Ltd GEMCO and Tasmanian Electro Metallurgical Company of the lowest-cost alloy producers.
Metalloys produces high and Pty Ltd TEMCO.
Mines TEMCO HMM TEMCO is a medium-sized producer of high-carbon ferromanganese, silicomanganese and sinter using ore HMM owns the Mamatwan open-cut mine and the Wessels underground mine.
The ore from these mines only requires shipped from GEMCO, primarily using hydroelectric power.
crushing and screening to create saleable product.
In FY2011, the total manganese production was 3,007 kilotonnes kt, 10.6 per cent higher than FY2010 production.
Information on Manganese mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
These tables should be read in conjunction with the production see section 2.3.
Type of Mine and Mine & Means Title, Leases Mineralisation Facilities, Use Location of Access Ownership Operator or Options History Style Power Source & Condition Manganese ore Hotazel Manganese Mines Pty Ltd HMM Kalahari Basin, Public road BHP Billiton BHP Billiton Existing New Mamatwan Mamatwan: Eskom Mamatwan South Africa 44.4% Order Rights commissioned open-cut national beneficiation plant: Most ore and valid until 2035 1964 power primary, secondary Mamatwan and sinter products Anglo-American Wessels: supplier and tertiary crushing Wessels mines transported 29.6% Wessels underground with associated by rail Ntsimbintle 9% commissioned Banded Iron screening plants NCAB 7% 1973 Approximately Manganese Iziko 5% Dense medium 33% of ore ore type HMM Education separator and sinter beneficiated Trust 5% plant capacity locally, balance 1 1 mtpa sinter exported via Port Elizabeth, Wessels: primary Richards Bay, and secondary Durban crushing circuits with associated 1 screening Groote Eylandt Mining Company Pty Ltd GEMCO Groote Eylandt, Ore transported BHP Billiton 60% BHP Billiton All leases on Commissioned Open-cut On-site diesel Beneficiation Northern from concentrator Aboriginal land 1965 power process: crushing, Anglo American Sandstone Territory, by road train held under generation screening, washing 40% claystone Australia to port at Aboriginal Land and dense media sedimentary Milner Bay Rights Northern separation Manganese Territory Act 1976 Produces lump and ore type Valid until 2031 fines products Capacity: 4.2 wet mtpa 1 Capacity: Mamatwan approximately 3.5 mtpa of ore: Wessels approximately 1 mtpa of ore. BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 33 2 Information on the Company continued Information on Manganese smelters, re neries and processing plants Smelter, Refinery or Title, Leases or Nominal Production Processing Plant Location Ownership Operator Options Product Capacity Power source Manganese alloy Metalloys Manganese alloy plant Meyerton, BHP Billiton BHP Billiton Freehold title over Manganese alloys 400 ktpa high-carbon Eskom division of Samancor South Africa 60% property, plant including high-carbon ferromanganese 30 MW of internal power Manganese Pty Ltd and equipment ferromanganese, including hot metal Anglo American generated from furnace silicomanganese, 135 ktpa 40% off-gases refined medium-carbon silicomanganese ferromanganese alloy 90 ktpa medium-carbon ferromanganese Tasmanian Electro Metallurgical Company Pty Ltd TEMCO Manganese alloy plant Bell Bay, BHP Billiton BHP Billiton Freehold title over Ferroalloys, 130 ktpa high-carbon Aurora Energy Tasmania, 60% property, plant including high-carbon ferromanganese On-site energy Australia and equipment ferromanganese, 125 ktpa Anglo American recovery unit generates silicomanganese silicomanganese 40% 11 MW for internal use and sinter 350 ktpa sinter We have assets in two major resource basins: the Bowen Basin Development projects in Central Queensland, Australia, and the Illawarra region of GEMCO expansion New South Wales, Australia.
The partners in Samancor Manganese have approved the second expansion of the GEMCO operation in the Northern Territory of Bowen Basin Australia.
This follows the successful commissioning of the GEMCO In comparison with many other coal mining regions, the Bowen expansion phase 1 GEEP1 project in April 2009.
The US$279 million Basin is well positioned to supply the seaborne market because GEEP2 project BHP Billiton US$167 million will increase GEMCOs of its high-quality metallurgical coals, which are ideally suited to bene ciated product capacity from 4.2 million tonnes per annum ef cient blast furnace operations, relatively low cost of production mtpa to 4.8 mtpa through the introduction of a dense media circuit from extensive near-surface deposits and geographical proximity by-pass facility.
The project is expected to be completed in late to Asian customers.
The expansion will also address infrastructure constraints We also have access to key infrastructure, including a modern, by increasing road and port capacity to 5.9 mtpa, creating 1.1 mtpa integrated electric rail network and our own coal loading terminal of additional capacity for future expansions.
This infrastructure enables us to maximise HMM throughput and blending of products from multiple mines to optimise The central block development project at Wessels mine is expected the value of our production and satisfy customer requirements.
to be completed during the last quarter of FY2013.
The project will Our Bowen Basin mines are owned through a series of joint ventures.
enable the mine to increase current production from 1 mtpa to We share 5050 ownership with Mitsubishi Development Pty Ltd in 1.5 mtpa of capacity 100 per cent, or about 0.7 mtpa BHP Billiton BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance BMA, which operates the Goonyella share.
The remaining forecast capital expenditure to completion Riverside, Broadmeadow, Peak Downs, Saraji, Norwich Park, of the project is an estimated US$26 million BHP Billiton share.
Blackwater and Gregory Crinum mines, together with the Hay Point Metalloys Coal terminal through the Central Queensland Coal Associates CQCA joint venture and the Gregory joint venture.
Our BHP Billiton The High Carbon Ferro Manganese HCFeMn furnace M14 at the Metalloys West Plant was approved for execution in Mitsui Coal BMC asset operates South Walker Creek and Poitrel mines.
BMC is owned by BHP Billiton 80 per cent and Mitsui and November 2010 with a total approved investment of US$91 million US$54.6 million BHP Billiton share.
This furnace would add an Co 20 per cent.
additional 130 kilotonnes per annum ktpa capacity 100 per cent The reserve lives of the Bowen Basin mines range from six years to or about 78 ktpa BHP Billiton share of HCFeMn and replace smaller, 62 years.
Total attributable production in FY2011 was approximately less ef cient furnaces from the South Plant with a current capacity 25.7 million tonnes Mt compared with 30.8 Mt in FY2010.
The M14 furnace will contribute to power ef ciency at Production in FY2011 was signi cantly impacted by persistent and Metalloys site as it will add to the sites own generation capacity severe wet weather in the Bowen Basin.
Production gures for the Bowen Basin include some energy coal Samancor Gabon Manganese project less than 11 per cent.
The feasibility phase study for the establishment of a 300 ktpa Illawarra mine in Franceville, Gabon, commenced in July 2010 and the study We own and operate three underground coal mines in the Illawarra is expected to be completed in the first quarter of FY2012.
region of New South Wales, which supply metallurgical coal to The pre-feasibility phase study for phase 2 to increase the the nearby BlueScope Port Kembla steelworks, and other domestic production capacity to 1.8 mtpa is expected to commence and export markets.
Total production in FY2011 was approximately in the second quarter of FY2012.
The reserve lives of the Illawarra mines range from three years to 19 years.
9 Metallurgical Coal Customer Sector Group Our Metallurgical Coal CSG is the worlds largest supplier of Production gures for Illawarra include some energy coal less than seaborne metallurgical coal.
Metallurgical coal, along with iron 18 per cent.
ore and manganese, is a key input in the production of steel.
Our export customers are steel producers around the world.
In FY2011, most of our contracts were annual or long-term volume contracts with prices largely negotiated on a quarterly basis or monthly basis.
34 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report Information on Metallurgical Coal mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
The tables should be read in conjunction with the production see section 2.3.
2 and reserves tables see section 2.13.2.
Type of Mine and Mine & Means Title, Leases or Mineralisation Facilities, Use Location of Access Ownership Operator Options History Style Power Source & Condition Metallurgical coal Central Queensland Coal Associates CQCA joint venture Bowen Basin, Public road BHP Billiton 50%BMA Mining leases Goonyella mine All open-cut except Queensland On-site Queensland, including undeveloped commenced electricity grid beneficiation Coal transported Mitsubishi Broadmeadow: Australia tenements, expire 1971, merged facilities by rail to Hay Development longwall between 20112037, with adjoining Goonyella, Point and 50% underground Combined nominal renewable for Riverside Riverside, Peak Gladstone ports capacity: in excess Bituminous coal further periods mine 1989 Downs, Saraji, of 53.5 mtpa is mined from the as Queensland Operates Norwich Park, Permian Moranbah Hay Point Government as Goonyella Blackwater and and Rangal Coal Terminal legislation allows Riverside Broadmeadow Coal measures mines Mining is permitted Production Products range from to continue under commenced: premium-quality, the legislation during Peak Downs low volatile, high the application period.
1972 vitrinite, hard coking Application lodged Saraji 1974 coal to medium to renew mining Norwich volatile hard coking lease expiring in 2011 Park 1979 coal, to weak coking Blackwater coal, and some 1967 medium ash thermal Broadmeadow coal as a by-product longwall operations 2005 Gregory joint venture Bowen Basin, Public road BHP Billiton 50% BMA Mining leases, Production Gregory: open-cut Queensland On-site Queensland, including undeveloped commenced: electricity grid beneficiation Coal transported Mitsubishi Crinum: longwall Australia tenements, expire Gregory 1979 processing facility by rail to Hay Development underground between 20142027, Gregory and Point and 50% Crinum mine Nominal Bituminous coal renewable for further Crinum mines Gladstone ports longwall 1997 capacity: in is mined from the periods as Queensland excess of 5 mtpa Permian German Government Creek Coal measures legislation allows Product is a high volatile, low ash hard coking coal, and a medium ash thermal coal BHP Billiton Mitsui Coal Pty Limited Bowen Basin, Public road BHP Billiton 80% During Mining leases, South Walker Open-cut Queensland South Walker Queensland, FY2011 including undeveloped Creek electricity grid Creek coal Coal transported Mitsui and Bituminous coal Australia management tenements expire commenced beneficiated by rail to Hay Co 20% is mined from the transferred in 2020, renewable 1996 on-site South Walker Point port Permian Rangal from BMA for further periods Creek and Poitrel Coal measures Nominal capacity: to BMC as Queensland Poitrel mines commenced 3.5 mtpa Produces a range Government 2006 of coking coal, Poitrel Mine legislation allows pulverised coal has Red Mountain injection PCI coal, joint venture and thermal coal with adjacent products with Millennium Coal medium to high mine to share phosphorus and processing and rail ash properties loading facilities Nominal capacity: 3 mtpa Illawarra Coal Illawarra, Public road 100% BHP Billiton Mining leases expire Production Underground New South 2 beneficiation New South between 20112026, commenced: Wales facilities Coal transported Bituminous coal is Wales, Australia renewable for further Appin 1962 electricity by road or rail mined from the Nominal capacity: periods as NSW longwall grid Dendrobium, to BlueScope Permian Illawarra approximately Government operations 1969 Appin and Steels Port Coal Measures 8 mtpa legislation allows West Cliff mines Kembla West Cliff 1976 Produces premium steelworks Mining is permitted Dendrobium quality hard coking or Port Kembla to continue under 2005 coal and some for export the legislation during thermal coal from the application period the Wongawilli Applications lodged to and Bulli seams renew mining leases expiring in 2011 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 35 2 Information on the Company continued Information on Metallurgical Coal 2.2.
10 Energy Coal Customer Sector Group mining operations continued Our Energy Coal CSG is one of the worlds largest producers and marketers of export energy coal also known as thermal or steaming Development projects coal and is also a signi cant domestic supplier to the electricity Bowen Basin Expansions generation industry in Australia, South Africa and the US.
Our global In March 2011, approval was given for three key metallurgical portfolio of energy coal assets and our insights into the broader coal projects located in the Bowen Basin in Central Queensland, energy market through our sales of other fuels gas, uranium and Australia.
The projects are expected to add 4.9 Mt of annual mine oil provide our business with substantial advantages as a supplier.
capacity 100 per cent basis through development of the Daunia We generally make our domestic sales under long-term xed-price operation and a new mining area at Broadmeadow.
In addition, contracts with nearby power stations.
We make export sales to 11 Mt of annual port capacity 100 per cent basis will be developed power generators and some industrial users in Asia, Europe and at the Hay Point Coal terminal.
The total investment is expected the US, usually under contracts for delivery of a xed volume of coal.
to be US$5 billion, of which BHP Billitons share is US$2.5 billion.
Pricing is either index-linked or xed, in which case we use financial instruments to swap our xed-price exposure for exposure to market The Daunia mine, adjacent to BMCs Poitrel mine, will have the capacity to produce 4.5 million tonnes per annum mtpa of export indexed prices.
metallurgical coal through a new processing facility.
First coal is We operate three assets: a group of mines and associated expected in 2013.
The investment will also extend the life of the infrastructure collectively known as BHP Billiton Energy Coal Broadmeadow mine by a further 21 years and increase production South Africa: our New Mexico Coal operations in the US: and capacity by 0.4 mtpa to a new total capacity of 4.8 mtpa.
The project our NSW Energy Coal operations in Australia.
We also own a is due for completion in 2013.
The expansion at Hay Point terminal 33.33 per cent share of the Cerrejn Coal Company, which operates will increase its capacity from 44 mtpa to 55 mtpa and includes the a coal mine in Colombia.
replacement of the existing jetty to increase its ability to withstand BHP Billiton Energy Coal South Africa BECSA high seas and winds.
First shipments from the expanded terminal are expected in 2014.
BECSA operates four coal mines Khutala, Klipspruit, Middelburg and Wolvekrans in the Witbank region of Mpumalanga province Metallurgical Coal is continuing to investigate a number of brown eld of South Africa, which in FY2011 produced approximately 34 million and green eld expansion and logistics options in the Bowen Basin, tonnes Mt.
In FY2011, BECSA sold approximately 62 per cent of including the construction of the proposed Caval Ridge Mine which its production to Eskom, the government-owned electricity utility will utilise the expanded Hay Point terminal capacity.
in South Africa and exported the rest via the Richards Bay Coal IndoMet Coal Project Indonesia Terminal RBCT, in which we own a 22 per cent share.
The reserve lives of the BECSA mines range from nine to 30 years.
IndoMet Coal comprises seven coal contracts of work CCoWs covering a large metallurgical coal resource in Kalimantan, Indonesia, New Mexico Coal which was discovered by BHP Billiton in the 1990s.
Following an We own and operate the Navajo mine, located on Navajo Nation assessment of the importance of local participation in developing land in New Mexico, and the nearby San Juan mine located in the the project in 2010, we sold a 25 per cent interest in the project state of New Mexico.
Each mine transports its production directly to a subsidiary of PT Adaro Energy TBK.
We retain 75 per cent to a nearby power station.
The reserve lives of Navajo Mine and of the project and hold management responsibility for the project.
San Juan Mine are 27 and 14 years, respectively.
New Mexico Coal Study work is underway to identify development options across produced approximately 12 Mt in FY2011.
NSW Energy Coal NSW Energy Coals operating asset is the Mt Arthur open-cut coal mine in the Hunter Valley region of New South Wales, which produced approximately 14 Mt in FY2011 and has a reserve life of 50 years.
We commenced the first stage of our long-term mine expansion project RX1 in FY2011 see Development projects below.
In FY2011, we delivered approximately nine per cent of Mt Arthurs production to a local power station and exported the rest via the port of Newcastle.
We are also a 35.5 per cent shareholder in Newcastle Coal Infrastructure Group a joint controlled entity that is operating the Newcastle Third Port export coal loading facility.
Cerrejn Coal Company Cerrejn Coal Company owns and operates one of the largest open-cut export coal mines in the world in La Guajira province of Colombia, as well as integrated rail and port facilities through which the majority of production is exported to European and Middle Eastern customers.
Cerrejn has a current capacity of 32 million tonnes per annum mtpa 100 per cent terms and has a reserve life of 23 years.
36 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 2.2.
10 Energy Coal Customer Sector Group continued Information on Energy Coal mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
The table should be read in conjunction with the production see section 2.3.
Type of Mine and Mine & Means of Title, Leases Mineralisation Facilities, Use Location Access Ownership Operator or Options History Style Power Source & Condition South Africa Khutala 100 km east of Public road 100% BHP Billiton BECSA holds Old Production Combination Eskom Crushing plant Johannesburg, Order Mining Right commenced 1984 open-cut and national for energy coal Domestic coal Gauteng Application for underground power transported Open-cut Nominal capacity: Province, conversion to supplier by overland operations 1996 Produces a medium 18 mtpa South Africa New Order Right, under conveyor to rank bituminous Commenced mining Smaller crusher submitted 2004 long-term Kendal Power thermal coal thermal metallurgical and wash plant and being processed contracts Station non-coking coal for domestic to beneficiate see section 2.7.
1 market 2003 metallurgical coal Nominal capacity: 0.6 mtpa Middelburg Wolvekrans 20 km Public road 100% BHP Billiton BECSA and Tavistock Production Open-cut Eskom under Beneficiation southeast are joint holders of commenced 1982 long-term facilities: tips and Export coal Previous JV Produces a medium of Witbank, 3 Old Order Mining Middelburg Mine contracts crushing plants, transported 84:16 with rank bituminous Mpumalanga Rights in the previous Services MMS and 2 export wash to RBCT by rail Xstrata Plc thermal coal, most Province, JV ratio 84:16 Duvha Opencast plants, middlings Domestic coal through of which can be South Africa BECSA is the 100% became one wash plant, transported Tavistock beneficiated for the holder of a fourth operation in 1995 fide-stone plant by conveyor to Collieries Plc European or Asian Old Order Duvha Power dissolved Douglas-Middelburg export markets Nominal capacity: Mining Right Station effective Optimisation 44.5 mtpa 1 December All 4 Rights were project completed 2009 lodged with the in July 2010 Department of During the year, Mineral Resources the mine was split for conversion in into Middelburg 1 December 2008 and Wolvekrans Klipspruit 30 km west Public road 100% BHP Billiton BECSA holds an Production Open-cut Eskom under Beneficiation of Witbank, Old Order Mining commenced 2003 long-term facilities: tip and Export coal 50% of Phola Produces a medium Mpumalanga Right Application contracts crushing plant, transported to Coal Plant in Expansion Project rank bituminous Province, for conversion to export wash plant RBCT by rail JV with Anglo completed FY2010, thermal coal, most South Africa New Order Mining Inyosi Coal includes 50% share of which can be Nominal capacity Right submitted in Phola Coal Plant beneficiated for the Phola Coal 2004, being Expected ROM European or Asian Processing Plant: processed see capacity: 8.0 mtpa export markets 16 mtpa section 2.7.
1 at full ramp-up Australia Mt Arthur Coal Approximately Public road 100% BHP Billiton Various mining leases Production Open-cut Local energy Beneficiation 125 km from and licences expire commenced 2002 providers facilities: coal Domestic coal Produces a medium Newcastle, 20112032 handling, transported Government approval rank bituminous New South preparation, by conveyor Renewal is being permits extraction of thermal coal Wales, washing plants to Bayswater sought for our up to 36 mt of run of non-coking Australia Power Station tenement that expired mine coal from Nominal capacity: in 2010 underground and in excess of Export coal open-cut operations, 16 mtpa see transported with open-cut Development by rail to extraction limited projects below Newcastle port to 32 mtpa 1 JV agreement has been amended such that upon conversion of the Mining Rights, the mining area will be divided into an area wholly owned and operated by Tavistock and an area wholly owned and operated by BECSA as the new Douglas Middelburg mine see section 2.7.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 37 2 Information on the Company continued Information on Energy Coal mining operations continued Type of Mine and Mine & Means of Title, Leases Mineralisation Facilities, Use Location Access Ownership Operator or Options History Style Power Source & Condition US Navajo 30 km Public road 100% BHP Billiton Long-term lease from Production Open-cut Four Corners Stackers and southwest Navajo Nation commenced 1963 Power Plant reclaimers used Coal transported Produces a medium of Farmington, continues for as long to size and blend by rail to Four rank bituminous New Mexico, as coal can be coal to contract Corners Power thermal coal US economically produced specifications Plant FCPP non-coking suitable and sold in paying for the domestic Nominal capacity: quantities market only 8.1 mtpa San Juan 25 km west of Public road 100% BHP Billiton Mining leases from Surface mine Underground San Juan Coal sized and Farmington, federal and state operations Generation blended to Coal transported Produces a medium New Mexico, governments commenced 1973 Station contract by truck and rank bituminous US Development of specifications conveyor to Leases viable thermal coal underground mine using stockpiles San Juan as long as minimum non-coking suitable to replace open-cut Generating production criteria for the domestic Nominal capacity: mine approved 2000 Station SJGS achieved market only 6.0 mtpa Colombia Cerrejn Coal Company La Guajira Public road BHP Billiton Cerrejn Coal Mining leases Original mine began Open-cut Local Beneficiation province, 33.33% Company expire 2034 producing in 1976 Colombian facilities: crushing Coal exported Produces a medium Colombia power system plant with capacity by rail to Puerto Anglo BHP Billiton interest rank bituminous of 32 mtpa and Bolivar American acquired in 1999 thermal coal washing plant 33.33% non-coking, Xstrata suitable for the Nominal capacity: 33.33% export market 3 mtpa Expansion of Cerrejn Coal P40 Project Development projects On 18 August 2011, we announced a US$437 million BHP Billiton Mt Arthur open-cut expansions RX1 share investment in the expansion of Cerrejn Coal, known as On 25 March 2011, we announced the first stage of the Mt Arthur the P40 Project, which will enable Cerrejn Coals saleable thermal Coal mine expansion which is intended to increase run-of-mine coal production to increase by eight mtpa to approximately 40 mtpa.
thermal coal production by approximately 4 Mt, to approximately The expansion project will see our 33.3 per cent share of production 24 mtpa and follows our investment in capacity at the Port of and sales increase from 10.7 mtpa to 13.3 mtpa.
Known as the RX1 Project, it is expected to commence will commence in CY2011 with completion expected in CY2013.
operation in the second half of 2013 at an estimated capital The project scope includes a second berth and dual quadrant ship investment of US$400 million.
loader at Cerrejns 100 per cent owned and operated Puerto The environmental assessment approval granted in September 2010 Bolivar, along with necessary mine, rail and associated supply will allow us to develop additional coal reserves in the future with chain infrastructure.
studies underway to examine the expansion of the mine.
Newcastle Port Third Phase Expansion On 31 August 2011, we announced a US$367 million BHP Billiton share investment in the third stage development of the Newcastle Coal Infrastructure Groups coal handling facility in Newcastle, Australia, in which, NSW Energy Coal is a 35.5 per cent shareholder.
The port expansion project will increase total capacity at the coal terminal from 53 mtpa to 66 mtpa.
This will increase NSW Energy Coals allocation by a further 4.6 mtpa to 19.2 mtpa supporting the future expansions of the Mt Arthur Coal mine.
The first coal on the new ship loader is scheduled to occur in FY2014, with the terminal expected to operate at full capacity within the following 12 months.
38 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 2.3 Production 2.3.
1 Petroleum The table below details Petroleums historical net crude oil and condensate, natural gas and natural gas liquids production, primarily by geographic segment, for each of the three years ended 30 June 2011, 2010 and 2009.
We have shown volumes of marketable production after deduction of applicable royalties, fuel and are.
We have included in the table average production costs per unit of production and average sales prices for oil and condensate and natural gas for each of those periods.
BHP Billiton Group share of production Year ended 30 June 2011 2010 2009 Production volumes Crude oil and condensate 000 of barrels Australia 40,447 31,540 32,496 United States 30,157 41,522 20,818 Other 9,987 11,325 13,014 Total crude oil and condensate 80,591 84,387 66,328 Natural gas billion cubic feet Australia 274.74 259.65 258.14 United States 49.09 17.68 11.91 Other 81.23 91.24 92.75 Total natural gas 405.06 368.57 362.80 1 Natural Gas Liquids 000 of barrels Australia 7,962 8,652 7,977 United States 1,980 2,545 1,128 Other 1,341 1,552 2,071 1 Total NGL 11,283 12,749 11,176 2 Total petroleum products production million barrels of oil equivalent Australia 94.20 83.47 83.50 United States 40.32 47.01 23.93 Other 24.86 28.08 30.54 2 Total petroleum products production million barrels of oil equivalent 159.38 158.56 137.97 Average sales price Crude oil and condensate US$ per barrel Australia 96.32 74.12 70.32 United States 90.01 71.55 62.90 Other 90.69 75.57 60.69 Total crude oil and condensate 93.29 73.05 66.18 Natural gas US$ per thousand cubic feet Australia 4.21 3.52 3.07 United States 3.48 4.80 6.61 Other 3.92 3.05 4.08 Total natural gas 4.00 3.43 3.57 Natural Gas Liquids US$ per barrel Australia 58.05 48.20 44.71 United States 49.79 39.51 48.19 Other 59.54 49.40 38.88 Total NGL 56.77 46.47 43.91 3 Average Production Cost US$ per barrel of oil equivalent Australia 5.75 5.59 4.51 United States 6.45 5.62 7.20 Other 8.39 7.48 6.74 3 Average Production Cost US$ per barrel of oil equivalent 6.34 5.93 5.47 1 LPG and Ethane are reported as Natural Gas Liquids NGL.
2 Total boe conversion is based on the following: 6,000 scf of natural gas equals 1 boe.
3 Average production costs include direct and indirect costs relating to the production of hydrocarbons and the foreign exchange effect of translating local currency denominated costs into US dollars but excludes ad valorem and severance taxes.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 39 2 Information on the Company continued 2.3.
2 Minerals The table below details our mineral and derivative product production for all CSGs except Petroleum for the three years ended 30 June 2011, 2010 and 2009.
Production shows our share unless otherwise stated.
BHP Billiton Group share of production BHP Billiton Year ended 30 June Group interest % 2011 2010 2009 Aluminium Alumina Production 000 tonnes Worsley, Australia 86.0 2,902 3,054 2,924 1 Paranam, Suriname 45.0 78 935 Alumar, Brazil 36.0 1,108 709 537 Total alumina 4,010 3,841 4,396 Aluminium Production 000 tonnes Hillside, RSA 100.0 711 710 702 Bayside, RSA 100.0 97 98 99 Alumar, Brazil 40.0 174 174 177 Mozal, Mozambique 47.1 264 259 255 Total aluminium 1,246 1,241 1,233 2 Base Metals Copper Payable metal in concentrate 000 tonnes Escondida, Chile 57.5 390.5 448.1 417.6 Antamina, Peru 33.8 97.8 98.6 109.0 3 Pinto Valley, US 100.0 33.3 Total copper concentrate 488.3 546.7 559.9 Cathode 000 tonnes Escondida, Chile 57.5 179.1 174.2 172.1 4 Pampa Norte, Chile 100.0 272.2 244.8 274.8 3 Pinto Valley, US 100.0 5.7 6.2 6.2 Olympic Dam, Australia 100.0 194.1 103.3 194.1 Total copper cathode 651.1 528.5 647.2 Total copper concentrate and cathode 1,139.4 1,075.2 1,207.1 Lead Payable metal in concentrate 000 tonnes Cannington, Australia 100.0 243.4 245.4 226.8 Antamina, Peru 33.8 1.2 3.0 3.3 Total lead 244.6 248.4 230.1 Zinc Payable metal in concentrate 000 tonnes Cannington, Australia 100.0 60.7 62.7 54.8 Antamina, Peru 33.8 91.5 135.6 108.4 Total zinc 152.2 198.3 163.2 Gold Payable metal in concentrate 000 ounces Escondida, Chile 57.5 84.7 76.4 67.3 Olympic Dam, Australia refined gold 100.0 111.
4 65.5 108.0 3 Pinto Valley, US 100.0 0.9 Total gold 196.1 141.9 176.2 40 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 2.3.
2 Minerals continued BHP Billiton Group share of production BHP Billiton Year ended 30 June Group interest % 2011 2010 2009 2 Base Metals continued Silver Payable metal in concentrate 000 ounces Escondida, Chile 57.5 2,849 2,874 2,765 Antamina, Peru 33.8 3,600 4,712 4,090 Cannington, Australia 100.0 35,225 37,276 33,367 Olympic Dam, Australia refined silver 100.0 982 500 937 3 Pinto Valley, US 100.0 182 Total silver 42,656 45,362 41,341 Uranium oxide Payable metal in concentrate tonnes Olympic Dam, Australia 100.0 4,045 2,279 4,007 Total uranium oxide 4,045 2,279 4,007 Molybdenum Payable metal in concentrate tonnes Antamina, Peru 33.8 1,445 813 1,363 3 Pinto Valley, US 100.0 159 Total molybdenum 1,445 813 1,522 Diamonds and Specialty Products Diamonds Production 000 carats EKATI, Canada 80.0 2,506 3,050 3,221 Total diamonds 2,506 3,050 3,221 5 Titanium minerals Production 000 tonnes Titanium slag 6 Richards Bay Minerals, RSA 37.76 366 317 490 Rutile 6 Richards Bay Minerals, RSA 37.76 32 34 44 Zircon 6 Richards Bay Minerals, RSA 37.76 83 83 120 Total titanium minerals 481 434 654 Stainless Steel Materials Nickel Production 000 tonnes Cerro Matoso, Colombia 99.9 40.0 49.6 50.5 7 Yabulu, Australia 100.0 2.8 33.9 Nickel West, Australia 100.0 112.7 123.8 88.7 Total nickel 152.7 176.2 173.1 Cobalt Production 000 tonnes 7 Yabulu, Australia 100.0 0.1 1.4 Total cobalt 0.0 0.1 1.4 8 Iron Ore Production 000 tonnes 9 Newman, Australia 85.0 45,245 32,097 31,350 Mt Goldsworthy, Australia 85.0 1,198 1,688 1,416 Area C, Australia 85.0 39,794 38,687 35,513 Yandi, Australia 85.0 36,460 41,396 37,818 Samarco, Brazil 50.0 11,709 11,094 8,318 Total iron ore 134,406 124,962 114,415 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 41 2 Information on the Company continued 2.3.
2 Metal production is reported on the basis of payable metal.
3 The Pinto Valley mining operations were placed on care and maintenance in January 2009, and continue to produce copper cathode through sulphide leaching.
4 Includes Cerro Colorado and Spence.
5 Data was sourced from the TZ Minerals International Pty Ltd Mineral Sands Annual Review 2011 and amounts represent production for the preceding year ended 31 December.
6 The Groups economic interest in Richards Bay Minerals is 37.76 per cent FY2010: 37.76 per cent: FY2009: 50 per cent.
7 Yabulu was sold effective 31 July 2009.
8 Iron ore production is reported on a wet tonnes basis with the exception of Samarco, being reported in dry pellet tonnes.
9 Newman includes Mt Newman Joint Venture and Jimblebar, previously Jimblebar was reported separately.
BHP Billiton interest in saleable production is 60 per cent, except HMM, which is 44.4 per cent FY2010: 44.4 per cent: FY2009: 60 per cent.
11 Production includes Medium Carbon Ferro Manganese.
12 Metallurgical coal production is reported on the basis of saleable product.
Production figures include some thermal coal.
13 Goonyella Riverside includes the Broadmeadow underground mine.
BHP Billiton interest in saleable production is 80 per cent FY2010: 80 per cent: FY2009: 80 per cent.
15 Wolvekrans was previously known as Douglas mine.
42 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report It provides the Group Management Committee with assurance 2.4 Marketing reports and portfolio analysis.
RBO also provides functional BHP Billitons Marketing network manages the Groups revenue expertise to audits and to investment review programs conducted line and is responsible for: by other Group Functions.
selling our products and for the purchase of all major RBOs accountabilities include governance for all resource and raw materials: reserve estimation and Ore Reserve reporting.
the supply chain for our various products, from assets to market, and also for raw materials, from suppliers to our assets: 2.7 Government regulations managing credit and price risk associated with the revenue line: achieving market clearing prices for the Groups products: Government regulations touch all aspects of our operations.
fide ning our view of long-term market fundamentals.
However, because of the geographical diversity of our operations, no one set of government regulations is likely to have a material This requires an active and signi cant presence in the various effect on our business, taken as a whole.
commodities markets and also the global freight market.
The ability to extract minerals, oil and natural gas is fundamental Our marketing activities are centralised in Singapore, The Hague to our business.
In most jurisdictions, the rights to undeveloped Netherlands and Antwerp Belgium.
Our Iron Ore, Metallurgical mineral or petroleum deposits are owned by the state.
Accordingly, Coal, Manganese, Base Metals, Stainless Steel Materials, Petroleum we rely upon the rights granted to us by the government that owns and Uranium marketing teams are headquartered in Singapore.
the mineral, oil or natural gas.
These rights usually take the form The Hague is the hub for our Aluminium, Energy Coal and Freight of a lease or licence, which gives us the right to access the land marketing teams.
Our Antwerp of ce serves our diamonds customers.
The terms of the lease or licence, including These three marketing of ces incorporate all the functions required the time period for which it is effective, are speci c to the laws of to manage product marketing and distribution from the point the relevant government.
Generally, we own the product we extract of production to final customer delivery.
In addition, we have and royalties or similar taxes are payable to the government.
Some marketers located in 17 regional of ces around the world.
of our operations, such as our oil and gas operations in Trinidad and Tobago and Algeria, are subject to production sharing contracts We have a centralised ocean freight business that manages our under which both we as the contractor and the government are in-house freight requirements.
The primary purpose of the freight entitled to a share of the production.
Under such production sharing business is to create a competitive advantage for our shipments contracts, the contractor is entitled to recover its exploration and through the procurement and operation of quality, cost-effective production costs from the governments share of production.
From time to time, we carry complementary cargoes for external parties to optimise pro tability.
Related to the ability to extract is the ability to process the minerals, oil or natural gas.
Again, we rely upon the relevant government to grant the rights necessary to transport and treat the extracted 2.5 Minerals exploration material in order to ready it for sale.
Our minerals exploration program is integral to our growth Underlying our business of extracting and processing natural strategy and is focused on identifying and capturing new resources is the ability to explore for those orebodies.
The rights world-class projects for future development or projects that to explore for minerals, oil and natural gas are granted to us by add signi cant value to existing operations.
Targets for exploration the government that owns those natural resources that we wish are generally resources to underpin development of large low-cost to explore.
Usually, the right to explore carries with it the obligation mining projects in a range of minerals, including copper, iron ore, to spend a fide ned amount of money on the exploration potash, nickel, uranium, manganese and diamond deposits.
or to undertake particular exploration activities.
Our green eld exploration activities are organised from four Governments also impose obligations on us in respect of principal of ces in Singapore, Perth Australia, Johannesburg environmental protection, land rehabilitation, occupational health South Africa and Santiago Chile.
We continue to pursue and safety, and native land title with which we must comply in order opportunities and build our title position in prospective regions, to continue to enjoy the right to conduct our operations within that focusing on the Americas, Asia, Africa and Australia.
These obligations often require us to make substantial of discovery runs from early-stage mapping through to drilling expenditures to minimise or remediate the environmental impact and evaluation.
The exploration program is global in scope and of our operations, to ensure the safety of our employees and prioritises targets based on our assessment of the relative contractors and the like.
For further information on these types attractiveness of each mineral.
of obligations, refer to section 2.8 of this Report.
In addition to our activities focused on nding new world-class Of particular note are the following regulatory regimes: deposits, several of our CSGs undertake brown eld exploration, principally aimed at delineating and categorising mineral deposits 2.7.
1 South African Mining Charter and near existing operations, and advancing projects through the Black Economic Empowerment development pipeline.
In 2003, the South African Government released a strategy for In FY2011, we spent US$683 million on minerals exploration.
broad-based black economic empowerment BBBEE that fide ned empowerment as an integrated and coherent socio-economic Of this, US$207 million was spent on green eld exploration and US$476 million was spent on brown eld exploration and process that directly contributes to the economic transformation of South Africa and brings signi cant increases in the numbers of advanced projects.
black people who manage, own and control the countrys economy, as well as signi cant decreases in income inequalities.
This strategy 2.6 Resource and Business Optimisation laid the foundation for the Black Economic Empowerment Act of 2003, which granted government the power to legislate how Group Resource and Business Optimisation RBO provides governance it wanted black economic empowerment BEE to be implemented and technical leadership for resource development and Ore Reserve in South Africa.
RBOs 50 professionals are focused on ensuring optimal value recovery from our resources.
The team includes functional As outlined in section 1.5 of this Report, on 1 May 2004, the experts in mineral resource evaluation, brown elds exploration, Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act 2002 MPRDA planning, research and development, work management, production took effect, providing for state custodianship of all mineral deposits reporting, mine engineering and mineral process engineering.
and abolishing the prior system of privately held mineral rights.
It is administered by the Department of Mineral Resources formerly RBO engages directly with assets to deliver guidance and assess the Department of Minerals and Energy of South Africa.
In February compliance in resource development and Ore Reserve reporting.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 43 2 Information on the Company continued 2.7.
1 South African Mining Charter and Burmese regime Myanmar, Cote dIvoire, The Democratic Peoples Republic of Korea North Korea, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Black Economic Empowerment continued Egypt, Eritrea, the Republic of Guinea, Lebanon, Liberia, Libya, 2007, the codes of good practice were gazetted, further crystallising Iran, Somalia, Sudan, Tunisia and the previous regimes of Iraq and the governments BEE strategy into a single binding document.
Yugoslavia: ii certain of cials of Belarus, Syria and Zimbabwe: The codes make provision for businesses to measure their success iii individuals indicted by the International Criminal Tribunal for in contributing to the economic transformation and empowerment the former Yugoslavia: and iv entities and individuals linked with of historically disadvantaged South Africans HDSAs in the local the Taliban, Al-Qaeda and other terrorist organisations.
economy and a scorecard comprising seven metrics was also developed to assist businesses in achieving this success.
There are no restrictions under BHP Billiton Plcs Articles of Association or subject to the effect of any sanctions under English In terms of the MPRDA, holders of mining rights granted under the law that limit the right of non-resident or foreign owners to hold previous system, known as Old Order Rights, must have applied or vote BHP Billiton Plcs shares.
to convert their rights to New Order Rights prior to 30 April 2009.
In order for the conversions to be effected, applicants are required There are certain restrictions on shareholding levels under to comply with the terms of the Black Economic Empowerment Act BHP Billiton Plcs Articles of Association described under the of 2003 and the Mining Charter, which has been published under heading BHP Billiton Limited below.
The Mining Charter requires holders of mining rights BHP Billiton Limited to achieve 26 per cent ownership participation by HDSAs in their Under the Australian Banking Foreign Exchange Regulations 1959, mining operations by 30 April 2014, of which 15 per cent needed the Reserve Bank of Australia may impose restrictions on certain to have been achieved by 30 April 2009.
We have submitted to financial transactions and require the consent of the Reserve Bank the Department of Mineral Resources of South Africa transactions of Australia for the movement of funds into and out of Australia.
to meet the legislative requirements and support the conversion Based on our searches, restrictions currently apply if funds are to New Order Rights.
to be paid to or received from speci ed supporters of the former We support broad-based black economic empowerment in South Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, speci ed Africa.
We believe it is imperative to both the growth and stability ministers and senior of cials of the Government of Zimbabwe, of the South African economy and the Groups strategic objectives certain speci ed entities associated with the Democratic Peoples and long-term sustainability in that country.
Republic of Korea North Korea, speci ed individuals associated with the Burmese regime, and certain Iranian organisations and The principles of transformation and empowerment are in line ministers.
In addition, from time to time the United Nations Security with Our BHP Billiton Charter.
Council and the Australian Government impose international We have established a transformation and empowerment sanctions on certain countries and organisations.
The countries technical committee comprising senior managers with diverse and organisations that are currently subject to United Nations UN skills to ensure our transformation and empowerment agenda sanctions are certain individuals or entities linked with the Taliban, is coordinated and comprehensive.
Al-Qaeda and other terrorist organisations and certain entities and individuals associated with the Democratic Republic of Congo, Cote 2.7.
2 Uranium production in Australia dIvoire, the Democratic Peoples Republic of Korea North Korea, To mine, process, transport and sell uranium from within Australia, Eritrea, Iran, Iraq, Lebanon, Liberia, Libya, Sudan and Somalia.
we are required to hold possession and export permissions, The countries currently subject to the Australian Governments which are also subject to regulation by the Australian Government autonomous sanctions are Burma, the Democratic Peoples or bodies that report to the Australian Government.
Republic of Korea North Korea, Fiji, the former Federal Republic To possess nuclear material, such as uranium, in Australia, of Yugoslavia, Iran, Libya, Syria and Zimbabwe.
The controls a Permit to Possess Nuclear Materials Possession Permit must impose certain approval and reporting requirements on transactions be held pursuant to the Australian Nuclear Non-Proliferation involving such countries, entities and individuals and or assets Safeguards Act 1987 Non-Proliferation Act.
A Possession Permit controlled or owned by them.
Transfers into or out of Australia of is issued by the Australian Safeguards and Non-Proliferation Of ce, amounts greater than A$10,000 in any currency are also subject an of ce established under the Non-Proliferation Act, which to reporting requirements.
administers Australias domestic nuclear safeguards requirements Remittances of any dividends, interest or other payments by and reports to the Australian Government.
BHP Billiton Limited to non-resident holders of BHP Billiton Limiteds To export uranium from Australia, a Permit to Export Natural securities are not restricted by exchange controls or other limitatio ns, Uranium Export Permit must be held pursuant to the Australian save that in certain circumstances, BHP Billiton may be required Customs Prohibited Exports Regulations 1958.
The Export Permit to withhold Australian taxes.
is issued by the Minister for Resources and Energy.
There are no limitations, either under the laws of Australia or under A special transport permit will be required under the Non-Proliferation the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited, on the right of non-residents Act by a party that transports nuclear material from one speci ed to hold or vote BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares other than as set location to another speci ed location.
As we engage service out below.
providers to transport uranium, those service providers are The Australian Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 the FATA required to hold a special transport permit.
restricts certain acquisitions of interests in shares in BHP Billiton.
3 Exchange controls and shareholding limits Generally, under the FATA, the prior approval of the Australian Treasurer must be obtained for proposals by a foreign person either BHP Billiton Plc alone or together with associates to acquire control of 15 per cent There are no laws or regulations currently in force in the UK that or more of the voting power or issued shares in BHP Billiton Limited.
restrict the export or import of capital or the remittance of dividends to non-resident holders of BHP Billiton Plcs shares, although the The FATA also empowers the Treasurer to make certain orders Group does operate in some other jurisdictions where remittances prohibiting acquisitions by foreign persons in BHP Billiton Limited of funds could be affected as they are subject to exchange control and requiring divestiture if the acquisition has occurred where approvals.
There are certain sanctions adopted by the UK Government he considers the acquisition to be contrary to the national interest which implement resolutions of the Security Council of the United and the 15 per cent threshold referred to above would be exceeded Nations and sanctions imposed by the European Union EU against as a result.
Such orders may also be made in respect of acquisitions certain countries, entities and individuals.
Any enforcement of the by foreign persons where two or more foreign persons and their sanctions by the UK Government would be initiated by HM Treasury.
associates in aggregate already control 40 per cent or more Such sanctions may be in force from time to time and include those of the issued shares or voting power in BHP Billiton Limited.
against: i certain entities and or individuals associated with the 44 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 2.7.
3 Exchange controls and shareholding limits continued 2.8.
1 Our focus areas There are certain other statutory restrictions, and restrictions under Identifying our sustainability issues BHP Billiton Limiteds Constitution and BHP Billiton Plcs Articles We identify the sustainability issues that are included in our of Association, that apply generally to acquisitions of shares in Sustainability Report through our three-step materiality process.
BHP Billiton i. e. the restrictions are not targeted at foreign persons Step one of the process includes identifying issues by reviewing our only.
These include restrictions on a person and associates internal risk registers, requests from our shareholders and investors, breaching a voting power threshold of: daily print media coverage and an independent review of issues 20 per cent in relation to BHP Billiton Limited on a stand-alone raised by non-government organisations and global electronic and basis, i. e. calculated as if there were no special voting share print media.
Step two involves rating the signi cance of these issues and only counting BHP Billiton Limiteds ordinary shares.
to our stakeholders and the potential impact on our business as low, medium or high.
30 per cent of BHP Billiton Plc.
This is the threshold for a mandatory offer under Rule 9 of the UK takeover code and this Our third step is to review the issues and seek feedback.
One of the threshold applies to all voting rights of BHP Billiton Plc therefore ways we do this is through our Forum on Corporate Responsibility.
including voting rights attached to the BHP Billiton Plc Special We also ask our HSEC leaders in each of our CSGs to review Voting Share.
the issues, assign ratings and advise of any gaps.
The issues are 30 per cent in relation to BHP Billiton Plc on a stand-alone provided to the Sustainability Committee of the Board and reviewed basis, i. e. calculated as if there were no special voting share throughout the preparation of the Sustainability Report.
Common and only counting BHP Billiton Plcs ordinary shares.
themes for a number of material issues were grouped together 20 per cent in relation to the BHP Billiton Group, calculated into focus areas for the purpose of the Report.
having regard to all the voting power on a joint electorate basis, 2.8.
2 Keeping our people safe and healthy i. e. calculated on the aggregate of BHP Billiton Limiteds and The best investment we can make in any community is to ensure BHP Billiton Plcs ordinary shares.
our people return home safe and well at the end of each day.
Under BHP Billiton Limiteds Constitution and BHP Billiton Plcs In the current climate of rapid growth, managing the impacts Articles of Association, sanctions for breach of any of these of that growth on the safety and wellbeing of our people is critical.
thresholds, other than by means of certain permitted acquisitions, Growing safely include withholding of dividends, voting restrictions and compulsory Our ability to grow our organisation safely is essential.
We are divestment of shares to the extent a shareholder and its associates expanding across a number of operations and to support these exceed the relevant threshold.
expansions project hubs were created in Perth, Brisbane, Houston, Santiago and Toronto.
The hubs are established using Engineering, 2.8 Sustainability Procurement and Construction Management EPCM contractors who develop the projects on our behalf and under our oversight.
Our approach to sustainability is re ected in Our BHP Billiton Charter, which fide fines our values, purpose and how we measure While the EPCM model is not new to BHP Billiton, our rapid success, and the BHP Billiton Sustainable Development Policy, which growth presents a challenge to the effective management of fide fines our public commitments to safety, health, environmental our health and safety risks.
EPCM contractors bring their own and social responsibility.
individual management and safety approaches to each project and we recognise the importance of understanding and enabling these The systems that support our Sustainable Development Policy diverse management systems.
We have set minimum performance are in line with our wider corporate governance processes.
requirements, including safety standards, which we require our The Sustainability Committee of the BHP Billiton Board continues EPCM partners to meet, while allowing them to work to their to oversee this Policy.
We review each EPCM contractor to Management is accountable for  processes check performance and ensure the standards they are using and performance.
At controlled assets, BHP Billiton sets the meet or exceed our own.
performance requirements and enforces those requirements Key issues through direct supervision.
At monitored assets that we do The key health and safety issues faced by the Group in FY2011 were not control, we provide our requirements and seek to in uence vehicles and mobile equipment interaction, adherence to isolation the operation to follow them.
and permit-to-work procedures and reducing occupational health Our Health, Safety, Environment and Community HSEC Group exposures, particularly to carcinogens.
Level Documents GLD set Group-wide mandatory performance Our fatal risk controls were developed to improve control of speci c requirements and performance controls, which are the basis areas of risk, based on detailed analysis of BHP Billitons incident for developing and implementing management systems at all history.
Our GLD for fatal risk controls articulates the steps to BHP Billiton operations.
These HSEC documents are part of a wider be taken to identify, assess and mitigate seven fatal risks: vehicles suite of corporate GLDs.
We are embedding these performance and mobile equipment: explosives and blasting: ground control: requirements in the organisation across all Customer Sector Groups hazardous materials: isolation and permit-to-work: work at height: CSGs.
A full set of sustainability performance data and our and lifting operations.
Sustainability Framework are available in our Sustainability Report at our website.
Occupational health exposures We conduct regular internal audits to test compliance with the Health risks faced by our people include fatigue, disease and requirements of the GLDs.
Audits are led by professional audit occupational exposure to noise, silica, manganese, diesel exhaust managers and supported by experienced personnel drawn from particulate, uorides, coal tar pitch, nickel and sulphuric acid across the organisation.
Audit results are used by management mist.
Our goal is to control occupational exposures at their to create detailed action plans where the businesses have source.
This goal is supported by a key performance indicator not yet achieved full compliance with the requirements.
assigned to our Group Management Committee GMC.
Key findings are reported to senior management and summary Each operation establishes and maintains an exposure risk pro le reports are considered by the Sustainability Committee of the for every employee and contractor and implements appropriate Board.
The Sustainability Committee of the Board also oversees controls.
Potential exposures do not take into account the protection risks speci c to BHP Billitons performance in the areas of health, afforded by personal protective equipment PPE.
If the potential safety, environment and community.
exposure exceeds 50 per cent of our occupational exposure limit OEL, then medical surveillance is mandatory.
Drug and alcohol education programs are conducted, as well as substance abuse testing where necessary.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 45 2 Information on the Company continued 2.8.
2 Keeping our people safe and healthy continued Security, emergency response and business continuity In FY2011, potential carcinogenic exposure was reported by some Our Asset Protection GLD requires our businesses and operations to have systems in place to identify, manage and effectively respond of our operations as one of their highest health risks, which resulted in a concerted effort to reduce potential carcinogenic exposures to to foreseeable crises and emergencies, including the development of plans to return our operations to full function as swiftly and below the OEL.
It also requires the development of processes Speci c programs are successfully being applied at an operational to maintain and test emergency response resources on an ongoing level to reduce the causes of occupational exposures.
basis, as well as training employees, contractors, visitors and Serious disease external stakeholders on relevant systems.
BHP Billiton operations with a high exposure to serious diseases, A crisis or emergency may be an incident, extreme climatic event, such as HIV AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis, have education, training disease outbreak, security issue or any other event that poses a and counselling programs in place to assist employees.
We also signi cant threat to: the safety or health of employees, contractors, offer prevention and risk-control programs to employees and, customers or the public: the environment: our reputation: and or the where appropriate, to employees families and local communities.
physical integrity of an asset.
In some communities where we operate: for example, in South 2.8.
3 Employing and developing our people Africa and Mozambique, the incidence of HIV AIDS is among the Finding, employing, developing and retaining skilled people with highest in the world.
We accept a responsibility to help manage the values that are aligned to ours is crucial to our success.
Our business impact of the disease and to care for our employees, support the is long term in nature.
If we do not safely deliver growth today, then wellbeing and development of our host communities and we cannot leave for future generations the legacy we have enjoyed protect the viability of our operations.
For many years, we have adopted a proactive approach to managing Supporting workforce diversity the disease within our workplaces, an approach that draws upon the We are striving to achieve diversity, in all its forms, at all levels International Labour Organization ILO code of practice on HIV AIDS of our organisation.
This includes conducting education programs, offering voluntary testing and counselling programs under the The GMC took active steps in FY2010 to improve the diversity strictest con dentiality, seeking to achieve appropriate access pro le of the Group.
It oversaw the analysis of the pro le of each to medical care for employees and their dependants, and reducing part of the business to better understand representation by gender, hostel-type accommodation for employees, known to be a risk age and nationality.
It then required each business group to develop factor for the disease.
a diversity plan to address shortcomings.
Those plans were completed and assessed as part of the annual performance process.
Each plan Our safety and health performance is targeted at addressing the particular issues facing individual The FY2011 total recordable injury frequency TRIF performance business groups and each contains a range of strategies, including of 5.0 per million hours worked improved by six per cent compared targets.
Plans will be tracked and monitored throughout FY2012 with FY2010 5.3.
Although we improved, we will require a and will again form part of the annual performance review process substantial reduction in total recordable injuries to meet our at year-end.
We had two fatalities against our target of zero.
In response to the fatal incidents, we focused Females currently represent 16 per cent of our workforce.
on improving our approach to: risk-based safety, in particular Approximately 10 per cent of senior management positions are our fatal risk controls: keeping it simple: leaders verifying control held by females.
effectiveness: and ensuring competency through training and We remain committed to increasing female participation in the awareness of all aspects of our existing safety programs.
Accelerated Leadership Development Program to 40 per cent Establishing measurable goals by the end of FY2012.
We apply uniform expectations for safety outcomes wherever Another focus area for us is ensuring that the right gender balance we work in the world and safety rules and fide nitions that classify is struck in our graduate intake.
incidents are applied equally to our people.
Approach to local employment To further improve our performance in controlling occupational Recruitment is managed on a local basis by each CSG, Minerals health exposures, we test the effectiveness of those controls Exploration, Marketing and Group Functions.
Mandatory to ensure they continue to function as designed.
Each of our Group-wide performance requirements contained in our GLD operations regularly records and communicates potential stipulate recruitment standards and ensure candidates possess occupational health exposures up to Group level, in accordance the appropriate skills, experiences, capability and values.
with our HSEC Reporting GLD.
The remote locations within which we operate and the limited In FY2011, we conducted regional workshops to support regular numbers of appropriately skilled employees can result in the need audits that check the implementation of health controls at individual for operations to employ staff who work on-site, but reside outside operations.
Our Group Safety and Security function also ran a series the community: generally known as y in, y out staff.
A workforce of regional workshops in FY2011 aimed at educating key members of this kind can create challenges and opportunities and we continue of management and supervision on the expectations of each to address the impact on our people, as well as local community performance requirement.
The workshops also enabled Group concerns, so that together we can identify ways in which our Safety and Security to gather feedback on the suitability of operations can make a positive and meaningful impact.
This feedback con rmed the performance requirements are well positioned and required no material changes.
46 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 2.8.
3 Employing and developing our people continued 2.8.
4 Reducing our climate change impacts Fostering mutually bene cial employee relations We recognise that we have a social and economic responsibility to constructively engage on climate change issues.
By understanding Relationships with all our stakeholders, including our employees, the risks and opportunities around climate change and how these are built on trust, which we regard as a key aspect of Our Charter affect our organisation, we believe we can reduce our own impact value of respect.
on the environment and make a positive international contribution The breadth and geographic diversity of BHP Billiton means to the issue.
we have a mix of collective and individually regulated employment The potential impacts to our organisation arrangements.
We work closely with contracting companies to encourage them to ensure that their employee relations Our energy-intensive operations and fossil fuel products are exposed are governed in a manner consistent with Our Charter.
to potential financial risks from regulations to control greenhouse gas GHG emissions.
In the medium and long term, we are likely We manage signi cant organisational change at the local level to see changes in the pro t margins of our GHG-intensive assets and consult with our employees about changes that affect them, as a result of regulatory impacts in the countries where we operate.
seeking input and guidance where possible.
We are committed These regulatory mechanisms may impact our operations directly to complying with applicable legislative requirements across the or indirectly via our customers.
Inconsistency of regulations, myriad jurisdictions in which we work.
particularly between developed and developing countries, In line with our employee relations approach, we believe that may also affect the investment attractiveness of assets in ensuring our employees are directly engaged with the business different jurisdictions.
and aligned with business goals is the most effective way Potential physical impacts of climate change include more extreme of avoiding any form of industrial action.
These present risks to our personnel, as well as Under Australian law, employees are entitled to take industrial a loss of business continuity, production interruption and damaged action on the expiry of applicable industrial agreements, which or lost facilities.
Sea level changes may also impact access to ports, is protected from challenge.
Given this legislative exposure to a signi cant issue for many of our assets.
Changes in rainfall are potential industrial action, we develop comprehensive contingency particularly relevant to the mining industry, where water is a critical plans to ensure that our operations experience as little disruption resource.
These changes vary regionally and may involve extended as possible.
In instances where we do encounter industrial disruption, drought or increased ooding.
our aim is to minimise the impact on our customers in line with our A discussion of regulatory, physical and other risks and opportunities commitment to shareholders and, above all, to avoid compromising of climate change is included in our 2011 Sustainability Report.
the safety of our employees and contractors.
Engaging in policy development Developing our employees While energy is a signi cant input in a number of the Groups We are committed to developing the skills and capabilities of our mining and processing operations, we recognise the global workforce through regular performance reviews combined with imperative of minimising carbon-based energy consumption.
Due to the structure and BHP Billiton believes that the mainstream science of climate provisions of some industrial agreements, not all employees change is correct: human activities are having a negative impact participate in individual performance reviews.
on our climate and this poses risks to our social and economic Training and development programs are designed and implemented wellbeing.
While uncertainty remains, there is enough evidence at the local operational level to support local requirements.
to warrant action in a way that does not damage the economy.
BHP Billiton operations include health and safety training and We believe that a global solution to climate change, which training on Our Charter and the BHP Billiton Code of Business includes a carbon price of some form, is likely, but also some Conduct as part of the mandatory induction process for all time away.
Until then, nations around the world are likely to employees and permanent contractors.
continue to accelerate their domestic emissions reduction and Our practices and processes are designed to ensure performance establish low-carbon economies, balancing their needs to ensure is measured on fact-based outcomes and to reward people for a reliable energy supply and to sustain economic growth.
We seek to ensure strong internal candidate A low-carbon emissions power sector could become a source representation for roles, supplemented with external recruitment of long-term competitive advantage for countries in a world where where necessary.
Our internal development programs are therefore carbon emissions will be constrained.
We are committed to the key to succession.
contributing to the public debate on climate change, including Investing in graduate development sharing our knowledge and experience, but we recognise that it Our two-year Foundations for Graduates Program has been is for government and society as a whole to decide which direction recognised as a leader in the eld and has been designed speci cally to take.
for graduates from tertiary institutions.
Our aim is for our graduates We take an active role in climate change policy development in the to build a long and successful career with BHP Billiton.
Each year, key regions where we operate and market our products.
We analyse we recruit approximately 400 graduates in meaningful business and compare the various policy options by evaluating the degree roles, who each have the opportunity to work across teams, to which they meet a fide ned set of principles: clear price signal: businesses and geographic regions.
revenue neutral: trade friendly: broad-based, predictable and The program is facilitated by business schools in Australia, Chile and gradual: simple and effective.
It is designed to move graduates seamlessly from study We have actively engaged with the Australian Government to work by complementing site-based technical development with as it develops its climate change policy response.
In addition a combination of classroom-based and virtual learning experiences, to recommending a policy approach that is consistent with our providing a unique insight into our business.
Graduates develop principles, we propose that an effective strategy for minimising their decision-making and communication skills, access executive Australias exposure to a future global carbon price includes coaching, take part in intensive residential programs and gain avoiding the construction of new long-life, carbon emissionson-the-job experience analysing and solving real business issues.
intensive assets where affordable low-carbon alternatives are available, especially in the power and building sectors.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 47 2 Information on the Company continued 2.8.
4 Reducing our climate change impacts continued material risk issue.
By developing water reduction cost curves at our most material sites, we identi ed opportunities including water Reducing energy and GHG emissions substitution and water stewardship, both of which lend themselves We continue to strive for signi cant reductions in energy readily to our expanded focus on high-quality water and alleviating consumption and GHG emissions, in line with and above our water stress.
In FY2011, both carbon-based energy intensity and GHG emissions intensity were lower than the FY2006 baseline, Managing water within our operations by 17 per cent and 18 per cent respectively against a target of In accordance with our Environment GLD, we are implementing 13 per cent and six per cent.
This was primarily driven by the water management plans at all our operations, including controls agreement to use hydroelectric power at the Mozal aluminium to mitigate the impacts of water use and discharge.
It is expected smelter, in Mozambique, which now provides more than that these controls are monitored and reviewed to verify their 98 per cent of the smelters electricity needs.
Additional controls are expected to be implemented at our material sites.
Within Australia, in compliance with the national Energy Ef ciency Opportunities EEO Act 2006, we also implemented a number of In recognition that water is a critical input for our mining, energy ef ciency measures.
smelting, re ning and petroleum businesses, we continue to identify opportunities for water re-use or recycling, ef cient We continue to track progress against our US$300 million use and responsible wastewater disposal.
commitment to support the implementation of energy ef ciency and low GHG emission technologies.
To date, we have exceeded Managing wastewater and related waste our commitment, with US$325 million worth of projects in Mining operations produce large quantities of mineral waste that implementation stages.
may include waste rock, tailings and slag, which need to be effectively Future GHG emissions abatement cost curves managed to control potential environmental impacts.
Our operations have waste management plans to minimise the waste generated In FY2011, our highest GHG-emitting operations worked to develop and mitigate its impact, in accordance with the Environment GLD, GHG emissions abatement cost curves.
This work allows our assets which also stipulates that operations monitor transport and disposal to identify opportunities to save GHG emissions.
of waste to ensure regulatory requirements are met throughout the Energy sourcing and use waste cycle.
We recognise that the need to control carbon dioxide emissions Tailings dams are also assessed to manage the risk of failure.
has substantial implications for the use of thermal coal as an energy Tailings dams are typically unlined and are designed and operated source.
In March 2011, we made a signi cant investment in natural to well-established engineering standards.
Mineral wastes are gas by acquiring all of Chesapeake Energy Corporations interests in analysed for physical and geochemical characteristics to identify the US Fayetteville Shale onshore natural gas resource.
Our strategy potential impacts arising from erosion, acid rock drainage, salinity, is to invest in natural gas as one of the cleanest burning and lowest radioactivity and metal leaching.
carbon dioxide intensity fossil fuels.
We recognise that community concern exists over the extraction process, which involves hydraulic Developing new water accounting standards fracturing, and the possibility of groundwater contamination in Unlike the more developed accounting approach to GHG emissions, certain situations.
Our shale gas operations will be conducted to there is not yet an internationally consistent approach to water the same standards as all other BHP Billiton Petroleum operations, accounting, which adds to the complexity of nding solutions to with the same goal of protecting the health and safety of our address water quantity and quality concerns.
We are working with people, the environment and our communities.
the Minerals Council of Australia to develop the Water Accounting Framework, an industry-wide approach to water reporting and 2.8.
5 Managing our water use accounting.
The framework seeks to establish a nationally Water is an essential resource for all of our operations and consistent water accounting and reporting framework for the production can be impacted by both the quality and quantity minerals industry, which will lead to improved data transparency of water available.
More importantly, the communities within and water management.
which we operate rely on having access to clean, safe drinking water.
This is critical to sustaining local health, industry and 2.8.
6 Enhancing biodiversity and land management a sound environment.
Securing access to land and managing it effectively are essential components of our commitment to operate in a responsible manner.
Water management as a global issue We fully appreciate the importance of protecting biodiversity The mining and minerals processing industry uses a wide variety and we also recognise the increasing competition for land and of water sources for a range of purposes.
As with GHG emissions, the challenge this presents to all land users.
water management is an issue that extends beyond BHP Billiton boundaries.
Water risks also vary from region to region and Our approach to biodiversity and land management therefore cannot be addressed through a one-sizets-all solution, We take a holistic approach to managing land and biodiversity, which makes managing our water use a consistently complex and which means we assess and manage the potential impacts of our critical task.
operations throughout their life cycle, across social, environmental and economic spheres.
We have minimum requirements of all Water has social, cultural, environmental and economic value at BHP Billiton operations that include adhering to a formal hierarchy a local, regional, national and international level and is therefore process that begins with avoiding disturbance, followed by mitigating critical to maintaining a social licence to operate.
We support negative impacts, rehabilitating the environment and undertaking the priority considerations of strategic water planning, improving compensatory actions.
operational performance through effective water management, identifying conservation opportunities and promoting We recognise that effective land management is about optimising industry projects.
all land uses within a given region, whether they are for the provision of mining, industrial, agricultural or environmental services.
Obtaining Addressing the issue community support is most challenging when there is strong Water stress is fide ned as a situation of actual or potential competition for the use of the land, such as a competition between adverse impact on water availability for potable, agricultural, resource development and agriculture.
In FY2011, we intensi ed our focus on addressing water stress and quality, which will allow Over the years, we have made a number of commitments with regard us to reduce our use of water that is most likely to compete to protected areas and threatened species.
In addition, our operations with human or environmental needs.
have land management plans, in accordance with the Environment GLD, that include baseline and impact assessments, implementation Our material sites are those where high-quality water use exceeds, of controls to mitigate impacts on biodiversity and other ecosystem or is anticipated to exceed, 3,000 megalitres per annum for an services, and monitoring programs to ensure the controls are effective.
operation or project, or where water management may be a 48 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 2.8.
6 Enhancing biodiversity and land management continued Systems to ensure dialogue is regular, ongoing and effective Contributing to conservation We seek to build trust with our stakeholders at the earliest possible stage of a projects life.
Our Community GLD stipulates that our Biodiversity, and the ecosystem services it provides, is being lost at operations implement a stakeholder engagement management plan, an accelerated rate due to human activities.
In recognition of this, which is to be in place from a projects exploration phase.
The plans Conservation International and BHP Billiton from July 2011 embarked identify stakeholders, describe their interests and relationships and on a five-year alliance to deliver signi cant and lasting bene ts contain a range of culturally appropriate engagement activities to to the environment by preserving land of high conservation value encourage open communication.
in key regions where BHP Billiton operates.
This outcome will be achieved in collaboration with local partners.
Engagement activities vary from monthly meetings to open public forums, with topics ranging from town amenity and housing to In addition, Conservation International will provide technical and impacts of growth and expansion projects, contractor management, professional expertise to BHP Billiton aimed at contributing to security, cultural issues and social development.
Our responses to improved approaches to land management across our Group.
concerns or complaints are recorded, as are any commitments we Managing land rehabilitation and mine closures may make.
Our Sustainability Framework in the Appendix of our 2011 Operations measure the effectiveness of their stakeholder Sustainability Report outlines the key Health, Safety, Environment engagement by conducting community perception surveys in their and Community performance requirements that are incorporated communities, which, since FY2010, have become mandatory every into the planning of development projects, through operation and three years.
These surveys provide a valuable external perspective into closure.
Signi cant projects are governed by the performance of the quality of our engagement and whether our stakeholders requirements of our project management GLDs.
HSEC risks, believe we are doing what we say we will do.
legislated obligations and stakeholder requirements are important inputs to the project planning and execution process.
Resolving complaints Our operations are currently implementing local-level processes Once in operation, our assets undertake annual life of asset to facilitate resolution of complaints and grievances as required planning, a process that incorporates all aspects of the business.
As part of this process, all complaints and In FY2011, detailed closure planning requirements were integrated grievances are required to be acknowledged, documented and into the Directional Planning GLD, with each asset required to investigated.
Appropriate remedial actions are undertaken where develop a closure plan as part of their life of asset plan.
In addition, a complaint is legitimate, complainants are promptly advised of a new audit process was implemented focusing on closure planning, the remedial action and outcomes are documented.
More robust cost estimation and closure valuation at operating assets.
processes are to be established in countries with high levels of We are responsible for a number of legacy operations that are in corruption or con ict.
various stages of decommissioning, rehabilitation or post-closure care We continue to learn from our experience and maintenance.
The HSEC audit program covers the activities of these closed operations.
Closure plans provide the basis for estimating Our history contains both positive and challenging examples of community engagement.
We continue to learn from those experiences the financial costs of closure and the associated accounting closure and rehabilitation provisions.
Information on our closure and and to build the capacity of people within our community teams to improve outcomes for our stakeholders.
Our aim is to develop and rehabilitation provisions can be found in note 18 Provisions of the attached financial statements.
sustain meaningful and trusting relationships with people impacted by and interested in our business.
Managing our responsibilities Engaging with NGOs through the Forum Our approach to land compensation is undertaken on a case-by-case on Corporate Responsibility basis.
We first consider what land we need.
We then look at our In addition to building relationships with stakeholders locally, possible impacts on that land, both short term and long term, the present and past use of the land and the effects that our use engagement with civil society is highly valued by our senior management.
In 1999, we established the Forum on Corporate may have on biodiversity and the associated ecosystem services, as well as existing land owners and occupiers.
Responsibility as a mechanism by which representatives from NGOs could discuss, challenge and actively in uence the Groups approach We implement compensatory activities where residual impacts to sustainable development issues.
exceed the acceptable level of impact to biodiversity, land use, In FY2011, the Forum comprised five members of our GMC and watersheds and or water sources.
11 leaders from NGOs, who represent current views on environment, When financial compensation is appropriate, we take into account socio-economic, geopolitical and ethical issues.
The NGO members relevant legislative requirements, industry practices, standards or have extensive experience in regions where we have business norms that may exist within a country or region and any special interests, including Chile, Colombia, west Africa, Australia and circumstances that may apply.
In some countries and regions, the United Kingdom.
The Group CEO chairs the meetings, which legislation prescribes who is to be paid land compensation, the were held twice during FY2011.
amount, what it is for and how it is to be calculated.
In other places, While the Group is not bound by the advice of the Forum and the compensation may be by negotiation with the affected parties.
Forum does not necessarily endorse the Groups decisions, the 2.8.
7 Ensuring meaningful engagement with meeting discussions are robust and give our executives an insight our stakeholders into societys current priorities and a chance to understand and Engaging openly with our host communities, governments and other debate issues from a range of viewpoints.
key stakeholders is critical if we are to make a positive contribution Issues discussed by the Forum in FY2011 included: proposed changes to the lives of people who live near our operations and to society in external regulations: standards and policies such as free, prior more broadly.
Only through meaningful engagement are we able and informed consent FPIC : revenue transparency: carbon-related to understand and address potential impacts and concerns about issues: the development of the Groups new public targets: strategic our projects and operations and create opportunities that are discussions on topics such as the Groups role in the worlds future aligned with the interests of the affected people.
energy challenges: and how we can best contribute to the Our stakeholders development of communities and, more broadly, to society.
We fide ne stakeholders as those who are potentially impacted by our operations, or who have an interest in what we do, or who have an in uence over what we do.
Our key stakeholders include: the investment community: shareholders: customers: media: business partners: employees and contractors: local and Indigenous communities: industry associations: suppliers: governments and regulators: non-government organisations NGOs : and labour unions.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 49 2 Information on the Company continued 2.8.
7 Ensuring meaningful engagement with Occasionally, it is necessary to provide armed security protection for the safety of our personnel.
Firearms are only to be deployed our stakeholders continued under a set of approved rules of engagement where it is necessary Engaging early in the project life cycle on customary rights to protect a human life, for stewardship requirements such as At a very early stage in a project, before any substantive work injured livestock management or as a means of last resort when is carried out on the ground, we seek to identify any landowners, threatened by dangerous wildlife.
occupiers and users who may be affected by the projects activities.
9 Making a positive contribution to society Where land may be used for customary purposes and there may As a large organisation, we have an economic and social responsibility be no formal titles issued, this information is sought from relevant to make a positive contribution to the communities, regions and government authorities with responsibilities for customary land countries where we operate.
uses and any Indigenous peoples representative organisations, such as land and tribal councils.
Further enquiries are also made Our broad socio-economic contribution directly with the people in the area.
Speci c surveys are commissioned At a global level, we are active participants in industry and to identify the customary owners and how the land is being used.
sustainable development forums such as the International Council Depending on circumstances, these surveys are likely to occur at on Mining and Metals ICMM and we are members of the World the exploration stage.
Business Council for Sustainable Development WBCSD.
Our aim is to advocate continual improvement of standards and performance Knowing who owns and uses the land is critical to an effective community consultation and engagement program.
It helps to across our sector.
ensure that affected people are fully aware of the project and that We actively seek to understand our socio-economic impact on they have an opportunity to express their concerns and aspirations.
local communities and host regions through our participation in Arising from this engagement, the work plan may be amended the ICMMs multi-stakeholder Resource Endowment initiative REi.
to reduce potential impacts on landowners and users.
The initiative aims to enhance the mining industrys socio-economic contribution to the countries and communities where organisations Committed to broad-based community support such as BHP Billiton operate by better understanding the factors We require that any new green eld project or signi cant expansion that either inhibit or promote social and economic development project obtains broad-based community support fide ned as support linked to large-scale mining projects.
from the majority of stakeholders before proceeding.
Broad-based community support is distinct from achieving FPIC, which we seek Nationally and regionally, we contribute taxes and royalties to when it is mandated and fide ned by law.
governments that, in turn, provide infrastructure and services to their constituents, and we often develop infrastructure ourselves that 2.8.
8 Understanding and managing provides community, as well as business, bene ts.
Examples include our human rights impact airports, roads, community childcare centres and medical clinics.
We are committed to operating in accordance with the United Training and employing local people is important to us: however, Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Global our ability to have a signi cant impact on unemployment is limited Compact.
Our Charter values and the Code of Business Conduct, by the nature of our operations, which are highly technical and in conjunction with policies and standards that accord with mechanised.
We make a broader economic contribution via international laws and regulations and strong leadership, support indirect employment, where we focus on building the capacity this commitment.
We have a responsibility to understand our of local businesses to provide us with a diverse range of services potential impacts on human rights and to mitigate or eliminate them.
Our human rights due diligence process We also invest in community projects that are aimed at having As part of our human rights due diligence process, we require all long-lasting, positive impacts on peoples quality of life.
This includes operations to identify and document key potential human rights implementing new, and supporting existing, community projects in risks by completing a human rights impact assessment.
The process the areas of education, health and environment.
includes a review of policies, procedures, practice and performance.
Stakeholder participation forms an important part of the process Economic value and the assessments are validated by a human rights specialist.
Economic value for regional economies is generated through Material risks are then managed through action plans, which require revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and employees and contractors to receive human rights training.
other community investments, retained earnings and payments to capital providers and to governments.
In an effort to increase the focus on human rights due diligence in FY2011, completion of the assessments was included as a key Community development performance indicator KPI for the GMC.
Our community development programs are driven by our desire to improve the quality of life of people in our host communities.
Our Security forces and human rights operations implement their programs using community development Our Asset Protection GLD requires that all our operations have plans that have been developed in consultation with local stakeholders.
in place preventative controls and a security management plan to The plans are formulated from data gathered from an impacts and address any potential security risks to our personnel and property.
opportunities assessment and a baseline social study that includes The Voluntary Principles VPs on Security and Human Rights education, health and environment quality of life indicators.
require organisations to act in a manner consistent with the laws The requirement that this occurs in all our operations is part of the local country while promoting the observance of applicable of the implementation of GLDs.
The VPs acknowledge that Community development projects are selected on the basis of security and respect for human rights can and should be consistent.
their capacity to impact positively on the quality of life indicators.
As a signatory to and participant in the VPs, we take into account We monitor progress by tracking changes in these indicators every these expectations when developing in-country security plans.
All community projects are assessed in relation to To protect our people and our assets, we employ public and private anti-corruption requirements prior to approval and are implemented security agencies.
Regardless of their location, we stipulate that in accordance with the ethical requirements in the Code of Business these agencies comply with the requirements and intent of the VPs.
This approach is mandated under the Community GLD.
Security and country risk The nature of our business and our global footprint often see our people working in countries where there is potential exposure to personal and business risk.
We require each country to be assessed for the degree of risk associated with visiting, exploring and operating, with appropriate plans in place to mitigate identi ed risks.
50 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 2.8.
9 Making a positive contribution to society continued the taxes and royalty payments that we make as BHP Billiton e. g. corporate income taxes and royalties and those that we During FY2011, our voluntary community investment totalled collect on behalf of employees.
US$195.5 million, comprising cash, in-kind support and administrative costs and included a US$30 million contribution to our UK-based Product stewardship charitable company, BHP Billiton Sustainable Communities.
As our primary activities are in the extraction and, in some cases, The cash component of our FY2011 community investment processing stages of a products life cycle, we recognise that the majority of the life cycle of our products occurs after the point of US$149.1 million comprises: of our immediate activity.
We also recognise there is strong business direct investment in community programs made from BHP Billiton merit in implementing product stewardship programs in collaboration companies on an equity share basis: with other players in the life cycles of each of our products.
We seek contributions to the Groups charitable foundations, excluding to work with those involved in the life cycles of our products and BHP Billiton Sustainable Communities: by-products to enhance performance along the supply chain and the Enterprise Development and Socio-economic Development promote the responsible use and management of those products components of our Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment to minimise harm to people and the environment.
As a member of the International Council on Mining and Metals Local procurement ICMM, we have also committed to implementing the ICMM Due to the scale of our operations, we create a strong demand Sustainable Development Framework, which requires that we for products and services.
We recognise the potential bene t that facilitate and encourage responsible product design, use, re-use, supporting local businesses to meet this demand can bring to our recycling and disposal of our products.
Our approach is to source locally if Our products are required to have a speci c materials safety data a product or service that meets our requirements is available locally.
These MSDSs outline the relevant health, safety 2.8.
10 Reporting transparently and behaving ethically and environment aspects of the product and are provided to Founded on Our Charter values, the Code of Business Conduct both the customer and the transporter delivering our products represents our unquali ed commitment to uphold ethical business to our customers.
The Code of Business Conduct sets standards of behaviour 2.8.
11 Effectively managing our material risks for how we should work.
In following these standards our people Identifying and managing material risk is a fundamental part can be con dent they are working in the right way.
of any business and, for BHP Billiton, this includes focusing Upholding the Code of Business Conduct on sustainability-speci c risks for our people, the environment We recognise that at times our people may nd themselves in and our host communities.
situations where complying with the Code of Business Conduct Our approach to risk management may appear to con ict with the ability to win or retain business.
Our approach to governance and risk management processes is The Code of Business Conduct makes it clear that no employee may based on a precautionary approach to achieving business outcomes.
allow anything meeting production, competitive instincts or even A broader discussion of our risk management approach is provided a direct order from a manager to compromise the commitment in section 5.6.
We have processes in place to ensure the to working with integrity.
management of material risk is approached consistently across the To ensure the requirements of the Code of Business Conduct are Group.
The Group Risk Management Policy and GLDs work together effectively communicated across BHP Billiton, each business leader to embed risk management into our business activities, functions has the responsibility for ensuring that all employees and agency and processes.
contractors attend an annual face-to-face meeting to discuss the Assessing material risks and setting appropriate controls Code.
A training and communication plan for each business and function is completed and executed each year.
Business leaders We mandate materiality and tolerability criteria to identify material risk issues that consider nonfinancial impacts such as health and report against these requirements on an annual basis and retain records of training undertaken.
safety, social and cultural, reputation, legal and environmental impacts.
The severity of any risk event is assessed according to The Code of Business Conduct is supported by the Business Conduct a matrix that describes the degree of harm, injury or loss from Advisory Service, which includes a multilingual, 24-hour hotline the most severe impact associated with that risk event, assuming and online case management system.
The general public is also reasonable effectiveness of controls.
able to access the Service via the hotline or the internet.
In FY2011, 474 cases, as well as 144 service contacts were recorded.
An annual Risk management plans are established to assess, control, mitigate and monitor material risk issues.
In FY2011, BHP Billiton increased reporting cycle assists us to identify trends and patterns of reported incidents.
the emphasis on establishing performance standards for material risk critical controls and ensuring these standards are effectively Anti-corruption implemented through a GMC KPI.
The KPI stipulates that individual Regardless of the country or culture within which our people work, BHP Billiton assets develop performance standards for safety-related the Code of Business Conduct prohibits corrupt practices to further material risks.
The Code of Business Conduct requires The objectives of the risk assessment process are to understand appropriate due diligence in selecting and engaging third parties, the nature and tolerance of material risk issues for the Group, and the maintenance of accurate and reasonably detailed records of ensure material risks are well controlled through the development expenditures and the implementation and maintenance of speci c and monitoring of critical controls.
approval requirements for corruption sensitive transactions.
Our Group HSEC material risks range from financial and reputation We also now prohibit the making of facilitation payments, which issues to potential impacts from changes in regulations relevant to are payments involving small sums to low-level government of cials our products.
For example, as a major producer of carbon-related to obtain routine services to which we are otherwise legally entitled.
products, an area where regulatory standards and expectations are Transparently reporting taxes emerging, we may be exposed to increased litigation, compliance We support the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative EITI, costs and unforeseen environmental rehabilitation expenses.
an international initiative dedicated to the enhancement of transparency around the payments of taxes and royalties derived from resource development.
In line with our support for the EITI, we have reported this data on a country-by-country basis in our 2011 Sustainability Report.
We have broken the data down into BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 51 2 Information on the Company continued 2.8.
11 Effectively managing our material risks continued CSG FY2011 FY2010 FY2009 Potential events that may materially impact our operations include Petroleum 2,308 2,178 2,105 rockfalls in underground mines, aircraft incidents, vehicle and mobile equipment incidents, well blowouts, explosions or gas leaks, Aluminium 4,599 4,471 4,938 uncontrolled tailings breaches, escape of polluting substances or Base Metals 7,602 7,434 7,731 hydrocarbons, human rights breaches, community protests or civil Diamonds and Specialty Products 1,737 1,689 1,923 unrest.
Unanticipated long-term health impacts due to potential Stainless Steel Materials 3,412 3,481 4,039 work exposures as well as infectious diseases and pandemics pose Iron Ore 4,047 3,624 3,254 potential risks and these effects may create future lost time and or financial compensation obligations.
Additionally, the dissatisfaction Manganese 2,426 2,549 2,532 of our host communities regarding our impacts may potentially Metallurgical Coal 4,019 3,533 3,892 affect costs and production and in extreme cases viability: and Energy Coal 8,752 8,762 8,437 changing legislative requirements and compliance issues may Group and unallocated 1,855 1,849 2,139 affect our financial results.
1 Total 40,757 39,570 40,990 Failure to manage these risks has the potential to adversely affect our reputation and licence to operate.
1 Average employee numbers include Executive Directors, 100 per cent of employees of subsidiary companies and our share of proportionally consolidated Following the oil spill from BPs Macondo well in the Gulf of Mexico entities and operations.
Part-time employees are included on a full-time in April 2010, BHP Billiton Petroleum reviewed its deepwater drilling equivalent basis.
Employees of businesses acquired or disposed of during the safety standards.
The effectiveness of our existing controls was year are included for the period of ownership.
enhanced in the area of worst-case discharge scenario planning.
The table below provides a breakdown of our average number This involved developing and implementing a consistent of employees by geographic location for each of the past three modelling methodology.
Assessing risk when entering a new country FY2011 FY2010 FY2009 The performance measure we have set under the Country Risk Management GLD is that in countries of extreme or high governance Africa 10,061 10,622 10,755 risk, proposed new activities that expose the Group to a material Asia 970 816 1,254 risk issue such as a reputation, legal or business conduct impact Australasia 16,290 15,178 15,697 will be assessed to ensure a tolerable risk pro le.
New activities Europe 492 515 563 may include establishing new trade agreements, undertaking new community investment programs or interactions with government North America 3,168 2,971 2,824 of cials.
Consideration is given to the application of the Code of South America 9,776 9,468 9,897 Business Conduct and compliance with legislation, including Total 40,757 39,570 40,990 anti-corruption and potential application of any UN, EU, Australian or US government sanctions or trade embargos.
2.10 Organisational structure 2.9 Employees 2.10.1 General People are the foundation of our business and underpin our success.
The BHP Billiton Group consists of the BHP Billiton Limited Group and We value our people and encourage the development of talented the BHP Billiton Plc Group as a combined enterprise, following the and motivated individuals to support the continued performance completion of the Dual Listed Company DLC merger in June 2001. and growth of our diverse operations.
It is our aim as an organisation Refer to note 25 Subsidiaries in the financial statements for a list to strive to build a sense of purpose and achievement amongst all of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc signi cant subsidiaries.
of our people in the work we do.
The BHP Billiton DLC merger was designed to place shareholders By working to Our Charter we align our people around our common of both companies in a position where they effectively have an purpose and values.
We all use Our Charter as a vital reference point interest in a single group that combines the assets and is subject for how we do business, wherever we are in the world and whatever to the liabilities of both companies.
BHP Billiton Limited and work we do.
BHP Billiton Plc have each retained their separate corporate identities and maintained separate stock exchange listings, Our organisation is structured in four component parts: but they are operated and managed as if they are a single CSGs: Minerals Exploration: Marketing: and Group Functions.
uni ed economic entity, with their boards and senior executive Each part of our organisation has a clear mandate that sets out management comprising the same people.
the scope of responsibilities and accountabilities.
For further 2.10.2 DLC structure information about our employees, refer to section 2.8.
The principles of the BHP Billiton DLC are re ected in the In FY2011, we had an average of 40,757 employees working in BHP Billiton Sharing Agreement and include the following: more than 100 locations worldwide.
We had an average of 64,548 the two companies are to operate as if they are a single uni ed contractors globally.
The multitude of cultures and nationalities economic entity, through Boards of Directors that comprise the represented offer a diversity that enriches the working lives of all.
same individuals and a uni ed senior executive management: The table below provides a breakdown of the average number the Directors of both companies will, in addition to their duties of employees, in accordance with our International Financial to the company concerned, have regard to the interests of Reporting Standards IFRS reporting requirements, which includes BHP Billiton Limited shareholders and BHP Billiton Plc shareholders our proportionate share of jointly controlled entities employees as if the two companies were a single uni ed economic entity and, and Executive Directors, by CSG for each of the past three for that purpose, the Directors of each company take into account financial years.
in the exercise of their powers the interests of the shareholders of the other: certain DLC equalisation principles must be observed.
These are designed to ensure that for so long as the Equalisation Ratio between a BHP Billiton Limited share and a BHP Billiton Plc share is 1:1, the economic and voting interests in the combined BHP Billiton Group resulting from the holding of one BHP Billiton Limited share are equivalent to that resulting from one BHP Billiton Plc share.
Further details are set out in the sub-section Equalisation of economic and voting rights below.
52 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 2.10.2 DLC structure continued company voting separately and, where appropriate, the approval of its own shareholders voting separately.
Depending on the type Additional documents that affect the DLC include: of Class Rights Action undertaken, the approval required is either BHP Billiton Limited Constitution an ordinary or special resolution of the relevant company.
BHP Billiton Plc Memorandum and Articles of Association These voting arrangements are secured through the constitutional BHP Billiton Special Voting Shares Deed documents of the two companies, the BHP Billiton Sharing BHP Billiton Limited Deed Poll Guarantee Agreement, the Special Voting Shares Deed and rights attaching BHP Billiton Plc Deed Poll Guarantee.
to a specially created Special Voting Share issued by each company Australian Foreign Investment Review Board FIRB conditions and held in each case by a Special Voting Company.
The shares The Treasurer of Australia approved the DLC merger subject to in the Special Voting Companies are held legally and bene cially by Law Debenture Trust Corporation Plc.
certain conditions, the effect of which was to require that, among other things, BHP Billiton Limited continues to: Cross guarantees be an Australian company, which is managed from Australia: BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have each executed ultimately manage and control the companies conducting the a Deed Poll Guarantee, pursuant to which creditors entitled to business that was conducted by it at the time of the merger for the bene t of the BHP Billiton Limited Deed Poll Guarantee and as long as those businesses form part of the BHP Billiton Group.
the BHP Billiton Plc Deed Poll Guarantee will, to the extent possible, be placed in the same position as if the relevant debts were owed The conditions have effect inde nitely, subject to amendment by both BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc combined.
of the Australian Foreign Acquisitions and Takeover Act 1975 or any revocation or amendment by the Treasurer of Australia.
Restrictions on takeovers of one company only If BHP Billiton Limited no longer wishes to comply with these The BHP Billiton Limited Constitution and the BHP Billiton Plc conditions, it must obtain the prior approval of the Treasurer.
Articles of Association have been drafted to ensure that, except Failure to comply with the conditions attracts substantial with the consent of the Board, a person cannot gain control penalties under the Act.
of one company without having made an equivalent offer to the shareholders of both companies on equivalent terms.
Sanctions for Equalisation of economic and voting rights breach of these provisions would include withholding of dividends, BHP Billiton Limited shareholders and BHP Billiton Plc shareholders voting restrictions and the compulsory divestment of shares to the have economic and voting interests in the combined BHP Billiton Group.
extent a shareholder and its associates exceed the relevant threshold.
The economic and voting interests represented by a share in one company relative to the economic and voting interests of a share in the other company is determined by reference to a ratio known 2.11 Material contracts as the Equalisation Ratio.
Presently, the economic and voting interests attached to each BHP Billiton Limited share and each 2.11.1 DLC agreements BHP Billiton Plc share are the same, since the Equalisation Ratio is On 29 June 2001, BHP Billiton Limited then known as BHP Limited 1:1.
The Equalisation Ratio would change if either BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc then known as Billiton Plc merged by way or BHP Billiton Plc returned value to only its shareholders and no of a DLC structure.
To effect the DLC, BHP Limited and Billiton Plc matching action were taken.
as they were then known entered into the following agreements designed to place the shareholders of both companies in a position This means that the amount of any cash dividend paid by where they effectively have an interest in a single group that combines BHP Billiton Limited in respect of each BHP Billiton Limited the assets, and is subject to all the liabilities, of both companies: share is normally matched by an equivalent cash dividend by BHP Billiton Sharing Agreement BHP Billiton Plc in respect of each BHP Billiton Plc share, and vice versa.
If one company has insuf cient pro ts or is otherwise BHP Billiton Special Voting Shares Deed unable to pay the agreed dividend, BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Limited Deed Poll Guarantee BHP Billiton Plc will, as far as practicable, enter into such BHP Billiton Plc Deed Poll Guarantee.
transactions as are necessary so as to enable both companies The effect of each of these agreements and the manner in which to pay the amount of pre-tax dividends per share.
they operate are described in section 2.10 of this Report.
Joint Electorate Actions 2.11.2 Merger Agreement with Petrohawk Under the terms of the DLC agreements, the BHP Billiton Limited Energy Corporation Constitution and the BHP Billiton Plc Articles of Association special voting arrangements have been implemented so that The Offer the shareholders of both companies vote together as a single On 14 July 2011, BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Petroleum North decision-making body on matters affecting the shareholders America Inc. Parent, North America Holdings II Inc.
Purchaser of each company in similar ways such matters are referred and Petrohawk Energy Corporation, Petrohawk, entered into to as Joint Electorate Actions.
For so long as the Equalisation an Agreement and Plan of Merger Merger Agreement, pursuant Ratio remains 1:1, each BHP Billiton Limited share will effectively to which Purchaser commenced an offer Offer to acquire all have the same voting rights as each BHP Billiton Plc share on of the outstanding shares of Petrohawks common stock, par value Joint Electorate Actions.
US$0.001 per share Shares, for US$38.75 per Share, net to the seller in cash Offer Price, without interest.
A Joint Electorate Action requires approval by ordinary resolution or special resolution if required by statute, regulation, applicable The Merger and the Top-Up Option listing rules or other applicable requirements of BHP Billiton Limited, The Merger Agreement also provides that, following consummation with both the BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shareholders and of the Offer and satisfaction or waiver of certain customary the holder of the BHP Billiton Limited Special Voting Share voting conditions, Purchaser will be merged with and into Petrohawk as a single class and also of BHP Billiton Plc, with the Merger, with Petrohawk surviving as a wholly owned subsidiary BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shareholders and the holder of the of Parent.
Upon completion of the Merger, each untendered Share BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share voting as a single class.
outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger excluding those Shares that are held by i Parent, Petrohawk or Class Rights Actions their respective wholly owned subsidiaries and ii stockholders of In the case of certain actions in relation to which the two bodies Petrohawk who properly demand appraisal in connection with the of shareholders may have divergent interests referred to as Class Merger under the Delaware General Corporation Law DGCL will Rights Actions, the company wishing to carry out the Class Rights be converted into the right to receive the Offer Price.
Action requires the prior approval of the shareholders in the other BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 53 2 Information on the Company continued 2.11.2 Merger Agreement with Petrohawk Certain provisions of the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and the Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc can only be amended Energy Corporation continued where such amendment is approved by special resolution either: If Purchaser holds 90 per cent or more of the outstanding Shares by approval as a Class Rights Action, where the amendment following the consummation of the Offer Short-Form Threshold, results in a change to an Entrenched Provision: or the parties will effect the Merger as a short-form merger under the otherwise, as a Joint Electorate Action.
DGCL without the need for approval by Petrohawks stockholders.
In addition, subject to the terms of the Merger Agreement and A description of Joint Electorate Actions and Class Rights Actions applicable law, Petrohawk has granted Purchaser an irrevocable is contained under the heading Equalisation of economic and voting option Top-Up Option, exercisable after consummation of the rights in section 2.10.2 of this Report.
Offer, to purchase from Petrohawk that number of Shares as would be necessary for Parent and its af liates to own one Share more 2.12.1 Directors than the Short-Form Threshold.
If the Offer is consummated but The management and control of the business and affairs of BHP Billiton the Short-Form Threshold is not attained, Petrohawk, Parent and are vested in the Board of Directors, which may exercise all powers Purchaser will effect the Merger following stockholder approval, of BHP Billiton, other than what is required to be exercised or done either pursuant to an action by written consent or a special by BHP Billiton in a general meeting.
In either case, Purchaser will vote all Shares 2.12.2 Power to issue securities it acquires pursuant to the Offer in favour of the adoption of the BHP Billiton may, pursuant to the Constitution and Articles of Merger Agreement, thereby assuring approval.
Association, issue any shares or other securities including redeemable Conditions to the Offer shares with preferred, deferred or other special rights, obligations Consummation of the Offer is subject to several conditions, including: or restrictions as and when the Directors may determine and on i that a majority of the Shares outstanding generally determined any other terms the Directors consider appropriate, provided that on a fully diluted basis be validly tendered and not properly any such issue: withdrawn prior to the expiration date of the Offer as such does not affect any special rights conferred on the holders expiration date may be extended pursuant to the Merger Agreement : of any shares: ii clearance from the Committee on Foreign Investment in the is subject to the provisions regarding shareholder approval United States: iii the absence of a material adverse effect on in the Constitution and Articles of Association.
Petrohawk: and iv certain other customary conditions.
The Offer is not subject to a nancing condition.
The rights attaching to a class other than ordinary shares are expressed at the date of issue.
Representations and Warranties, Covenants, Termination Fee Petrohawk has made customary representations, warranties and 2.12.3 Restrictions on voting by Directors covenants in the Merger Agreement.
Petrohawks covenants include A Director may not vote in respect of any contract or arrangement covenants relating to Petrohawks conduct of its business between or any other proposal in which he or she has a material personal the date of the Merger Agreement and the closing of the Merger, interest.
A Director shall not be counted in the quorum at a meeting restrictions on soliciting proposals for alternative transactions, in relation to any resolution on which he or she is not entitled public disclosures and other matters.
The Merger Agreement to vote.
contains certain termination rights of Parent and Petrohawk and In addition, under the UK Companies Act 2006, a Director has provides that, upon the termination of the Merger Agreement a duty to avoid a situation in which he or she has or can have under speci ed circumstances, Petrohawk will be required to a direct or indirect interest that con icts or may con ict with pay Parent a termination fee of US$395 million.
the interests of the company.
The duty is not infringed, if among The Petrohawk Board Recommendation other things, the situation is authorised by non-interested Directors.
The board of directors of Petrohawk resolved to recommend that In 2008, the Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc were amended stockholders of Petrohawk tender their Shares into the Offer and, to enable the Board to authorise a matter that might otherwise if necessary, vote to adopt the Merger Agreement.
involve a Director breaching his or her duty to avoid con icts of interest.
An interested Director may not vote or be counted towards The foregoing description of the Offer, the Merger and the Merger a quorum for a resolution authorising such a situation.
Where the Agreement does not purport to be complete and is quali ed in its Board gives such authorisation, the Board may prohibit, or may entirety by reference to the Merger Agreement.
establish regulations which prohibit, the relevant Director from Completion of the Offer voting on any matter relating to the con ict.
The Board has adopted On 21 August 2011, we announced that at the end of Friday, procedures to manage these voting restrictions.
19 August 2011, approximately 293.9 million Petrohawk shares had Subject to applicable laws, a Director is entitled to vote, and been validly tendered and not withdrawn, including approximately be counted in the quorum, in respect of any resolution concerning 36 million Petrohawk shares tendered by guaranteed delivery.
any of the following matters, namely where the material The tendered shares represented 97.4 per cent of the outstanding personal interest: shares of Petrohawk, thus satisfying the Short-Form Threshold arises because the Director is a shareholder of BHP Billiton and provision of the Merger Agreement.
We also announced that is held in common with the other shareholders of BHP Billiton: following payment for all shares validly tendered and not arises in relation to the Directors remuneration as a Director withdrawn, we expected to effect a short-form merger under of BHP Billiton: Delaware law as promptly as possible.
relates to a contract BHP Billiton is proposing to enter into that is subject to approval by the shareholders and will not impose any 2.12 Constitution obligation on BHP Billiton if it is not approved by the shareholders: arises merely because the Director is a guarantor or has given The following text summarises the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited an indemnity or security for all or part of a loan, or proposed loan, and the Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc.
The effect of the to BHP Billiton: Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and the Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc is, so far as possible, identical.
Where the arises merely because the Director has a right of subrogation in term BHP Billiton is used in this description of the Constitution relation to a guarantee or indemnity referred to above: and Articles of Association, it can be read to mean either relates to a contract that insures, or would insure, the Director BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc.
against liabilities the Director incurs as an of cer of BHP Billiton, but only if the contract does not make BHP Billiton or a related body corporate the insurer: 54 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 2.12.3 Restrictions on voting by Directors continued As described under the heading Equalisation of economic and voting rights in section 2.10.2 of this Report, certain matters relates to any payment by BHP Billiton or a related body corporate may be decided as Joint Electorate Actions or Class Rights Actions.
in respect of an indemnity permitted by law, or any contract Any matter considered by shareholders at an Annual General relating to such an indemnity: or Meeting of BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc constitutes is in a contract, or proposed contract with, or for the bene t a Joint Electorate Action and shall therefore be decided on a poll.
of, or on behalf of, a related body corporate and arises merely Therefore, in practice, generally all items of business at Annual because the Director is a director of a related body corporate.
General Meetings proceed directly to poll.
2.12.4 Loans by Directors In addition, at any general meeting a resolution, other than Any Director may lend money to BHP Billiton at interest with or a procedural resolution, put to the vote of the meeting on which without security or may, for a commission or pro t, guarantee the the holder of the relevant BHP Billiton Special Voting Share is repayment of any money borrowed by BHP Billiton and underwrite entitled to vote shall be decided on a poll.
or guarantee the subscription of shares or securities of BHP Billiton For the purposes of determining which shareholders are or of any corporation in which BHP Billiton may be interested entitled to attend or vote at a meeting of BHP Billiton Plc or without being disquali ed as a Director and without being liable BHP Billiton Limited, and how many votes such shareholder may to account for BHP Billiton for any commission or pro t. cast, the relevant company will specify in any notice of meeting 2.12.5 Retirement of Directors a time, not more than 48 hours before the time xed for the In August 2011, the Board adopted a policy consistent with the meeting, by which a shareholder must be entered on the Register UK Corporate Governance Code, under which all Directors must, of Shareholders in order to have the right to attend or vote at the if they wish to remain on the Board, seek re-election by shareholders relevant meeting.
This new policy will take effect at the 2011 Annual General Shareholders who wish to appoint a proxy to attend, vote or speak Meetings, and replaces the previous system, as set out in the at a meeting of BHP Billiton Plc or BHP Billiton Limited as appropriate Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and the Articles of Association on their behalf, must deposit the relevant form appointing a proxy in of BHP Billiton Plc, under which Directors were required to submit accordance with the instructions contained in any notice of meeting, themselves to shareholders for re-election at least every three years.
so as to be received in the speci ed manner not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting to which the 2.12.6 Rights attaching to shares appointment of a proxy relates.
Dividend rights Under English law, dividends on shares may only be paid out of Rights to share in BHP Billiton Limiteds pro ts pro ts available for distribution.
Under Australian law, dividends The rights attached to the shares of BHP Billiton Limited, on shares may only be paid out of net assets, provided that the as regards the participation in the pro ts available for distribution, payment is fair and reasonable to the companys shareholders are as follows: as a whole and the payment of the dividend does not materially The holders of any preference shares shall be entitled, in priority prejudice the companys ability to pay its creditors.
The Constitution to any payment of dividend to the holders of any other class of and Articles of Association provide that payment of any dividend shares, to a preferred right to participate as regards dividends up may be made in any manner, by any means and in any currency to but not beyond a speci ed amount in distribution.
Subject to the special rights attaching to any preference shares, All unclaimed dividends may be invested or otherwise used by but in priority to any payment of dividends on all other classes of the Board for the bene t of whichever of BHP Billiton Limited shares, the holder of the Equalisation Share if any shall be or BHP Billiton Plc declared that dividend, until claimed or, in the entitled to be paid such dividends as are declared.
case of BHP Billiton Limited, otherwise disposed of according to Any surplus remaining after payment of the distributions above law.
In the case of BHP Billiton Plc, any dividend unclaimed after shall be payable to the holders of BHP Billiton Limited ordinary a period of 12 years from the date on which such dividend was shares and the BHP Billiton Limited Special Voting Share in equal declared or became due for payment shall be forfeited and shall amounts per share.
revert to BHP Billiton Plc.
Rights to share in BHP Billiton Plcs pro ts Voting rights The rights attached to the shares of BHP Billiton Plc, in relation Voting at any general meeting of BHP Billiton Limited shareholders to the participation in the pro ts available for distribution, is in the first instance to be conducted by a show of hands unless are as follows: a poll is demanded by any of the following except in relation to The holders of the cumulative preference shares shall be entitled, the election of a chairman of a meeting or, unless the Chairman in priority to any payment of dividend to the holders of any other otherwise determines, the adjournment of a meeting : class of shares, to be paid a xed cumulative preferential dividend the Chairman: Preferential Dividend at a rate of 5.5 per cent per annum, to be any shareholder under the law: or paid annually in arrears on 31 July in each year or, if any such date shall be a Saturday, Sunday or public holiday in England, on the the holder of the BHP Billiton Limited Special Voting Share.
first business day following such date in each year.
Payments of Voting at any general meeting of BHP Billiton Plc is in the first Preferential Dividends shall be made to holders on the register instance to be conducted by a show of hands unless a poll is at any date selected by the Directors up to 42 days prior to the demanded by any of the following: relevant xed dividend date.
the Chairman: Subject to the rights attaching to the cumulative preference not less than five members present in person or by proxy shares, but in priority to any payment of dividends on all other and entitled to vote: classes of shares, the holder of the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting a member or members present in person or by proxy and Share shall be entitled to be paid a xed dividend of US$0.01 representing not less than five per cent of the total voting rights per annum, payable annually in arrears on 31 July.
of all the members having the right to vote at the meeting: or Subject to the rights attaching to the cumulative preference shares the holder of the Billiton Special Voting Share.
and the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share, but in priority to any payment of dividends on all other classes of shares, the holder of the Equalisation Share shall be entitled to be paid such dividends as the Board may decide to pay thereupon.
Any surplus remaining after payment of the distributions above shall be payable to the holders of the BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares in equal amounts per BHP Billiton Plc ordinary share.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 55 2 Information on the Company continued 2.12.7 Right on a return of assets on liquidation 2.12.11 Changes to rights of shareholders On a return of assets on liquidation of BHP Billiton Limited, the Rights attached to any class of shares issued by either assets of BHP Billiton Limited remaining available for distribution BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc can only be varied among shareholders, after giving effect to the payment of all whether as a Joint Electorate Action or a Class Rights Action prior ranking amounts owed to all creditors and holders o f where such variation is approved both: preference shares, shall be applied in paying to the holders of the by the Company that issued the relevant shares, as a BHP Billiton Limited Special Voting Share and the Equalisation Share special resolution: if any an amount of up to A$2.00 on each such share, on an equal by the holders of the issued shares of the affected class, either by priority with any amount paid to the holders of BHP Billiton Limited a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of ordinary shares, and any surplus remaining shall be applied in the issued shares of the class affected, or with the written consent making payments solely to the holders of BHP Billiton Limited of members with at least 75 per cent of the votes of that class.
ordinary shares in accordance with their entitlements.
2.12.12 Conditions governing general meetings On a return of assets on liquidation of BHP Billiton Plc, subject All provisions relating to general meetings apply with any necessary to the payment of all prior ranking amounts owed to the creditors modi cations to any special meeting of any class of shareholders of BHP Billiton Plc and prior ranking statutory entitlements, the that may be held.
Therefore, the following information relates assets of BHP Billiton Plc to be distributed on a winding-up shall be equally to general meetings and any special meeting of any class distributed to the holders of shares in the following order of priority: of shareholders.
To the holders of the cumulative preference shares, the repayment The Board may and shall on requisition in accordance with applicable of a sum equal to the nominal capital paid up or credited as paid laws call a general meeting of the shareholders at the time and up on the cumulative preference shares held by them and accrual, place or places and in the manner determined by the Board.
if any, of the Preferential Dividend, whether such dividend No shareholder may convene a general meeting of BHP Billiton has been earned or declared or not, calculated up to the date except where entitled under law to do so.
Any Director may convene of commencement of the winding-up.
a general meeting whenever the Director thinks t. General meetings To the holders of the BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares and to the can also be cancelled, postponed or adjourned.
Notice of a general holders of the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share and the meeting must be given to each shareholder entitled to vote at the Equalisation Share, the payment out of surplus, if any, remaining meeting and such notice of meeting must be given in the form and after the distribution above of an equal amount for each manner in which the Board thinks t. Five shareholders of the BHP Billiton Plc ordinary share, the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting relevant company present in person or by proxy constitute a quorum Share and the Equalisation Share, if issued, subject to a maximum for a meeting.
A shareholder who is entitled to attend and cast a in the case of the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share and the vote at a general meeting of BHP Billiton may appoint a person as Equalisation Share of the nominal capital paid up on such shares.
a proxy to attend and vote for the shareholder in accordance with the law.
2.12.8 Redemption of preference shares If BHP Billiton Limited at any time proposes to create and issue 2.12.13 Limitations on rights to own securities any preference shares, the preference shares may be issued on Neither the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited nor the Articles of the terms that they are to be redeemed or, at the option of either Association of BHP Billiton Plc impose any limitations on the rights or both BHP Billiton Limited and the holder, are liable to be to own securities other than restrictions that re ect the takeovers redeemed, whether out of share capital, pro ts or otherwise.
codes under relevant Australian and UK law.
In addition, the The preference shares confer on the holders the right to convert Australian Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 imposes the preference shares into ordinary shares if, and on the basis, a number of conditions that restrict foreign ownership of the Board determines at the time of issue of the preference shares.
The preference shares are to confer on the holders: Share control limits imposed by the Constitution and the Articles of Association, as well as relevant laws, are described in sections 2.7 the right on redemption and on a winding-up to payment in and 2.10.2 of this Report.
cash in priority to any other class of shares of i the amount paid or agreed to be considered as paid on each of the preference 2.12.14 Documents on display shares: ii the amount, if any, equal to the aggregate of any You can consult reports and other information about dividends accrued but unpaid and of any arrears of dividends: BHP Billiton Limited that it has led pursuant to the rules of the ASX the right, in priority to any payment of dividend on any other class at www.
You can consult reports and other information of shares, to the preferential dividend.
led for publication by BHP Billiton Plc pursuant to the rules of the There is no equivalent provision in the Articles of Association UK Listing Authority at the Authoritys document viewing facility.
of BHP Billiton Plc although as noted in section 2.12.2 above, Information led on the ASX, or pursuant to the rules of the BHP Billiton can issue preference shares which are subject to UK Listing Authority is not incorporated by reference into this a right of redemption on terms the Board considers appropriate.
The documents referred to in this Annual Report as being available on our website, www.
com, 2.12.9 Capital calls are not incorporated by reference and do not form part of this Subject to the terms on which any shares may have been issued, Annual Report.
the Board may make calls on the shareholders in respect of all BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc both le annual and special monies unpaid on their shares.
BHP Billiton has a lien on every reports and other information with the US Securities Exchange partly paid share for all amounts payable in respect of that share.
You may read and copy any document that Each shareholder is liable to pay the amount of each call in the either BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc les at the SECs manner, at the time and at the place speci ed by the Board subject public reference room located at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1,580, to receiving at least 14 days notice specifying the time and place Washington, DC 20549.
Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 or for payment.
A call is considered to have been made at the time access the SEC website at www.
gov for further information on when the resolution of the Board authorising the call was passed.
The SEC lings of BHP Billiton Limited 2.12.10 Borrowing powers since December 2002, and those of BHP Billiton Plc since October Subject to relevant law, the Directors may exercise all powers 2003, are also available on the SEC website.
of BHP Billiton to borrow money, and to mortgage or charge its undertaking, property, assets both present and future and all uncalled capital or any part or parts thereof and to issue debentures and other securities, whether outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of BHP Billiton or of any third party.
56 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report resulted from analysis of performance and drilling results affecting 2.13 Reserves and resources previous assessments, improved recovery additions of 23 MMboe 2.13.1 Petroleum reserves and extensions of 21 MMboe, with the largest portion associated with commitment to the development of additional production Reserves and production capability in the North West Shelf gas project.
Improved recovery BHP Billiton Petroleum reserves are estimated and reported according reserves were added at the Shenzi project in the Gulf of Mexico to SEC standards.
For FY2011, our proved oil and gas reserves have where pressures encountered by the first injection well established been determined in accordance with SEC Rule 4-10 a of Regulation connectivity to offset producers.
Based on a combination of high S-X.
Proved oil and gas reserves are those quantities of crude oil, resolution seismic interpretation and engineering analysis, as well natural gas and natural gas liquids NGL, which, by analysis of as comparison with water injection projects in other Miocene sands geoscience and engineering data can be estimated with reasonable in the area, the incremental impact of the one current water injector certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward was estimated at 23 MMboe.
from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations.
Unless evidence Petroleums reserves are estimated as of 30 June 2011.
For the indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, estimates of economically first time the Group engaged the services of Netherland, Sewell producible reserves only re ect the period before the contracts & Associates, Inc. NSAI, an independent petroleum engineering providing the right to operate expire.
The project to extract the rm, to estimate the reserves for the newly acquired Fayetteville hydrocarbons must have commenced or the operator must be Shale gas assets.
Those reserves represent approximately reasonably certain that it will commence within a reasonable time.
24 per cent of the Groups total proven reserves on a boe basis Developed oil and gas reserves are reserves that can be expected 35 per cent of proven gas reserves and are incorporated in the to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment summary tables below.
A copy of NSAIs report has been led as and operating methods and through installed extraction equipment an exhibit to our Annual Report led on Form 20-F. As noted therein, and infrastructure operational at the time of the reserve estimate Fayetteville project undeveloped reserves are estimated based on if the extraction is by means not involving a well.
As speci ed speci c drilling locations expected to be drilled at the current rate in Rule 4-10 a of Regulation S-X, oil and gas prices are taken within the next five years, current government regulations and as the unweighted average of the corresponding first day of the a FY2011 Henry Hub reference price of US$4.21 per Million British month prices for the 12 months prior to the ending date of Thermal Units MMBtu, as adjusted for transportation fees and the period covered.
regional price differentials, among other assumptions.
Estimates of oil and gas reserves are inherently imprecise, require As in previous years, reserve assessments for all other Petroleum the application of judgement and are subject to future revision.
properties were conducted by technical staff within the operating Accordingly, financial and accounting measures such as the organisation.
These individuals meet the professional quali cations standardised measure of discounted cash ows, depreciation, outlined by the Society of Petroleum Engineers, are trained in the depletion and amortisation charges, the assessment of impairments fundamentals of SEC reserves reporting and the corporate reserves and the assessment of valuation allowances against deferred processes and are endorsed by the PRG.
Each reserve assessment is tax assets that are based on reserve estimates are also subject reviewed annually by the PRG to ensure technical quality, adherence to change.
to internally published Petroleum CSG Guidelines and compliance with SEC reporting requirements.
Once endorsed by the PRG, Proved reserves are estimated by reference to available seismic, all reserves receive final endorsement by senior management and well and reservoir information, including production and pressure the corporate Risk and Audit Committee prior to public reporting.
trends for producing reservoirs and, in some cases, to similar data Our internal Group Audit Services provides secondary assurance of from other analogous, producing reservoirs.
Proved reserves estimates the oil and gas reserve reporting processes through annual audits.
are attributed to future development projects only where there is a signi cant commitment to project funding and execution, and These results are summarised in the tables below which detail for which applicable government and regulatory approvals have estimated oil, condensate, NGL and natural gas reserves at been secured or are reasonably certain to be secured.
Furthermore, 30 June 2011, 30 June 2010 and 30 June 2009, with a reconciliation estimates of proved reserves only include volumes for which access of the changes in each year.
Reserves have been calculated using to market is assured with reasonable certainty.
All proved reserve the economic interest method and represent net interest volumes estimates are subject to revision, either upward or downward, after deduction of applicable royalty.
Reserves include quantities based on new information, such as from development drilling of oil, condensate, NGL and gas that will be produced under several and production activities or from changes in economic factors, production and risk sharing arrangements that involve the Group including product prices, contract terms or development plans.
in upstream risks and rewards without transfer of ownership of the products.
At 30 June 2011, approximately six per cent 2010: The Petroleum Reserves Group PRG is a dedicated group that six per cent: 2009: seven per cent of proved developed and provides overall oversight of the reserves assessment and reporting undeveloped oil, condensate and NGL reserves and four per cent processes.
It is independent of the various asset teams directly 2010: five per cent: 2009: five per cent of natural gas reserves are responsible for development and production activities.
The PRG is attributable to those arrangements.
Reserves also include volumes staffed by individuals averaging over 30 years experience in the Oil calculated by probabilistic aggregation of certain elds that share and Gas industry.
The Manager of the PRG is the individual primarily common infrastructure.
These aggregation procedures result in responsible for overseeing the preparation of the reserves estimate.
enterprise-wide proved reserves volumes which may not be realised He has an advanced degree in engineering and over 30 years of upon divestment on an individual property basis.
diversi ed industry experience in reservoir engineering, reserves assessment, and technical management.
He is a 30 year member 1 Total barrel oil equivalent conversion is based on the following: 6,000 scf of the Society of Petroleum Engineers SPE.
No part of the of natural gas equals one boe.
individual compensation for members of this group is dependent on reported reserves.
During FY2011, Petroleum added 599 million barrels of oil equivalent 1 MMboe of proved oil and gas reserves.
The largest component was the acquisition of the Fayetteville Shale gas assets accounting for 415 MMboe of proved developed and undeveloped reserves.
Excluding this purchase, Petroleum added 184 MMboe of proved reserves, replacing 115 per cent of sales of 159 MMboe.
For the first time, Petroleum added 91 MMboe proved reserves effective 30 June 2011 associated with future production that will be consumed in operations typically fuel gas.
The remaining additions during the year were comprised of revisions of 49 MMboe that BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 57 2 Information on the Company continued 2.13.1 Petroleum reserves continued Millions of barrels Australia United States Other Total Proved developed and undeveloped oil, a b condensate and NGL reserves Reserves at 30 June 2008 354.3 197.8 46.5 598.6 Improved Recovery 0.0 0.0 1.2 1.2 Revisions of previous estimates 13.3 5.0 24.0 42.3 Extensions and discoveries 5.9 14.0 0.0 19.9 Purchase sales of reserves 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 c Production 40.4 20.9 15.1 76.4 Total changes 21.2 1.9 10.1 13.0 Reserves at 30 June 2009 333.1 195.9 56.6 585.6 Improved Recovery 11.0 0.0 0.0 11.0 Revisions of previous estimates 5.9 73.4 2.4 76.9 Extensions and discoveries 6.9 49.2 7.5 63.6 Purchase sales of reserves 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 c Production 40.2 44.1 12.8 97.1 Total changes 16.4 78.5 7.7 54.4 Reserves at 30 June 2010 316.7 274.4 48.9 640.0 Improved Recovery 0.7 22.0 0.0 22.7 Revisions of previous estimates 2.0 1.6 3.7 7.3 Extensions and discoveries 3.2 1.6 0.2 5.0 Purchase sales of reserves 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 c Production 48.4 32.2 11.3 91.9 Total changes 42.5 7.0 7.4 56.9 d Reserves at 30 June 2011 274.2 267.4 41.5 583.1 Developed Proved developed oil, condensate and NGL reserves at 30 June 2008 189.1 90.0 42.0 321.1 at 30 June 2009 182.2 98.7 51.5 332.4 at 30 June 2010 217.1 108.9 44.4 370.4 Developed Reserves at 30 June 2011 176.3 94.8 39.2 310.3 Undeveloped Proved undeveloped oil, condensate and NGL reserves at 30 June 2008 165.2 107.8 4.5 277.5 at 30 June 2009 150.9 97.2 5.1 253.2 at 30 June 2010 99.6 165.5 4.5 269.6 Undeveloped Reserves at 30 June 2011 97.9 172.6 2.3 272.8 a Small differences are due to rounding to first decimal place.
b NGL is extracted separately from crude oil and natural gas and reported as a liquid.
c Production for reserves reconciliation differs slightly from marketable production due to timing of sales and corrections to previous estimates.
d Total proved oil, condensate and NGL reserves include 6.2 million barrels derived from probabilistic aggregation of reserves from reservoirs dedicated to the North West Shelf gas project only.
b Production for Australia includes gas sold as LNG.
d Total proved natural gas reserves include 177.2 billion cubic feet derived from probabilistic aggregation of reserves from reservoirs dedicated to the North West Shelf gas project only.
e Does not include volumes expected to be consumed by operations.
b Small differences are due to rounding to first decimal place.
d Total proved reserves include 35.7 MMboe derived from probabilistic aggregation of reserves from reservoirs dedicated to the North West Shelf gas project only.
60 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 2.13.1 Petroleum reserves continued 2.13.2 Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves Proved undeveloped reserves Introduction At year-end, Petroleum had 924 MMboe of proved undeveloped The statement of Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves including reserves, compared with 692 MMboe at the end of FY2010.
Coal Resources and Coal Reserves presented in this Report has A signi cant portion of these proved undeveloped reserves been produced in accordance with the Australasian Code for are associated with their Fayetteville Shale gas acquisition, Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore with 236 MMboe added upon acquisition and 17 MMboe added Reserves, December 2004 the JORC Code.
Commodity prices and prior to the end of FY2011.
Petroleum matured 79 MMboe from exchange rates used to estimate the economic viability of reserves undeveloped to developed during FY2011, mostly associated with are based on asset-fide ned or BHP Billiton long-term forecasts.
the start-up of the Angostura gas project in Trinidad and Tobago and The Ore Reserves tabulated are held within existing, fully permitted the Zamzama booster compression project in Pakistan.
The BHP Billiton Groups mineral leases are sum total of 58 MMboe was booked in FY2011, mostly attributable of suf cient duration or convey a legal right to renew for suf cient to maturing North West Shelf gas development, fuel gas associated duration to enable all reserves on the leased properties to be mined with undeveloped proved reserves, Shenzi water injection volumes in accordance with current production schedules.
Our Ore Reserves and the major repairs necessary to resume production from Atlantis may include areas where some additional approvals remain North.
During FY2011, Petroleum spent US$2,139 million progressing outstanding, but where, based on the technical investigations we development of proved undeveloped reserves worldwide.
carry out as part of our planning process, and our knowledge and experience of the approvals process, we expect that such approvals Most of the Groups projects require signi cant capital expenditure will be obtained as part of the normal course of business and within and multi-year lead times before initial production can be achieved the time frame required by the current schedule.
with the associated movement of reserves from undeveloped to developed.
Based on current project schedules, more than The information in this Report relating to Mineral Resources and 99 per cent of the 924 MMboe currently classi ed as undeveloped Ore Reserves is based on information compiled by Competent are actively being pursued and are scheduled to be on stream within Persons as fide ned in the JORC Code.
All Competent Persons have, the next five years.
The remaining undeveloped reserves are located at the time of reporting, suf cient experience relevant to the style in active elds expected to produce well into the next decade and of mineralisation and type of deposit under consideration and to will be brought on stream in a phased manner to best optimise the activity they are undertaking to qualify as a Competent Person the use of production facilities and to meet long-term gas supply as fide ned by the JORC Code.
At the reporting date, each Competent contracts.
The Petroleum Group has a dependable history Person listed in this Report is a full-time employee of BHP Billiton of progressing large undeveloped volumes from undeveloped or a company in which BHP Billiton has a controlling interest or to developed, evidenced by the past three years, which have has joint control, unless otherwise noted.
Each Competent Person averaged nearly 80 MMboe per year.
consents to the inclusion in this Report of the matters based on their information in the form and context in which it appears.
All of the Mineral Resource and Ore Reserve gures presented are reported in 100 per cent terms and represent estimates at 30 June 2011 unless otherwise stated.
All tonnes are reported as dry metric tonnes unless otherwise stated.
All tonnes and grade information has been rounded, hence small differences may be present in the totals.
All of the Mineral Resource information is inclusive of Mineral Resources that have been converted to Ore Reserves i. e. Mineral Resources are not additional to Ore Reserves.
The information contained herein differs in certain respects from that reported to the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC, which is prepared with reference to the SECs Industry Guide 7.
Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves are presented in the accompanying tables.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 61 2 Information on the Company continued Competent Persons Aluminium Customer Sector Group Manganese Customer Sector Group Mineral Resources Mineral Resources Worsley: D Parmenter MAusIMM GEMCO: D Hope MAusIMM, employed by Snowden Group MRN: JP fide Melo Franco MAusIMM, employed by Minerao Rio do Norte Wessels and Mamatwan: E P Ferriera SACNASP GAC Project: P Schultz MAusIMM, employed by Probe Mining Beniomi and Bordeaux: E P W Swindell SACNASP Ore Reserves Ore Reserves Worsley: V Malajczuk MAusIMM GEMCO: D Bales MAusIMM MRN: J P fide Melo Franco MAusIMM, employed by Minerao Rio do Norte Wessels and Mamatwan: D Mathebula SAIMM Base Metals Customer Sector Group Metallurgical Coal Customer Sector Group Mineral Resources Coal Resources Escondida, Pampa Escondida, Pinta Verde: O Cortes MAusIMM, Goonyella Riverside, South Walker Creek, Poitrel-Winchester, Saraji, Saraji East, employed by Minera Escondida Limitada Daunia, Red Hill, Nebo West, Bee Creek, Wards Well: A Paul MAusIMM Cerro Colorado and Spence: J Cespedes MAusIMM Peak Downs: J Centofanti MAusIMM, S Martinez MAusIMM Pinto Valley and Pinto Valley Miami unit: R Preece FAusIMM Norwich Park: G Lawson MAusIMM Olympic Dam: S OConnell MAusIMM Blackwater, Gregory Crinum, Liskeard: P Handley MAusIMM Antamina: J Espinoza MAusIMM Peak Downs East: J Centofanti MAusIMM Cannington: A J Edwards MAusIMM Appin, West Cliff, Dendrobium, Cordeaux: H Kaag MAusIMM Lampunut, Bumbun, Juloi Northwest: D Broome MAIG Ore Reserves Haju and Luon: M Youl MAusIMM Escondida: A Zuzunaga MAusIMM, employed by Minera Escondida Limitada Coal Reserves Cerro Colorado and Spence: E Ros MAusIMM Pinto Valley: B Baird MAusIMM Goonyella Riverside: D Patzel MAusIMM, A Swiericzuk MAusIMM Olympic Dam: D Grant FAusIMM Peak Downs, Saraji, Norwich Park: S fide la Cruz MAusIMM Antamina: L Lozada MAusIMM, employed by Minera Antamina SA Blackwater: G Clarete MAusIMM Cannington: D Fleury MAusIMM Daunia: J Mahood MAusIMM Gregory Crinum: G Clarete MAusIMM, A Swiericzuk MAusIMM South Walker Creek, Poitrel-Winchester: R Mattsson MAusIMM Diamonds and Specialty Products Customer Sector Group Appin, West Cliff, Dendrobium: S Langley SME registered Mineral Resources EKATI Core Zone: R Woodward NAPEGG, S Harrison MAusIMM Energy Coal Customer Sector Group EKATI Buffer Zone: S Harrison MAusIMM Coal Resources Richards Bay Minerals: C Ware SACNASP, employed by Richards Bay Minerals San Juan: J Mercier MAusIMM Jansen: J McElroy MAusIMM, B Nemeth MAusIMM Navajo: J Mattern SME registered Ore Reserves Khutala: S Mokitimi SACNASP EKATI Core Zone: N Barros MAusIMM Wolvekrans: S Kara SACNASP Richards Bay Minerals: C Ware SACNASP, employed by Richards Bay Minerals Middelburg: L Visser SACNASP Klipspruit: P Maseko SACNASP Stainless Steel Materials Customer Sector Group Leandra North, J Marais SACNASP, Naudesbank, Weltevreden, Leandra South: N Haniff SACNASP, Theunissen, T-Project, Davel, Mineral Resources Remainder Block IV: J C van der Merwe SACNASP Cerro Matoso: C A Rodriguez MAusIMM, C Rivers MAusIMM Mt Arthur Coal: P Wakeling MAusIMM Leinster: F Maturana MAusIMM CP, T Journeaux MAusIMM, Togara South: A Paul MAusIMM employed by QG Limited Cerrejn Coal Company: D Lawrence SACNASP Mt Keith: A Williamson MAIG, M Menicheli MAusIMM Cliffs: T Goodale MAusIMM, A Williamson MAIG Coal Reserves Yakabindie: F Maturana MAusIMM CP, M Menicheli MAusIMM San Juan: C Stewart SME registered Jericho: T Journeaux MAusIMM, employed by QG Limited, Navajo: J Garcia MAusIMM M Menicheli MAusIMM Khutala, Wolvekrans, Middelburg, Klipspruit: R Kenny ECSA Mt Arthur Coal: R Spencer MAusIMM Ore Reserves Cerrejn Coal Company: D Lawrence SACNASP Cerro Matoso: F Fuentes MAusIMM, A Quiroz MAusIMM Leinster, Cliffs: J fide Vries MAusIMM CP, B Hollins MAusIMM Mt Keith: J fide Vries MAusIMM CP Iron Ore Customer Sector Group Mineral Resources Mt Newman JV: D W Reid MAusIMM, V Osterholt MAusIMM, M Smith MAusIMM, S Nag MAIG Jimblebar: V Osterholt MAusIMM, M Smith MAusIMM Mt Goldsworthy JV Northern: P Whitehouse MAusIMM Mt Goldsworthy JV Area C: D W Reid MAusIMM, C Williams MAIG, D Stephens MAIG Yandi JV: D Stephens MAIG, P Whitehouse MAusIMM BHP Billiton Iron Ore Exploration: D Stephens MAIG, M Smith MAusIMM Samarco JV: J P da Silva MAusIMM, L Bonfioli MAusIMM, employed by Samarco Minerao SA Ore Reserves Mt Newman JV, Jimblebar, Mt Goldsworthy JV Northern, Mt Goldsworthy JV Area C, Yandi JV: T Cockerill MAusIMM, J Kirk MAusIMM, K Risnes MAusIMM Samarco JV: L Goncalves fide Rezende MAusIMM, employed by Samarco Minerao SA 62 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report Aluminium Customer Sector Group Mineral Resources As at 30 June 2011 As at 30 June 2010 Measured Resource Indicated Resource Inferred Resource Total Resource Total Resource BHP Billiton Commodity Interest Deposit Ore Type Mt Mt Mt Mt %Mt Bauxite Australia Worsley Laterite 348 30.6 1.8 582 31.9 2.4 36 32.2 2.6 966 31.4 2.2 86 951 31.3 2.2 Brazil 1 MRN MRN Crude 219 62 589 870 14.8 890 MRN Washed 165 49.1 5.1 47 49.6 5.0 412 49.1 5.4 624 49.2 5.3 639 49.2 5.3 Guinea GAC Project Laterite 87 38.7 1.2 113 37.7 1.2 327 37.4 1.1 527 37.7 1.2 33.3 527 37.7 1.2 Ore Reserves As at 30 June 2011 As at 30 June 2010 Proved Ore Reserve Probable Ore Reserve Total Ore Reserve Total Ore Reserve Reserve BHP Billiton Reserve Commodity Life Interest Life 2 3 Deposit Ore Type Mt Mt Mt years % Mt years Bauxite Australia Worsley Laterite 240 31.2 1.8 59 30.4 1.8 299 31.0 1.8 18 86 311 31.0 1.8 19 Brazil 4 MRN MRN Washed 13 50.3 4.6 13 50.3 4.6 1 14.8 27 49.8 4.8 2 1 MRN MRN Crude is mined product feed to the washplant.
MRN Washed tonnes and grade represent expected product based on forecast beneficiated yield in the resource area.
2 Approximate drill hole spacings used to classify the reserves are: Deposit Proved Ore Reserves Probable Ore Reserves Worsley Maximum 80m Maximum 160m MRN A bauxite intersection grid of 200m, plus at least 10 samples Those areas with a bauxite intersection grid spacing of less reached by searching ellipsoid.
Mining and metallurgical than 400m and or a 400m spaced grid with a 200m offset fill in, characterisation test pit bulk sample, plus a reliable suite plus a minimum of seven samples reached by searching ellipsoid, of chemical and size distribution data plus a reliable suite of chemical and size distribution data 3 Metallurgical recoveries for the operations are: Deposit Estimated Metallurgical recovery of A. Al O 2 3 Worsley Worsley Refinery 90% MRN Alumar Refinery 94% 4 MRN The MRN reserves are located on mining leases that provide MRN the right to mine.
Current mining areas have environmental approvals and operational licences.
As further operational licences are obtained, Mineral Resources will be converted to Ore Reserves.
Ore type classification has changed from process type to mineralisation style, combining sulphide mill and sulphide leach categories.
2 Pampa Escondida Pampa Escondida is a newly discovered porphyry copper deposit of hypogene mineralisation chalcopyrite-bornite that is located at depth between the Escondida and Escondida Norte mines.
It has been developed by 260,000m of drilling, most of which is in a regular 150m x 150m grid that averages 1,400m in depth.
Eighty per cent of the Inferred Resources are categorised as being Interpolated Resources and are defined by a drilling grid up to 300m x 300m.
3 Pinta Verde Pinta Verde is a newly declared mineral resource, based on more than 76,500m of drilling.
It is located 4km to the north of Escondida mine, forming the western extension of the Zaldivar deposit, and is being evaluated as potential leach feed to the Escondida oxide or sulphide leach facilities.
Pinta Verde deposit is an enriched and partially oxidised deposit overlying very low-grade hypogene mineralisation.
4 Antamina Changes are due to incorporation of data obtained from over 150,000m of additional core drilling and the application of revised prices.
5 Cannington Additional mineral resources identified due to additional drilling and also identified as part of an open-pit project study that is currently being undertaken.
6 Approximate drill hole spacings used to classify the reserves are: Deposit Proved Ore Reserves Probable Ore Reserves Escondida Oxide: 40m x 40m Oxide: 50m x 50m Sulphide: 50m x 50m Sulphide: 85m x 85m Sulphide leach: 55m x 55m Sulphide leach: 100m x 100m Cerro Colorado 55m x 55m on first kriging pass 120m x 120m on second kriging pass Spence Oxides: 50m x 50m Oxides and sulphides: approximately less than 100m continuous square grid, estimation on second kriging pass Sulphides: 75m x 75m Pinto Valley 60m x 120m grid 200m x 200m Olympic Dam Drilling grid of 20m to 30m Drilling grid of 30m to 70m Antamina High Grade Cu Zn: three composites of the same grade zone Three composites of the same grade zone and different holes and different holes within 30m, closest within 20m within 55m, closest within 40m or two composites of the same Low Grade Cu Zn: three composites of the same grade zone grade zone and different holes within 65m, closest within 30m and different holes within 35m, closest within 25m or at least 50 composites within 75m with at least 90% in the same grade zone as the block Cannington UG Sulphide: 12.5m sectional x 15m vertical UG Sulphide: 25m sectional x 25m vertical 7 8 Metallurgical recoveries for the operations are: Escondida The increased reserve tonnage is mostly due to drilling that increased the confidence of the mineralisation, a larger ultimate pit caused Deposit Metallurgical Recovery by step-out drilling in the eastern periphery of Escondida and increased Escondida For TCu: Sulphide ore 85%, Sulphide leach 26%, price assumptions.
9 Oxide ore 68% Pinto Valley The Pinto Valley mine and mill operations continue to be carried on care and maintenance status.
Cerro Colorado For TCu: Average 72% 10 Olympic Dam The decrease in overall reserve tonnage is due to a change Spence For TCu: Sulphide 70%, Oxide 73%, in stope size criteria in the latest mine plan.
11 Oxide low solubility 70%, ROM 30% Antamina Changes are due to a revised resource estimate incorporating additional drill hole data and to revised long-term prices.
Pinto Valley Mill recovery 86.4%, Leach recovery 25% Olympic Dam Cu 94%, U O 72%, Au 70%, Ag 65% 3 8 Antamina Sulphide Cu only ore: Cu 92%, Zn 0%, Ag 65%, Mo 75% Sulphide Cu-Zn ore: Cu 81%, Zn 82%, Ag 55%, Mo 0% Cannington Ag 87%, Pb 89%, Zn 70% 66 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report Diamonds and Specialty Products Customer Sector Group Mineral Resources As at 30 June 2011 As at 30 June 2010 Measured Resource Indicated Resource Inferred Resource Total Resource BHP Billiton Total Resource Commodity Ore Interest Deposit Type Mt cpt Mt cpt Mt cpt Mt cpt % Mt cpt Diamonds EKATI OC 49 0.8 1.8 1.5 51 0.9 80 53 0.8 1 Core Zone SP 0.3 0.5 6.7 0.2 7.0 0.2 6.8 0.2 UG 29 0.4 5.8 0.5 34 0.4 35 0.5 EKATI OC 38 2.1 9.6 1.3 47 2.0 58.8 47 2.0 2 Buffer Zone Mt Mt Mt Mt Mt Mineral Sands Richards Bay TiO 5.3 20 1.6 27 37.76 27 2 3 Minerals slag Mt Mt Mt Mt Mt Potash 4 Jansen LPL 3,250 25.4 7.1 0.07 119 26.7 7.1 0.10 3,370 25.4 7.1 0.07 100 3,370 25.4 7.1 0.07 Ore Reserves As at 30 June 2011 As at 30 June 2010 Proved Ore Reserve Probable Ore Reserve Total Ore Reserve Reserve BHP Billiton Total Ore Reserve Reserve Commodity Life Interest Life 5 6 Deposit Ore Type Mt cpt Mt cpt Mt cpt years % Mt cpt years Diamonds EKATI Core Zone OC 20 0.9 20 0.9 5 80 20 0.3 5 SP 0.3 0.4 0.3 0.4 0.1 0.4 UG 4.8 0.6 4.8 0.6 5.7 0.7 Mt Mt Mt Mt Mineral Sands 7 Richards Bay Minerals TiO slag 24 37.76 25 4.9 19 24 25 2 1 EKATI Core Zone Diamond resources are estimated on an effective 1mm square aperture stone size cut-off.
All remaining Measured was downgraded to Indicated following review of geological model.
2 EKATI Buffer Zone Diamond resources are estimated on an effective 1mm square aperture stone size cut-off.
3 Richards Bay Minerals Mineral Resources are reported as at 31 December 2010.
Downgrading resource from Measured to Indicated follows review of the geological model and drilling methodology.
4 Jansen %MgO is generally used as a measure of carnallite KCI.
MGCI 6H O content where per cent carnallite equivalent %MgO x 6.3918.
2 statement the main source of the stated MgO content is the dolomite fraction of the insoluble material.
Areas of known geological anomalies, carnallitite which comprises carnallite, halite and minor associated insolubles and privately owned mineral tenure have been removed from the estimate.
It is expected that a further 5% to 10% of the Mineral Resource tonnage will be discounted due to, as yet, unidentified geological anomalies.
The Mineral Resource is stated for the Lower Patience Lake potash unit.
A stratigraphic cut-off based on the top 406 clay seam and base 402 clay seam has been applied.
A cut-off grade of 15% K 0 was applied to the 2 resource estimate, no further modifying or mining extraction factors have been applied to the Mineral Resource.
5 Approximate drill hole spacings used to classify the reserves are: Deposit Proved Ore Reserves Probable Ore Reserves EKATI Core Zone Approximately less than 30m Approximately less than 60m Richards Bay Minerals 50m x 50m RC and 200m x 100m sonic data 400m x 100m RC and 800m x 100m sonic data 6 Metallurgical recoveries for the operations are: Deposit Metallurgical Recovery EKATI Core Zone Factors are assigned per geological domain and deposit Richards Bay Minerals 45.4% including conversion to slag 7 Richards Bay Minerals Reserves are reported as at 31 December 2010.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 67 %K O 2 %Insol.
68 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report Stainless Steel Materials Customer Sector Group Ore Reserves As at 30 June 2011 As at 30 June 2010 Proved Ore Reserve Probable Ore Reserve Total Ore Reserve Reserve BHP Billiton Total Ore Reserve Reserve Commodity Life Interest Life 1 2 Deposit Ore Type Mt %Ni Mt %Ni Mt %Ni years % Mt %Ni years Nickel Colombia 3 Cerro Matoso Laterite 33 1.4 15 1.2 48 1.3 31 99.94 89 1.2 39 SP 38 1.3 38 1.3 32 1.4 MNR ore 20 0.2 20 0.2 21 0.2 Low Grade 7.1 1.0 7.1 1.0 4 Stockpiles Nickel West Leinster OC 2.9 1.3 0.2 0.9 3.1 1.3 8 100 3.1 1.3 8 UG 4.9 1.9 6.9 1.7 12 1.8 12 1.8 SP 1.4 1.0 1.4 1.0 1.4 1.0 SP Oxidised 1.8 1.7 1.8 1.7 1.9 1.7 Mt Keith OC 103 0.56 1.8 0.44 105 0.56 13 100 119 0.56 14 SP 29 0.52 3.4 0.58 33 0.53 32 0.53 Cliffs UG 0.3 2.9 1.3 2.9 1.6 2.9 3 100 1.2 3.0 3 1 Approximate drill hole spacings used to classify the reserves are: Deposit Proved Ore Reserves Probable Ore Reserves Cerro Matoso Less than or equal to 35m with three drill holes minimum Greater than 35m and less than or equal to 100m with three drill holes minimum Leinster 25m x 25m 25m x 50m Mt Keith 60m x 40m 80m x 80m Cliffs 25m x 25m and development 50m x 50m 2 Metallurgical recoveries for the operations are: Deposit Metallurgical Recovery Cerro Matoso 90% reserve to metal Leinster 82.7% based on blended plant recovery curves and 11.6% Ni in concentrate Mt Keith 68% Cliffs 91% 3 Cerro Matoso Change in Ore Reserves is due to revised geological model, mine design and mining costs.
4 Low Grade Stockpiles are rejected oversize screened material available for future crushing and processing.
BKM Brockman, MM Marra Mamba, NIM Nimingarra, and 5 BKM, Boundary Ridge MM.
First declaration of resource for South CID Channel Iron Deposits.
2 6 The resource grades listed refer to in situ mass percentage on a dry weight Yandi JV Additional drilling and resource estimated at Yandi W1 CID basis.
Wet tonnes are reported for WAIO deposits and Samarco, including resulting in change from Indicated Resource to Measured.
Additional approximate moisture contents: BKM 3%, MM 4%, CID 8%, NIM 3.5%, drilling and resource estimated at Munjina CID.
3 7 Mt Newman JV New drilling and resource estimates for OB40 MM Samarco JV The changes to Samarcos Mineral Resources are due to the and OB41 BKM, change of classification from Inferred to Indicated Resource update of the models with the 2010 drilling information.
and Alegria Center resources were classified using drill holes for both areas 4 Jimblebar New drilling and resource estimates for Wheelara Hills 1-2 MM, considering the geological continuity.
Wheelara Hills 3 BKM, Wheelara Hills 5-6 BKM and West Jimblebar MM, change of classification from Inferred to Indicated Resource at Wheelara Hills 5-6 BKM.
Mt Goldsworthy JV Northern, which reside on standard Western Australian 10 The reserve grades listed refer to in situ mass percentage on a dry weight basis.
We are required to obtain certain state government approvals For Mt Newman, Jimblebar, Mt Goldsworthy and Yandi joint ventures tonnages including environmental and heritage clearances before we commence represent wet tonnes based on the following moisture contents: BKM 3%, MM mining operations in a particular area.
We have included in our reserves areas 4%, CID 8%, NIM 3.5%.
For Samarco the reserve tonnages also represent where one or more approvals remain outstanding but where, based on the for FY2011 wet tonnes based on a moisture content of 6.5% for ROM.
Iron ore technical investigations we carry out as part of our mine planning process is marketed as Lump direct blast furnace feed, Fines sinter plant feed and and our knowledge and experience of the approvals process, we expect that direct reduction and blast furnace pellets Samarco.
such approvals will be obtained as part of the normal course of business and 11 Cut-off grades used to estimate reserves: Mt Newman 5962%Fe for BKM, within the time frame required by the current mine schedule.
13 50%Fe for BKM beneficiation material, 59%Fe for MM: Jimblebar 59%Fe for Mt Newman JV First declaration of reserve for OB41 BKM.
Nominated BKM, 58%Fe for MM: Mt Goldsworthy 50%Fe for NIM, 57%Fe for MM, 59%Fe production rate has increased.
14 for BKM: Yandi 55.055.5%Fe for CID: Samarco 33Fe%.
Jimblebar Nominated production rate has increased.
15 Mt Goldsworthy JV Area C New drilling and reserve estimates for A Deposit MM and Packsaddle 4 and 5 BKM.
16 Yandi JV Nominated production rate has decreased.
17 Samarco JV Reserve Life is based on Samarco nominated production capacity, which is inclusive of the contracted ore supply from Vale Fazendao mine until 2027.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 71 2 Information on the Company continued Manganese Customer Sector Group Mineral Resources As at 30 June 2011 Measured Resource Indicated Resource Commodity Deposit Ore Type Mt %Mn %Yield Mt %Mn %Yield Manganese 1 GEMCO ROM 91 47.2 47 29 46.0 48 Eastern Exploration Areas Mt %Mn %Fe Mt %Mn %Fe 2 3 Wessels Lower Body-HG 8.8 48.5 10.1 24 48.9 10.5 Lower Body-LG 5.6 42.0 12.3 15 41.9 14.4 NTS-Lower Body-HG NTS-Lower Body-LG Upper Body 91 43.4 16.0 2 4 Mamatwan M, C, N Zones 35 37.6 4.4 13 37.0 4.4 X Zone 3.3 37.3 4.7 0.4 36.9 4.5 NTS-M, C, N Zones 8.6 37.8 4.5 17 37.6 4.5 NTS-X Zone 1.2 37.6 4.7 2.5 37.2 4.7 Top Cut Balance 19 31.0 6.0 22 30.4 6.2 % 0.15mm % 0.15mm Samancor Gabon 5 Mt %Mn Yield Mt %Mn Yield Franceville Project Beniomi PLA 11 36.1 72 6.6 36.1 74 ZTR 4.1 24.3 73 2.4 24.5 75 Bordeaux PLA 4.6 36.4 72 0.8 36.1 68 ZTR 2.3 24.7 74 0.5 24.1 70 Ore Reserves As at 30 June 2011 Proved Ore Reserve Probable Ore Reserve 6 7 Commodity Deposit Ore Type Mt %Mn %Yield Mt %Mn %Yield Manganese 8 GEMCO ROM 83 46.6 54 26 45.6 54 Mt %Mn %Fe Mt %Mn %Fe 2 3 Wessels Lower Body-HG 2.6 47.2 11.0 12 47.9 11.3 Lower Body-LG 2.3 41.5 11.4 8.1 41.6 12.9 NTS-Lower Body-HG NTS-Lower Body-LG Upper Body 47 42.0 17.8 2 4 Mamatwan M, C, N Zones 33 37.2 4.5 12 37.0 4.4 X Zone 2.8 36.8 4.8 0.3 37.0 4.4 NTS-M, C, N Zones 8.6 37.2 4.6 16 37.2 4.6 NTS-X Zone 1.1 37.0 4.8 2.2 36.9 4.6 1 3 GEMCO Tonnes are stated as in situ, manganese grades are given as Wessels A Section 102 application has been approved by the Dept of Mineral per washed ore samples and should be read together with their respective Resources to amend the Wessels Mining Rights area to include the Ntsimbintle tonnage yields.
A mineral resource of 18mt has been defined in the Eastern Prospecting Right.
The Wessels and Ntsimbintle Lower Body Mineral Resources Exploration Areas and is reported for the first time.
and Ore Reserves, which were previously declared separately per area, 2 Wessels and Mamatwan The Wessels and Mamatwan Hotazel Manganese are therefore combined and declared as a single Mineral Resource and Mines interest has been reduced as a result of a sequence of Broad Based Black a single Ore Reserve respectively.
4 Economic Empowerment agreements with Ntsimbintle Mining Pty Ltd, Iziko, Mamatwan A Section 102 application has been lodged with the Dept of NCAB and the HMM Educational Trust.
BHP Billitons share in Hotazel Mineral Resources to amend the Mamatwan Mining Rights area to include Manganese Mines Pty Ltd is now 44.4%.
NTS ore type is Ntsimbintle.
5 Beniomi and Bordeaux Tonnes stated are for in situ resource, Mn grades are 0.15mm screen size fraction and should be read together with their respective tonnage yields.
Drilling and a new geological an air-dried basis.
The coal quality for Illawarra Coal, Lampunut, Haju, Luon, model have upgraded some resources.
The coal quality is based on weighted Bumbun and Juloi Northwest deposits is for in situ quality on an air-dried basis.
5 Tonnages are at an in situ moisture basis.
Red Hill Changes to the coal resource include reclassifying OC Met coal to 2 Goonyella Riverside Broadmeadow Changes are due to additional exploration UG Met coal following review of proposed mining plan and acquisition of and remodelling.
3 6 Saraji Changes to resource are due to additional drilling and changes Appin Changes are due mainly to inclusion of resources within part of to yield assumptions.
Petroleum Production Licence 6 after an agreement was signed between AGL and BHP Billiton.
Drill hole spacings vary between seams and geological domains and are determined in conjunction with geostatistical analyses where applicable.
Marketable Coal Saraji Changes to reserves are due to additional drilling and changes to Reserve tonnes is the tonnage of coal available, at specified moisture and yield and price assumptions.
5 air-dried quality, for sale after the beneficiation of the Total Coal Reserve.
Note Blackwater The increase in reserves is due to additional borehole information that where the coal is not beneficiated, the Total Coal Reserve tonnes are the and revised price assumptions.
6 Marketable Coal Reserve tonnes, with moisture adjustment where applicable.
Daunia The project is approved for development and reserves are reported 3 Goonyella Riverside Broadmeadow The increase in reserves is due to for the first time.
Poitrel-Winchester The coal type has changed to Met based on current and planned production.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 77 2 Information on the Company continued Energy Coal Customer Sector Group Coal Resources As at 30 June 2011 Measured Resource Indicated Resource Inferred Resource Commodity 1 Deposit Mining Method Coal Type Mt Mt Mt New Mexico Operating Mines San Juan UG Th 144 35 Navajo OC Th 717 225 4 South Africa Operating Mines 2 Khutala OC & UG Met 105 53 OC Th 271 155 UG Th 283 3 Wolvekrans OC Th 443 141 73 3 Middelburg OC Th 229 Klipspruit OC Th 70 7 64 South Africa Projects Leandra North UG Th 96 332 56 4 Naudesbank OC Th OC & UG Th 115 147 64 5 Weltevreden OC Th OC & UG Th 157 194 244 South Africa Miscellaneous Leandra South UG Th 1,263 Theunissen UG Th 842 T-Project UG Th 183 Davel UG Th 244 Remainder Block IV UG Th 180 Australia Operating Mine and Project Mt Arthur Coal OC Th 936 2,156 671 Togara South UG Th 317 639 1,059 Colombia Operating Mine 6 Cerrejn Coal Company OC Th 2,957 968 638 Coal Reserves As at 30 June 2011 Proved Coal Reserve Probable Coal Reserve Total Coal Reserve Commodity 7 Deposit Mining Method Coal Type Mt Mt Mt New Mexico Operating Mines 8 San Juan UG Th 73 14 87 Navajo OC Th 144 10 154 South Africa Operating Mines 9 Khutala OC Met 12 12 OC Th 139 139 UG Th 75 75 3 Wolvekrans OC Th 298 124 423 3 10 Middelburg OC Th 139 139 Klipspruit OC Th 66 6.8 73 Australia Operating Mine 11 Mt Arthur Coal OC Th 563 569 1,132 Colombia Operating Mine 12 Cerrejn Coal Company OC Th 674 73 747 1 Qualities and tonnages are reported on an in situ air-dried basis.
2 Khutala Increase in resources is due to an optimisation study which confirmed open-cut economic potential of previously excluded coal.
Resources have been reclassified to reflect this change.
3 Wolvekrans and Middelburg Wolvekrans was previously known as Douglas mine and reported as part of Douglas-Middelburg.
It is now reported separately.
Prior year tonnes for Douglas-Middelburg are reported under Middelburg.
4 Naudesbank Increase in resources due to changes in minimum thickness and quality cut-offs, and change in estimation methodology.
Reference to UG coal is due to revision of mining options.
5 Weltevreden Increase in resources is due to the changes in thickness and quality cutoffs, and additional drilling.
BHP Billiton interest has changed from 89% to 100% following the dissolution of a sale agreement on 30 June 2009 after ministerial consent was not obtained.
6 Cerrejn Coal Company Increases in resources due to revised geological model following independent review.
Mt Arthur Coal Change to mine life due to increase in nominated 9 Khutala Reserve changes are due to revised underground and open-cut mining production rate.
12 lay-outs resulting from an optimisation study.
Cerrejn Increase in reserves due to revised mine plan.
10 13 Middelburg Change in reserves after exclusion of lower quality coal In situ moisture.
seam and outcome of drilling results.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 79 3 Operating and financial review and prospects 3.1 Introduction This section is intended to convey managements perspective of the BHP Billiton Group and its operational and financial performance as measured and prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
We intend this disclosure to assist readers to understand and interpret the financial statements included in this Report.
This section should be read in conjunction with the financial statements, together with the accompanying notes.
We are the worlds largest diversi ed natural resources company, with a combined market capitalisation of approximately US$233.9 billion as at 30 June 2011.
We generated revenue of US$71.7 billion and pro t attributable to shareholders of US$23.6 billion for FY2011.
We extract and process minerals, oil and gas from our production operations located primarily in Australia, the Americas and southern Africa.
We sell our products globally with sales and marketing taking place through our principal hubs of The Hague and Singapore.
The following table shows the revenue by location of our customers: Revenue by location of customer 2011 2010 2009 Year ended 30 June US$M US$M US$M Australia 5,487 4,515 4,621 United Kingdom 1,043 1,289 3,042 Rest of Europe 8,370 8,554 7,764 China 20,261 13,236 9,873 Japan 9,002 5,336 7,138 Rest of Asia 15,805 9,840 9,280 North America 6,167 5,547 4,020 South America 2,592 2,013 1,652 Southern Africa 1,548 1,227 1,374 Rest of world 1,464 1,241 1,447 Total revenue 71,739 52,798 50,211 We operate nine Customer Sector Groups CSGs aligned with the commodities we extract and market, re ecting the structure we use to assess the performance of the Group: Customer Sector Group Principal activities Petroleum Exploration, development and production of oil and gas Aluminium Mining of bauxite, refining of bauxite into alumina and smelting of alumina into aluminium metal Base Metals Mining of copper, silver, lead, zinc, molybdenum, uranium and gold Diamonds and Specialty Products Mining of diamonds and titanium minerals: potash development Stainless Steel Materials Mining and production of nickel products Iron Ore Mining of iron ore Manganese Mining of manganese ore and production of manganese metal and alloys Metallurgical Coal Mining of metallurgical coal Energy Coal Mining of thermal energy coal The work of our nine CSGs is supported by our Minerals Exploration and Marketing teams and Group Functions.
A detailed discussion on our CSGs is located in section 2.2 of this Report.
A detailed discussion of our Marketing and Minerals Exploration functions is located in sections 2.4 and 2.5 respectively of this Report.
80 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report Licence to operate we aim to ensure that the communities 3.2 Our strategy in which we operate value our citizenship.
Licence to operate Our objective as a corporation is to create long-term shareholder means win-win relationships and partnerships.
This includes value through the discovery, acquisition, development and a central focus on health, safety, environment and the community, marketing of natural resources.
We sell into globally integrated and making a positive difference to our host communities.
markets and wherever possible operate at full capacity.
Our unique World-class assets our world-class assets provide the cash position in the resources industry is due to our proven strategy.
ows that are required to build new projects, to contribute to Our strategy is to own and operate large, long-life, low-cost, the economies of the countries in which we operate, to meet our obligations to our employees, suppliers and partners, and expandable, upstream assets diversi ed by commodity, geography and market, and to pursue growth opportunities consistent with ultimately to pay dividends to our shareholders.
We maintain high-quality assets by managing them in the most effective our core skills by: and ef cient way.
discovering resources through our exploration activities: Financial strength and discipline we have a solid A credit developing and converting them in our CSGs: rating, which balances financial exibility with the cost of developing customer and market-focused solutions through finance.
Our capital management priorities are: our Marketing teams: reinvest in our extensive pipeline of world-class projects adding shareholder value beyond the capacity of these groups that carry attractive rates of return regardless of the through the activities of the Group Functions.
economic climate: In pursuing our objective, we are guided by our commitment ensure a solid balance sheet: to safety, simplicity and accountability.
return excess capital to shareholders.
Our overriding commitment is to safety: ensuring the safety of our Project pipeline we are focused on delivering an enhanced people, respecting our environment and the communities in which resource endowment to underpin future generations of growth.
This commitment transcends everything we do and guides We have an abundance of tier one resources in stable countries every aspect of our work.
that provide us with a unique set of options to deliver brown eld growth.
Our commitment to simplicity and accountability allows us to Growth options we use exploration, technology and our focus on the most important drivers of value while empowering global footprint to look beyond our current pipeline to secure our people to operate within their authority and make a difference.
a foundation of growth for future generations.
We pursue Our objective and commitments are pursued through our six growth options in several ways covering the range from strategic drivers: extending existing operations to new projects in emerging People the foundation of our business is our people.
We require regions, through exploration, technology and, on occasion, people to nd resources, develop those resources, operate the merger and acquisition activity.
businesses that produce our products, and then deliver those products to our customers.
Talented and motivated people are our most precious resource.
3.3 Key measures Our management and Board monitor a range of financial and operational performance indicators, reported on a monthly basis, to measure performance over time.
Overall financial success We use several financial measures to monitor the financial success of our overall strategy.
The two key measures are pro t after taxation attributable to members attributable pro t of the BHP Billiton Group and Underlying EBIT.
Year ended 30 June US$M except where stated 2011 2010 2009 Revenue 71,739 52,798 50,211 Profit from operations 31,816 20,031 12,160 1 Underlying EBIT 31,980 19,719 18,214 Profit attributable to members 23,648 12,722 5,877 2 Net operating cash flow 30,080 16,890 17,854 1 3 4 Underlying EBIT margin 47.0% 40.7% 40.1% 3 5 6 Return on capital employed 38.5% 26.4% 24.6% 3 Gearing 9.2% 6.3% 12.1% Basic earnings per share US cents 429.1 228.6 105.6 1 Underlying EBIT is profit from operations, excluding the effect of exceptional items.
Underlying EBIT is the internally defined key financial measure used by management for monitoring the performance of our operations.
We explain why we use this measure in section 3.6.
The following table reconciles Underlying EBIT to profit from operations.
2011 2010 2009 Year ended 30 June US$M US$M US$M Underlying EBIT 31,980 19,719 18,214 Exceptional items before taxation 164 312 6,054 Profit from operations EBIT 31,816 20,031 12,160 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 81 3 Operating and financial review and prospects continued 3.3 Key measures continued 2 Improvements to IFRSs 2009 AASB 2009-4 Amendments to Australian Accounting Standards arising from the Annual Improvements Project and AASB 2009-5 Further Amendments to Australian Accounting Standards arising from the Annual Improvements Project include a requirement to classify expenditures on unrecognised assets as a cash flow from operating activities.
This has resulted in exploration cash flows of US$1,030 million for the year ended 30 June 2010 2009: US$1,009 million, which were not recognised as assets, being reclassified from net investing cash flows to net operating cash flows in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement.
3 See section 10 for glossary definitions.
4 Underlying EBIT margin is profit from operations, excluding the effect of exceptional items before taxation and excluding third party production, divided by revenue from Group production.
7 for more information about this measure.
2011 2010 2009 Year ended 30 June US$M US$M US$M Revenue Group production 67,903 48,193 44,113 Underlying EBIT 31,980 19,719 18,214 Profit from operations EBIT Third party products 98 111 503 Profit from operations Group production, excluding exceptional items 31,882 19,608 17,711 Underlying EBIT margin 47.0% 40.7% 40.1% 5 Return on capital employed is calculated as profit after taxation, excluding exceptional items after tax and net finance costs adjusted for exchange variations on net debt after tax, divided by average capital employed.
Capital employed is calculated as net assets plus net debt.
Net debt comprises interest bearing liabilities which include bank overdrafts less cash.
Average capital employed is calculated as capital employed for the prior period and current period, divided by two.
2011 2010 2009 Year ended 30 June US$M US$M US$M Adjusted earnings from operations: Profit after taxation 23,946 13,009 6,338 Net exceptional items 1,964 253 4,845 Earnings from operations 21,982 12,756 11,183 Net finance costs 561 459 543 6 Income tax benefit of net finance costs 153 139 178 Net finance costs after tax 408 320 365 Adjusted earnings from operations 22,390 13,076 11,548 Capital employed: Net assets 57,755 49,329 40,711 Net debt 5,823 3,308 5,586 Capital employed 63,578 52,637 46,297 Average capital employed 58,108 49,467 46,899 Return on capital employed 38.5% 26.4% 24.6% 6 Calculated at a nominal tax rate of 30 per cent adjusted for non-deductibility assessability of exchange variations on net debt of US$51 million 2010: US$ 5 million: 2009: US$ 49 million.
Refer to note 6 Net finance costs in the financial statements.
The following are other measures that assist us to monitor our overall performance.
People and licence to operate We monitor a comprehensive set of health, safety, environment and community HSEC contribution indicators.
Two key measures are the total recordable injury frequency TRIF and community investment.
These measures are a subset of the HSEC Targets Scorecard, which can be found in our Sustainability Report at www.
Year ended 30 June 2011 2010 2009 People and licence to operate health, safety, environment and community 1 Total recordable injury frequency 5.0 5.3 5.6 1 Community investment US$M 195.5 200.5 197.8 1 See section 10 for glossary definitions.
82 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report Our greenhouse intensity index is currently tracking at 18 per cent 3.3 Key measures continued below our FY2006 base year.
Our carbon-based energy intensity Safety Sadly, we experienced the loss of two colleagues at our index is currently tracking at 17 per cent below our FY2006 base controlled operations during the year.
We made an incremental year.
This was primarily driven by the agreement to use hydroelectric improvement in TRIF which comprises fatalities, lost-time cases, power at the Mozal aluminium smelter, in Mozambique, which now restricted work cases and medical treatment cases per million provides more than 98 per cent of the smelters electricity needs.
hours worked from 5.3 for FY2010 to 5.0 for FY2011 per million We have exceeded our US$300 million commitment to support hours worked.
the implementation of energy ef ciency and low GHG emission Health We are progressing well with our health performance technologies by the end of FY2012, with US$325 million worth objectives.
We had 148 new cases of occupational disease reported of projects in implementation stages.
in FY2011, 68 fewer new cases compared with the FY2007 base year.
We have a five-year target of a 10 per cent improvement in our land The overall reduction in the incidence of occupational disease since rehabilitation index by 30 June 2012.
This index is based on a ratio FY2007 is 39 per cent, which to date has exceeded our target of of land rehabilitated compared with our land footprint.
In FY2011, a 30 per cent reduction in the incidence of occupational disease the index improved by one per cent on our FY2007 base year.
among our employees by June 2012.
We have a five-year target of a 10 per cent improvement in the ratio It is mandatory for our employees who may be potentially exposed of water recycled to high-quality water consumed by 30 June 2012. to airborne substances or noise in excess of our occupational This water use index has improved eight per cent on our FY2007 exposure limits OELs to wear personal protective equipment.
Compared with the FY2007 base year there was a 7.8 per cent reduction in the proportion of employees potentially exposed in We fide ne a signi cant environmental incident as one with a severity excess of OELs in FY2011, which is behind schedule to meet our rating of four or above based on our internal severity rating scale target of a 15 per cent reduction in potential employee exposures tiered from one to seven by increasing severity.
We reported no over our occupational exposure limits.
Environment In FY2011, we reduced absolute greenhouse Community We continue to invest one per cent of our pre-tax gas GHG emissions by more than 5 million tonnes Mt pro ts in community programs, based on the average of the compared to FY2010.
previous three years pre-tax pro t publicly reported in each of those years.
During FY2011, our voluntary investment totalled We have five-year targets of a six per cent reduction in our US$195.5 million comprising cash, in-kind support and administrative GHG emissions intensity index and a 13 per cent reduction in costs and includes a US$30 million contribution to BHP Billiton our carbon-based energy intensity index, both by 30 June 2012.
World-class assets Actual production volumes for this year and the previous two years are shown below.
Further details appear in section 2.3 of this Report.
Year ended 30 June 2011 2010 2009 World-class assets Production Total Petroleum production millions of barrels of oil equivalent 159.38 158.56 137.97 Alumina 000 tonnes 4,010 3,841 4,396 Aluminium 000 tonnes 1,246 1,241 1,233 Copper 000 tonnes 1,139.4 1,075.2 1,207.1 Nickel 000 tonnes 152.7 176.2 173.1 Iron ore 000 tonnes 134,406 124,962 114,415 Manganese alloys 000 tonnes 753 583 513 Manganese ores 000 tonnes 7,093 6,124 4,475 Metallurgical coal 000 tonnes 32,678 37,381 36,416 Energy coal 000 tonnes 69,500 66,131 66,401 Financial strength and discipline Financial strength is measured by attributable pro t and Underlying EBIT as overall measures, along with liquidity and capital management.
Our credit rating and gearing and net debt are discussed in section 3.7.
The final dividend declared for FY2011 maintains our progressive dividend policy.
Our capital management initiatives and successful completion of the US$10 billion capital management program are discussed in section 3.7.
Project pipeline and growth options Our project pipeline focuses on high-margin commodities that are expected to create signi cant future value.
The details of our project pipeline are located in section 3.7.
2 of this Report, with a summary presented below.
Year ended 30 June 2011 2010 2009 Project pipeline and growth options major projects Number of projects approved during the year 11 2 4 Number of projects currently under development approved in prior years 7 8 8 Number of completed projects 3 5 7 Budgeted capital expenditure for projects approved in the year US$M 12,942 695 5,850 Budgeted capital expenditure for projects under development approved in prior years US$M 11,575 10,075 8,115 Capital expenditure of completed projects US$M 1,202 4,738 4,061 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 83 3 Operating and financial review and prospects continued 3.4.
1 Commodity prices 3.4 External factors and trends FY2011 saw prices for most commodities in our suite increase affecting our results substantially over FY2010.
During the first half of the year, The following section describes some of the external factors and the global recovery gathered pace, with developing economies trends that have had a material impact on our financial condition clearly leading economic growth.
Commodity prices increased and results of operations.
We operate our business in a dynamic and through to February 2011 with a weak US dollar, improved changing environment and with information that is rarely complete manufacturing and trade in Europe and the US, and strong and exact.
We primarily manage the risks discussed in this section manufacturing and construction in Asia.
under our portfolio management approach, which relies on the The Japanese Fukushima nuclear incident, which occurred during effects of diversi cation, rather than individual price risk management March 2011, caused a correction in commodity markets.
Details of our financial risk management strategies and closely followed by civil unrest in the Middle East and North Africa, financial instruments outstanding at 30 June 2011 may be found which held global sentiment for commodities back from its February in note 28 Financial risk management in the financial statements.
Macro risks, including concern about Management monitors particular trends arising in the external sovereign debt levels in Europe, persistent weakness in US factors with a view to managing the potential impact of our future employment and a slowing Chinese economy, limited upside financial condition and results of operations.
The following external to prices in the latter part of FY2011.
factors could have a material adverse effect on our business and The following table shows prices of our most signi cant areas where we make decisions on the basis of information that commodities for the years ended 30 June 2011, 2010 and 2009. is incomplete or uncertain.
These prices represent the average quoted price except where otherwise indicated.
3 Platts Gas daily based on Henry Hub.
4 2010 and 2011 Platts 62 per cent Fe Cost, Insurance and Freight CIF China.
6 Bulk FerroAlloy high-carbon ferromanganese HCFeMn US ex-warehouse.
7 2010 and 2011 CRU China spot import M 1 43.5 per cent contained.
8 2009 CRU China spot import 45 per cent contained.
9 2011 Platts 64 Mid Volatile Index Hard coking coal FOB Australia.
10 2010 and 2009 Tex Reports Hard coking coal FOB Australia.
84 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 3.4.
1 Commodity prices continued Energy coal: The  CFR API 2 price increased from US$94.47 per tonne at the beginning of FY2011 to The following summarises the trends of our most signi cant US$122.9 per tonne at year-end.
The Richards Bay Coal Terminal commodities for FY2011.
RBCT FOB API 4 price increased from US$91.6 per tonne at the Aluminium: London Metal Exchange LME prices increased from beginning of FY2011 to US$117.5 per tonne at year-end.
The Newcastle US$1,924 per tonne at the beginning of FY2011 to US$2,509 per FOB API 3 price increased from US$98.3 per tonne at the beginning tonne at year-end.
The average LME aluminium price for FY2011 of FY2011 to US$121 per tonne at year-end.
The average Newcastle was US$2,375 per tonne, 18 per cent above the average for FY2010.
FOB API 3 price for FY2011 was US$120.4 per tonne, 40 per cent The LME reached a lowest point of US$1,912 per tonne in July 2010, above the average for FY2010.
The average RBCT FOB API 4 price and a highest point of US$2,772 per tonne in April 2011.
The price for FY2011 was US$116.7 per tonne, 54 per cent above the average rise was mainly driven by a combination of rising energy prices, for FY2010.
Strong price levels were supported by supply disruptions US dollar weakness, strong investor activities and tighter aluminium in the key export regions including Australia, South Africa, Colombia fundamentals.
During the year, demand recovered globally.
and Indonesia during the Northern Hemisphere winter period, Aluminium consumption was up by 12 per cent year-on-year particularly in January 2011 when both RBCT and Newcastle FOB in FY2011 on a world ex-China basis.
In China, 1.6 million tonnes prices reached the highest levels since October 2008.
Prices eased per annum mtpa of production capacity was reduced to meet towards the end of the financial year as supply showed some energy intensity reduction targets by December 2010.
However, recovery and demand from China and India was weaker than higher prices brought 1.1 mtpa of idled capacity back to production expected.
Estimated unadjusted Chinese imports in FY2011 were in the second half of FY2011.
at 81 Mt, compared with 85 Mt in FY2010.
Lower demand was driven by high stockpiles at key ports and power plants, suf cient Alumina: Spot prices increased from US$320 per tonne free on hydro power generation and high global prices.
board FOB Australia at the beginning of FY2011 to US$395 per tonne at year-end.
The average alumina price for FY2011 was US$369 per Gas: The US Henry Hub natural gas price decreased from US$4.68 per tonne, 18 per cent above the average in FY2010.
Higher prices million British thermal units MMBtu at the beginning of FY2011 to were due to rising energy prices, higher aluminium demand and US$4.39 per MMBtu at year-end.
The UK National Balancing Point production disruptions in Australia and Brazil.
Non-Chinese alumina NBP natural gas price increased from US$6.55 per MMBtu at the production increased approximately four per cent year-on-year.
beginning of FY2011 to US$9.36 per MMBtu at year-end.
The Asian China domestic supply grew by 13 per cent in FY2011 compared spot LNG price as re ected by the Platts Japan Korea Marker JKM with the same period in the prior year.
Chinas growing demand increased from US$7.8 per MMBtu at the beginning of FY2011 to for bauxite to feed growing domestic alumina capacity meant US$13.80 per MMBtu at year-end.
The average Henry Hub gas price it imported 37.1 million tonnes Mt in FY2011, an increase of for FY2011 was US$4.16 per MMBtu, one per cent below the average 38 per cent from the prior year.
The average UK National Balancing Point NBP natural Copper: LME prices increased from US$2.96 per pound lb at the gas price for FY2011 was US$8.33 per MMBtu, 69 per cent above the average for FY2010.
The trading ranges through the year were volatile, beginning of FY2011 to US$4.22 per lb at year-end.
The average with the Henry Hub price reaching a high of US$4.94 per MMBtu in LME copper price for FY2011 was US$3.92 per lb, 29 per cent above August 2010 and dropping to a low of US$3.18 per MMBtu in October the average for FY2010.
The trading range through the year was 2010.
The NBP price ranged from a low of US$5.10 per MMBtu in volatile with a low of US$2.88 per lb in July 2010, rising to a peak September 2010 to a high of US$10.50 per MMBtu in March 2011. of US$4.60 per lb in February 2011.
During the first half of FY2011, During FY2011, global gas demand increased, particularly in the prices were driven by the quicker than expected demand recovery power generation sector in both the Atlantic and Paci c markets.
in the developed world and the continued strength of Chinese net This was supported by some improvement in underlying economic cathode imports.
Chinese imports for the first half of FY2011 totalled activity, extreme weather conditions and the Japanese Fukushima 1,368 kilotonne kt.
In the second half of FY2011, Chinese fabricators nuclear incident in the second half of FY2011.
The US market remained were reluctant to increase copper cathode purchases, relying largely insulated from global events and was over-supplied due instead on drawing down their own inventory levels, with only to strong shale gas production, which pushed the Henry Hub 954 kt imported from January to June 2011.
In addition, US and price lower.
Europe demand growth slowed from the first half of FY2011, pushing copper premia down across the developed regions.
Iron Ore: The iron ore spot price increased from US$134 per tonne at the beginning of FY2011 to US$170.75 per tonne at year-end.
Crude oil: The New York Mercantile Exchange West Texas Intermediate The average spot iron ore price for FY2011 was US$162.98 per tonne, NYMEX WTI crude oil price increased from US$75.59 per barrel 37 per cent above the average for FY2010.
Prices ranged from a low bbl at the beginning of FY2011 to US$95.42 per bbl at year-end.
of US$116 per tonne in July 2010 to a high of US$193 per tonne in The average WTI oil price for FY2011 was US$89.47 per bbl, February 2011.
Prices for the first quarter of FY2011 were constrained 19 per cent above the FY2010 average.
The Intercontinental by the seasonal decrease in global pig iron production, which reached Exchange ICE Brent oil price increased from US$74.97 per bbl its FY2011 low in September 2010.
Prices broadly followed an at the beginning of FY2011 to US$112.48 per bbl at year-end.
upward trajectory driven by increased global steel production, The average ICE Brent oil price for FY2011 was US$96.45 per bbl, and a corresponding increase in iron ore demand, combined with 28 per cent above the FY2010 average.
During the year, WTI oil seasonally constrained supply from Australia and Brazil.
Post the reached a low of US$71.63 per bbl in August 2010 and a peak of price peak of February 2011, iron ore prices decreased to an average US$113.93 per bbl in April 2011, while ICE Brent experienced a low of US$178 per tonne in the last quarter of FY2011 due to uncertainty of US$71.45 per bbl in July 2010 and a high of US$126.65 per bbl in the Chinese downstream steel market and further rounds in April 2011 as both benchmarks were impacted by the Middle East of credit tightening.
and North Africa unrest in the second half of FY2011.
The WTI-Brent differential was an important feature of the oil market as the spread exceeded a record US$20 per bbl level due in part to the US pipeline bottleneck issues and some tightness in the North Sea markets.
However, the oil price gains were later partially offset by growing concerns over the global macroeconomic outlook and subsequent impact on global oil demand.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 85 3 Operating and financial review and prospects continued 3.4.
2 Freight markets Manganese: Manganese ore prices decreased from US$8.70 per dry The bulk freight market is typically categorised by the size of the metric tonne unit dmtu at the beginning of FY2011 to US$5.24 per vessel.
Capesize vessels are typically classi ed as having deadweight dmtu at year-end.
The average manganese ore price delivered to above 150 thousand deadweight tonnes kdwt compared with China for FY2011 was US$6.29 per dmtu, three per cent below the Panamax and Supramax vessels, which are 60 to 100 kdwt and average for FY2010.
Silicomanganese alloy prices in the US decreased 50 to 60 kdwt respectively.
from US$1,435 per tonne at the beginning of FY2011 to US$1,367 per The Capesize average 4 Time Charter rate, being a particular tonne by year-end.
Manganese alloy prices in Europe decreased from rate published by the Baltic Exchange, declined from US$24,239 per US$1,458 per tonne at the beginning of FY2011 to US$1,286 per day at the beginning of FY2011 to US$12,732 per day at year end.
High-carbon ferromanganese alloy prices in the Capesize freight rates dropped as low as US$4,567 per day in US decreased from US$1,400 per tonne at the beginning of FY2011 February 2011 as major supplying regions suffered adverse weather to US$1,320 per tonne by year-end.
High-carbon ferromanganese alloy conditions resulting in lower cargo availability.
The Panamax prices in Europe decreased from US$1,458 per tonne at the beginning average 6 Time Charter rate declined from US$22,113 per day of FY2011 to US$1,257 per tonne by year-end.
Despite substantially at the beginning of FY2011 to US$12,823 per day at the year-end.
lower ore input costs, manganese alloy prices continued to trade The Supramax average 4 Time Charter rate decreased from in a relatively narrow band due to increased costs of coking coal US$21,607 per day at the beginning of FY2011 to US$13,682 per and power from the second half of FY2011 onwards.
Although the demand for bulk commodities Metallurgical coal: The quarterly negotiated prices increased from was strong, the freight market saw oversupply due to the many US$225 per tonne at the beginning of FY2011 to US$330 per tonne newbuild vessels entering the market.
The total dry bulk eet at year-end.
Platts 64 Mid Volatile Index spot coking coal prices grew by 17 per cent year-on-year in CY2010, the fastest growth increased from US$202 per tonne at the beginning of FY2011 to for many years.
The coking coal market weakened 3.4.
3 Exchange rates in the first half of FY2011 on subdued demand growth in traditional We are exposed to exchange rate transaction risk on foreign coking coal importing countries and more than adequate supply currency sales and purchases as we believe that active currency to meet this demand.
However, heavy rains in Queensland during hedging does not provide long-term bene ts to our shareholders.
September to November 2010, and resultant oods in late December, Because a majority of our sales are denominated in US dollars, and caused signi cant supply disruptions.
With the sharp reduction the US dollar plays a dominant role in our business, we borrow and in available seaborne tonnages, the market became very tight hold surplus cash predominantly in US dollars to provide a natural in the third quarter of FY2011 and the Platts 64 Mid Volatile Index hedge.
Operating costs and costs of local equipment are in uenced price rose to a peak of US$336 per tonne in January 2011. by the uctuations in the Australian dollar, South African rand, Nickel: LME prices increased from US$8.81 per lb at the beginning Chilean peso and Brazilian real.
Foreign exchange gains and of FY2011 to US$10.49 per lb at year-end.
The average nickel price losses re ected in operating costs owing to uctuations in the for FY2011 was US$10.86 per lb, 24 per cent above the average abovementioned currencies relative to the US dollar may potentially for FY2010.
Higher prices were underpinned by the improved offset one another.
The Australian dollar, Brazilian real, Chilean global economic recovery, service centre re-stocking and strong peso and South African rand strengthened against the US dollar underlying consumption.
The fall of the nickel price in early May during FY2011.
2011 was caused by a general sell-off by investors.
This drop led to We are also exposed to exchange rate translation risk in relation a wait-and-see purchasing behaviour among stainless distributors to net monetary liabilities, being our foreign currency denominated and end-users in the following months.
On the supply side, more monetary assets and liabilities, including debt and other long-term nickel production was added in the first half of FY2011, whereas liabilities other than closure and rehabilitation provisions the second half of the year was characterised by supply disruptions.
at operating sites where foreign currency gains and losses Partially offsetting these disruptions was a particularly high level are capitalised in property, plant and equipment.
of nickel pig iron production in China.
Details of our exposure to foreign currency uctuations are The following table indicates the estimated impact on FY2011 contained within note 28 Financial risk management to the pro t after taxation of changes in the prices of our most signi cant financial statements.
With the exception of price-linked costs, the sensitivities below assume that all other variables, such as exchange rate, costs, 3.4.
4 Interest rates volumes and taxation, remain constant.
There is an inter-relationship We are exposed to interest rate risk on our outstanding borrowings between changes in commodity prices and changes in currencies and investments.
Our policy on interest rate exposure is for interest that is not re ected in the sensitivities below.
Volumes are based on our borrowings to be on a US dollar oating interest rate basis.
on FY2011 actual results and sale prices of our commodities under Deviation from our policy requires the prior approval of our Financial a mix of short-, mediumand long-term contracts.
Movements in Risk Management Committee, and is managed within our Cash commodity prices can cause movements in exchange rates and Flow at Risk CFaR limit, which is described in note 28 Financial vice versa.
These sensitivities should therefore be used with care.
risk management in the financial statements.
When required under this strategy, we use interest rate swaps, including cross currency Estimated impact on FY2011 profit after taxation interest rate swaps, to convert a xed rate exposure to a oating of changes of: US$M rate exposure.
As at 30 June 2011, we had US$0.8 billion of xed US$1 bbl on oil price 43 interest borrowings that had not been swapped to oating rates, US1 lb on aluminium price 20 arising principally from legacy positions that were in existence prior to the merger that created the DLC structure.
US1 lb on copper price 18 US1 lb on nickel price 1 US$1 t on iron ore price 80 US$1 t on manganese alloy 0.5 US$1 dmtu on manganese ore 138 US$1 t on metallurgical coal price 22 US$1 t on energy coal price 24 The impact of the commodity price movements in FY2011 is discussed in section 3.6 Operating results.
86 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 3.4.
5 Changes in product demand The Group continues to be largely self-insured for losses arising from property damage and business interruption, sabotage Global economic growth slowed during the second half of FY2011 and terrorism, marine cargo and construction.
For these risks, as emerging economies tightened monetary policy, the Japanese we internally insure our operations for wholly owned assets tsunami disrupted trade ows and scal austerity measures adversely and for our share of joint venture assets via our captive insurance affected demand.
Global imbalances and high levels of sovereign companies.
Any losses incurred will consequently impact the debt continue to create uncertainty and a protracted recovery financial statements as they arise.
remains our base case assumption for the developed world.
However, a coordinated policy response has the potential to engender con dence and ease the volatility that has been the 3.5 Application of critical accounting policies dominant theme of recent years.
The preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires Across the important growth economies of China and India, recent management to make estimates and judgements that affect economic data suggests monetary policy is having the intended the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure effect.
That said, growth in xed asset investment in China has of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements remained resilient and is yet to fully re ect the recent policy response.
and the reported revenue and costs during the periods presented Despite these near term challenges, we remain positive on the therein.
On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates longer-term outlook for the global economy.
Over the past decade, and judgements in relation to assets, liabilities, contingent liabilities, emerging economies have contributed more to global growth than revenue and costs.
Management bases its estimates and judgements the developed world and we expect their share to expand as the on historical experience and on various other factors it believes process of urbanisation and industrialisation continues.
to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making judgements about the carrying values 3.4.
6 Operating costs and capital expenditure of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other During FY2011, total cash costs increased by four per cent, which sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates under arose from increases in costs that are structural in nature.
Higher different assumptions and conditions.
fuel and energy prices of which BHP Billiton is a net bene ciary We have identi ed the following critical accounting policies under together with increased maintenance, labour and contractor costs which signi cant judgements, estimates and assumptions are made are consistent with the corresponding level of activity occurring and where actual results may differ from these estimates under within the mining industry as a whole.
In conjunction with safety different assumptions and conditions and may materially affect and volumes, cost control continues to be a key area of focus for financial results or the financial position reported in future periods: each area of operation.
reserve estimates: Our commitment to long-term growth and shareholder value exploration and evaluation expenditure: remains unchanged, and we continued to invest strongly in capital development expenditure: expenditure and growth projects.
Details of our growth projects property, plant and equipment recoverable amount: can be found in section 3.7.
2. fide ned bene t pension schemes: 3.4.
7 Exploration and development of resources provision for closure and rehabilitation: Because most of our revenues and pro ts are related to our taxation.
oil and gas and minerals operations, our results and financial condition are directly related to the success of our exploration In accordance with IFRS, we are required to include information efforts and our ability to replace existing reserves.
However, there regarding the nature of the estimates and judgements and potential are no guarantees that our exploration program will be successful.
impacts on our financial results or financial position in the financial When we identify an economic deposit, there are often signi cant statements.
This information can be found in note 1 Accounting challenges and hurdles entailed in its development, such as policies in the financial statements.
negotiating rights to extract ore with governments and landowners, design and construction of required infrastructure, utilisation 3.6 Operating results of new technologies in processing and building customer support.
8 Health, safety, environment and community Year ended 30 June 2011 compared with year We are subject to extensive regulation surrounding the health ended 30 June 2010 and safety of our people and the environment.
We make every Our strategic focus on large, low-cost and expandable assets effort to comply with the regulations and, where less stringent once again delivered record financial performance and returns.
than our standards, exceed applicable legal and other requirements.
Underlying EBITDA and attributable pro t excluding exceptional However, regulatory standards and community expectations are items increased by 51 per cent and 74 per cent respectively, while constantly evolving.
As a result, we may be exposed to increased Underlying return on capital, excluding investment associated with litigation, compliance costs and unforeseen environmental projects not yet in production, increased to 50 per cent.
The strong rehabilitation expenses, despite our best efforts to work with increase in the Groups Underlying EBIT margin to 47 per cent governments, community groups and scientists to keep pace emphasises the quality of BHP Billitons diversi ed portfolio.
with regulations, law and public expectations.
An ongoing commitment to invest through all points of the economic Further information about our compliance with HSEC regulations cycle delivered record annual production across four commodities can be found in section 2.8 of this Report.
Our decision to invest in our Western Australia 3.4.
9 Insurance Iron Ore business during the depths of the global financial crisis During FY2011, we maintained an insurance program with policies facilitated an eleventh consecutive annual increase in iron ore encompassing property damage, business interruption, public production, as prices continued to test new highs.
Three major and certain other liabilities and directors and of cers exposures.
projects delivered first production in FY2011, including the New The program includes a combination of self-insurance via subsidiary South Wales Energy Coal MAC20 Project Australia, which was captive insurance companies, industry mutuals and external market completed ahead of schedule.
Mandates are established as to risk retention levels, Robust demand, industry-wide cost pressures and persistent supply policy cover and, where applicable, reinsurance counter parties.
side constraints continued to support the fundamentals for the As part of our portfolio risk management policy, we regularly majority of BHP Billitons core commodities.
In that context, another conduct an assessment of maximum foreseeable loss potential, strong year of growth in Chinese crude steel production ensured cash ow at risk, loss experience, claims received and insurance steelmaking material prices were the major contributing factor premiums paid and will make adjustments to the balance to the US$17,228 million price related increase in Underlying EBIT.
of self-insurance and reinsurance as required.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 87 3 Operating and financial review and prospects continued 3.6.
1 Consolidated results continued The combination of these factors underpinned strong margins and returns.
For the sixth consecutive year, we recorded an However, we have regularly highlighted our belief that costs tend to Underlying EBIT margin of around 40 per cent, while Underlying lag the commodity price cycle as consumable, labour and contractor return on capital was 26 per cent.
Excluding capital investment costs are broadly correlated with the mining industrys level of activity.
associated with projects not yet in production, Underlying return In the current environment, tight labour and raw material markets on capital was 30 per cent.
are presenting a challenge for all operators, and BHP Billiton is not immune from that trend.
The devaluation of the US dollar and Operating cash ow for the year remained strong at in ation reduced Underlying EBIT by a further US$3,161 million.
US$16,890 million and resulted in net debt declining further to US$3,308 million, with net gearing falling to six per cent.
Record operating cash ow of US$30,080 million continues to create These results continue to demonstrate the strength of our substantial exibility for the Group.
In the 12-month period alone, uniquely diversi ed business model and world-class, low-cost we have invested US$12,387 million across our tier one portfolio asset portfolio.
of minerals and energy assets, completed a US$10 billion capital management program and nalised the acquisition of Chesapeake We invested heavily in our business and successfully delivered Energy Corporations interests in the Fayetteville Shale assets US.
another five growth projects, including those in petroleum and Notwithstanding those achievements, net gearing of nine per cent iron ore. We approved two major growth projects with a combined at the end of FY2011 ensures BHP Billiton has the capacity to budget of US$695 million and made pre-commitments totalling comfortably fund its extensive organic growth program and the US$2,237 million our share to accelerate early works for another US$15.1 billion acquisition of Petrohawk Energy Corporation that four.
To underline the depth of our project pipeline, there were was announced on 14 July 2011.
Importantly, the Group remains 20 projects in various stages of execution and feasibility with committed to a solid A credit rating.
an estimated budget in excess of US$25 billion.
The consistent and disciplined manner in which we return excess We also bolstered our upstream resource base with the acquisition capital to shareholders was further illustrated by the completion of Athabasca Potash Inc. Canada and United Minerals Corporation of our expanded US$10 billion capital management program on NL Australia, Iron Ore. On 20 August 2010, we launched an all-cash 29 June 2011, six months ahead of schedule.
Completion of offer to acquire all of the issued and outstanding common shares the substantial program in such a timely manner highlights of Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan Inc. PotashCorp at a price our commitment to maintain an appropriate capital structure, of US$130 in cash per PotashCorp common share.
irrespective of the economic cycle.
Since 2004, the Group has Revenue was US$52.8 billion, an increase of 5.2 per cent from repurchased a cumulative US$22,600 million of Limited Ltd US$50.2 billion in FY2009.
and Plc shares, representing 15 per cent of then issued capital.
Our pro t attributable to members of BHP Billiton of US$12.7 billion Con dence in the long-term outlook for our core commodity represented an increase of 116.5 per cent from FY2009.
Attributable markets and the accelerated purchase and cancellation of pro t excluding exceptional items of US$12.5 billion represented an four per cent of issued capital during FY2011, has enabled the increase of 16.3 per cent from FY2009.
BHP Billiton Board to declare a 22 per cent rebasing of the final dividend.
The increase in the full year payout to 101 US cents On 25 August 2010, the Board declared a final dividend of per share is consistent with the Groups commitment to its 45 US cents per share, thus bringing the total dividends declared progressive dividend policy.
for FY2010 to 87 US cents per share.
Capital management initiatives are discussed in section 3.7.
Revenue was US$71.7 billion, an increase of 35.9 per cent from US$52.8 billion in the corresponding period.
2 Consolidated results Underlying EBIT Our pro t attributable to members of BHP Billiton of US$23.6 billion In discussing the operating results of our business, we focus on a represents an increase of 85.9 per cent from the corresponding financial measure we refer to as Underlying EBIT.
Attributable pro t excluding exceptional items of is the key measure that management uses internally to assess the US$21.7 billion represents an increase of 73.9 per cent from performance of our business, make decisions on the allocation of the corresponding period.
resources and assess operational management.
Management uses this measure because nancing structures and tax regimes differ On 24 August 2011, the Board declared a final dividend of 55 US cents across our assets and substantial components of our tax and per share, thus bringing the total dividends declared for FY2011 interest charges are levied at a Group, rather than an operational to 101 US cents per share, an increase of 16.1 per cent over the level.
Underlying EBIT is calculated as earnings before interest and corresponding period.
Capital management initiatives are discussed taxation EBIT, which is referred to as pro t from operations in in section 3.7.
the income statement, excluding the effects of exceptional items.
Year ended 30 June 2010 compared with year We exclude exceptional items from Underlying EBIT in order to ended 30 June 2009 enhance the comparability of the measure from period to period We delivered another strong set of results in FY2010 despite and provide clarity into the underlying performance of our signi cant volatility in the macroeconomic environment with operations.
Our management monitors exceptional items separately.
growth in Underlying EBIT of eight per cent.
Record sales volumes A reconciliation from Underlying EBIT to pro t from operations were achieved in three of our major commodities as our focus can be found in section 3.3 Key measures.
on ef ciency and productivity at all points in the cycle ensured we were well positioned to capitalise on the recovery in demand and prices.
Local currency costs were well controlled across the Group: however, the weaker US dollar had a negative exchange rate impact of US$2,150 million.
88 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 3.6.
2 Consolidated results Underlying EBIT continued The following table and commentary describe the approximate impact of the principal factors that affected Underlying EBIT for FY2011 and FY2010.
2011 2011 2010 2010 Year ended 30 June US$M US$M US$M US$M Underlying EBIT as reported in the prior year 19,719 18,214 Change in volumes: Increase in volumes 841 2,142 Decrease in volumes 1,422 206 581 1,936 Net price impact: Change in sales prices 18,648 778 Price-linked costs 1,420 241 17,228 1,019 Change in costs: Costs rate and usage 1,412 2 Exchange rates 2,526 2,150 Inflation on costs 635 400 4,573 2,552 Asset sales 85 82 Ceased and sold operations 140 526 New and acquired operations 1,153 966 Exploration and business development 328 239 Other 413 711 Underlying EBIT 31,980 19,719 Year ended 30 June 2011 compared with year Costs ended 30 June 2010 BHP Billiton has regularly highlighted its belief that costs tend Underlying EBIT for FY2011 was US$32.0 billion, compared to lag the commodity price cycle as consumable, labour and with US$19.7 billion in the corresponding period, an increase contractor costs are broadly correlated with the mining industrys of 62.2 per cent.
In the current environment of elevated commodity prices, tight labour and raw material markets are presenting Volumes a challenge for all operators.
Excluding the impact of a weaker BHP Billiton achieved production records across four commodities US dollar, in ation and an increase in non-cash items, costs and 10 operations during FY2011.
Western Australia Iron Ore decreased Underlying EBIT by US$1.2 billion.
shipments rose to a record annualised rate of 155 million tonnes per annum mtpa in the June 2011 quarter and, when combined Higher fuel and energy prices of which BHP Billiton is a net with strong operating performance at Samarco Brazil, enabled bene ciary, together with increased maintenance, labour and iron ore volumes to contribute an additional US$572 million to contractor costs, accounted for the majority of the impact and Underlying EBIT.
reduced Underlying EBIT by US$878 million.
The completion and successful ramp-up of the MAC20 Project ahead Cost performance in the large bulk commodity businesses is of schedule underpinned record production at New South Wales heavily in uenced by the ability to leverage infrastructure and Energy Coal in the period.
When considered in conjunction with maximise volumes.
In this regard, the weather related disruption a 13 per cent increase in South Africa Coal production, Energy Coal at our Queensland Coal Australia business had a negative impact volumes increased Underlying EBIT by US$177 million in FY2011.
on unit costs in the period.
The major cost offset was related to the recovery in operating performance that followed last years Clark However, broader challenges continued to delay the supply Shaft outage at Olympic Dam Australia.
response of the industry over the 12-month period.
For example, metallurgical coal supply was signi cantly affected by persistent Non-cash items, predominantly depreciation, reduced Underlying wet weather in the Bowen Basin Australia, while ongoing EBIT by a further US$255 million and re ected the ongoing delivery permitting delays in the Gulf of Mexico US continued to impact of our organic growth program.
In aggregate, volumes reduced BHP Billiton Exchange rates Underlying EBIT by US$581 million in FY2011 despite generally A weaker US dollar against producer currencies reduced Underlying strong operating performance.
EBIT by US$2,526 million, which included a US$735 million variance Prices related to the restatement of monetary items in the balance sheet.
Robust demand driven by the emerging economies, a general The Australian operations were the most heavily impacted.
The strong elevation and steepening of global commodity cost curves and Australian dollar reduced Underlying EBIT by US$2.1 billion, which the persistent theme of supply side constraint, were all catalysts included a US$640 million variance related to the restatement of for higher commodity prices that increased Underlying EBIT by monetary items in the balance sheet.
The absolute impact on costs US$18,648 million in the period.
Another strong year of growth as a result of the restatement of monetary items in the balance in Chinese crude steel production ensured steelmaking material sheet was a loss of US$807 million in FY2011.
prices were the major contributing factor, as they alone increased Average and closing exchange rates for FY2011 and FY2010 are Underlying EBIT by US$11.1 billion.
Price-linked costs including detailed in note 1 to the financial statements.
royalties reduced Underlying EBIT by US$1,420 million.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 89 3 Operating and financial review and prospects continued 3.6.
2 Consolidated results Underlying EBIT continued Solid operating performance was recorded across the remaining CSGs.
In Base Metals, Escondida Chile and Cannington Australia In ation on costs both bene ted from higher throughput and grade, while In ationary pressure on costs across all businesses had an Olympic Dam Australia and Spence Chile were impacted unfavourable impact on Underlying EBIT of US$635 million.
The pressure was most evident in Australia and South Africa, which accounted for over two-thirds of the total impact.
Escondida production is expected to decline by five to 10 per cent in FY2011, mainly due to lower grade.
Asset sales The pro t on the sale of assets was US$85 million lower than the Prices corresponding period largely due to the dissolution of the Douglas Prices including the impact of linked costs increased Underlying Tavistock Joint Venture South Africa, which increased Underlying EBIT by US$1,019 million, of which iron ore and the base and EBIT in the prior period.
precious metals complex contributed US$5,265 million.
Lower prices for coal both forms and manganese were the offsetting factors Ceased and sold operations and reduced Underlying EBIT by US$4,401 million.
The currency revaluation of rehabilitation and closure provisions Price-linked costs were US$241 million lower than FY2009.
for ceased operations was the major driver of the US$140 million reduction in Underlying EBIT.
During the second half of FY2010, the old benchmark pricing New and acquired operations system for iron ore and metallurgical coal was substantially replaced by shorter-term market-based pricing.
The transformation Assets are reported as new and acquired operations until there ensures the majority of BHP Billitons bulk commodities iron ore, is a full year comparison.
New operations increased Underlying manganese, metallurgical coal and energy coal are now linked EBIT by US$1,153 million primarily due to strong performance to market-based prices.
at the BHP Billiton operated Pyrenees oil facility Australia and the inaugural contribution from the recently acquired Fayetteville Additional detail on the effect of price changes appears Shale assets.
Exploration and business development Costs Group exploration expense increased marginally in FY2011 to Excluding the signi cant impact of a weaker US dollar and US$1.1 billion.
Within Minerals US$577 million expense, the focus an increase in non-cash items US$219 million, costs were centred upon copper targets in South America, Mongolia and well controlled across the Group, adding US$217 million to Zambia: nickel and copper targets in Australia: and diamond targets Underlying EBIT in FY2010.
Exploration for iron ore, potash, uranium and manganese Raw materials, including fuel and energy, generated the greatest was undertaken in a number of regions including Australia, Asia, bene t and increased Underlying EBIT by US$576 million, although Africa and the Americas.
the majority of the bene t was non-structural in nature.
Petroleum exploration expense was US$477 million and included In contrast, higher labour and contractor rates continued to a US$73 million impairment of exploration previously capitalised.
negatively impact the cost base, particularly in South America and Exploration drilling activity was delayed in the Gulf of Mexico due Australia.
At Spence, Escondida and Cerro Colorado Chile one-off to new regulatory permitting processes, but was partially offset by wage negotiations, bonuses and contractor payments reduced an increase in the acquisition and processing of geophysical data.
Underlying EBIT by US$145 million.
Similarly, Western Australias BHP Billitons proven operating capability in the deepwater remains higher labour costs associated with the tight labour market reduced an important competitive advantage and the Group will continue Western Australia Iron Ore Underlying EBIT by US$45 million.
to invest in an extensive exploration program that is focused on the Gulf of Mexico, South China Sea and Australia.
Non-cash and other items reduced Underlying EBIT by a combined US$537 million.
The major negative factors were higher depreciation Expenditure on business development reduced Underlying EBIT in Western Australia Iron Ore and a provision for a payment to by an additional US$303 million compared with the prior period the Western Australian Government that was expected following as Base Metals progressed a number of its development options, the announced amendments to the State Agreements.
including Olympic Dam Project ODP1 and the Spence Hypogene project Chile.
Increased activity on the Scarborough and Browse Exchange rates lique ed natural gas projects both Australia in FY2011 also A weaker US dollar against all producer currencies reduced contributed to the rise in the business development expense.
Underlying EBIT by US$2,150 million.
The Australian operations were the most impacted, with the strong Australian dollar Other decreasing Underlying EBIT by US$1,779 million.
Other items decreased Underlying EBIT by US$413 million and included provisions totalling US$189 million related to indirect Average and closing exchange rates for FY2010 and FY2009 taxes in the Aluminium and Iron Ore businesses, and Colombian are detailed in note 1 to the financial statements.
net worth tax in Stainless Steel Materials and Energy Coal.
In ation on costs Year ended 30 June 2010 compared with year In ationary pressure on input costs across all businesses had ended 30 June 2009 an unfavourable impact on Underlying EBIT of US$400 million.
Underlying EBIT for FY2010 was US$19.7 billion, compared The effect was most evident in Australia and South Africa.
with US$18.2 billion, an increase of 8.3 per cent from FY2009.
Asset sales Volumes The pro t on the sale of assets increased Underlying EBIT by Strong performance from steelmaking raw materials was the major US$82 million.
This was mainly due to the pro t that followed contributor to the volume related increase in Underlying EBIT dissolution of the Douglas Tavistock Joint Venture arrangement of US$1,936 million.
In that context, our strategy to maximise South Africa.
production from our low-cost assets at all points in the cycle ideally Ceased and sold operations positioned our Metallurgical Coal and Manganese businesses Lower operational losses for Yabulu and Ravensthorpe both to capitalise on the improvement in market demand.
In Western Australia and the Suriname alumina re nery, which were sold Australias Pilbara region, ongoing commitment to growth delivered during FY2010, resulted in a favourable impact on Underlying the tenth consecutive record in iron ore sales, while a recovery in EBIT of US$526 million.
pellet demand enabled Samarco Brazil to return to full capacity.
90 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 3.6.
2 Consolidated results Underlying EBIT continued Exchange rate movements decreased taxation expense by US$1.5 billion 2010: increase of US$106 million: 2009: increase New and acquired operations of US$444 million predominantly due to the revaluation of local New green eld assets are reported in new and acquired operations currency deferred tax assets arising from future tax depreciation variance until there is a full year comparison.
BHP Billiton operated of US$2.5 billion, partly offset by the revaluation of local currency oil and gas facilities, Shenzi US and Pyrenees Australia, contributed tax liabilities and deferred tax balances arising from other monetary an additional US$966 million to Underlying EBIT in FY2010.
items and temporary differences, which amounted to US$1.0 billion.
Exploration and business development Total taxation expense, including royalty-related taxation and Exploration expense was broadly at for FY2010 at US$1,030 million.
the predominantly non-cash exceptional items and exchange Within Minerals US$467 million expense, the focus centred upon rate movements described above, was US$7.3 billion, representing copper in Chile and Zambia, nickel in Australia, manganese in an effective tax rate of 23.4 per cent 2010: 33.5 per cent: Gabon, and diamonds in Canada.
Exploration for iron ore, coal, 2009: 45.4 per cent.
bauxite, potash and manganese was also undertaken in a number Year ended 30 June 2010 compared with year of regions, including Australia, Canada, South America, Russia and Africa.
ended 30 June 2009 The taxation expense including royalty-related taxation and tax The Petroleum CSGs exploration expense increased to US$563 million on exceptional items was US$6,563 million.
This represented an as the business commenced a multi-year drilling campaign.
effective rate of 34 per cent on pro t before tax of US$19,572 million Expenditure on business development was US$195 million lower and including tax on exceptional items of US$59 million.
This was mainly due to reduced activity in the Base the impacts of exceptional items, the taxation expense was Metals and Stainless Steel Materials CSGs.
Other Exchange rate movements increased the taxation expense by Other items decreased Underlying EBIT by US$711 million, US$106 million predominantly due to the revaluation of local predominantly due to the in uence of third party product currency tax liabilities and other monetary items, which amounted sales and the fair value adjustment of derivative contracts.
This was offset by the increase in the US dollar value of future tax depreciation of US$396 million.
3 Net finance costs Royalty-related taxation represents an effective rate of two per cent Year ended 30 June 2011 compared with year for FY2010.
Excluding the impacts of royalty-related taxation, the ended 30 June 2010 impact of exchange rate movements included in taxation expense Net finance costs increased to US$561 million from US$459 million and tax on exceptional items, the underlying effective rate was in the corresponding period.
This was primarily driven by exchange 31 per cent.
rate variations on net debt and lower amounts of interest capitalised.
Government imposed royalty arrangements, which are calculated by Year ended 30 June 2010 compared with year reference to pro ts revenue net of allowable deductions after the ended 30 June 2009 adjustment for items comprising temporary differences, is reported Net finance costs decreased to US$459 million from US$543 million as royalty-related taxation.
Other royalty and excise arrangements in FY2009.
This was primarily driven by higher levels of that do not have these characteristics are recognised as operating capitalised interest.
4 Taxation expense Year ended 30 June 2011 compared with year ended 30 June 2010 Excluding the impacts of royalty-related taxation, exceptional items and exchange rate movements, taxation expense was US$10.1 billion representing an underlying effective tax rate of 32.1 per cent 2010: 30.9 per cent: 2009: 31.4 per cent.
Government imposed royalty arrangements calculated by reference to pro ts after adjustment for temporary differences are reported as royalty-related taxation.
Royalty-related taxation contributed US$828 million to taxation expense representing an effective rate of 2.6 per cent 2010: US$451 million and 2.3 per cent: 2009: US$495 million and 4.3 per cent.
Other royalty and excise arrangements, which do not have these characteristics, are recognised as operating costs within pro t before taxation.
These amounted to US$2.9 billion during the period 2010: US$1.7 billion: 2009: US$1.9 billion.
Exceptional items decreased taxation expense by US$2.1 billion 2010: increase of US$59 million: 2009: decrease of US$1.2 billion predominantly due to the reversal of deferred tax liabilities of US$1.5 billion following the election of eligible Australian entities to adopt a US dollar tax functional currency, as well as the release of tax provisions of US$718 million following the Groups position being con rmed with respect to Australian Taxation Of ce ATO amended assessments.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 91 3 Operating and financial review and prospects continued 3.6.
5 Exceptional items Year ended 30 June 2011 Year ended 30 June 2011 Gross US$M Tax US$M Net US$M Exceptional items by category Withdrawn offer for PotashCorp 314 314 Newcastle steelworks rehabilitation 150 45 105 Release of income tax provisions 718 718 Reversal of deferred tax liabilities 1,455 1,455 164 2,128 1,964 The Group withdrew its offer for Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan PotashCorp on 15 November 2010 following the Boards conclusion that the condition of the offer relating to receipt of a net bene t as determined by the Minister of Industry under the Investment Canada Act could not be satis ed.
The Group incurred fees associated with the US$45 billion debt facility US$240 million, investment bankers, lawyers and accountants fees, printing expenses and other charges US$74 million in progressing this matter during the period up to the withdrawal of the offer, which were expensed as operating costs in FY2011.
The Group recognised a decrease of US$150 million US$45 million tax charge to rehabilitation obligations in respect of former operations at the Newcastle steelworks Australia following a full review of the progress of the Hunter River Remediation Project Australia and estimated costs to completion.
The ATO issued amended assessments in prior years denying bad debt deductions arising from the investments in Beenup and Boodarie Iron both Australia and the denial of capital allowance claims made on the Boodarie Iron project.
The Group challenged the assessments and was successful on all counts before the Full Federal Court.
The ATO obtained special leave in September 2010 to appeal to the High Court in respect of the denial of capital allowance claims made on the Boodarie Iron project.
The Groups position in respect of the capital allowance claims on the Boodarie Iron project was con rmed by the High Court in June 2011.
As a result of these appeals, US$138 million was released from the Groups income tax provision in September 2010 and US$580 million in June 2011.
Consistent with the functional currency of the Groups operations, eligible Australian entities elected to adopt a US dollar tax functional currency from 1 July 2011.
As a result, the deferred tax liability relating to certain US dollar denominated financial arrangements has been derecognised, resulting in a credit to income tax expense of US$1,455 million.
Refer to note 3 Exceptional items in the financial statements for more information.
Year ended 30 June 2010 Year ended 30 June 2010 Gross US$M Tax US$M Net US$M Exceptional items by category Pinal Creek rehabilitation 186 53 133 Disposal of the Ravensthorpe nickel operation 653 196 457 Restructuring of operations and deferral of projects 298 12 286 Renegotiation of power supply agreements 229 50 179 Release of income tax provisions 128 128 312 59 253 On 22 February 2010, a settlement was reached in relation to the Pinal Creek US groundwater contamination, which resulted in other parties taking on full responsibility for groundwater rehabilitation and partly funding the Group for past and future rehabilitation costs incurred.
As a result, a gain of US$186 million US$53 million tax expense has been recognised re ecting the release of rehabilitation provisions and cash received.
On 9 December 2009, the Group announced it had signed an agreement to sell the Ravensthorpe nickel operations Australia.
The sale was completed on 10 February 2010.
As a result of the sale, impairment charges recognised as exceptional items in FY2009 have been partially reversed totalling US$611 million US$183 million tax expense.
In addition, certain obligations that remained with the Group were mitigated and related provisions released, together with minor net operating costs this resulted in a gain of US$42 million US$13 million tax expense.
Continuing power supply constraints impacting the Groups three Aluminium smelters in southern Africa, and temporary delays with the Guinea Alumina project, have given rise to charges for the impairment of property, plant and equipment and restructuring provisions.
A total charge of US$298 million US$12 million tax bene t was recognised by the Group in FY2010.
Renegotiation of long-term power supply arrangements in southern Africa impacted the value of embedded derivatives contained within those arrangements.
A total charge of US$229 million US$50 million tax bene t was recognised by the Group in FY2010.
The ATO issued amended assessments in prior years denying bad debt deductions arising from the investments in Hartley Zimbabwe, Beenup and Boodarie Iron and the denial of capital allowance claims made on the Boodarie Iron project.
BHP Billiton lodged objections and has been successful on all counts in the Federal Court and the Full Federal Court.
The ATO has not sought to appeal the Boodarie Iron bad debt disallowance to the High Court, which resulted in a release of US$128 million from the Groups income tax provisions.
The ATO sought special leave to appeal to the High Court in relation to the Beenup bad debt disallowance and the denial of the capital allowance claims on the Boodarie Iron project and has been granted special leave only in relation to the denial of the capital allowance claims on the Boodarie Iron project.
92 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 3.6.
5 Exceptional items continued Year ended 30 June 2009 Year ended 30 June 2009 Gross US$M Tax US$M Net US$M Exceptional items by category Suspension of Ravensthorpe nickel operations 3,615 1,076 2,539 Announced sale of Yabulu refinery 510 175 685 Withdrawal or sale of other operations 665 23 688 Deferral of projects and restructuring of operations 306 86 220 Newcastle steelworks rehabilitation 508 152 356 Lapsed offers for Rio Tinto 450 93 357 6,054 1,209 4,845 On 21 January 2009, we announced the suspension of operations at the Ravensthorpe nickel operations Australia and as a consequence stopped the processing of the mixed nickel cobalt hydroxide product at Yabulu Australia.
As a result, charges relating to impairment, increased provisions for contract cancellation, redundancy and other closure costs of US$3,615 million US$1,076 million tax bene t were recognised.
This exceptional item did not include the loss from operations of Ravensthorpe nickel operations of US$173 million.
On 3 July 2009, we announced the sale of the Yabulu nickel operations.
As a result, impairment charges of US$510 million US$ nil tax bene t were recognised in addition to those recognised on suspension of the Ravensthorpe nickel operations.
As a result of the sale, deferred tax assets of US$175 million that were no longer expected to be realised by the Group were recognised as a charge to income tax expense.
The remaining assets and liabilities of the Yabulu operations were classi ed as held for sale as at 30 June 2009.
As part of our regular review of the long-term viability of operations, a total charge of US$665 million US$23 million tax expense was recognised primarily in relation to the decisions to cease development of the Maruwai Haju trial mine Indonesia, sell the Suriname operations, suspend copper sulphide mining operations at Pinto Valley US and cease the pre-feasibility study at Corridor Sands Mozambique.
The remaining assets and liabilities of the Suriname operations were classi ed as held for sale as at 30 June 2009.
A further charge of US$306 million US$86 million tax bene t was recognised primarily in relation to the deferral of expansions at the Nickel West operations Australia, deferral of the Guinea Alumina project Guinea and the restructuring of the Bayside Aluminium Casthouse operations South Africa.
We recognised a charge of US$508 million US$152 million tax bene t for additional rehabilitation obligations in respect of former operations at the Newcastle steelworks Australia.
The increase in obligations related to changes in the estimated volume of sediment in the Hunter River requiring rehabilitation and treatment, and increases in estimated treatment costs.
Our offers for Rio Tinto lapsed on 27 November 2008 following the Boards decision that it believed that completion of the offers was no longer in the best interests of BHP Billiton shareholders.
We incurred fees associated with the US$55 billion debt facility US$156 million cost, US$31 million tax bene t, investment bankers, lawyers and accountants fees, printing expenses and other charges US$294 million cost, US$62 million tax bene t up to the lapsing of the offers, which were expensed in FY2009.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 93 3 Operating and financial review and prospects continued 3.6.
6 Customer Sector Group summary The following tables provide a summary of the CSG revenues and results for FY2011 and the two prior corresponding periods.
2 Revenue that is not reported in business segments principally includes sales of freight and fuel to third parties.
3 Includes consolidation adjustments, unallocated items and external sales for the Groups freight, transport and logistics operations and certain closed operations.
The discussion of results for our CSGs is set out below and focuses Gross exploration spend of US$557 million was similarly impacted, on Underlying EBIT.
The factors affecting Underlying EBIT have also although an increase in seismic acquisition and processing affected revenue, except where stated.
For further information on partially offset the decrease in drilling activity.
Recommencement our CSG results, including depreciation, refer note 2 Segment of development drilling at Atlantis US is still pending although reporting in the financial statements.
a step out exploration well at Mad Dog US is currently underway.
Petroleum From a longer-term perspective, the growth potential of the Petroleum business has been signi cantly enhanced by the Year ended 30 June 2011 compared with year acquisition of onshore US shale gas resources, while organic ended 30 June 2010 growth projects, such as the Macedon gas project Australia, The successful integration of the Fayetteville Shale gas assets, continue to move through the execution phase.
the start-up of the Angostura Gas Phase II project on schedule, and strong underlying performance from existing assets, delivered Year ended 30 June 2010 compared with year 159.4 million barrels of oil equivalent MMboe for FY2011, the ended 30 June 2009 fourth consecutive increase in annual petroleum production.
Total production for the year of 159 MMboe was a full year production BHP Billiton brought the first new deepwater well into production record and an increase of 21 MMboe.
The 15 per cent increase in since the Gulf of Mexico moratorium was enacted in May 2010 production re ected strong performance from BHP Billiton operated and this important milestone, achieved at the BHP Billiton operated Shenzi US and Pyrenees Australia, the latter being delivered Shenzi eld US, followed previous regulatory approvals for water on schedule during the period.
In addition, improved reservoir injection and production well drilling.
performance from Atlantis US and an absence of weather related interruptions supported such strong production.
Underlying EBIT of US$6,330 million represented an increase of US$1,757 million or 38.4 per cent when compared with the Underlying EBIT was US$4,573 million, an increase of US$488 million, prior period.
Higher average realised prices were a major or 11.9 per cent, from FY2009.
The increase was primarily due contributor to the increase in Underlying EBIT US$1,521 million, to higher production as noted and higher realised oil prices, net of price-linked costs and re ected a 28 per cent increase in which averaged US$73.05 per bbl for the year compared with oil prices to US$93.29 per bbl, a 22 per cent increase in realised US$66.18 per bbl.
The major offsets were a lower average realised lique ed natural gas prices to US$11.03 per thousand standard natural gas price of US$3.43 per thousand scf compared with cubic feet scf, and a 17 per cent increase in natural gas prices US$3.57 per thousand scf and a lower average realised lique ed to US$4.00 per thousand scf.
BHP Billitons operating capability natural gas price of US$9.07 per thousand scf compared with was further underscored by the success of Pyrenees although US$12.07 per thousand scf.
natural eld decline worldwide was further impacted by the deferral of high volume wells in the Gulf of Mexico.
94 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 3.6.
6 Customer Sector Group summary continued Base Metals Gross exploration expenditure was US$817 million, US$269 million Year ended 30 June 2011 compared with year ended 30 June 2010 higher than FY2009 resulting primarily from increased drilling activity in the Gulf of Mexico US, Canada, Malaysia, the Falklands Copper production increased during FY2011 as Olympic Dam and the Philippines.
Several exploration wells were not commercial Australia reported annual material mined and milling records.
and resulted in the increase in exploration expense of US$163 million Strong operating performance was similarly reported at Pampa US$563 million compared with US$400 million in FY2009.
Norte Chile and Antamina Peru, where record annual milling rates mitigated the impact of lower grades.
Total copper cathode Drilling activities at Atlantis and Shenzi ceased during the June production represented another record for the period.
2010 quarter based on the drilling moratorium then in place in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
We continued to monitor and assess the Underlying EBIT for FY2011 increased by US$2,158 million, or impact of the suspension of certain permitting and drilling activities.
Higher average realised prices for all of our core products favourably impacted Underlying EBIT by All other drilling operations outside of the Gulf of Mexico progressed US$3,348 million net of price-linked costs.
The supportive pricing as planned.
Underlying EBIT was impacted by a US$59 million environment was similarly re ected in a number of our key input charge related to idle rig time in the Gulf of Mexico for BHP Billiton costs with higher energy, fuel and contractor costs the major offset.
This was part of BHP Billitons ongoing management The devaluation of the US dollar and in ation reduced Underlying of rig contracts, which included negotiating revised terms for the rigs EBIT by US$418 million.
In addition, BHP Billiton re ned the basis during the moratorium to provide BHP Billiton with continued access on which the metal content of its leach pads is estimated at to the rigs and experienced crews when the moratorium ceases.
Escondida Chile and Pampa Norte, which resulted in a non-cash Aluminium reduction in Underlying EBIT of US$168 million.
Year ended 30 June 2011 compared with year At 30 June 2011, the Group had 239,156 tonnes of outstanding ended 30 June 2010 copper sales that were revalued at a weighted average price of The ongoing ramp-up of the Alumar re nery Brazil contributed US$4.25 per lb.
The final price of these sales will be determined to a seven per cent increase in total alumina production for FY2011.
In addition, 236,584 tonnes of copper sales from FY2010 Metal production remained largely unchanged with all operations were subject to a nalisation adjustment in FY2011.
The nalisation running at or close to technical capacity.
adjustment and provisional pricing impact increased Underlying EBIT by US$650 million for the period.
Underlying EBIT was US$266 million, a decrease of US$140 million, or 34.5 per cent, when compared with the corresponding period.
BHP Billitons Base Metals business is characterised by its large, tier Higher prices and premia for aluminium had a favourable impact one resource position and its numerous options for growth.
In that of US$559 million net of price-linked costs, but were largely context, a combined investment of US$492 million BHP Billiton offset by a US$519 million increase in costs largely associated with share was approved during the period for the Escondida Ore Access the devaluation of the US dollar, in ation and rising raw material and Laguna Seca Debottlenecking projects Chile.
The quality of the and energy costs.
The average realised aluminium price increased Base Metals investment pipeline was further emphasised by the by 19 per cent to US$2,515 per tonne, while the average realised progression of both the Escondida Organic Growth Project OGP1 alumina price rose 21 per cent to US$342 per tonne.
Underlying EBIT and the Olympic Dam Project ODP1 development options into was unfavourably impacted by a provision related to indirect taxes feasibility.
A 129 per cent increase in the Escondida district Mineral in FY2011.
Resource tonnage solidi es Escondidas position as one of the worlds leading copper operations for decades to come.
The US$2,995 million BHP Billiton share Worsley Ef ciency and Growth Project Australia will con rm Worsley as one of the worlds Year ended 30 June 2010 compared with year leading alumina re neries.
The investment will raise capacity at ended 30 June 2009 the re nery by 1.1 mtpa to 4.6 mtpa 100 per cent basis and first An increase in zinc production of 21.5 per cent, or 198.3 kt compared production is now scheduled for the first quarter of CY2012.
with FY2009 was due to higher plant throughput and utilisation Year ended 30 June 2010 compared with year and higher grades at Antamina Peru and Cannington Australia.
ended 30 June 2009 Attributable uranium production at Olympic Dam Australia was 2,279 tonnes for the period compared with 4,007 tonnes for FY2009 Total alumina production of 3,841 kt in FY2010 decreased from 4,396 kt in FY2009 mainly attributable to lower production as a due to the Clark Shaft outage.
Silver production was 45.4 million ounces compared with 41.3 million ounces in FY2009.
Lead result of the sale of Suriname on 31 July 2009.
Aluminium smelter production increased from 1,233 kt in FY2009 to 1,241 kt in FY2010 production was 248.4 kt compared with 230.1 kt in FY2009.
as a result of the amperage increases at the Aluminium operations Payable copper production was primarily impacted by the Olympic in southern Africa.
Dam Clark shaft outage and industrial action at Spence Chile.
During the second quarter of FY2010, the haulage system in the Underlying EBIT was US$406 million, an increase of US$214 million, Clark Shaft at Olympic Dam was damaged.
Ore hoisting operated or 111.5 per cent from FY2009.
Higher prices and premia for aluminium at approximately 25 per cent of capacity until the fourth quarter had a favourable impact of US$253 million that was partially of FY2010.
The incident impacted earnings by US$455 million, offset by a US$19 million unfavourable impact of price-linked costs.
but was partially offset by insurance recoveries of US$297 million.
The average LME aluminium price increased to US$2,018 per tonne The recommissioning of Olympic Dams Clark Shaft occurred during compared with FY2009s price of US$1,862 per tonne.
The average the final quarter of FY2010 and was returned to full production.
realised alumina prices was US$291 per tonne.
Payable copper production was also impacted by the cessation Underlying EBIT excludes exceptional charges of US$527 million of sulphide mining at Pinto Valley US following the decision to relating to impairments US$298 million and the renegotiation place the Pinto Valley operation in a state of care and maintenance of long-term power contracts US$229 million.
This was partly offset by higher grade and recovery 3.6.
at Escondida and the earlier than planned completion of the Overall, operating costs were lower mainly due to reduced raw SAG mill repairs in the Laguna Seca Concentrator plant.
This was partially offset by a weaker US dollar against the Australian dollar and South African rand, and in ationary pressures in Australia, South Africa and Brazil.
Underlying EBIT was favourably impacted by US$68 million as a result of the divestment of Suriname on 31 July 2009.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 95 3 Operating and financial review and prospects continued 3.6.
6 Customer Sector Group summary continued Stainless Steel Materials Underlying EBIT was US$4,632 million, an increase of Year ended 30 June 2011 compared with year ended 30 June 2010 US$3,340 million, or 258.5 per cent, from FY2009.
This increase was predominantly attributable to higher prices for all key commodities The Nickel West Kalgoorlie smelter Australia achieved record in Base Metals, except uranium.
The LME price for copper averaged matte production during FY2011, while Cerro Matoso Colombia US$3.04 per lb compared with US$2.23 per lb in FY2009, or an successfully progressed its planned furnace replacement into the increase of 36.3 per cent.
The impact of higher prices for copper, commissioning phase.
zinc, lead and silver in FY2010 contributed US$3,977 million to the Underlying EBIT decreased by US$80 million, or 12.0 per cent, to Underlying EBIT increase.
Lower sales volumes reduced Underlying US$588 million for FY2011 as a weaker US dollar impacted both EBIT by US$117 million.
operating costs and year-end balance sheet revaluations.
In total, Underlying EBIT excludes exceptional gains of US$186 million the weaker US dollar and in ation reduced Underlying EBIT by in relation to Pinal Creek.
The planned loss of production at Cerro Matoso and the absence of stockpiled concentrate sales at Nickel West Higher costs were incurred during FY2009, mostly due to the Clark that bene ted FY2010 decreased Underlying EBIT by a combined Shaft incident at Olympic Dam Australia and higher labour costs, US$122 million.
Underlying EBIT at Cerro Matoso was impacted including one-off bonus payments from collective labour negotiations by a further US$53 million due to a provision related to the completed FY2009 in the South American operations.
The effect Colombian net worth tax and additional royalty charges.
In contrast, of in ation and the weaker US dollar against the Australian dollar a 24 per cent rise in the LME nickel price for the period increased and the Chilean peso had also impacted negatively.
Higher costs Underlying EBIT by approximately US$435 million net of was partially mitigated by lower business development costs price-linked costs.
resulting from the decision to scale back Olympic Dam Expansion project activity in line with completion of feasibility studies and During the second half of FY2011, the Cerro Matoso Heap Leach required approvals.
The Nickel West Talc redesign project remains on schedule for expected commissioning in FY2012.
At 30 June 2010, the Group had 236,584 tonnes of outstanding copper sales that were revalued at a weighted average price of Year ended 30 June 2010 compared with year US$2.96 per lb.
The final price of these sales have been determined ended 30 June 2009 in FY2011.
In addition, 234,871 tonnes of copper sales from FY2009 Nickel production was 176,200 tonnes in FY2010, a 1.8 per cent were subject to a nalisation adjustment in FY2010.
The nalisation increase above 173,100 tonnes in FY2009.
Production for FY2010 adjustment and provisional pricing impact as at 30 June 2010 was a record performance at Nickel West Australia and attributable increased earnings by US$303 million for FY2010.
to the completion of the furnace rebuild at the Kalgoorlie Nickel Smelter Australia in FY2009 and the drawdown in FY2010 of the Diamonds and Specialty Products concentrate stocks that had accumulated since FY2009.
Production Year ended 30 June 2011 compared with year from Cerro Matoso Colombia was in line with FY2009.
ended 30 June 2010 Underlying EBIT was US$668 million, an increase of US$1,522 million EKATI Canada diamond production for FY2011 was 2.5 million carats, an 18 per cent decrease from the prior period.
This was mainly due to higher average LME prices for nickel of US$8.81 per lb compared with US$6.03 expects lower average ore grades to impact EKATI production in the medium term, consistent with the mine plan.
Higher prices net of price-linked costs increased Underlying EBIT by US$866 million.
Underlying EBIT for the Diamonds and Specialty Products business increased by 21.0 per cent to US$587 million.
Strong demand and Underlying EBIT excluded exceptional gains of US$653 million relating to the disposal of the Ravensthorpe nickel operations a shortage of rough diamonds resulted in higher prices, which increased Underlying EBIT by US$254 million.
in titanium prices added a further US$112 million to Underlying Proactive portfolio restructuring and ongoing improvement at EBIT.
Gross exploration expenditure was US$81 million, a decrease the operating level also contributed to the strong result in FY2010.
of US$14 million from the prior period.
BHP Billiton continues Lower operational losses from Yabulu and Ravensthorpe in FY2010 to accelerate its potash exploration program in Saskatchewan, increased Underlying EBIT by US$458 million.
with a signi cant increase in activity planned at the Melville The Kalgoorlie nickel smelter furnace rebuild and concurrent prospect in FY2012.
maintenance at the Kwinana nickel re nery both Australia BHP Billitons goal of becoming a signi cant producer in the potash in FY2009 set the platform for record total production at Nickel market took another important step forward in FY2011.
Ongoing cost saving initiatives and lower labour of a further US$488 million of pre-commitment funding during the costs were offset by the devaluation in the US dollar and in ation.
Jansen Potash Project feasibility study phase will fund site preparation, Underlying EBIT also bene ted from lower exploration and business the procurement of long lead time items and the sinking of the first development expenditure.
350 metres of the production and service shafts.
Iron Ore Year ended 30 June 2010 compared with year Year ended 30 June 2011 compared with year ended 30 June 2009 ended 30 June 2010 EKATI diamond production was 3,050,000 carats, a decrease BHP Billitons commitment to invest through all phases of the of 5.3 per cent compared with FY2009, which re ected a higher economic cycle delivered an eleventh consecutive annual production proportion of ore sourced from Fox pit as mining of the higher record in iron ore. Western Australia Iron Ore WAIO bene ted from grade Panda underground was completed during FY2010.
the dual tracking of the Companys rail infrastructure, which has Underlying EBIT was US$485 million, an increase of US$340 million substantially increased overall system capability.
Strong operating earnings at EKATI Canada resulted rose to a record annualised rate of 155 mtpa 100 per cent basis from higher volumes and realised diamond prices and lower unit in the June quarter of FY2011, con rming the successful ramp-up costs due to the continued emphasis on cost control.
There was of recently expanded capacity.
also a decrease in exploration expense of US$43 million, mainly Underlying EBIT increased by 122.1 per cent to US$13,328 million due to reduced diamonds exploration activity.
Potash exploration for FY2011 driven by record production and a signi cant improvement expenditure of US$73 million in Saskatchewan Canada was in iron ore prices.
For the period, average realised iron ore prices US$21 million lower as the exploration work program for Jansen increased Underlying EBIT by US$8,548 million following the was completed in FY2009.
Higher diamond earnings was partially important transition to shorter-term, landed, market-based pricing.
offset by the reduction in operating earnings in Titanium Minerals The signi cant appreciation in product prices and the adjustment as a result of lower realised prices and higher energy costs.
of WAIO royalty rates contributed to a signi cant increase in 96 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 3.6.
6 Customer Sector Group summary continued Offsetting this was the positive impact of price-linked costs of US$261 million.
price-linked costs, which reduced Underlying EBIT by US$648 million.
Broader in ationary pressures and the devaluation of the US dollar The decrease in realised prices was partially offset by a demand reduced Underlying EBIT by a further US$813 million, while non-cash driven rise in sales volumes that increased Underlying EBIT depreciation also increased with the ramp-up of expanded iron by US$799 million.
Local operating costs were well controlled ore capacity.
throughout FY2010, although the impacts of in ation and a weaker US dollar mitigated any bene t. The investment approval for major projects totalling US$8,350 million BHP Billiton share in FY2011 highlighted the Companys commitment All Manganese assets were running at full supply chain capacity to accelerate the development of its tier one, low-cost and expandable at the end of the June quarter in FY2010.
BHP Billiton also continued to lay the foundations Metallurgical Coal for longer-term growth in the WAIO business with the release of its Year ended 30 June 2011 compared with year Public Environmental Review Draft Environmental Impact Statement ended 30 June 2010 that seeks Commonwealth and Western Australian Government approvals for the proposed development of an Outer Harbour facility The remnant effects of wet weather that persisted for much of in Port Hedland Australia.
FY2011 continued to restrict our Queensland Coal business, despite an unrelenting focus on recovery efforts.
Although Queensland Year ended 30 June 2010 compared with year Coal production did recover strongly in the June 2011 quarter, total ended 30 June 2009 metallurgical coal production declined by 13 per cent in FY2011.
For FY2010, 39 per cent of WAIO shipments on a wet metric tonne Underlying EBIT was US$2,670 million, an increase of US$617 million, wmt basis were priced on annually agreed terms, with the remainder or 30.1 per cent, from the corresponding period.
The increase was sold on a shorter-term basis.
mainly attributable to the 48 per cent and 45 per cent improvement During the second half of FY2010, the annual benchmark pricing in average realised prices for hard coking coal and weak coking coal, system was substantially replaced by shorter-term market-based, respectively.
In total, stronger prices increased Underlying EBIT by landed pricing.
The expectation was that future WAIO shipments US$2,138 million, net of price-linked costs.
Uncontrollable factors would continue to be priced on that basis.
were the major contributor to a signi cant increase in operating Underlying EBIT was US$6,001 million, a decrease of US$228 million, costs.
In that context, in ation and the weaker US dollar reduced Underlying EBIT by US$664 million, while the weather related or 3.6 per cent, compared with FY2009 with record sales volumes as the major positive contributor.
WAIO increased by six per cent disruption to production at Queensland Coal placed additional pressure on unit costs.
We continue to expect production, sales to 113.4 million wmt and Samarco Brazil increased 42 per cent to 11.1 Mt, adding US$546 million to Underlying EBIT.
and unit costs to be impacted, to some extent, for the remainder of CY2011.
Costs were unfavourably impacted by a weaker US dollar, general in ationary pressure and the ongoing ramp-up of Western In March 2011, BHP Billiton approved three major metallurgical coal projects located in the Bowen Basin.
The projects are expected Australia RGP4, which reduced Underlying EBIT by US$759 million.
In addition, a provision that related to proposed amendments to to add 4.9 Mt of annual capacity 100 per cent basis through development of the Daunia operation and a new mining area the Western Australian State Agreements reduced Underlying EBIT by US$126 million.
In addition, 11 Mt of valuable port capacity 100 per cent basis will be developed at the Hay Manganese Point Coal Terminal Australia.
The cumulative US$2,500 million Year ended 30 June 2011 compared with year BHP Billiton share investment sets the foundations for strong ended 30 June 2010 and sustainable metallurgical coal production growth that will Record annual ore production and sales re ected a full year be required to meet the growing needs of our customers.
contribution from the GEMCO Expansion Phase 1 GEEP1 project Year ended 30 June 2010 compared with year Australia.
Record annual sales were also achieved for manganese ended 30 June 2009 alloy as the business intensi ed its volume maximising strategy.
Record annual sales volumes were delivered despite wet weather Underlying EBIT remained largely unchanged at US$697 million as disruptions in Queensland Australia during the March quarter stronger volumes and prices were offset by higher costs.
Production was 37.4 Mt in FY2010, an increase controllable costs remained largely unchanged during the period, of 2.6 per cent compared with 36.4 Mt in FY2009.
This increase although the combined impact of a weaker US dollar and in ation was due to improved operational and supply chain performance, reduced Underlying EBIT by US$186 million.
Average realised ore supported by strong demand.
and alloy prices increased by nine per cent and seven per cent Underlying EBIT was US$2,053 million, a decrease of US$2,658 million, respectively during FY2011.
The decrease was mainly due to After the successful commissioning of the GEEP1 project, the lower realised prices for hard coking coal 34 per cent lower, partners have approved the next phase of expansion that will weak coking coal 33 per cent lower and thermal coal 11 per cent con rm GEMCOs status as the worlds largest and lowest-cost lower, partly offset by a reduction in price-linked costs.
The US$167 million BHP Billiton share The weaker US dollar and in ationary pressure had an unfavourable GEEP2 project will increase GEMCOs bene ciated product capacity impact of US$632 million on Underlying EBIT despite operating costs from 4.2 mtpa to 4.8 mtpa 100 per cent basis.
In addition, road being well controlled.
and port capacity will increase to 5.9 mtpa, creating 1.1 mtpa of latent capacity for future expansion.
As with iron ore, the old benchmark system was substantially replaced by shorter-term market-based pricing.
For FY2010, Year ended 30 June 2010 compared with year 34 per cent of metallurgical coal shipments were priced on ended 30 June 2009 a shorter-term basis.
The majority of product sold in the June Manganese alloy production at 583 kt was 13.6 per cent higher and quarter of FY2010 was priced in this manner.
manganese ore production at 6.1 Mt was 36.8 per cent higher when compared with FY2009.
Underlying EBIT was US$712 million, a decrease of US$637 million, or 47.2 per cent, from FY2009.
The decrease was directly attributable to lower realised prices, which reduced Underlying EBIT by US$1,680 million.
In comparison to FY2009, average realised prices for ore fell by 46 per cent and alloy prices fell by 43 per cent.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 97 3 Operating and financial review and prospects continued 3.6.
6 Customer Sector Group summary continued record production at Mt Arthur Australia.
Weaker production at New Mexico Coal US re ected a downturn in demand from the Energy Coal power generators.
Year ended 30 June 2011 compared with year ended 30 June 2010 Underlying EBIT was US$730 million, a decrease of US$730 million, or 50.0 per cent, from FY2009.
This decrease was mainly attributed Annual production and sales records for New South Wales Energy Coal Australia followed the successful commissioning and ramp-up to lower average export prices net price impact US$459 million and reduced earnings from trading activities US$309 million.
of the MAC20 Project, while strong performance at South Africa Coal delivered a 13 per cent increase in annual production.
Export sales from BECSA and Mt Arthur increased due to higher demand from China and India, and offset the effects of reduced Underlying EBIT increased by 54.7 per cent to US$1,129 million demand from the Atlantic market.
Dissolution of the Douglas in FY2011.
The 31 per cent rise in average realised prices, which Tavistock Joint Venture arrangement favourably impacted increased Underlying EBIT by US$917 million for the period, re ected Underlying EBIT in FY2010.
Costs were well controlled other than a higher proportion of export sales as BHP Billiton continued to the adverse impacts of the weakening US dollar US$133 million optimise its product mix in response to evolving market demand.
Broad cost pressures were accentuated by an increase in cash Group and unallocated items and non-cash costs associated with the ramp-up of growth projects in Australia and South Africa.
The weaker US dollar and in ation This category represents corporate activities, including Group reduced Underlying EBIT by US$298 million, while a non-recurring Treasury, Freight, Transport and Logistics operations.
charge related to the recognition of the Colombian net worth tax Year ended 30 June 2011 compared with year reduced Underlying EBIT by a further US$32 million.
The dissolution ended 30 June 2010 of the Douglas Tavistock Joint Venture arrangement increased The Underlying EBIT expense for Group and Unallocated decreased Underlying EBIT in the corresponding period by US$69 million.
by US$136 million in FY2011 to US$405 million.
The weaker US dollar The MAC20 Project was successfully completed during FY2011, and in ation had an unfavourable impact on Underlying EBIT of ahead of schedule.
The Companys con dence in the outlook for US$105 million.
Self insurance claims related to the Clark Shaft incident demand in the Asia Paci c Basin was subsequently illustrated by at Olympic Dam reduced Underlying EBIT in the prior period by the approval of the US$400 million RX1 Project Australia that is US$297 million.
designed to get product to market rapidly, ahead of further coal Year ended 30 June 2010 compared with year preparation plant expansions.
Further expansion of our world-class ended 30 June 2009 Cerrejn Coal operation Colombia to 40 mtpa 100 per cent basis Underlying EBIT was a loss of US$541 million compared with was approved by the partners in August 2011 and highlights the US$395 million in FY2009, an increase of US$146 million.
strong growth outlook for BHP Billitons Energy Coal business.
Self insurance claims relating to the Clark shaft incident at Year ended 30 June 2010 compared with year Olympic Dam decreased Underlying EBIT by US$297 million.
ended 30 June 2009 A weaker US dollar had an unfavourable impact on Underlying Production was 66.1 Mt in FY2010, in line with FY2009, due to the EBIT of US$140 million.
continued ramp-up of the Klipspruit South Africa expansion and 3.6.
7 Third party sales We differentiate sales of our production from sales of third party products due to the signi cant difference in pro t margin earned on these sales.
The table below shows the breakdown between our production and third party products.
2 Operating profit divided by revenue.
We engage in third party trading for three reasons: In providing solutions for our customers, sometimes we provide products that we do not produce, such as a particular grade of coal.
To meet customer needs and contractual commitments, we may buy physical product from third parties and manage risk through both the physical and financial markets.
Production variability and occasional shortfalls from our own assets means that we sometimes source third party materials to ensure a steady supply of product to our customers.
The active presence in the commodity markets provides us with physical market insight and commercial knowledge.
From time to time, we actively engage in these markets in order to take commercial advantage of business opportunities.
These trading activities provide not only a source of revenue, but also a further insight into planning, and can, in some cases, give rise to business development opportunities.
98 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 3.7 Liquidity and capital resources As a result of our record production volumes and record prices in many of our key commodities over the past several years, we have generated very strong cash ows throughout our operations.
Despite the changing market conditions, our net operating cash ow remained strong and resulted in net debt declining to US$5,823 million.
These cash ows have been fundamental to our ability to internally fund our existing operations, maintain a pipeline of growth projects and return capital to shareholders through dividends.
Our priority for cash is to reinvest in the business.
In line with our strategy, we have grown our business rapidly and consistently through project developments and acquisitions.
Through a combination of borrowings and payments to shareholders, we manage our balance sheet with the goal of maintaining levels of gearing that we believe optimise our costs of capital and return on capital employed.
Net operating cash ows are our principal source of cash.
We also raise cash from debt nancing to manage temporary uctuations in liquidity arrangements and to re finance existing debt.
Our liquidity position is supported by our strong and stable credit rating and committed debt facilities.
1 Cash ow analysis A full consolidated cash ow statement is contained in the financial statements.
The explanatory notes appear in note 23 Notes to the consolidated cash ow statement in the financial statements.
A summary table has been presented below to show the key sources and uses of cash.
2011 2010 2009 Year ended 30 June US$M US$M US$M Net operating cash flows 30,080 16,890 17,854 Cash outflows from investing activities 16,662 10,527 10,319 Net proceeds from investing activities 198 542 277 Net investing cash flows 16,464 9,985 10,042 Net repayment of proceeds from interest bearing liabilities 577 485 3,929 Share buy-back 9,860 Dividends paid 5,144 4,895 4,969 Other financing activities 437 73 140 Net financing activities 16,018 5,307 1,180 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 2,402 1,598 6,632 Year ended 30 June 2011 compared with year Year ended 30 June 2010 compared with year ended ended 30 June 2010 30 June 2009 Net operating cash ows after interest and tax increased by Net operating cash ow after interest and tax decreased by 78 per cent to US$30,080 million.
This was primarily driven by five per cent to US$16,890 million.
This was primarily driven an increase in cash generated from operations before changes by changes in working capital balances having a negative in working capital balances of US$12,259 million and changes year-on-year impact on operating cash ow of US$4,780 million, in working capital balances having a positive year-on-year impact offset by higher levels of cash generated from operations before on operating cash ow of US$2,576 million.
changes in working capital balances of US$2,853 million and lower net tax and royalty-related tax payments of US$1,080 million.
In accordance with IFRS, exploration expenditure incurred which has not been capitalised is now classi ed within net operating Capital and exploration expenditure totalled US$10,656 million cash ows, which has resulted in the classi cation of US$981 million for the period.
Expenditure on major growth projects was in net operating cash ows for FY2011 and US$1,030 million US$7,655 million, including US$1,902 million on Petroleum projects for FY2010.
and US$5,753 million on Minerals projects.
Capital expenditure on sustaining and other items was US$1,668 million.
Exploration Capital and exploration expenditure totalled US$12,387 million for expenditure was US$1,333 million, including US$303 million, the year.
Expenditure on major growth projects was US$9,139 million, which has been capitalised.
including US$1,786 million on Petroleum projects and US$7,353 million on Minerals projects.
Capital expenditure on sustaining and Cash ows from investing activities included acquisitions of other items was US$2,008 million.
Exploration expenditure was US$508 million relating to Athabasca Potash Inc. of US$323 million US$1,240 million, including US$981 million classi ed within net and United Minerals Corporation NL of US$185 million.
Financing cash ows include net debt repayments of US$485 million Financing cash ows include payments related to the and dividend payments of US$4,618 million, excluding dividends US$10 billion capital management program, dividend payments paid to non-controlling interests.
of US$5,054 million and net debt repayments of US$577 million.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 99 3 Operating and financial review and prospects continued 3.7.
2 Growth projects BHP Billiton approved 11 major projects for a total investment value of US$12,942 million BHP Billiton share during FY2011.
Following the progression of the Jansen Potash Project into feasibility during the March 2011 quarter, BHP Billiton also announced an additional US$488 million of pre-commitment funding to support development of the project in Saskatchewan, Canada.
The progression of these projects forms a meaningful component of the Groups anticipated organic growth program that is expected to exceed US$80 billion over the five years to the end of FY2015.
Industry-wide cost pressures remain a feature of the development landscape and re ect stronger producer currencies as well as underlying in ation on raw material and labour costs.
BHP Billiton approved revised capital budgets and schedules during FY2011 for the Esso Australia Resources Pty Ltd operated Kipper US$900 million, BHP Billiton share and Turrum US$1,350 million, BHP Billiton share Petroleum projects and the BHP Billiton operated Worsley Ef ciency and Growth US$2,995 million, BHP Billiton share alumina re nery expansion all Australia.
Three major projects delivered first production in the 12-month period: namely the New South Wales Energy Coal MAC20 Project, the Douglas-Middelburg Optimisation Project in South Africa Coal and Angostura Gas Phase II Trinidad and Tobago.
Completed projects 1 2 Capital expenditure US$M Date of initial production 1 Customer Sector Group Project Capacity Budget Actual Target Actual 3 Petroleum Angostura Gas Phase II 280 MMcf d of gas 180 157 H1 2011 H1 2011 Trinidad and Tobago BHP Billiton 45% 3 Energy Coal Douglas-Middelburg 10 mtpa export thermal 975 760 Mid 2010 July 2010 Optimisation South Africa coal and 8.5 mtpa domestic BHP Billiton 100% thermal coal sustains current output 3 MAC20 Project Australia Increases saleable thermal 260 285 H1 2011 H1 2011 BHP Billiton 100% coal production by approximately 3.5 mtpa 1,415 1,202 1 All references to capital expenditure are BHP Billitons share unless noted otherwise.
All references to capacity are 100 per cent unless noted otherwise.
2 References are based on calendar years.
Projects currently under development approved in prior years Budgeted capital Target date expenditure of initial 1 1 2 Customer Sector Group Project Capacity US$M production 3 3 4 Petroleum Bass Strait Kipper Australia 10,000 bbl d of condensate and processing 900 2012 BHP Billiton 32.5% 50% capacity of 80 MMcf d of gas 3 3 Bass Strait Turrum Australia 11,000 bbl d of condensate and processing 1,350 2013 BHP Billiton 50% capacity of 200 MMcf d of gas North West Shelf CWLH Life Replacement vessel with capacity of 245 2011 Extension Australia 60,000 bbl d of oil BHP Billiton 16.67% North West Shelf 2,500 MMcf d of gas 850 2013 North Rankin B Gas Compression Australia BHP Billiton 16.67% 3 3 Aluminium Worsley Efficiency 1.1 mtpa of additional alumina capacity 2,995 Q1 2012 and Growth Australia BHP Billiton 86% Base Metals Antamina Expansion Peru Increases ore processing capacity to 130,000 tpd 435 Q4 2011 BHP Billiton 33.75% Iron Ore WAIO Rapid Growth Project integrated into subsequent expansion 4,800 H2 2011 Project 5 Australia approvals that will increase WAIO capacity 5 BHP Billiton 85% to 220 mtpa 11,575 1 All references to capital expenditure are BHP Billitons share unless noted otherwise.
3 As per revised budget and schedule.
4 Facilities ready for first production pending resolution of mercury content.
5 As per revised scope of the iron ore development sequence.
100 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 3.7.
2 Growth projects continued Projects approved during FY2011 Budgeted capital Target date of 1 1 2 Customer Sector Group Project Capacity expenditure US$M initial production Petroleum Macedon Australia 200 MMcf d of gas 1,050 2013 BHP Billiton 71.43% Base Metals Escondida Ore The relocation of the in-pit crushing and 319 Q2 2012 Access Chile conveyor infrastructure provides access to BHP Billiton 57.5% higher-grade ore Diamonds and Specialty EKATI Misery Open Project consists of a pushback of the existing 323 2015 Products Pit Project Canada Misery open-pit which was mined from 2001 BHP Billiton 80% to 2005 3 Iron Ore WAIO Jimblebar Mine Increases mining and processing capacity 3,300 Q1 2014 Expansion Australia to 35 mtpa BHP Billiton 96% 3 WAIO Port Hedland Increases total inner harbour capacity to 1,900 H2 2012 Inner Harbour 220 mtpa with debottlenecking opportunities Expansion Australia to 240 mtpa BHP Billiton 85% 3 WAIO Port Blending and Optimises resource and enhances efficiency 1,400 H2 2014 Rail Yard Facilities across the WAIO supply chain Australia BHP Billiton 85% Samarco Fourth Pellet Increases iron ore pellet production capacity 1,750 H1 2014 Plant Brazil by 8.3 mtpa to 30.5 mtpa BHP Billiton 50% Metallurgical Coal Daunia Australia Greenfield mine development with capacity to 800 2013 BHP Billiton 50% produce 4.5 mtpa of export metallurgical coal Broadmeadow Life Increases productive capacity by 0.4 mtpa and 450 2013 Extension Australia extends the life of the mine by 21 years BHP Billiton 50% 3 Hay Point Stage Three Increases port capacity from 44 mtpa to 1,250 2014 Expansion Australia 55 mtpa and reduces storm vulnerability BHP Billiton 50% Energy Coal RX1 Project Australia Increases run-of-mine thermal coal production 400 H2 2013 BHP Billiton 100% by approximately 4 mtpa 12,942 1 All references to capital expenditure are BHP Billitons share unless noted otherwise.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 101 3 Operating and financial review and prospects continued 3.7.
3 Net debt and sources of liquidity 3.7.
4 Quantitative and qualitative disclosures Our policies on debt and treasury management are as follows: about market risk a commitment to a solid A credit rating: We identi ed our primary market risks in section 3.4.
A description to be cash ow positive before dividends, debt service and of how we manage our market risks, including both quantitative and qualitative information about our market risk sensitive instruments capital management: outstanding at 30 June 2011, is contained in note 28 Financial risk for net gearing net debt net debt net assets to be a maximum management to the financial statements.
of 40 per cent: diversi cation of funding sources: 3.7.
5 Portfolio management generally to maintain borrowings and excess cash in US dollars.
Our strategy is focused on long-life, low-cost, expandable, upstream assets and we continually review our portfolio to identify assets that Solid A credit ratings do not t this strategy.
These activities continued during the year, The Groups credit ratings are currently A1 P-1 Moodys and with proceeds amounting to US$198 million being realised from A A-1 Standard & Poors.
The ratings outlook from both agencies divestments of property, plant and equipment and financial assets.
has not changed during the financial year.
There were no divestments of subsidiaries or operations during Interest rate risk the year.
Interest rate risk on our outstanding borrowings and investments We will purchase interests in assets where they t our strategy.
is managed as part of the Portfolio Risk Management Strategy.
On 31 March 2011, the Group completed the acquisition of Refer to note 28 Financial risk management in the financial 100 per cent of Chesapeake Energy Corporations Chesapeake statements for a detailed discussion on the strategy.
When required interests in its Fayetteville Shale gas assets and associated under this strategy, we use interest rate swaps, including cross midstream pipeline system Fayetteville Shale gas business, currency interest rate swaps, to convert a xed rate exposure to located in Arkansas US for US$4,819 million.
All interest swaps have been designated and are effective as hedging instruments under IFRS.
6 Dividend and capital management On 24 August 2011, the Board declared a final dividend for the Gearing and net debt year of 55 US cents per share.
Together with the interim dividend 30 June 2011 compared with 30 June 2010 of 46 US cents per share paid to shareholders on 31 March 2011, Net debt, comprising cash and interest bearing liabilities, was this brings the total dividend declared for the year to 101 US cents US$5,823 million, which is an increase of US$2,515 million compared per share, a 16.1 per cent increase over last years full year dividend with the net debt position at 30 June 2010.
Net gearing, which is of 87 US cents per share.
the ratio of net debt to net debt plus net assets, was 9.2 per cent Notwithstanding BHP Billitons commitment to invest more than at 30 June 2011, compared with 6.3 per cent at 30 June 2010.
US$80 billion in the growth of its tier one portfolio, the Group Cash at bank and in hand less overdrafts at 30 June 2011 was reactivated the remaining US$4.2 billion component of a previously US$10,080 million compared with US$12,455 million at 30 June suspended US$13 billion buy-back program on 15 November 2010.
Included within this are short-term deposits at 30 June 2011 BHP Billiton subsequently expanded that capital management of US$8,723 million compared with US$11,087 million at initiative to US$10 billion and committed to complete the program 30 June 2010. by the end of CY2011.
30 June 2010 compared with 30 June 2009 The subsequent completion of a US$6.3 billion off-market tender Net debt, comprising cash and interest-bearing liabilities, was buy-back of BHP Billiton Ltd shares during the period enabled the US$3,308 million, a decrease of US$2,278 million, or 41 per cent, Group to successfully complete its US$10 billion capital management compared with 30 June 2009.
Net gearing, which is the ratio of net program on 29 June 2011, six months ahead of schedule.
debt to net debt plus net assets, was 6.3 per cent at 30 June 2010, During FY2011, the combination of on-market purchases of Plc shares compared with 12.1 per cent at 30 June 2009. and the off-market purchase of Ltd shares enabled BHP Billiton to Cash at bank and in hand less overdrafts at 30 June 2010 was buy and cancel 241.8 million shares, representing four per cent US$12,455 million compared with US$10,831 million at 30 June of total issued capital.
Included within this are short-term deposits at 30 June Completion of this substantial program in such a timely manner 2010 of US$11,087 million compared with US$9,677 million at highlighted BHP Billitons commitment to maintain an appropriate 30 June 2009. capital structure through all points of the economic cycle.
Since 2004, Funding sources BHP Billiton has repurchased a cumulative US$22.6 billion of Ltd The maturity pro le of our debt obligations and details of our and Plc shares, representing 15 per cent of then issued capital.
undrawn committed facilities are set forth in note 28 Financial Total returns to shareholders, including dividends paid and share risk management in the financial statements.
buy-backs, have exceeded US$48 billion since the formation of BHP Billiton in 2001.
During FY2011, no debt was issued or matured.
None of our general borrowing facilities are subject to financial covenants.
Certain speci c nancing facilities in relation to speci c businesses are the subject of financial covenants that vary from facility to facility, but which would be considered normal for such facilities.
102 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 3.8 Off-balance sheet arrangements and contractual commitments Information in relation to our material off-balance sheet arrangements, principally contingent liabilities, commitments for capital expenditure and other expenditure and commitments under leases at 30 June 2011 is provided in note 21 Contingent liabilities and note 22 Commitments to the financial statements.
We expect that these contractual commitments for expenditure, together with other expenditure and liquidity requirements will be met from internal cash ow and, to the extent necessary, from the existing facilities described in section 3.7.
3.9 Subsidiaries and related party transactions Subsidiary information Information about our signi cant subsidiaries is included in note 25 Subsidiaries to the financial statements.
Related party transactions Related party transactions are outlined in note 31 Related party transactions to the financial statements.
3.10 Signi cant changes Since 30 June 2011, the Group has completed its acquisition of Petrohawk Energy Corporation: signed a Heads of Agreement with Leighton Holdings to acquire the HWE Mining subsidiaries: and arranged a US$7.5 billion multicurrency term and revolving credit facility.
Further information about these transactions is outlined in note 24 Business combinations and note 35 Subsequent events to the financial statements.
Other than the matters outlined above, or elsewhere in this Report, no matters or circumstances have arisen since the end of the year that have signi cantly affected, or may signi cantly affect, the operations, results of operations or state of affairs of the BHP Billiton Group in subsequent accounting periods.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 103 4 Board of Directors and Group Management Committee 4.1 Board of Directors Jacques Nasser AO, BBus, Hon DT, 63 Other directorships and of ces current and recent : Director of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc since Term of of ce: Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc November 2002. since June 2006.
Appointed Chairman of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc from 31 March 2010.
Non-executive advisory partner since March 2010 of One Equity Partners JPMorgan Chase & Cos Private Equity Business Independent: Yes Partner from November 2002 until March 2010.
Skills and experience: Following a 33-year career with Ford in various Member of the International Advisory Council of Allianz leadership positions in Europe, Australia, Asia, South America Aktiengesellschaft since February 2001. and the US, Jacques Nasser served as a member of the Board of Former Director of Brambles Limited from March 2004 Directors and as President and Chief Executive Of cer of Ford Motor to January 2008.
He has more than 30 years experience Board Committee membership: in large-scale global businesses and a decade of private equity investment and operating expertise.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Marius Kloppers BE Chem, MBA, PhD Materials Science, 49 Skills and experience: Marius Kloppers has extensive knowledge of the mining industry and of BHP Billitons operations.
Active in Term of of ce: Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc the mining and resources industry since 1993, he was appointed since January 2006.
Mr Kloppers was appointed Chief Executive Chief Commercial Of cer in December 2003.
He was previously Of cer on 1 October 2007.
He was appointed Group President Chief Marketing Of cer, Group Executive of Billiton Plc, Chief Non-Ferrous Materials and Executive Director in January 2006 Executive of Samancor Manganese and held various positions at and was previously Chief Commercial Of cer.
Billiton Aluminium, including Chief Operating Of cer and General Independent: No Manager of Hillside Aluminium.
Other directorships and of ces current and recent : Deputy Chairman of the International Council on Mining and Metals since October 2008.
Malcolm Broomhead MBA, BE, 59 held senior management positions with Halcrow UK, MIM Holdings, Peko Wallsend and Industrial Equity.
Mr Broomhead has extensive Term of of ce: Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc experience in running industrial and mining companies with a since March 2010. global footprint and broad global experience in project development Independent: Yes in many of the countries in which BHP Billiton operates.
Skills and experience: Malcolm Broomhead was Managing Director Other directorships and of ces current and recent : and Chief Executive Of cer of Orica Limited from 2001 until Chairman of Asciano Limited since October 2009.
September 2005, a global business that controlled interests in Director of Coates Group Holdings Pty Ltd since January 2008. more than 45 countries.
Prior to joining Orica, Mr Broomhead held a number of senior positions at North Limited, including Board Committee membership: Managing Director and Chief Executive Of cer and prior to that, Member of the Sustainability Committee.
John Buchanan BSc, MSc Hons 1, PhD, 68 Other directorships and of ces current and recent : Chairman of Smith & Nephew Plc since April 2006 and Term of of ce: Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc former Deputy Chairman from February 2005 to April 2006. since February 2003.
Dr Buchanan has been designated as the Senior Independent Director of BHP Billiton Plc since his appointment.
Chairman of the International Chamber of Commerce UK since May 2008.
Independent: Yes Senior Independent Director and Deputy Chairman of Vodafone Skills and experience: Educated at Auckland, Oxford and Harvard, Group Plc since July 2006 and Director since April 2003.
John Buchanan has broad international business experience gained Member of Advisory Board of Ondra Bank since June 2009. in large and complex international businesses.
He has substantial Chairman of the UK Trustees for the Christchurch Earthquake appeal.
experience in the petroleum industry and knowledge of the Former Director of AstraZeneca Plc from April 2002 to April 2010. international investor community.
He has held various leadership roles in strategic, financial, operational and marketing positions, Board Committee membership: including executive experience in different countries.
He is a former Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Executive Director and Group Chief Financial Of cer of BP, serving Member of the Nomination Committee.
on the BP Board for six years.
Carlos Cordeiro AB, MBA, 55 Other directorships and of ces current and recent : Advisory Director of The Goldman Sachs Group Inc since Term of of ce: Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc December 2001. since February 2005.
Non-executive Vice Chairman of Goldman Sachs Asia since Independent: Yes December 2001.
Skills and experience: Carlos Cordeiro brings to the Board more Board Committee membership: than 30 years experience in providing strategic and financial Member of the Remuneration Committee.
advice to corporations, financial institutions and governments around the world.
He was previously Partner and Managing Director of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. 104 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 4.1 Board of Directors continued David Crawford AO, BComm, LLB, FCA, FCPA, FAICD, 67 of the UK Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Term of of ce: Director of BHP Limited since May 1994.
Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2001.
Other directorships and of ces current and recent : Chairman of Lend Lease Corporation Limited since May 2003 Independent: Yes and Director since July 2001.
Skills and experience: David Crawford has extensive experience Chairman of Fosters Group Limited since November 2007 in risk management and business reorganisation.
He has acted as and Director of Fosters Group Limited since August 2001. a consultant, scheme manager, receiver and manager and liquidator Former Director of Westpac Banking Corporation from May 2002 to very large and complex groups of companies.
He was previously to December 2007.
Australian National Chairman of KPMG, Chartered Accountants.
Former Chairman of National Foods Limited Director from Mr Crawford was Chairman of the Risk and Audit Committee and November 2001 to June 2005. the Boards nominated audit committee financial expert for the purposes of the US Securities and Exchange Commission Rules until Board Committee membership: 6 September 2011.
During that period, the Board was satis ed that None.
he had recent and relevant financial experience for the purposes Carolyn Hewson AO, BEc Hons, MA Econ, FAICD, 56 Other directorships and of ces current and recent : Director of Stockland Corporation Limited since March 2009.
Term of of ce: Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since March 2010.
Director of BT Investment Management Limited since December 2007.
Independent: Yes Director of Westpac Banking Corporation since February 2003.
Skills and experience: Carolyn Hewson is a former investment banker Member of the Advisory Board of Nanosonics Limited since and has over 30 years experience in the finance sector.
Ms Hewson June 2007. was previously an Executive Director of Schroders Australia Limited Director of Australian Charities Fund since March 2001. and has extensive financial markets, risk management and Member and Patron of the Neurosurgical Research Foundation investment management expertise.
Ms Hewson is a Non-executive Council since April 1993.
Director of Stockland Corporation Limited, Westpac Banking Former Director of AGL Energy Limited from February 2006 Corporation, BT Investment Management Limited and previously to February 2009. served as a Director on the boards of AMP Limited, CSR Limited, AGL Energy Limited, the Australian Gas Light Company, South Chair of the Westpac Foundation since January 2011.
Australia Water and the Economic Development Board of South Board Committee membership: Australia.
She has current board or advisory roles with Nanosonics Member of the Risk and Audit Committee.
Limited, the Australian Charities Fund, Neurosurgical Research Foundation and is Chair of the Westpac Foundation.
Lindsay Maxsted DipBus Gordon, FCA, 57 audit committee financial expert for the purposes of the US Securities and Exchange Commission Rules from 6 September 2011 and is Term of of ce: Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc satis ed that he has recent and relevant financial experience for with effect from March 2011. the purposes of the UK Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure Independent: Yes and Transparency Rules and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Skills and experience: Lindsay Maxsted was the Chief Executive Other directorships and of ces current and recent : Of cer of KPMG Australia between 2001 and 2007.
His principal Chairman of Transurban Group since August 2010 and area of practice prior to becoming Chief Executive Of cer was in the a Director from March 2008. corporate recovery eld managing a number of Australias largest Chairman-elect of Westpac Banking Corporation and a Director corporate, insolvency and restructuring engagements.
He continues since March 2008. to undertake consultancy work in the restructuring advisory eld.
Honorary Treasurer of Baker IDI Heart and Diabetes Institute.
At the request of the Victorian State Government Australia, Former KPMG Australia Chief Executive Of cer from January Mr Maxsted was appointed to the Board of the Public Transport 2001 to December 2007.
Corporation in December 1995 and was its Chairman from 1997 to 2001.
As Chairman, he had the responsibility of guiding the Board Committee membership: Public Transport Corporation through the final stages of a signi cant Chairman of the Risk and Audit Committee.
The Board has nominated Mr Maxsted as the Wayne Murdy BSc Business Administration, CPA, 67 Other directorships and of ces current and recent : Director of Weyerhaeuser Company since January 2009.
Term of of ce: Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2009.
Former Director of Qwest Communications International Inc from September 2005 to April 2011.
Independent: Yes Former Chief Executive Of cer from January 2001 to June 2007 Skills and experience: Wayne Murdy served as the Chief Executive and Chairman from January 2002 to December 2007 of Newmont Of cer of Newmont Mining Corporation from January 2001 to June Mining Corporation.
2007 and Chairman of Newmont from January 2002 to December Former Chairman of the International Council on Mining 2007.
His background is in finance and accounting where he gained and Metals from January 2004 to December 2006. comprehensive experience in the financial management of mining, Former Director of the US National Mining Association oil and gas companies during his career with Getty Oil, Apache from January 2002 to December 2007.
Mr Murdy is also a former Chairman of the International Council on Mining and Metals, a former Director Board Committee membership: of the US National Mining Association and a former member of Member of the Risk and Audit Committee.
the Manufacturing Council of the US Department of Commerce.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 105 4 Board of Directors and Group Management Committee continued 4.1 Board of Directors continued Keith Rumble BSc, MSc Geology, 57 Other directorships and of ces current and recent : Director of The Aveng Group since September 2009.
Term of of ce: Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since September 2008.
Board of Governors of Rhodes University since April 2005.
Trustee of the World Wildlife Fund, South Africa since Independent: Yes October 2006.
Skills and experience: Keith Rumble was previously Chief Executive Board Committee membership: Of cer of SUN Mining, a wholly owned entity of the SUN Group, Member of the Sustainability Committee.
a principal investor and private equity fund manager in Russia, India and other emerging and transforming markets.
He has over 30 years experience in the resources industry, speci cally in titanium and platinum mining, and is a former Chief Executive Of cer of Impala Platinum Pty Ltd and former Chief Executive Of cer of Rio Tinto Iron and Titanium Inc.
He began his career at Richards Bay Minerals in 1980 and held various management positions before becoming Chief Executive Of cer in 1996.
John Schubert AO, BCh Eng, PhD Chem Eng, FIE Aust, FTSE, 68 Other directorships and of ces current and recent : Director of Qantas Airways Limited since October 2000.
Term of of ce: Director of BHP Limited since June 2000 and a Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2001.
Chairman of G2 Therapies Pty Limited since November 2000.
Former Chairman from November 2004 to February 2010 and Independent: Yes Director from October 1991 to February 2010 of Commonwealth Skills and experience: John Schubert has considerable experience Bank of Australia.
in the international oil industry, including at Chief Executive Of cer Former Chairman and Director of Worley Parsons Limited level.
He has had executive mining and financial responsibilities from November 2002 until February 2005. and was Chief Executive Of cer of Pioneer International Limited Board Committee membership: for six years, where he operated in the building materials industry in 16 countries.
He has experience in mergers, acquisitions and Chairman of the Sustainability Committee.
divestments, project analysis and management.
He was previously Member of the Remuneration Committee.
Chairman and Managing Director of Esso Australia Limited and Member of the Nomination Committee.
President of the Business Council of Australia.
Baroness Shriti Vadera MA, 49 She was on the Council of Economic Advisers, H M Treasury from 1999 to 2007 focusing on business and international Term of of ce: Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc economic issues.
Prior to her time in the British Government, with effect from January 2011. she spent 14 years in investment banking at UBS Warburg Independent: Yes where she specialised in advisory work in emerging markets.
Skills and experience: Shriti Vadera brings wide-ranging experience Other directorships and of ces current and recent : in finance, economics and public policy, as well as extensive Director of AstraZeneca Plc since January 2011. experience of emerging markets and international institutions.
Former Trustee of Oxfam from 2000 to 2005.
In the last year, she has undertaken a number of international assignments, including advising the G20 chair under the Republic Board Committee membership: of Korea, Temasek Holdings, Singapore on strategy and the Member of the Risk and Audit Committee.
Government of Dubai on the restructuring of Dubai World.
She was a Minister in the British Government, from 2007 to 2009, in the Department for International Development, the Business Department and the Cabinet Of ce where she was responsible for the response to the global financial crisis.
Skills and experience: Prior to joining BHP Billiton, Jane McAloon Group Company Secretary held the position of Company Secretary and Group Manager External Jane McAloon BEc Hons, LLB, GDipGov, FCIS, 47 and Regulatory Services in the Australian Gas Light Company.
Term of of ce: Jane McAloon was appointed Group Company She previously held various Australian State and Commonwealth Secretary in July 2007 and joined the BHP Billiton Group in government positions, including Director General of the NSW September 2006 as Company Secretary for BHP Billiton Limited.
Ministry of Energy and Utilities and Deputy Director General for the NSW Cabinet Of ce, as well as working in private legal practice.
She is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and a Member of the Corporations and Markets Advisory Committee.
106 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 4.2 Group Management Committee Marius Kloppers BE Chem, MBA, PhD Materials Science, 49 Alberto Calderon PhD Econ, M Phil Econ, JD Law, BA Econ, 51 Chief Executive Of cer and Executive Director Group Executive and Chief Commercial Of cer Chairman of the Group Management Committee Member of the Group Management Committee Marius Kloppers has been active in the mining and resources Alberto Calderon joined the Group as President Diamonds and industry since 1993 and was appointed Chief Executive Of cer Specialty Products in February 2006 and was appointed to his in October 2007.
He was previously Chief Commercial Of cer, current position as Chief Commercial Of cer in July 2007.
Prior to Chief Marketing Of cer, Group Executive of Billiton Plc, this, he was Chief Executive Of cer of Cerrejn Coal Company and Chief Executive of Samancor Manganese and held various President of the oil company Ecopetrol.
In the early 1990s, he was positions at Billiton Aluminium, among them Chief Operating President of the Power Company of Bogot and held various senior Of cer and General Manager of Hillside Aluminium.
roles in investment banking and in the Colombian Government and the International Monetary Fund.
Andrew Mackenzie BSc Geology, PhD Chemistry, 54 Marcus Randolph BSc, MBA, 55 Group Executive and Chief Executive Non-Ferrous Group Executive and Chief Executive Ferrous and Coal Member of the Group Management Committee Member of the Group Management Committee Andrew Mackenzie joined BHP Billiton in November 2008 in Marcus Randolph was previously Chief Organisation Development his current position as Chief Executive Non-Ferrous.
His prior Of cer, President Diamonds and Specialty Products, Chief career included time with Rio Tinto, where he was Chief Executive Development Of cer Minerals and Chief Strategic Of cer Minerals of Diamonds and Minerals, and with BP, where he held a number for BHP Billiton.
His prior career includes Chief Executive Of cer, of senior roles, including Group Vice President for Technology First Dynasty Mines, Mining and Minerals Executive, Rio Tinto Plc, and Engineering and Group Vice President for Chemicals.
Director of Acquisitions and Strategy, Kennecott Inc, General He is a Non-executive Director of Centrica plc.
Manager Corporacin Minera Nor Peru, Asarco Inc, and various mine operating positions in the US with Asarco Inc.
He has been in his current position as Chief Executive Ferrous and Coal since July 2007.
Alex Vanselow BComm, Wharton AMP, 49 Karen Wood BEd, LLB Hons, 55 Group Executive and Chief Financial Of cer Group Executive and Chief People and Public Affairs Of cer Member of the Group Management Committee and Chairman of the Member of the Group Management Committee Investment Committee and Financial Risk Management Committee Karen Wood joined BHP Billiton in 2001.
Her previous positions Alex Vanselow joined the Group in 1989 and was appointed with the Company were Chief Governance Of cer, Special Chief Financial Of cer in March 2006.
He was previously President Adviser and Head of Group Secretariat and Group Company Aluminium, Chief Financial Of cer of Aluminium, Vice President Secretary.
She was appointed Chief People Of cer in 2007 and Finance and Chief Financial Of cer of Orinoco Iron CA, and in 2010 assumed responsibility for Public Affairs.
She is a member Manager Accounting and Control BHP Iron Ore. His prior career of the Takeovers Panel Australia and a Fellow of the Institute was with Arthur Andersen.
Before joining BHP Billiton, she was General Counsel and Company Secretary for Bonlac Foods Limited.
J Michael Yeager BSc, MSc, 58 Group Executive and Chief Executive Petroleum Member of the Group Management Committee Mike Yeager joined the Group in April 2006 as Chief Executive Petroleum after 25 years with Mobil and later ExxonMobil.
He was previously Vice President, ExxonMobil Development Company, and held the roles of Senior Vice President, Imperial Oil Ltd and Chief Executive Of cer, Imperial Oil Resources, Vice President Africa, ExxonMobil Production Company, Vice President Europe, ExxonMobil Production Company and President, Mobil Exploration and Production in the US.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 107 Accountability Delegation 5 Corporate Governance Statement 5.1 Governance at BHP Billiton Welcome to BHP Billitons Corporate Governance Statement, which outlines the approach your Board has adopted in relation to governing the Group.
The Board represents you and is ultimately accountable for the Groups performance in creating and delivering shareholder value through the effective governance of BHP Billiton.
BHP Billitons objective is to create long-term value for shareholders through the discovery, acquisition, development and marketing of natural resources.
We have unique assets that are important to the growth of many of the worlds economies, and a geographic and commodity spread that reduces risk and optimises opportunity.
In doing this, we have committed to the highest level of governance and strive to foster a culture that values and rewards exemplary ethical standards, personal and corporate integrity and respect for others.
The Board governs the Group consistent with our long-stated business strategy and commitment to a transparent and high-quality governance system.
Our approach to governance is based on the belief that there is a link between high-quality governance and the creation of long-term shareholder value.
Our view remains that governance is not just a matter for the Board and a good governance culture must be fostered throughout the organisation.
Our expectations of our employees and those to whom we contract business are set out in the BHP Billiton Code of Business Conduct.
This statement outlines our system of governance.
BHP Billiton operates as a single economic entity under a Dual Listed Company DLC structure with a uni ed Board and management.
We have a primary listing in Australia and a premium listing in the UK.
We are also registered with the US Securities and Exchange Commission and have a secondary listing on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE, as well as the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
Our governance framework takes into account the regulatory requirements in Australia, the UK and the US, together with prevailing standards of best practice.
Where governance principles vary across these jurisdictions, the Board adopts what we consider to be the higher of the prevailing standards.
Corporate governance principles continue to be re ned by regulators, including new guidance on Board effectiveness from the UK Financial Reporting Council, additional legislative measures in Australia in relation to executive remuneration and the use of remuneration consultants, the implementation of the Stewardship Code for investors in the UK and a continued focus on diversity of skills, experience, nationality and gender on Boards.
BHP Billiton adopted early the Australian Securities Exchange Corporate Governance Council Principles and Recommendations on diversity in 2010, and this year the Board has spent time considering its aspirational diversity goals.
The Board believes that critical mass is important for diversity and, in relation to gender, has set an aspirational goal of increasing the number of women on the Board to at least three over the next two years which, if achieved, would see the proportion of women on the Board increase from 17 per cent currently to 25 per cent, based on a Board size of 12.
This is consistent with Lord Davies report in the UK, which recommends that FTSE 350 companies should set aspirational goals for Board gender composition.
In relation to investor stewardship, through the Board and Remuneration Committee Chairmen, we continue our long-standing practice of proactive communication and meetings with institutional investors and governance advisers.
This engagement is valuable, and we support the UK Financial Reporting Councils focus on this issue.
Further Board renewal activities occurred during the year with the appointment of two Directors, Baroness Shriti Vadera and Lindsay Maxsted, and with Alan Boeckmann retiring.
Governance is an ongoing process and we aim to maintain our focus on continuous improvement by building a multi-skilled and diversi ed Board supported by a first-class management team.
I hope you nd this report useful and look forward to feedback fellow shareholders may have.
Jacques Nasser, AO, Chairman BHP Billiton Governance Structure BOARD Board Governance Document RISK & AUDIT SUSTAINABILITY NOMINATION REMUNERATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE AND ASSURANCE External Auditor Our BHP Billiton Charter Group Level Documents BHP Billiton Code of Business Conduct Anti-corruption Independent The BHP Billiton Way Antitrust Assurance: Risk Management Policy Business Conduct Sustainability Sustainable Development Policy Community Independent Reporting Contracts and Commitments Adviser to Country Risk Management Remuneration Environment Group Risk Committee Financial Reporting Principles Assessment and Financial External Reporting and Governance Assurance Internal Financial Management Reporting audit includes Health, HSEC Reporting Safety, Environment Key Committees Human Resources External Legal Advice: and Community audit Group Management Committee Investment Process Australia, UK, US Financial Risk Management Committee Market Disclosure Business Group RACs Peer Review Marketing Investment Committee Major Projects Privacy Disclosure Committee Public Affairs, Investor Relations and Brand Market Risk Management Committee Risk Management Ore Oil Gas Securities Dealing Reserves Review 108 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 ASSURANCE INDEPENDENT ADVICE 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report Proceedings at shareholder meetings and important brie ngs are 5.2 Shareholder engagement broadcast live from our website.
Copies of the speeches delivered by The Board represents the Groups shareholders and is accountable the Chairman and CEO to the Annual General Meetings are released to them for creating and delivering value through the effective to the stock exchanges and posted to our website.
A summary of governance of the business.
proceedings and the outcome of voting on the items of business are released to the relevant stock exchanges and posted to our website The Board has developed a strategy for engaging and communicating as soon as they are available following the completion of the with shareholders, key aspects of which are outlined below.
Shareholders vote on important matters affecting the business, including the election of Directors, changes to our constitutional 5.3 Board of Directors documents, the receipt of annual financial statements and incentive arrangements for Executive Directors.
1 Role and responsibilities Shareholders are encouraged to make their views known to us The Boards role is to represent the shareholders and it is and to raise directly any matters of concern.
The Board uses a range accountable to them for creating and delivering value through the of formal and informal measures to ensure that it understands and effective governance of the business.
The performance of the Board effectively responds to shareholder questions and concerns relating and the corresponding contributions of Directors to the Boards to the management and governance of the Group: collective decision-making processes are essential to ful l this role.
The Chairman, with support from the Company Secretariat team, The Board has published a Board Governance Document, which is has regular meetings with institutional shareholders and investor a statement of the practices and processes the Board has adopted representatives to discuss governance matters.
It includes the processes the Board The Remuneration Committee Chairman and Senior Independent has implemented to undertake its own tasks and activities: the Director also meets with institutional shareholders and investor matters it has reserved for its own consideration and decision-making: representatives to discuss executive remuneration and other the authority it has delegated to the CEO, including the limits on governance issues.
the way in which the CEO can execute that authority: and provides The Chief Executive Of cer CEO, Chief Financial Of cer guidance on the relationship between the Board and the CEO.
CFO and Investor Relations team meet regularly with The Board Governance Document also speci es the role of the major shareholders to discuss our strategy, financial and Chairman, the membership of the Board and the role and conduct operating performance.
Further information is at sections The Investor Relations team provides quarterly reports in relation 5.3.
4. to shareholder feedback generally, which the Board uses to assess how the Group is responding to shareholder views and issues.
Finally, shareholders are encouraged to attend BHP Billitons The Board Governance Document can be found Annual General Meetings and to use these opportunities to ask at www.
com home aboutus ourcompany questions discussed further below.
In each case, the views and concerns that have been raised are The matters that the Board has speci cally reserved for its reported to the Board, which ensures Directors are aware of the decision are: issues raised and assists Directors in developing an understanding of the views of shareholders, in particular in relation to strategic, the appointment of the CEO and approval of the appointments financial and operating issues.
of direct reports to the CEO: approval of the overall strategy and annual budgets of The Dual Listed Company structure means that Annual General the business: Meetings of BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited are held in the determination of matters in accordance with the approved United Kingdom and Australia in October and November, respectively, delegations of authority: each year.
Questions can be registered prior to the meeting by completing the relevant form accompanying the Notice of Meeting formal determinations that are required by the Groups or by emailing the Group at investor.
constitutional documents, by statute or by other Questions that have been lodged ahead of the meeting, and the external regulation or governance codes.
answers to the most frequently asked questions, are posted to our The Board is free to alter the matters reserved for its decision, website.
The External Auditor attends the Annual General Meetings subject to the limitations imposed by the constitutional documents and is available to answer questions.
Shareholders may appoint and the law.
proxies electronically through our website.
The Notice of Meeting describes how this can be done.
SHAREHOLDER FEEDBACK Regular investor meetings CHAIRMAN Correspondence BOARD Regular investor meetings CEO, CFO, MANAGEMENT AND INVESTOR RELATIONS Correspondence AGM BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 109 5 Corporate Governance Statement continued 5.3.
2 Membership Beyond those matters, the Board has delegated all authority to The Board currently has 12 members.
Of these, 11, including achieve the corporate objective to the CEO, who takes all decisions the Chairman, are independent Non-executive Directors.
and actions which, in the CEOs judgement, are reasonable having The Non-executive Directors are considered by the Board to regard to the limits imposed by the Board.
The CEO remains be independent of management and free from any business accountable to the Board for the authority that is delegated and for relationship or other circumstance that could materially interfere the performance of the business.
The Board monitors the decisions with the exercise of objective, unfettered or independent and actions of the CEO and the performance of the business to judgement.
Further information on the process for assessing gain assurance that progress is being made towards the corporate independence is in section 5.3.
5. objective, within the limits it has imposed through the Groups During the year, there were a number of changes to the composition governance assurance framework.
The Board also monitors the of the Board.
Shriti Vadera and Lindsay Maxsted joined the Board performance of the Group and assesses its risk pro le through in January 2011 and March 2011, respectively, and Alan Boeckmann its Committees.
Reports from each of the Committees are set out retired from the Board in March 2011. in section 5.5.
Following completion of the succession planning process for The CEO is required to report regularly in a spirit of openness and the Board Chairman in 2010, the Board continued the succession trust on the progress being made by the business.
The Board and planning process for the Chairman of the RAC.
As discussed in its Committees determine the information required from the CEO Section 5.4.
3, Lindsay Maxsted was appointed as RAC Chairman and any employee or external party, including the External Auditor.
Open dialogue between individual members of the Board and the The Board considers that there is an appropriate balance between CEO and other employees is encouraged to enable Directors to gain Executive and Non-executive Directors, with a view to promoting a better understanding of our business.
shareholder interests and governing the business effectively.
Key activities during the year While the Board includes a smaller number of Executive Directors A key activity during the year was Board and Committee succession than is common for UK listed companies, its composition is planning and renewal.
The Board believes that orderly succession and appropriate for the Dual Listed Company structure and is in line renewal is in the best interests of the Group.
Two new Non-executive with Australian listed company practice.
In addition, the Board Directors, Baroness Shriti Vadera and Lindsay Maxsted, were appointed has extensive access to members of senior management.
Members to the Board on 1 January 2011 and 23 March 2011, respectively.
of the Group Management Committee the most senior executives Alan Boeckmann, a Non-executive Director, retired during the year.
in the Group attend all the regularly scheduled Board meetings, In addition, and as discussed in further detail in section 5.4.
3, by invitation, where they make presentations and engage in a succession process for the Risk and Audit Committee RAC discussions with Directors, answer questions, and provide input Chairman led to the appointment of Lindsay Maxsted to that and perspective on their areas of responsibility.
The Board also position in September 2011.
The former RAC Chairman, David deliberates in the absence of management for part of each meeting, Crawford, has stepped down from the Committee and, at the which is chaired by the Group Chairman.
request of the Board, is standing for re-election to the Board.
The Directors of the Group are: Another signi cant activity during the year for the Board has been Mr Jacques Nasser Chairman Ms Carolyn Hewson governing the Group to support management initiatives to ensure Mr Marius Kloppers Mr Lindsay Maxsted continued supply of resources to meet demand over time.
During the Mr Malcolm Broomhead Mr Wayne Murdy year, the Group experienced continued strong demand and good Dr John Buchanan Mr Keith Rumble prices, but also industry wide operating and capital cost pressures.
Global economic growth slowed during the second half of the Mr Carlos Cordeiro Dr John Schubert 2011 financial year.
Global imbalances and high levels of sovereign Mr David Crawford Baroness Shriti Vadera debt continue to create uncertainty and a protracted recovery The biographical details of the Directors are set out in section 4.1 remains our base case assumption for the developed world.
However, a coordinated policy response has the potential to engender con dence and ease the volatility that has been 5.3.
3 Skills, knowledge, experience and attributes the dominant theme of recent years.
Despite these near term of Directors challenges, we remain positive on the longer-term outlook for The Board considers that a diversity of skills, backgrounds, the global economy.
Within this context, the Board approved knowledge, experience and gender is required in order to effectively a range of business decisions, including: govern the business.
The Board and its Committees actively work investments of US$570 million and US$6.6 billion of capital to ensure that the Executive and Non-executive Directors continue expenditure to underpin continued growth in the Western to have the right balance of skills, experience, independence and Australian Iron Ore business: Group knowledge necessary to discharge their responsibilities in an investment of US$2.5 billion in three key metallurgical accordance with the highest standards of governance.
coal projects located in the Bowen Basin in Central The Non-executive Directors contribute international and Queensland, Australia: operational experience: understanding of the sectors in which we the acquisition of all of Chesapeake Energy Corporations operate: knowledge of world capital markets: and an understanding interests in the Fayetteville Shale, US, for US$4.75 billion: of the health, safety, environmental and community challenges that the expanded capital management program of US$10 billion, we face.
The Executive Director brings additional perspectives to the which included a A$6.0 billion US$6.3 billion off-market Boards work through a deep understanding of the Groups business.
buy-back of BHP Billiton Limited shares: The Board works together as a whole to oversee strategy for the the termination of the agreements with Rio Tinto to establish Group and monitor pursuit of the corporate objective.
an iron ore production joint venture covering both entities Western Australia iron ore assets: the withdrawal of the Groups all-cash offer to acquire all of the issued and outstanding common shares of Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan Inc.
The Board is satis ed that it has discharged its obligations as set out in the Board Governance Document.
110 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 5.3.
3 Skills, knowledge, experience and attributes Group and industry knowledge of Directors continued In order to govern the Group effectively, Non-executive Directors must have a clear understanding of the Groups overall strategy, Directors must demonstrate unquestioned honesty and integrity, together with knowledge about the Group and the industries in preparedness to question, challenge and critique, and a willingness which it operates.
Non-executive Directors must be suf ciently to understand and commit to the highest standards of governance.
familiar with the Groups core business to be effective contributors Each Director must ensure that no decision or action is taken that to the development of strategy and to monitor performance.
places his or her interests in front of the interests of the business.
Structured opportunities are provided to build Director knowledge It is made clear in the Terms of Appointment that Directors must through initiatives such as regular periodic visits to BHP Billiton be prepared to commit suf cient time and resources to perform sites.
Non-executive Directors also build their Group and industry the role effectively.
7 provides further information knowledge through the involvement of the Group Management on the Director Terms of Appointment.
The Nomination Committee Committee GMC and other senior employees in Board meetings takes account of the other positions held by each potential and speci c business brie ngs.
In addition, while the Business Director candidate and assesses whether they will have adequate Group Risk and Audit Committees Business Group RACs are time to devote to the Board prior to making a recommendation management committees, and therefore do not entail any to the Board on whether to appoint them as a Director.
delegation of responsibility from the Boards RAC, the Board Directors commit to the collective decision-making processes believes that the link back to the Board RAC facilitates a deeper of the Board.
Individual Directors debate issues openly and understanding of risk management and assurance issues throughout constructively and are free to question or challenge the opinions the Group.
Further information on the Business Group RACs is of others.
Directors also commit to active involvement in Board at section 5.5.
1 and further information on induction and training decisions, the application of strategic thought to matters in issue of Non-executive Directors is at section 5.3.
8. and are prepared to question, challenge and critique.
Directors are Director skills and experience clear communicators and good listeners who actively contribute The Board believes that a mix of skills and a breadth of experience to the Board in a collegial manner.
is important to ensure that the Board and its Committees function The Nomination Committee assists the Board in ensuring that the cohesively as a whole and effectively lead the Group.
The Nomination Board is comprised of high-calibre individuals whose background, Committee has a formal process by which it assesses the overall skills, experience and personal characteristics will augment the skills and experience required on the Board, which involves having present Board and meet its future needs and diversity aspirations.
regard to the direction of the Group and the diversity aspirations Diversity on the Board of the Board, and works with the Board to ensure that it has the appropriate mix of skills and experience to meet the future needs Corporate governance reviews have highlighted that there of the business.
Further information on the Nomination Committees is a continuing lack of diversity amongst experienced Director process is at 5.5.
3. candidates in Australia, the UK and the US.
The Board reviewed its existing practices during the year, including how the Board In addition, Directors have an individual development plan to and the Nomination Committee have taken into account diversity provide a personalised approach to updating industry knowledge criteria, including gender, nationality and geography, as part in particular discussed further in sections 5.3.
1. of a Director candidates general background and experience.
The following table sets out some of the key skills of the Directors The review included an assessment of the Board Committees and the extent to which they are represented on the Board and Terms of Reference, and resulted in amendments to the Terms its Committees.
In addition to the skills and experience indicators of Reference of the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration set out in the table, the Board Governance Document provides Committee to formalise diversity considerations.
The Board has set that each Director must have the following skills, attributes and an aspirational goal of increasing the number of female Directors experience: unquestioned honesty and integrity: a proven track to at least three over the next two years which, if achieved, record of creating value for shareholders: time available to would see the proportion of women on the Board increase from undertake the responsibilities: an ability to apply strategic thought 17 per cent currently to 25 per cent, based on a Board size of 12. to matters in issue: a preparedness to question, challenge and Further information in relation to how diversity is being addressed critique: and a willingness to understand and commit to the within the broader Group is contained in section 5.8. highest standards of governance.
The Board considers that each Director has the skills, attributes and experience required by the Board Governance Document.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 111 5 Corporate Governance Statement continued 5.3.
3 Skills, knowledge, experience and attributes of Directors continued Skills and experience Board Risk and Audit Nomination Remuneration Sustainability Managing and leading Sustainable success in business at a very senior level in 11 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors a successful career.
Global experience Senior management or equivalent experience in multiple global 12 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors locations, exposed to a range of political, cultural, regulatory and business environments.
Governance Commitment to the highest standards of governance, including 12 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors experience with a major organisation, which is subject to rigorous governance standards and an ability to assess the effectiveness of senior management.
Strategy Track record of developing and implementing a successful strategy, 12 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors including appropriately probing and challenging management on the delivery of agreed strategic planning objectives.
Financial acumen Senior executive or equivalent experience in financial accounting and 12 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors reporting, corporate finance and internal financial controls, including an ability to probe the adequacies of financial and risk controls.
Capital projects Experience working in an industry with projects involving large-scale 10 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors 2 Directors 3 Directors capital outlays and long-term investment horizons.
Health, safety and environment Experience related to workplace health and safety, environmental 11 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 2 Directors 3 Directors and social responsibility, and community.
Remuneration Board remuneration committee membership or management 12 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors experience in relation to remuneration, including incentive programs and pensions superannuation and the legislation and contractual framework governing remuneration.
Mining Senior executive experience in a large mining organisation combined 4 Directors 1 Director 0 Directors 0 Directors 2 Directors with an understanding of the Groups corporate objective to create long-term value for shareholders through the discovery, development and conversion of natural resources.
Oil and gas Senior executive experience in the oil and gas industry, including in depth 4 Directors 1 Director 2 Directors 2 Directors 1 Director knowledge of the Groups strategy, markets, competitors, operational issues, technology and regulatory concerns.
Marketing Senior executive experience in marketing and a detailed understanding 10 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors of the Groups corporate objective to create long-term value for shareholders through the provision of innovative customer and market-focused solutions.
Public policy Experience in public and regulatory policy, including how it 12 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors affects corporations.
Total Directors 12 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors Director qualifications Non-executive Director locations Business Finance, 7 Directors US, 3 Directors Engineering and Science, 2 Directors Australia, 5 Directors Science, 2 Directors UK, 2 Directors Engineering, 1 Director South Africa, 1 Director 11 2 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 5.3.
4 Chairman Tenure The Chairman of the Group is responsible for leading the Board and Two Directors, David Crawford and John Schubert, have each served on the Board for more than nine years from the date of their first ensuring that it is operating to the highest governance standards.
The Chairman is charged with building an effective, high performing election.
Both Mr Crawford and Dr Schubert are standing for re-election at the 2011 Annual General Meetings, having undergone and collegial team of Directors and ensuring that they operate effectively as a Board.
Although Mr Crawford was first appointed to the BHP Limited Board in 1994, the Board considers The Chairman, Jacques Nasser, is considered by the Board to that he makes a signi cant contribution to the work of the Board be independent.
He was appointed Chairman of the Group from and that his deep knowledge of the Group is particularly important 31 March 2010 and has been a Non-executive Director of the at a time when almost half the Non-executive Directors have Group since 6 June 2006.
Mr Nasser was last re-elected at between zero to three years tenure.
The Board does not believe the 2010 Annual General Meetings and will stand for re-election that either Mr Crawfords or Dr Schuberts tenure materially in 2011. interferes with their ability to act in the best interests of the The Chairmans role includes: Group.
The Board also believes that each of them has retained independence of character and judgement and has not formed ensuring that the principles and processes of the Board are associations with management or others that might compromise maintained, including the provision of accurate, timely and their ability to exercise independent judgement or act in the best clear information: interests of the Group.
encouraging debate and constructive criticism: setting agendas for meetings of the Board, in conjunction Retirement plan with the CEO and Group Company Secretary, that focus on As former Directors of BHP Limited, David Crawford and John the strategic direction and performance of our business: Schubert participated in a retirement plan approved by shareholders ensuring that adequate time is available for discussion in 1989.
The plan was closed on 24 October 2003 and bene ts on strategic issues: accrued to that date, together with interest earned on the bene ts, have been preserved and will be paid on retirement.
The Board leading the Board and individual Director performance assessments: does not believe that the independence of any participating speaking and acting for the Board and representing the Board Director is compromised as a result of this plan.
to shareholders: presenting shareholders views to the Board: Relationships and associations facilitating the relationship between the Board and the CEO.
Lindsay Maxsted was the Chief Executive Of cer of KPMG in Australia from January 2001 until December 2007.
The Board The Board considers that none of Mr Nassers other commitments considers that this prior relationship with KPMG does not materially set out in section 4.1 of this Annual Report interfere with the interfere with Mr Maxsteds exercise of objective, unfettered or discharge of his responsibilities to the Group.
The Board is satis ed independent judgement, or his ability to act in the best interests that he makes suf cient time available to serve the Group effectively.
of the BHP Billiton Group, and has determined, consistent with The Group does not have a Deputy Chairman, but has identi ed its policy on the independence of Directors, that Mr Maxsted is John Schubert to act as Chairman should the need arise at short independent.
The Board notes in particular that: notice.
John Buchanan is the Senior Independent Director for At the time of his appointment to the Board, more than three BHP Billiton Plc.
years had elapsed since Mr Maxsteds retirement from KPMG.
The Director independence rules and guidelines that apply to 5.3.
5 Independence the Group which are a combination of Australian, UK and US The Board is committed to ensuring a majority of Directors rules and guidelines all use three years as the benchmark are independent.
cooling off period for former audit rm partners: Process to determine independence Mr Maxsted has no financial eg.
pension, retainer or advisory fee The Board has a policy that it uses to determine the independence or consulting arrangements with KPMG: of its Directors.
This determination is carried out upon appointment, Mr Maxsted has not been part of the KPMG audit practice since annually and at any other time where the circumstances of 1980 and has not been in any way involved in, or able to in uence, a Director change such as to warrant reconsideration.
any audit activity associated with BHP Billiton.
The Board considers Mr Maxsteds financial acumen and extensive experience in the corporate restructuring eld to be important A copy of the Policy on Independence of Directors in the discharge of the Boards responsibilities.
Accordingly, is available at www.
com home aboutus ourcompany Pages governance.
his membership of the Board and Chairmanship of the RAC are considered by the Board to be appropriate and desirable.
The policy provides that the test of independence is whether the David Crawford was a partner of KPMG in Australia until his Director is: independent of management and any business or retirement in June 2001: however, he has had no relationship other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise with KPMG since that time and the Board does not consider of objective, unfettered or independent judgement by the Director Mr Crawfords independence to be compromised as a result or the Directors ability to act in the best interests of the of this relationship that ended more than 10 years ago.
Some of the Directors hold or previously held positions in companies Where a Director is considered by the Board to be independent, with which we have commercial relationships.
Those positions but is affected by circumstances that appear relevant to the and companies are set out in section 4.1 of this Annual Report.
Boards assessment of independence, the Board has undertaken The Board has assessed all of the relationships between the Group to explain the reasons why it reached its conclusion.
In applying and companies in which Directors hold or held positions and has the independence test, the Board considers relationships with concluded that in all cases the relationships do not interfere with management, major shareholders, subsidiary and associated the Directors exercise of objective, unfettered or independent companies and other parties with whom the Group transacts judgement or their ability to act in the best interests of our business.
business against predetermined materiality thresholds, all of which are set out in the policy.
A summary of the factors that may be perceived to impact the independence of Directors is set out below.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 11 3 5 Corporate Governance Statement continued 5.3.
8 Induction and training Transactions during the year that amounted to related-party The Board considers that the development of Group and industry transactions with Directors or Director-related entities under knowledge is a continuous and ongoing process.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS are outlined Upon appointment, each new Non-executive Director undertakes in note 30 Key Management Personnel to the financial statements.
an induction program speci cally tailored to their needs.
Carolyn Hewson and Lindsay Maxsted are both Directors and currently Audit, Risk Management and Nomination Committee members of Westpac Banking Corporation.
Mr Maxsted is A copy of an indicative induction program is available at www.
com home aboutus ourcompany Chairman-elect of Westpac and is scheduled to become Westpacs Pages governance.
The Board has assessed this cross directorship and concluded that it does not interfere with Non-executive Directors undertake to participate in continuous the Directors exercise of objective, unfettered or independent improvement programs, as required by their terms of appointment.
judgement or the Directors ability to act in the Groups best interests.
Structured opportunities for improvement are provided to continuously build a Directors knowledge.
During the year, Executive Director Non-executive Directors participated in development The Executive Director, Marius Kloppers, is not considered activities, including: independent because of his executive responsibilities.
Mr Kloppers business brie ngs intended to provide each Director with does not hold directorships in any other company included in the a deeper understanding of the activities, environment and ASX 100 or FTSE 100. key issues and direction of CSGs: Con icts of interest development sessions on speci c topics of relevance, such as The UK Companies Act requires that BHP Billiton Directors avoid climate change, commodity markets and changes in corporate a situation where they have, or can have, an unauthorised direct governance standards: or indirect interest that con icts, or possibly may con ict, with visits to key sites: the Companys interests.
In accordance with the UK Companies addresses by external speakers, who are generally experts Act, BHP Billiton Plcs Articles of Association were amended in their eld.
at the 2008 Annual General Meetings to allow the Directors In addition, each Non-executive Director has an individual to authorise con icts and potential con icts where appropriate.
development plan in order to provide a personalised approach A procedure operates to ensure the disclosure of con icts and to updating the Directors skills and knowledge.
The program is for the consideration and, if appropriate, the authorisation of designed to maximise the effectiveness of the Directors throughout them by non-con icted Directors.
The Nomination Committee their tenure and links in with their individual performance reviews supports the Board in this process, both by reviewing requests discussed further in section 5.4.
The training and development from Directors for authorisation of situations of actual or potential program covers not only matters of a business nature, but also con ict and making recommendations to the Board and by matters falling into the environmental, social and governance regularly reviewing any situations of actual or potential con ict ESG area.
that have previously been authorised by the Board, and making recommendations regarding whether the authorisation remains The Nomination Committee has oversight of the Directors Training appropriate.
In addition, in accordance with Australian law, and Development Program.
The bene t of this approach is that if a situation arises for consideration in which a Director has induction and learning opportunities can be tailored to Directors a material personal interest, the affected Director takes no part Committee memberships and that the process in relation to in decision-making.
Committee composition, succession and training and development is coordinated to ensure a link with the Nomination Committees 5.3.
6 Senior Independent Director role in securing the supply of talent to the Board.
The Board has appointed John Buchanan as the Senior Independent Director of BHP Billiton Plc in accordance with the UK Corporate 5.3.
Dr Buchanan is available to shareholders who The Board and its Committees may seek advice from independent have concerns that cannot be addressed through the Chairman, experts whenever it is considered appropriate.
Individual Directors, CEO or CFO.
Dr Buchanan, as Senior Independent Director, also with the consent of the Chairman, may seek independent provides a sounding board for the Chairman and serves as an professional advice on any matter connected with the discharge intermediary for other Directors if necessary.
of their responsibilities, at the Groups expense.
10 Remuneration The Board has adopted a letter of appointment that contains Details of our remuneration policies and practices and the the terms on which Non-executive Directors will be appointed, remuneration paid to the Directors Executive and Non-executive including the basis upon which they will be indemni ed.
The letter and members of the GMC are set out in the Remuneration Report of appointment clearly fide fines the role of Directors, including the in section 6 of this Annual Report.
Shareholders will be invited expectations in terms of independence, participation, time to consider and to approve the Remuneration Report at the 2011 commitment and continuous improvement.
In summary, Directors Annual General Meetings.
are expected to constructively challenge: set values and standards 5.3.
11 Share ownership of the Group: monitor the performance of management: satisfy themselves as to the adequacy and integrity of financial statements: Non-executive Directors have agreed to apply at least 25 per cent and satisfy themselves that the systems for the identi cation and of their remuneration to the purchase of BHP Billiton shares until management of risks are robust and appropriate.
Directors are they achieve a shareholding equivalent in value to one years also expected to commit suf cient time to carry out their role and remuneration.
Thereafter, they must maintain at least that level to participate in continuous improvement programs and internal of shareholding throughout their tenure.
All dealings by Directors review to support ongoing development.
The letter of appointment are subject to the Groups Securities Dealing document and are also makes it clear that Directors are required to disclose reported to the Board and to the stock exchanges.
circumstances that may affect, or be perceived to affect, their ability to exercise independent judgement so that the Board can assess independence on a regular basis.
A copy of the terms of appointment is available at www.
11 4 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 5.3.
11 Share ownership continued 5.4 Board of Directors Review, Information on our policy governing the use of hedge arrangements re-election and renewal over shares in BHP Billiton by both Directors and members of the GMC 5.4.
1 Review is set out in section 6.3 of this Annual Report.
The Board is committed to transparency in determining Board Details of the shares held by Directors are set out in section 7.20 membership and in assessing the performance of Directors.
The Board assesses its performance through a combination 5.3.
12 Meetings of internal peer review and externally facilitated evaluation.
Contemporary performance measures are considered an The Board meets as often as necessary to ful l its role.
Directors important part of this process.
Directors performance is are required to allocate suf cient time to the Group to perform also measured against their individual development plans their responsibilities effectively, including adequate time to prepare see section 5.3.
During the reporting year the Board met 10 times, with six of those meetings being held in Australia, three The Board conducts regular evaluations of its performance, the in the UK and one in the US.
Generally, meetings run over three performance of its Committees, the Chairman, individual Directors days includes Committee meetings.
The Non-executive Directors and the governance processes that support the Boards work.
meet during each Board meeting in the absence of the Executive This includes analysis of how the Board and its Directors are Director and management, and the session is chaired by the Group functioning, the time spent by the Board considering matters Chairman.
Attendance by Directors at Board and Board Committee and whether the Terms of Reference of the Board Committees meetings is set out in the table in section 5.4.
1. have been met, as well as compliance with the Board Governance Document.
The evaluation of the Boards performance is conducted Members of the GMC and other members of senior management by focusing on individual Directors and Board Committees in one attended meetings of the Board by invitation.
Senior managers year and the Board as a whole in the following year.
In addition, delivered presentations on the status and performance of the Board conducts evaluations of the performance of Directors our businesses and matters reserved for the Board, including retiring and seeking re-election and uses the results of the the approval of budgets, annual financial statements and evaluation when considering whether to recommend the re-election business strategy.
13 Company Secretaries During internally facilitated individual Director reviews, each of the Jane McAloon is the Group Company Secretary.
Ms McAloons Directors give anonymous feedback on their peers performance and quali cations and experience are set out in section 4.1.
The Group individual contributions to the Board via the Chairman.
In respect Company Secretary is responsible for developing and maintaining of the Chairmans performance, Directors provide feedback directly the information systems and processes that enable the Board to to John Schubert to be passed on anonymously to the Chairman.
The Group Company Secretary is also responsible External independent advisers are engaged to assist these processes to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied as necessary and an externally facilitated review of the Board, with and advising the Board on governance matters.
All Directors Directors or Committees takes place at least every two years.
It is have access to the Group Company Secretary for advice and thought that the involvement of an independent third party has services.
Independent advisory services are retained by the Group assisted the evaluation processes to be both rigorous and fair.
Company Secretary at the request of the Board or Board Committees.
Ms McAloon is supported by Elisabeth Joyner, who was appointed During the year, an externally facilitated evaluation of the Board, in March 2011 as Deputy Company Secretary of BHP Billiton Limited, which commenced in the previous financial year, was undertaken.
and Elizabeth Hobley and Geof Stapledon, who are Deputy Company The review indicated that the Board is continuing to function Secretaries of BHP Billiton Plc.
The Board appoints and removes the effectively and in accordance with the terms of the Board Governance Company Secretaries.
In addition, externally facilitated reviews of individual Directors and of each Board Committee have been undertaken.
Board Review Year Two internally Whole Board Update or externally review development plans facilitated review Each year: Review Directors seeking re-election Year One internally Incorporate Individual Director review or externally feedback and Committee review facilitated review BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 115 5 Corporate Governance Statement continued 5.4.
1 Review continued The effectiveness of the Board as a whole and of its Committees is assessed against the accountabilities set down in the Board The evaluation of individual Directors focuses on the contribution Governance Document and each of the Committees Terms of the Director to the work of the Board and the expectations of Reference.
Matters considered in the assessment include: of Directors as speci ed in the Groups governance framework.
the effectiveness of discussion and debate at Board and The performance of individual Directors is assessed against a range of criteria, including the ability of the Director to: Committee meetings: consistently take the perspective of creating shareholder value: the effectiveness of the Boards and Committees processes and relationship with management: contribute to the development of strategy: the quality and timeliness of meeting agendas, Board and understand the major risks affecting the business: Committee papers and secretariat support: provide clear direction to management: the composition of the Board and each Committee, focusing contribute to Board cohesion: on the blend of skills and experience.
commit the time required to ful l the role and perform their responsibilities effectively: The process is managed by the Chairman, but feedback on the Chairmans performance is provided to him by John Schubert.
listen to and respect the ideas of fellow Directors and members of management.
Information about the performance review process for executives is set out in section 5.7.
Attendance at Board and Board Committee meetings during the year ended 30 June 2011 Board Risk and Audit Nomination Remuneration Sustainability AB AB ABAB AB 1 Alan Boeckmann 7 6 6 6 Malcolm Broomhead 10 10 7 7 John Buchanan 10 10 7 7 8 8 Carlos Cordeiro 10 10 8 8 2 David Crawford 10 10 9 9 Carolyn Hewson 10 10 9 9 Marius Kloppers 10 10 3 Lindsay Maxsted 3 3 1 1 Wayne Murdy 10 10 9 8 Jacques Nasser 10 10 7 7 Keith Rumble 10 9 7 7 John Schubert 10 10 7 7 8 8 7 7 4 Shriti Vadera 4 4 Column A indicates the number of meetings held during the period the Director was a member of the Board and or Committee.
Column B indicates the number of meetings attended during the period the Director was a member of the Board and or Committee.
1 Alan Boeckmann retired from the Board and the Remuneration Committee on 23 March 2011.
2 David Crawford retired from the RAC on 6 September 2011.
3 Lindsay Maxsted was appointed to the Board on 23 March 2011 and to the RAC on 21 June 2011, and was subsequently appointed Chairman of that Committee on 6 September 2011.
4 Shriti Vadera was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2011 and to the RAC on 16 August 2011.
116 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 5.4.
2 Re-election Risk and Audit Committee Chairman succession In August 2011 the Board adopted a policy consistent with the Following completion of the succession planning process for the Board Chairman in 2010, the Board continued the succession UK Corporate Governance Code, under which all Directors must, if they wish to remain on the Board, seek re-election by shareholders planning process for the Chairman of the RAC.
The succession planning process involved careful consideration of the skills, annually.
This new policy will take effect at the 2011 Annual General Meetings, and replaces the previous system, as set out in the knowledge and experience required on the Board, in particular the skills and experience required to properly ful l the duties of Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and the Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc, under which Directors were required to submit the RAC Chairman, given the size and complexity of the Group.
themselves to shareholders for re-election at least every three years.
Mr Lindsay Maxsted, a corporate recovery specialist who has Board support for reappointment is not automatic.
Retiring Directors managed a number of Australias largest corporate insolvency and restructuring engagements, was appointed as the new who are seeking re-election are subject to a performance appraisal overseen by the Nomination Committee.
Following that appraisal, RAC Chairman from 6 September 2011.
David Crawford retired as RAC Chairman and as a member of the RAC on 6 September the Board, on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, makes a determination as to whether it will endorse a retiring 2011.
At the request of the Board, Mr Crawford is standing for re-election to the Board.
The Board will not endorse a Director for re-election if his or her performance is not considered satisfactory.
The Board will advise shareholders in the Notice of Meeting whether 5.5 Board Committees or not re-election is supported.
The Board has established Committees to assist it in exercising its BHP Billiton does not apply or implement a no vacancy rule in authority, including monitoring the performance of the business to relation to Board appointments.
Accordingly, Director candidates gain assurance that progress is being made towards the corporate can be elected to the Board by ordinary resolution and are not objective within the limits imposed by the Board.
The permanent required to out-poll an incumbent Director in order to be elected.
Committees of the Board are the RAC, the Sustainability Committee, 5.4.
3 Renewal the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
Other Committees are formed from time to time to deal with The Board plans for its own succession with the assistance speci c matters.
In doing this, the Board: considers the diversity of skills, backgrounds, knowledge, Each of the permanent Committees has Terms of Reference experience and gender necessary to allow it to meet the under which authority is delegated by the Board.
strategic vision for the business: assesses the skills, backgrounds, knowledge, experience and gender currently represented: The Terms of Reference for each Committee can be found at www.
com home aboutus identi es any inadequate representation of those attributes ourcompany Pages governance.
and agrees the process necessary to ensure a candidate is selected who brings them to the Board: The of ce of the Company Secretary provides secretariat services reviews how Board performance might be enhanced, both for each of the Committees.
Committee meeting agendas, papers at an individual Director level and for the Board as a whole.
and minutes are made available to all members of the Board.
The Board believes that an orderly succession and renewal process Subject to appropriate controls and the overriding scrutiny of the is in the best interests of the Group.
The Board believes that orderly Board, Committee Chairmen are free to use whatever resources succession and renewal is achieved as a result of careful planning, they consider necessary to discharge their responsibilities.
where the appropriate composition of the Board is continually Reports from each of the Committees appear below.
When considering new appointments to the Board, the Nomination Committee oversees the preparation of a position speci cation that is provided to an independent recruitment organisation retained to conduct a global search.
Independent search rms retained are instructed to consider a wide range of candidates, including taking into account geographic location, nationality and gender.
In addition to the speci c skills, knowledge and experience deemed necessary, the speci cation contains criteria such as: a proven track record of creating shareholder value: unquestioned integrity: a commitment to the highest standards of governance: having the required time available to devote to the job: strategic mind set, an awareness of market leadership, outstanding monitoring skills: a preparedness to question, challenge and critique: an independent point of view.
Newly appointed Directors must submit themselves to shareholders for election at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 11 7 5 Corporate Governance Statement continued 5.5.
1 Risk and Audit Committee Report The Risk and Audit Committee RAC met nine times during the Business Group Risk and Audit Committees year.
Information on meeting attendance by Committee members To assist management in providing the information necessary is included in the table in section 5.4.
1 and information on their to allow the RAC to discharge its responsibilities, Risk and Audit quali cations is included in section 4.1.
Committees have been established for each of our Business Groups, incorporating each CSG and for key functional areas such 3 Risk and Audit Committee members during the year as Marketing and Treasury.
As illustrated in the diagram below, these Committees, known as Business Group RACs, have been Name Status established and operate as committees of management, but are 1 chaired by members of the RAC.
They perform an important 2 David Crawford Chairman Member for whole period monitoring function in the overall governance of the Group.
Carolyn Hewson Member for whole period Signi cant financial and risk matters raised at Business Group 1 2 Lindsay Maxsted Member from 21 June 2011 RAC meetings are reported to the RAC by the Head of Group Reporting and Taxation and the Head of Group Risk Assessment Wayne Murdy Member for whole period and Assurance.
1 David Crawford retired from the Committee on 6 September 2011.
Activities undertaken during the year Lindsay Maxsted was appointed as the Committees Chairman from 6 September 2011.
Integrity of financial statements 2 David Crawford was until 6 September 2011 the Committees financial The RAC assists the Board in assuring the integrity of the financial expert nominated by the Board, and effective from 6 September 2011 the nominated financial expert has been Lindsay Maxsted.
The RAC evaluates and makes recommendations to 3 Shriti Vadera was appointed to the Committee on 16 August 2011. the Board about the appropriateness of accounting policies and practices, areas of judgement, compliance with Accounting Role and focus Standards, stock exchange and legal requirements and the results The role of the RAC is to assist the Board in monitoring the of the external audit.
It reviews the half yearly and annual financial decisions and actions of the CEO and the Group and to gain statements and makes recommendations on speci c actions or assurance that progress is being made towards the corporate decisions including formal adoption of the financial statements objective within the CEO limits.
The RAC undertakes this and reports the Board should consider in order to maintain the by overseeing: integrity of the financial statements.
From time to time, the Board the integrity of the financial statements: may delegate authority to the RAC to approve the release of the appointment, remuneration, quali cations, independence the statements to the stock exchanges, shareholders and the and performance of the External Auditor and the integrity financial community.
of the audit process as a whole: The CEO and CFO have certi ed that the 2011 financial statements the performance and leadership of the internal audit function: present a true and fair view, in all material respects, of our the effectiveness of the systems of internal controls and financial condition and operating results and are in accordance risk management: with applicable regulatory requirements.
compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements: compliance by management with constraints imposed by the Board.
BOARD RISK & AUDIT COMMITTEE SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE NOMINATION COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Each Business Group Risk and Audit Committee is chaired by a Board RAC member.
Other members include: Head of Group Reporting GROUP MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE and Taxation: Head of Group Risk Assessment and Assurance OTHER GROUP-LEVEL MANAGEMENT COMMITTEES Material issues raised at Business Group Risk and Audit Committees are reported to the Board RAC by the Head of Group Reporting and Businesses CSGs, Marketing, Treasury Taxation and the Head of Group Risk Assessment and Assurance Business Group Risk and Audit Committees 118 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 5.5.
1 Risk and Audit Committee Report continued External Auditor In addition to audit services, the External Auditor will be permitted to provide other non-audit services that are not, and are not The RAC manages the relationship with the External Auditor perceived to be, in con ict with the role of the External Auditor.
It considers the reappointment of the In accordance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange External Auditor each year, as well as remuneration and other Act and guidance contained in Public Company Accounting terms of engagement, and makes a recommendation to the Oversight Board PCAOB Release 2004-001, certain speci c Board.
The last competitive audit review was in 2003, when activities are listed in our detailed policy which have been KPMG was appointed by the Board on the recommendation pre-approved by the RAC.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the RACs capacity to recommend a particular rm for The categories of pre-approved services are as follows: appointment as auditor.
Shareholders are asked to approve Audit services work that constitutes the agreed scope of the the reappointment of the auditor each year in the UK.
statutory audit and includes the statutory audits of the Group The RAC evaluates the performance of the External Auditor and its entities including interim reviews.
The RAC will monitor during its term of appointment against speci ed criteria, the Audit services engagements and approve, if necessary, any including delivering value to shareholders and ourselves.
changes in terms and conditions resulting from changes in audit The RAC reviews the integrity, independence and objectivity scope, Group structure or other relevant events.
This review includes: Audit-related assurance services work that is outside the con rming that the External Auditor is, in its judgement, required scope of the statutory audit, but is consistent with independent of the Group: the role of the external statutory auditor.
This category includes work that is reasonably related to the performance of an audit obtaining from the External Auditor an account of all or review and is a logical extension of the audit or review scope, relationships between the External Auditor and the Group: is of an assurance or compliance nature and is work that the monitoring the number of former employees of the External External Auditor must or is best placed to undertake.
Auditor currently employed in senior positions and assessing Tax services work of a tax nature that does not compromise whether those appointments impair, or appear to impair, the the independence of the External Auditor.
External Auditors judgement or independence: Other advisory services work of an advisory nature that does considering whether the various relationships between the not compromise the independence of the External Auditor.
Group and the External Auditor collectively impair, or appear to impair, the External Auditors judgement or independence: Activities not listed speci cally are therefore not pre-approved determining whether the compensation of individuals employed and must be approved by the RAC prior to engagement, regardless by the External Auditor who conduct the audit is tied to the of the dollar value involved.
Additionally, any engagement for provision of non-audit services and, if so, whether this impairs, other services with a value over US$100,000, even if listed as or appears to impair, the External Auditors judgement a pre-approved service, can only be approved by the RAC, or independence: and all engagements for other services, whether pre-approved reviewing the economic importance of our business to the or not, and regardless of the dollar value involved, are reported External Auditor and assessing whether that importance quarterly to the RAC.
impairs, or appears to impair, the External Auditors While not speci cally prohibited by our policy, any proposed judgement or independence.
non-audit engagement of the External Auditor relating to internal The External Auditor also certi es its independence to the RAC.
control such as a review of internal controls or assistance with implementing the regulatory requirements, including the Securities The audit engagement partner rotates every five years.
Exchange Act must obtain speci c prior approval by the RAC.
Although the External Auditor does provide some non-audit With the exception of the external audit of the Group financial services, the objectivity and independence of the External report, any engagement identi ed that contains an internal Auditor is safeguarded through restrictions on the provision control-related element is not considered to be pre-approved.
For example, certain types of non-audit service In addition, while the categories shown above include a list may only be undertaken by the External Auditor with the prior of certain pre-approved services, the use of the External Auditor approval of the RAC as described below, while other services to perform such services shall always be subject to our overriding may not be undertaken at all, including services where the governance practices as articulated in the policy.
External Auditor: An exception can be made to the above policy where such an may be required to audit its own work: exception is in our interests and appropriate arrangements are participates in activities that would normally be undertaken put in place to ensure the integrity and independence of the by management: External Auditor.
Any such exception requires the speci c is remunerated through a success fee structure: prior approval of the RAC and must be reported to the Board.
No exceptions were approved during the year ended 30 June 2011. acts in an advocacy role for our business.
The RAC has adopted a policy entitled Provision of Audit In addition, the RAC approved no services during the year ended 30 June 2011 pursuant to paragraph c 7 i C of Rule 2-01 of the and Other Services by the External Auditor covering the RACs pre-approval policies and procedures to maintain US Securities and Exchange Commissions SEC Regulation S-X.
the independence of the External Auditor.
Fees paid to the Groups External Auditor during the year for audit and other services were US$23.7 million, of which 60 per cent comprised audit fees, 30 per cent related to legislative Our Policy on Provision of Audit and Other requirements including Sarbanes-Oxley and 10 per cent were Services by the External Auditor can be viewed for other services.
Details of the fees paid are set out in note 34 at www.
com home aboutus ourcompany Auditors remuneration to the financial statements.
Based on the review by the RAC, the Board is satis ed that the External Auditor is independent.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 11 9 5 Corporate Governance Statement continued 5.5.
1 Risk and Audit Committee Report continued Internal Audit During the year, the Board conducted reviews of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls for the financial year The Internal Audit function is carried out internally by Group and up to the date of this Annual Report in accordance with the Audit Services GAS.
The role of GAS is to determine whether UK Corporate Governance Code Turnbull Guidance and the risk management, control and governance processes are adequate Principles and Recommendations published by the ASX Corporate and functioning.
The Internal Audit function is independent of Governance Council.
These reviews covered financial, operational the External Auditor.
The RAC reviews the mission and charter and compliance controls and risk assessment.
During the year, of GAS, the staf ng levels and its scope of work to ensure that management presented an assessment of the material business it is appropriate in light of the key risks we face.
It also reviews risks facing the Group and the level of effectiveness of risk and approves the annual internal audit plan.
management over the material business risks.
The reviews The RAC also approves the appointment and dismissal of the were overseen by the RAC, with findings and recommendations Head of Group Risk Assessment and Assurance and assesses reported to the Board.
In addition to considering key risks facing his or her performance, independence and objectivity.
The role the Group, the Board received an assessment of the effectiveness of the Head of Group Risk Assessment and Assurance includes of internal controls over key risks identi ed through the work achievement of the internal audit objectives, risk management of the Board Committees.
The Board is satis ed that the policies and insurance strategy.
The position is held by Stefano effectiveness of the internal controls has been properly reviewed.
Mr Giorgini reports to senior management and has all Managements assessment of our internal control necessary access to management and the right to see information over financial reporting and explanations, and has unfettered access to the RAC.
Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining Effectiveness of systems of internal control adequate internal control over financial reporting as fide ned and risk management in Rule 13a-15 f and 15d-15 f under the US Securities Exchange In delegating authority to the CEO, the Board has established Act of 1934.
Under the supervision and with the participation CEO limits set out in the Board Governance Document.
Limits of our management, including our CEO and CFO, we have on the CEOs authority require the CEO to ensure that there is evaluated the effectiveness of the Groups internal control a system of control in place for identifying and managing risk.
over financial reporting based on the framework and criteria The Directors, through the RAC, review the systems that have established in Internal Controls Integrated Framework, issued been established for this purpose and regularly review their by the Sponsoring Organisation of the Treadway Commission effectiveness.
These reviews include assessing whether processes COSO.
Based on this evaluation, management has concluded continue to meet evolving external governance requirements.
that internal control over financial reporting was effective as at 30 June 2011.
There were no material weaknesses in the Groups The RAC is responsible for the oversight of risk management and reviews the internal controls and risk management systems.
internal controls over financial reporting identi ed by management.
In undertaking this role the RAC reviews the following: Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial procedures for identifying business and operational risks reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements and, even when and controlling their financial impact on the Group and determined to be effective, can only provide reasonable assurance the operational effectiveness of the policies and procedures with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation.
related to risk and control: Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future budgeting and forecasting systems, financial reporting systems periods are subject to the risk that controls may become and controls: inadequate because of changes in conditions or that the degree policies and practices put in place by the CEO for detecting, of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
reporting and preventing fraud and serious breaches of business There have been no changes in our internal control over financial conduct and whistle-blowing procedures: reporting during FY2011 that have materially affected, or are procedures for ensuring compliance with relevant regulatory reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over and legal requirements: financial reporting.
arrangements for protecting intellectual property and other non-physical assets: operational effectiveness of the Business Group RAC structures: overseeing the adequacy of the internal controls and allocation of responsibilities for monitoring internal financial controls.
For further discussion on our approach to risk management, refer to section 5.6.
120 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 5.5.
1 Risk and Audit Committee Report continued The CEO and CFO have certi ed to the Board that the financial There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system statements are founded on a sound system of risk management of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility and internal control and that the system is operating ef ciently of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the and effectively in all material respects.
Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance During the year, the RAC reviewed our compliance with the of achieving their control objectives.
obligations imposed by the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act, including evaluating and documenting internal controls as required by Further, in the design and evaluation of our disclosure controls section 404 of the Act.
and procedures, our management was necessarily required to apply its judgement in evaluating the cost-bene t relationship Managements assessment of our disclosure controls of possible controls and procedures.
and procedures Assessment of RAC performance Our management, with the participation of our CEO and CFO, has performed an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and During 2011, the Committee retained the services of the JCA Group, operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of 30 June a UK based provider of board evaluation services, to assist with 2011.
Disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide an externally facilitated review of the Committees effectiveness.
reasonable assurance that the material financial and nonfinancial The Committee also assessed its performance in accordance information required to be disclosed by BHP Billiton, including in with its Terms of Reference.
As a result of its own assessment the reports that it les or submits under the US Securities Exchange and feedback from the JCA Group, the Committee is satis ed Act of 1934, is recorded, processed, summarised and reported it has met its Terms of Reference.
on a timely basis and that such information is accumulated and communicated to BHP Billitons management, including our CEO and CFO, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Based on the foregoing, our management, including the CEO and CFO, has concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective in providing that reasonable assurance.
2 Remuneration Committee Report The Remuneration Committee met eight times during the year.
Changes to Terms of Reference Information on meeting attendance by Committee members is During the year, in response to corporate governance reviews included in the table in section 5.4.
1. that had highlighted the continuing lack of diversity among experienced Director candidates in Australia and the UK, the Remuneration Committee members during the year Committees Terms of Reference were reviewed to consider whether amendments were required to formalise diversity Name Status considerations.
As a result, the Committees Terms of Reference were amended so that its role includes assisting the Board in John Buchanan Chairman Member for whole period its oversight of the review, at least annually, of remuneration Member to 23 March 2011 Alan Boeckmann by gender, the relative proportion of men and women in the Groups workforce and the Groups progress in achieving its Member for whole period Carlos Cordeiro diversity objectives.
John Schubert Member for whole period Activities undertaken during the year Role and focus Full details of the Committees work on behalf of the Board are set out in the Remuneration Report in section 6.
The role of the Committee is to assist the Board in its oversight of: the remuneration policy and its speci c application to the CEO During 2011, the Committee retained the services of the JCA Group and the CEOs direct reports, and its general application to to assist with an externally facilitated review of the Committees all employees: effectiveness.
The Committee also assessed its performance in the determination of levels of reward for the CEO and approval accordance with its Terms of Reference.
As a result of its own of reward to the CEOs direct reports: assessment and feedback from the JCA Group, the Committee is satis ed it has met its Terms of Reference.
the annual evaluation of the performance of the CEO, by giving guidance to the Chairman: communication to shareholders regarding remuneration policy and the Committees work on behalf of the Board, including the preparation of the Remuneration Report for inclusion in the Annual Report: compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements associated with remuneration matters.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 121 5 Corporate Governance Statement continued 5.5.
3 Nomination Committee Report The Nomination Committee met seven times during the year.
Activities undertaken during the year Information on meeting attendance by Committee members There were changes to the composition of the Board during is included in the table in section 5.4.
Shriti Vadera and Lindsay Maxsted joined the Board on 1 January 2011 and 23 March 2011, respectively.
Alan Boeckmann Nomination Committee members during the year retired from the Board on 23 March 2011.
The Committee retained the services of Heidrick & Struggles and Egon Zehnder to assist Name Status in the identi cation of potential candidates for the Board.
The Committee also oversaw the Director training and development Jacques Nasser Chairman Member for whole period program and the induction of new Directors see section 5.3.
8 Member for whole period John Buchanan for further information on Director induction and training.
John Schubert Member for whole period The Committees Terms of Reference were reviewed during the year to consider whether amendments were required to formalise Role and focus diversity considerations.
Amendments were subsequently made The role of the Committee is to assist in ensuring that the so that the diversity aspirations of the Board are expressly taken Board comprises individuals who are best able to discharge into account when identifying skills that may be required and the responsibilities of a Director, having regard to the highest suitable candidates.
standards of governance, the strategic direction of the Group and During 2011, the Committee retained the services of the JCA Group the diversity aspirations of the Board.
It does so by focusing on: to assist with an externally facilitated review of the Committees assessing the skills, backgrounds, knowledge, experience effectiveness.
The Committee also assessed its performance and gender represented on the Board and identifying any in accordance with its Terms of Reference.
As a result of its own inadequate representation of those attributes: assessment and feedback from the JCA Group, the Committee retaining the services of independent search rms and is satis ed it has met its Terms of Reference.
identifying suitable candidates possessing the skills identi ed by the skills assessment referred to above for the Board: overseeing the review of the assessment of the performance of individual Directors and making recommendations to the Board on the endorsement of retiring Directors seeking re-election see section 5.4.
2 : the plan for succession of the Chairman and the CEO and the periodic evaluation of it: the provision of appropriate training and development opportunities for Directors: supporting the Board in its review and, where appropriate, authorisation of actual and potential con icts see section 5.3.
5 : communicating to shareholders regarding the work of the Committee on behalf of the Board.
The Nomination Committee also has oversight of training and development activity for all Directors.
The Board considers this enhances the Committees ongoing consideration and review in relation to the appropriate skills mix for the Board.
122 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 5.5.
4 Sustainability Committee Report The Sustainability Committee met seven times during the year.
Activities undertaken during the year Information on meeting attendance by Committee members is During the year, the Sustainability Committee considered reports included in the table in section 5.4.
1. on strategic environmental issues, HSEC audits and trends, review of health and hygiene standards, learnings from fatal accidents Sustainability Committee members during the year and other incidents, and the potential impact of climate change regulation on the Groups portfolios and actions being taken to Name Status manage the implications of this regulation.
It also reviewed the Groups performance against the HSEC public targets and the John Schubert Chairman Member for whole period Key Performance Indicators for the HSEC function.
The Committee Member for whole period Malcolm Broomhead also reviewed the performance of the Head of Group HSEC.
The Committee reviewed and recommended to the Board the Keith Rumble Member for whole period approval of the annual Sustainability Report for publication.
The Sustainability Report identi es our targets for HSEC matters Role and focus and our performance against those targets.
The role of the Sustainability Committee is to assist the Board in its oversight of: the effectiveness of the Groups strategies, policies and systems A copy of the Sustainability Report and further associated with health, safety, environment and community information can be found at www.
com HSEC matters: home aboutus sustainability Pages default.
our compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements associated with HSEC matters: During 2011, the Committee retained the services of the JCA Group our performance in relation to HSEC matters: to assist with an externally facilitated review of the Committees the performance and leadership of the HSEC function: effectiveness.
The Committee also assessed its performance in accordance with its Terms of Reference.
As a result of its own HSEC risks: assessment and feedback from the JCA Group, the Committee our annual Sustainability Report: is satis ed it has met its Terms of Reference.
communication to shareholders regarding the work of the Committee on behalf of the Board.
Sustainable development governance Our approach to HSEC and sustainable development governance is characterised by: the Sustainability Committee overseeing the material HSEC matters and risks across the Group: business line management having primary responsibility and accountability for HSEC performance: the HSEC function providing advice and guidance directly, as well as through a series of networks across the business: seeking input and insight from external experts such as our Forum for Corporate Responsibility: clear links between remuneration and HSEC performance.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 123 5 Corporate Governance Statement continued operating cost pressures and shortages could negatively impact 5.6 Risk management our operating margins and expansion plans: 5.6.
1 Approach to risk management impact of health, safety, environmental and community exposures We believe that the identi cation and management of risk is and related regulations on operations and reputation: central to achieving the corporate objective of delivering long-term unexpected natural and operational catastrophes: value to shareholders.
Each year, the Board reviews and considers climate change, greenhouse effects and related regulations the risk pro le for the whole business.
This risk pro le covers and taxes: both operational and strategic risks.
The risk pro le is assessed breaches in information technology security: to ensure it supports the achievement of the Groups strategy breaches in governance processes.
while maintaining a strong A credit rating.
These risks are described in more detail in section 1.5.
The Board has delegated the oversight of risk management to the RAC although the Board retains overall accountability 5.6.
3 Risk management governance structure for the Groups risk pro le.
In addition, the Board speci cally The principal aim of the Groups risk management governance requires the CEO to implement a system of control for identifying structure and internal control systems is to identify, evaluate and managing risk.
The Directors, through the RAC, review the and manage business risks, with a view to enhancing the value systems that have been established for this purpose and regularly of shareholders investments and safeguarding assets.
The RAC regularly reports to the Board Management has put in place a number of key policies, processes, to enable it to review the Groups risk framework.
performance requirements and independent controls to provide During the year, the RAC considered review processes for assurance to the Board and the RAC as to the integrity of our the nature and extent of material risks taken in achieving the reporting and effectiveness of our systems of internal control and corporate objective.
These processes include the application risk management.
The BHP Billiton Governance structure diagram of materiality and tolerance criteria to determine and assess in section 5.1 highlights the relationship between the Board and material risks.
Materiality criteria include maximum foreseeable the various controls in the assurance process.
Some of the more loss and residual risk thresholds.
Tolerance criteria additionally signi cant internal control systems include Board and management assess the control effectiveness of material risks.
committees, Business Group RACs, the Risk Management Policy and The Group has established a Risk Management governance internal audit.
framework with supporting processes and performance requirements Business Group Risk and Audit Committees that provide an overarching and consistent approach for the The Business Group RACs illustrated in the diagram in section identi cation, assessment and management of risks.
1 assist the RAC to monitor the Groups obligations in relation ranked using a common methodology.
Where a risk is assessed to financial reporting, internal control structure, risk management as material it is reported and reviewed by senior management.
processes and the internal and external audit functions.
During the year, updated Risk Management Group Level Documents were approved and implemented across the Group.
Board Committees Directors also monitor risks and controls through the RAC, the Remuneration Committee and the Sustainability Committee.
Our Risk Management Policy can be found Management Committees at www.
com home aboutus ourcompany Pages governance aspx.
Management committees also perform roles in relation to risk and control.
Strategic risks and opportunities arising from changes in our business environment are regularly reviewed by the GMC and 5.6.
2 Business risks discussed by the Board.
The Financial Risk Management Committee The scope of our operations and the number of industries in which FRMC reviews the effectiveness of internal controls relating we operate and engage mean that a range of factors may impact to commodity price risk, counterparty credit risk, currency risk, our results.
Material risks that could negatively affect our results nancing risk, interest rate risk and insurance.
Minutes of the GMC and performance include: and the FRMC meetings are provided to the Board.
The Investment impacts arising from the global financial crisis: Committee provides oversight for investment processes across uctuations in commodity prices: the business and coordinates the investment toll-gating process uctuations in currency exchange rates: for major investments.
Reports are made to the Board on findings failure or non-performance of counterparties: by the Investment Committee in relation to major capital projects.
failure to discover new reserves, maintain or enhance existing reserves or develop new operations: in uence of demand from China: actions by governments, including additional taxation, infrastructure development, permitting requirements and political events in the countries in which we operate: inability to successfully integrate acquired businesses: inadequate human resource talent pool: impact of increased costs or schedule delays on development projects: inability to recover investments in mining and oil and gas projects: non-compliance with the Groups standards by non-controlled assets: 124 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 5.7 Management Below the level of the Board, key management decisions are made by the CEO, the GMC, other management committees and individual members of management to whom authority has been delegated.
The diagram below describes the position of the CEO and three key management committees.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER :b Wf WX XZTgXW Thg[be gl Yeb` g[X 5bTeW gb TV[ XiX g[X VbecbeTgX bU]XVg iX!
4hg[be gl XkgXaWf gb T `TggXef XkVXcg g[bfX eXfXeiXW Ybe g[X 5bTeWf WXV f ba!
68B [Tf WX XZTgXW Thg[be gl gb `TaTZX`Xag Vb`` ggXXf TaW aW i WhT `X`UXef bY `TaTZX`Xag Uhg 68B eX`T af TVVbhagTU X gb 5bTeW Ybe T Thg[be gl WX XZTgXW gb [ `!
Group Management Committee 8fgTU f[XW Ul g[X 68B g[X :@6 f g[X :ebhcf `bfg fXa be XkXVhg iX UbWl!
ChecbfX f gb cebi WX XTWXef[ c gb g[X :ebhc WXgXe` a aZ gf ce be g Xf TaW g[X jTl g f gb bcXeTgX g[XeXUl Tff fg aZ g[X 68B a chefh aZ g[X VbecbeTgX bU]XVg iX!
f T Ybeh` gb WXUTgX [ Z[ XiX `TggXef `cbegTag gb g[X :ebhc TaW gb XafheX Vbaf fgXag WXiX bc`Xag bY g[X :ebhcf fgeTgXZl!
Financial Risk Management Committee ChecbfX f gb Tff fg g[X 68B gb `ba gbe TaW biXefXX g[X `TaTZX`Xag bY g[X Y aTaV T e f f YTVXW Ul g[X :ebhc aV hW aZVb``bW gl ce VX e f. VheeXaVl e f. agXeXfg eTgX e f. VbhagXecTegl VeXW g e f. Y aTaV aZ e f. afheTaVX!
Investment Committee ChecbfX f gb XafheX e Zbebhf TaW Vbaf fgXag aiXfg`Xag cebVXffXf TeX a c TVX TaW jbe aZ XYYXVg iX l fb g[TgaiXfg`Xagf TeX T ZaXW j g[ :ebhcf ce be g Xf TaW fgeTgXZl.
Xl e f f TaW bccbegha g Xf TeX WXag Y XW TaW `TaTZXW.
Performance evaluation for executives The performance of executives and other senior employees is reviewed on an annual basis.
For members of the GMC, this review includes their contribution, engagement and interaction at Board level.
The annual performance review process that we employ considers the performance of executives against criteria designed to capture both what is achieved and how it is achieved.
All performance assessments of executives consider how effective they have been in undertaking their role: what they have achieved against their speci ed key performance indicators: how they match up to the behaviours prescribed in our leadership model and how those behaviours align with Our BHP Billiton Charter values.
The assessment is therefore holistic and balances absolute achievement with the way performance has been delivered.
Progression within the Group is driven equally by personal leadership behaviours and capability to produce excellent results.
A performance evaluation as outlined above was conducted for all members of the GMC in FY2011.
For the CEO, the performance evaluation was led by the Chairman of the Board on behalf of all the Non-executive Directors, drawing on guidance from the Remuneration Committee.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 125 5 Corporate Governance Statement continued 5.8 Diversity at BHP Billiton 5.9 Business conduct Corporate governance reviews have highlighted that there is a Code of Business Conduct continuing lack of diversity among experienced Director candidates We have published the BHP Billiton Code of Business Conduct.
The Board reviewed its existing practices The Code of Business Conduct re ects Our Charter values of integrity, during the year, including how the Board and the Nomination respect, trust and openness.
It provides clear direction and advice Committee take into account diversity criteria, including gender, on conducting business internationally, interacting with communities, nationality and geography, as part of a Director candidates general governments and business partners and general workplace behaviour.
3 for further detail The Code of Business Conduct applies to Directors and to all about gender diversity on the Board.
The review included employees, regardless of their position or location.
Consultants and an assessment of the Board Committees Terms of Reference, contractors are also expected to act in accordance with the Code of and resulted in amendments to the Terms of Reference of the Business Conduct.
Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee to formalise diversity considerations.
The BHP Billiton Human Resources Policy guides the Board and management in developing The Code of Business Conduct can be found at our diversity objectives for the Group.
The Human Resources Policy website at www.
com home aboutus ourcompany Pages codeofbusconduct.
is supported by internal processes that set out measurable objectives to support the achievement of diversity across the Group.
Insider trading We have a Securities Dealing Group Level Document that covers Our Human Resources Policy can be found on dealings by Directors and identi ed employees, is consistent with our website at www.
com home aboutus the UK Model Code contained in the Financial Services Authority ourcompany Pages governance.
Listing Rules and complies with the ASX Listing Rule requirements for a trading policy.
The Securities Dealing document restricts Our approach to diversity is underpinned by key principles, including: dealings by Directors and identi ed employees in shares and other a diverse workforce is necessary to the delivery of our strategy securities during designated prohibited periods and at any time that that is predicated on diversi cation by commodity, geography they are in possession of unpublished price-sensitive information.
and market: our aspiration is to have a workforce that best represents the communities in which our assets are located and our A copy of the Securities Dealing Group Level Document can be found at our website at www.
com employees live: home aboutus ourcompany Pages governance.
actions that support our diversity aspirations should be consistent with our established approach to talent, performance and reward: Business Conduct Advisory Service achieving an appropriate level of diversity will require structured We have established a Business Conduct Advisory Service programs at an early career stage that ensure the development so that employees can seek guidance or express concerns of necessary skills and experience for leadership roles: on business-related issues and report cases of suspected measurable objectives in support of diversity will be transparent, misappropriations, fraud, bribery or corruption.
Reports can be achievable over a period of time and t for purpose: made anonymously and without fear of retaliation.
Arrangements the set of measurable objectives will focus on i enabling are in place to investigate such matters.
Where appropriate, a diverse workforce by way of removing barriers and investigations are conducted independently.
Levels of activity ii establishing appropriate representation targets.
and support processes for the Business Conduct Advisory Service The key measurable objective for FY2011 was the development are monitored with activity reports presented to the Board.
Further information on the Business Conduct Advisory Service and implementation of diversity plans by each CSG, Minerals Exploration, Marketing and Group Function.
Each group was can be found in the Code of Business Conduct.
required to develop a diversity plan that takes into account the Political donations diversity principles.
The diversity composition of each was analysed We maintain a position of impartiality with respect to party to provide a base line in the areas of gender, age and nationality.
politics and do not make political contributions donations for This was a key input into the development of the plans and the political purposes to any political party, politician, elected of cial means of highlighting the key diversity challenges to be addressed.
or candidate for public of ce.
We do, however, contribute to the Completion of the diversity plans in FY2011 formed part of the public debate of policy issues that may affect our business in the performance requirements for each business and was taken into countries in which we operate.
account in assessing bonus remuneration.
Execution against those SEC investigation plans will be monitored and tracked in FY2012 and will again form An internal investigation is continuing into allegations of possible part of the assessment of bonus remuneration.
misconduct involving interactions with government of cials.
Monitoring and tracking performance against plan is undertaken Following requests for information from the US Securities and as part of the Groups internal compliance requirements.
Exchange Commission, the Group has disclosed to relevant authorities evidence that it has uncovered regarding possible Going forward, progress against each years measurable objectives violations of applicable anti-corruption laws involving interactions will be disclosed in the Annual Report, along with the proportion of with government of cials.
The Group is continuing to cooperate women in our workforce, in senior management and on the Board.
It is not possible at this time to predict There are currently two women on the Board and the proportion the scope or duration of the investigation or its likely outcomes.
of women in our workforce and in senior management is set out in section 2.8.
3, where you can also nd further information on diversity and our employee pro le more generally.
126 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are registrants with the SEC 5.10 Market disclosure in the US.
Both companies are classi ed as foreign private issuers We are committed to maintaining the highest standards of and both have American Depositary Receipts listed on the NYSE.
disclosure ensuring that all investors and potential investors We have reviewed the governance requirements currently applicable have the same access to high-quality, relevant information in an to foreign private issuers under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act US accessible and timely manner to assist them in making informed including the rules promulgated by the SEC and the rules of the decisions.
A Disclosure Committee manages our compliance NYSE and are satis ed that we comply with those requirements.
with the market disclosure obligations and is responsible for implementing reporting processes and controls and setting Section 303A of the NYSE Listed Company Manual has instituted a guidelines for the release of information.
broad regime of corporate governance requirements for NYSE-listed companies.
Under the NYSE rules, foreign private issuers, such as Disclosure Of cers have been appointed in the Groups CSGs and ourselves, are permitted to follow home country practice in lieu Group Functions.
These of cers are responsible for identifying of the requirements of Section 303A, except for the rule relating to and providing the Disclosure Committee with material information compliance with Rule 10A-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 about the activities of the CSG or functional areas using disclosure and certain noti cation provisions contained in Section 303A of the guidelines developed by the Committee.
11 of the Listed Company To safeguard the effective dissemination of information we have Manual, however, requires us to disclose any signi cant ways in developed a Market Disclosure and Communications document, which our corporate governance practices differ from those followed which outlines how we identify and distribute information to by US listed companies under the NYSE corporate governance shareholders and market participants.
Following a comparison of our corporate governance practices with the requirements of Section 303A of the NYSE Listed Company Manual followed by domestic issuers, the following A copy of the Market Disclosure and Communications signi cant differences were identi ed: document is available at www.
com home Our Nomination Committees Terms of Reference charter aboutus ourcompany Pages governance.
do not include the purpose of developing and recommending to the Board a set of corporate governance principles applicable Copies of announcements to the stock exchanges on which to the corporation.
While we have a Nomination Committee, we are listed, investor brie ngs, half-yearly financial statements, it is not speci cally charged with this responsibility.
We believe the Annual Report and other relevant information are posted to that this task is integral to the governance of the Group and is the Groups website at www.
Any person wishing therefore best dealt with by the Board as a whole.
to receive advice by email of news releases can subscribe Rule 10A-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires at www.
NYSE-listed companies to ensure that their audit committees are directly responsible for the appointment, compensation, retention 5.11 Conformance with corporate and oversight of the work of the external auditor unless the governance standards companys governing law or documents or other home country legal requirements require or permit shareholders to ultimately Our compliance with the governance standards in our home vote on or approve these matters.
While the RAC is directly jurisdictions of Australia and the UK, and with the governance responsible for remuneration and oversight of the External requirements that apply to us as a result of our New York Stock Auditor, the ultimate responsibility for appointment and retention Exchange NYSE listing and our registration with the Securities of External Auditors rests with our shareholders, in accordance and Exchange Commission SEC in the US, is summarised in this with UK law and our constitutional documents.
The RAC does, Corporate Governance Statement, the Remuneration Report, the however, make recommendations to the Board on these matters, Directors Report and the financial statements.
which are in turn reported to shareholders.
The Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the While the Board is satis ed with its level of compliance with UK Financial Services Authority require UK-listed companies to report the governance requirements in Australia, the UK and the US, on the extent to which they comply with the Main Principles and the it recognises that practices and procedures can always be provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code UK Code, and improved, and there is merit in continuously reviewing its own explain the reasons for any non-compliance.
The UK Code is available standards against those in a variety of jurisdictions.
program of review will continue throughout the year ahead.
The Listing Rules of the ASX require Australian-listed companies to report on the extent to which they meet the Corporate 5.12 Additional UK disclosure Governance Principles and Recommendations published by the ASX Corporate Governance Council ASX Principles and The information speci ed in the UK Financial Services Authority Recommendations and explain the reasons for any non-compliance.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules, DTR 7.2.
6, is located elsewhere The ASX Principles and Recommendations are available at in this Annual Report.
The Directors Report, at section 7.23, www.
au about corporate governance index.
provides cross-references to where the information is located.
Both the UK Code and the ASX Principles and Recommendations This Corporate Governance Statement was approved by the require the Board to consider the application of the relevant Board on 6 September 2011 and signed on its behalf by: corporate governance principles, while recognising that departures from those principles are appropriate in some circumstances.
We have complied with the provisions set out in the UK Code and with the ASX Principles and Recommendations throughout the financial period and have continued to comply up to the date of this Annual Report.
Jacques Nasser AO Chairman A checklist summarising our compliance with the 6 September 2011 UK Code and the ASX Principles and Recommendations has been posted to the website at www.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 127 6 Remuneration Report Using this Remuneration Report The following guide is intended to help the reader to understand and navigate through this Remuneration Report, and to understand the linkages between BHP Billitons remuneration strategy and the remuneration outcomes for Directors and senior executives.
All acronyms used in the Remuneration Report are fide ned on this contents page or in section 10 of this Report.
Section Section Subsection What it covers number 6.1 Message from the Chairman 6.2 Our approach Our overarching The key principles that underpin the Groups remuneration strategy.
1 to remuneration remuneration principles Our remuneration policy Shows how BHP Billitons remuneration policy is linked to our strategic objectives 6.2.
2 underpins our Group strategy and how remuneration is structured to reinforce achievement of these objectives.
Our remuneration approach Explains how the structure of at risk remuneration encourages effective risk 6.2.
3 is focused on the long term management and long-term decision-making by management.
How remuneration is determined Describes how the Remuneration Committee determines remuneration outcomes 6.2.
Remuneration mix Describes the core components of Total Remuneration and their different roles.
5 When remuneration is delivered Explains the timing of the different components of remuneration and deferral 6.2.
Fixed remuneration Details the components of GMC remuneration that are not at risk.
7 Short-term incentives STI Outlines the key features of the Group Incentive Scheme GIS and Key 6.2.
8 Performance Indicators KPIs and STI rewards for GMC members.
Long-term incentives LTI Outlines the key features of the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, LTI awards 6.2.
9 for GMC members and LTIP terms.
Share ownership guidelines Describes the Groups minimum shareholding requirements for the 6.2.
10 Chief Executive Officer CEO and other members of the GMC.
6.3 Remuneration Explains how the Board and Remuneration Committee make remuneration Governance decisions, including the use of external remuneration consultants.
6.4 Executive Senior management in FY2011 Shows the individuals comprising the Key Management Personnel KMP, 6.4.
1 remuneration which are the GMC, with a summary of key service contract terms including disclosures termination entitlements.
Statutory disclosures Provides total remuneration for GMC members calculated pursuant to 6.4.
Equity awards Sets out the interests of GMC members resulting from BHP Billitons 6.4.
3 remuneration programs including those granted and vested during FY2011.
6.5 Aggregate Directors The total remuneration provided to executive and non-executive Directors.
remuneration 6.6 Non-executive Non-executive Directors in FY2011 Shows the individual Non-executive Directors.
1 Director Remuneration structure Explains the basis on which Non-executive Director remuneration is set and 6.6.
Retirement benefits Details the retirement benefits payable to participating Directors under the 6.6.
Statutory disclosures Provides total remuneration for Non-executive Directors calculated pursuant 6.6.
4 to legislative and accounting standards.
128 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 6.1 Message from the Remuneration Committee Chairman Dear Shareholder I am pleased to introduce BHP Billitons Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 June 2011.
In preparing the Report, we have maintained our approach of providing relevant performance and remuneration information, enabling shareholders to assess the linkages between executive remuneration, execution of the Groups strategy and Group performance.
The Report contains the remuneration disclosures required by Australian and UK regulations.
In addition, we have again reported the actual remuneration paid to our executive team during the year.
Over FY2011, the Committee has continued to apply the remuneration framework that has been in place since 2004.
This has served us well, requiring minimal alteration during a period of considerable change.
There are no changes proposed in our approach to remuneration for FY2012.
However, the tenth anniversary of the BHP and Billiton merger in June 2011 provides a tting backdrop to consider the growth and development of the Group since that date and the opportunities and challenges ahead.
We believe our remuneration strategy should reinforce sustainable, long-term value creation.
To achieve our business goals, our remuneration must remain competitive to attract and retain talented executives, enabling us to realise our opportunities and further develop our business.
Striking the appropriate balance between these considerations is important for the continued long-term success of the Group.
To ensure that our remuneration policy continues to reinforce the Groups strategies, the Committee has commenced a comprehensive review of our remuneration structures.
We are reviewing the external environment within which we operate and how that environment may evolve.
We will also consider the global market status, the risk environment and strategic priorities for BHP Billiton.
Over the course of FY2012, we will progress this review, developing appropriate remuneration proposals that will support our focus on operational excellence, risk management and the execution of the Groups strategy.
We consider effective governance and clear reporting on remuneration essential to maintaining the strong level of support that shareholders have demonstrated for the Remuneration Report.
As in prior years, the FY2011 Report is designed to be clear and concise, to meet regulatory requirements and, above all, provide you with the information required to consider the alignment of remuneration and the Groups success.
John Buchanan Chairman, Remuneration Committee 6 September 2011 6.2 Our approach to remuneration This section outlines the overarching Group strategy and the remuneration framework that guides decisions on remuneration design and outcomes for senior executives, including the GMC members.
Details of GMC membership are included in section 6.4.
The information in this section demonstrates: how the remuneration strategy translates into practice for the members of the GMC: how executive remuneration is determined annually by the Remuneration Committee and Board: the impact of business and individual performance on remuneration outcomes.
The focus is on the remuneration outcomes provided to executives and is different from, and complementary to, the statutory and accounting view of remuneration as set out in section 6.4.
1 Our overarching remuneration principles The key principles of our remuneration policy are unchanged and are to: support the execution of the Groups business strategy in accordance with a risk-appetite that is appropriate for the organisation: provide competitive rewards to attract, motivate and retain highly skilled executives willing to work around the world: apply demanding performance measures, including key financial and nonfinancial measures of performance: link a large component of pay to our performance and the creation of value for our shareholders: ensure remuneration arrangements are equitable and facilitate the deployment of people around our businesses: limit severance payments on termination to pre-established contractual arrangements which do not commit us to making any unjusti ed payments.
The Remuneration Committee is con dent that these principles continue to meet the Groups objectives.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 129 6 Remuneration Report continued 6.2.
2 Our remuneration policy underpins our Group strategy The Remuneration Committee recognises that the implementation of the Groups strategy and our ongoing performance depends on the quality and motivation of our people.
Our purpose is to create long-term shareholder value through the discovery, acquisition, development and marketing of natural resources.
Our strategy is to own and operate large, low-cost, expandable, upstream assets diversi ed by commodity, geography and market.
Our focus on the safety and health of our workforce, our fundamental drive for sustainability across all our business operations, our concern for the environment and communities within which we work, and our management of operational risks are re ected through our remuneration policy and structures.
The diagram below illustrates how BHP Billitons remuneration policy and structures serve to support and reinforce the six key drivers of our strategy.
NON-FINANCIAL FINANCIAL GROWTH PEOPLE SUSTAINABILITY WORLD-CLASS FINANCIAL PROJECT PIPELINE GROWTH OPTIONS ASSETS STRENGTH AND DISCIPLINE G[X YbhaWTg ba JX WXcXaW ba @T agT a aZ 5T TaV aZ 9bVhf ba WX iXe aZ 5h W aZ X`UXWWXW bY bhe Uhf aXff Xl fTYXgl TaW [ Z[ dhT gl Y aTaV T Y Xk U gl Ta Xa[TaVXW Zebjg[ VTcTV gl f bhe cXbc X!
Xai eba`XagT TffXgf TaW j g[ g[X Vbfg eXfbheVX TaW g[X TU gl GT XagXW TaW `cXeTg iXf `TaTZ aZ g[X` a bY Y aTaVX a XaWbj`Xag gb gb chefhX aXj `bg iTgXW cXbc X bhe YbVhf ba g[X `bfg XYYXVg iX XYYXVg iX VTc gT haWXec a YhgheX beZTa V Zebjg[ TeX bhe `bfg fhfgT aTU gl TaW XYY V Xag jTl!
`TaTZX`Xag ZXaXeTg baf bcg baf!
Bhe cXbc Xf gb bcXeTgX j g[ a VTcTV gl gb We iX bhe Code of Zebjg[ j XTW Business Conduct.
JX cebi WX EX`haXeTg ba EX`haXeTg ba YeT`Xjbe eXjTeWf g[X 6baf fgXag j g[ bhe baZ gXe` fgeTgXZ V Vb`cXg g iX eXjTeWf YeT`Xjbe eXjTeWf TV[ XiX`Xag bY WX`TaW aZ Y aTaV T YbVhf cXeYbe`TaVX `XTfheXf TeX a XW gb TggeTVg `bg iTgX fgebaZ cXeYbe`TaVX cXeYbe`TaVX gTeZXgf [X c aZ We iX gb baZ gXe` Zebjg[!
G[ f eXjTeWf TaW eXgT a [ Z[ l a g[X TeXTf bcXeTg baT XYY V XaVl TaW fhcXe be XkXVhg iXf Ybe WX iXe aZ fhfgT aTU X f XW XkXVhg iXf bY [XT g[ fTYXgl eXfh gf TVebff g[X :ebhc!
eXgheaf TaW Tib W aZ XkVXff iX e f f!
j aZ gb jbe TebhaW Xai eba`Xag TaW g[X jbe W!
:@6 UTfX fT Te Xf $ bY FG Ybe FG bhgVb`Xf Ybe g[X :@6 TeX jX Z[gXW G[X ?G C bcXeTgXf biXe T baZ gXe` TeX T ZaXW j g[ :@6 `X`UXef f gbjTeWf g[X TV[ XiX`Xag bY V[T XaZ aZ [be mba!
CXeYbe`TaVX F[TeXf TeX fhU]XVg Vb`cTeTU X UTfXW ba [XT g[ Y aTaV T C f a aZ eX`haXeTg ba gb g[X gb T cXeYbe`TaVX [heW X gXfgXW biXe eb Xf a Z bUT fTYXgl Xai eba`Xag cXeYbe`TaVX bY 5:C 5 gbaf TffXgf TaW T Y iX lXTe cXe bW!
Vb`cTa Xf bY TaW Vb``ha gl VTc gT `TaTZX`Xag cebZeT`fG[X ?G C a f T f Za Y VTag Vb`cbaXag T f ` Te f mX :F86 `XTfheXf!
4 % gb # jX Z[g aZ ba cebY g bY cTl Ybe XkXVhg iXf gb g[X WX iXel TaW Vb`c Xk gl!
TYgXe gTk TW]hfgXW Ybe YbeX Za XkV[TaZX G[X :ebhcf bY fhcXe be eXgheaf Ybe f[TeX[b WXef!
5TfX fT Te Xf Ybe `biX`Xagf Vb``bW gl ce VXf TaW cXeYbe`TaVX 8kXVhg iXf ba l WXe iX iT hX Yeb` bg[Xe XkXVhg iXf XkVXcg baT gX`f TaW HaWXe l aZ a g[X TeXTf bY g[X e ?G C TjTeWf j[XeX 5:C 5 gba TeX UXaV[`Te XW XTea aZf UXYbeX agXeXfg TaW gTk!
[XT g[ fTYXgl bhgcXeYbe`f Vb`cTeTgbe Vb`cTa Xf a gb Vb`cTeTU X 4 $# gb $ jX Z[g aZ ba VTc gT Xai eba`Xag Zebj aZ gf GbgT F[TeX[b WXe EXghea GFE !
eb Xf j g[ a XTV[ `TaTZX`Xag Vbfg TaW fV[XWh X !
TaW Vb``ha gl 9be TjTeWf a eXfcXVg bY lXTef hc gb TaW ZXbZeTc[l TaW `cTVgf FG aV hW aZ 9L%#$# g[X Vb`cTeTgbef TeX Ba gTeZXg cXeYbe`TaVX TZT afg g[X C f Xdh gTU X TVebff bhgVb`Xf Ybe cXXe fXVgbe Vb`cTa Xf!
9be 9L%#$$ TjTeWf WX iXef T VTf[ FG eXjTeW bY # bY UTfX g[X :ebhc!
GFE cXeYbe`TaVX eX Tg iX gb fXVgbe cXXef fT Tel!
G[X `Tk `h` VTf[ TjTeW bY $ # 9heg[Xe eXjTeWf j WXgXe` aX g[X iXfg aZ bY bY g[X f eTeX l TjTeWXW TaW f ba l TiT TU X TeX TiT TU X fXVhe g Xf TaW GFE cXeYbe`TaVX TZT afg j[XeX T aba Y aTaV T TaW Y aTaV T gb XkXVhg iXf T UebTW `Te Xg aWXk j WXgXe` aX gTeZXgf TeX f Za Y VTag l XkVXXWXW!
Ybe cXeYbe`TaVX g[X iXfg aZ bY g[X eX`T a aZ fXVhe g Xf!
6Tf[ FG eXjTeWf TeX `TgV[XW Ul Ta TjTeW TZT afg T Tg e f 9h iXfg aZ haWXe g[X ?G C ba l bVVhef bY 5:C 5 gba Xdh gl j[ V[ f WXYXeeXW Ybe Vb`cbaXagf bY j[XeX 5:C 5 gbaf GFE bhgcXeYbe`f gjb lXTef cebi W aZ Ta Tccebce TgX YbVhf eX`haXeTg ba!
g[Tg bY g[X Vb`cTeTgbe Vb`cTa Xf ba g[X baZXe gXe` g `X YeT`X XiXa a G[X Tg e f GFE Ul `beX g[Ta &# !
eXZTeW gb TaahT FG eXjTeWf!
Vb`cbaXagf G[X @ a `h` F[TeX[b W aZ EXdh eX`Xag fXeiX g[X WhT &## bY TaahT ceX gTk UTfX fT Tel checbfX bYYbe g[X 68B TaW %## Ybe bg[Xe :@6 aVXag i f aZ `X`UXef [X cf gb XafheX XkXVhg iXf TaW TaW eXjTeW aZ f[TeX[b WXef agXeXfgf eX`T a T ZaXW!
XkXVhg iXf Ybe 8kXVhg iXf TeX ceb[ U gXW Yeb` cXeYbe`TaVX.
TaW [XWZ aZ haiXfgXW Xdh gl be f[TeXf ceb`bg aZ g[Tg TeX [X W Tf cTeg bY g[X @ a `h` eXgXag ba TaW F[TeX[b W aZ EXdh eX`Xag!
130 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 Supported by Enacted through remuneration structures remuneration policy Drivers of strategy 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 6.2.
3 Our remuneration approach is focused on the long term The focus at BHP Billiton is on long-term sustainability and our remuneration frameworks are designed to ensure that executives take a long-term approach to decision-making and minimise activities that focus only on short-term results at the expense of longer-term business growth and success.
The Remuneration Committee has considered the ways in which risk management and the long-term horizon are re ected throughout BHP Billitons reward structure for all executives, and is satis ed that the approach reinforces the desired behaviours.
This is largely achieved through the Groups approach to STI and LTI rewards, which comprise a signi cant portion of total remuneration for the members of the GMC.
The equity component of STI rewards is deferred for a two-year period, and performance under the LTIP is measured over a five-year period.
The actual rewards received by members of the GMC therefore re ect the Groups performance and share price over an extended period.
It is the Remuneration Committees view that this provides an appropriate focus on BHP Billitons sustained performance beyond the end of the initial measurement period.
This approach also provides a transparent mechanism for clawback or adjustment in the event of a restatement of Group results, through changes to the vesting or non-vesting of deferred equity.
In addition, STI and LTI outcomes are not driven by a purely formulaic approach.
The Remuneration Committee applies qualitative judgement in determining STI and LTI outcomes, and may determine that rewards not be provided or vested in circumstances where it would be inappropriate or would provide unintended outcomes.
The Remuneration Committee has no discretion to allow vesting when performance conditions have not been satis ed.
4 How remuneration is determined The Remuneration Committee considers the appropriate Total Remuneration for each member of the GMC by examining the remuneration provided to comparable roles in organisations of similar global complexity, size, reach and industry.
Each year, the Remuneration Committees independent adviser, Kepler Associates, sources and consolidates relevant remuneration data for appropriate roles, based on their analysis of relevant organisations and markets.
The adviser prepares a comparison to current GMC 1 remuneration, but does not make speci c recommendations regarding individual executives remuneration.
From this market comparison, the Remuneration Committee determines the appropriate Total Remuneration level for each individual, taking into account their location, skills, experience and performance within the Group.
In doing so, the Remuneration Committee recognises that levels of remuneration should be suf cient to attract, motivate and retain highly skilled executives, but also that the Group should avoid paying more than is necessary for this purpose.
1 For more information on the services provided to the Remuneration Committee by Kepler Associates, please refer to section 6.3.
5 Remuneration mix The Remuneration Committee then considers the appropriate mix and weighting of different remuneration components to make up Total Remuneration for GMC members.
This includes xed and at risk components, which are designed to deliver appropriate pay over a one-, threeand five-year time horizons.
While the Board recognises that market forces necessarily in uence remuneration practices, it strongly believes that the fundamental driver of our remuneration structure should be business performance.
Accordingly, while target remuneration is structured to attract and retain executives, the amount of remuneration actually received is dependent on the achievement of superior business and individual performance and on generating sustained shareholder value.
At risk components therefore represent a signi cant portion of Total Remuneration and are subject to performance conditions and to ongoing service.
The components of Total Remuneration that are considered by the Remuneration Committee are: Fixed remuneration determined relative to comparable roles in other companies and comprising base salary, pension retirement bene ts and other non-pensionable bene ts such as medical and life insurance: Short-term incentive STI intended to support a high-performance culture and delivered in cash with a matching award of Deferred Shares or Options: Long-term incentive LTI appropriate to the long-term nature of business decision-making and delivered in Performance Shares with vesting determined under a five-year performance hurdle.
More detail in regard to each component is included in the following sections of this Remuneration Report.
Remuneration mix for members of the GMC shown as a percentage of base salary Maximum and actual remuneration mix The diagram to the left illustrates the relative proportion of these components for the members of the GMC.
LTI 200% expected value 147% Base salary forms the foundation of the remuneration mix and each of the other components is described as a percentage of base salary.
The diagram therefore shows base salary as 100 per cent with each additional component relative to that base salary.
At Risk Deferred STI 160% The first column of the diagram shows the mix that would have 108% applied if the maximum at risk rewards had been earned and the second column shows the comparative actual Total Remuneration received in relation to FY2011 as shown in the table overleaf in Cash STI 160% section 6.2.
6 as an average across the seven GMC members.
108% Retirement and 36% 36% other benefits Fixed Base salary 100% 100% Maximum Average actual award in relation to FY2011 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 131 6 Remuneration Report continued 6.2.
6 When remuneration is delivered The delivery time frame varies for different components of Total Remuneration.
Total Remuneration is the key measure considered by the Remuneration Committee.
The Total Remuneration for each member of the GMC in respect of the 2011 performance year was determined by the Committee over a series of meetings from July 2010.
Total Remuneration is allocated across different elements of remuneration to re ect a focus on both shortand long-term performance, and delivery of these elements occurs over different time frames as shown in the table and diagram below.
9, the process followed by the Remuneration Committee for determining the Total Remuneration is as follows: A review of base salary effective from 1 September 2010 applying along with the retirement bene ts shown below over the period from 1 September 2010 to 31 August 2011.
A target STI is set for the 2011 financial year, to re ect performance from 1 July 2010 to 30 June 2011, with performance assessed in August 2011: Cash awards will be provided in September 2011: and Deferred Shares and or Options are expected to be allocated in December 2011 following the Groups 2011 Annual General Meetings.
An LTI award of Performance Shares is allocated in December 2010 following the Groups 2010 Annual General Meetings.
Non-statutory table: The following table shows Total Remuneration for the GMC as a result of the determinations of the Remuneration Committee.
The crystallisation of the Deferred STI and the LTI awards will be after a two-year and five-year period respectively and will depend on performance and service conditions.
Given the requirements to use Accounting Standards under the Australian Corporations Act 2001 and the UK Companies Act 2006 for determining and measuring executive remuneration, including allocation across the vesting period for longer-term incentives, the non-statutory remuneration data set out below do not reconcile directly to the Statutory Total Remuneration Table as shown in section 6.4.
Total Remuneration as determined by Deferred STI awards the Remuneration Base salary Retirement bene ts Cash STI awards to be allocated LTI awards allocated Committee in respect effective from effective from to be provided in in December 2011 in December 2010 US dollars of FY2011 1 September 2010 1 September 2010 September 2011 Face Value Expected Value Marius Kloppers 10,994,689 2,130,000 852,000 2,351,448 2,351,448 3,309,793 Alberto Calderon 5,542,641 1,100,000 385,000 1,179,200 1,179,200 1,699,241 Andrew Mackenzie 5,571,241 1,100,000 396,000 1,188,000 1,188,000 1,699,241 Marcus Randolph 6,062,321 1,230,000 418,200 1,338,240 1,338,240 1,737,641 Alex Vanselow 5,614,041 1,100,000 418,000 1,179,200 1,179,200 1,737,641 Karen Wood 4,615,812 967,500 332,820 1,037,160 1,037,160 1,241,172 J Michael Yeager 6,167,417 1,240,000 443,920 1,372,928 1,372,928 1,737,641 Timeline for allocation of FY2011 Total Remuneration LTI Performance STI Deferred Shares allocated STI performance New base STI award STI cash Shares Options following shareholder measurement starts salary effective determined paid allocated approval LTI Performance measured 5 yrs Performance measured Deferred Shares 2 yrs STI Base salary and pension July Sep Dec Jun Aug Sep Dec 2010 2010 2010 2011 2011 2011 2011 132 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 6.2.
7 Fixed remuneration Base salary Base salary is reviewed annually and changes are effective from 1 September each year.
It is benchmarked relative to comparable roles in global companies of similar complexity, size, reach and industry and re ects an individuals responsibilities, location, performance, quali cations and experience within the Group.
Pay reviews also consider general economic conditions and salary reviews across the rest of the Group.
It is stated and paid in US dollars for all GMC members.
Non-statutory table: Base salary amounts in the table below are effective 1 September and are not linked to any speci c financial year.
They therefore do not match with the 1 July 2010 to 30 June 2011 salaries shown in section 6.4.
Employees in legacy fide ned bene t plans continue to accrue bene ts in those plans for past and future service unless they have elected to transfer to a fide ned contribution plan.
The table below sets out the retirement bene ts payable to each member of the GMC.
Notes 1 1 Individuals are given a choice of funding vehicles: a defined contribution plan, Name Pension entitlement % of base salary an unfunded Retirement Savings Plan, an International Retirement Plan or a 2 Marius Kloppers Defined Contribution 40.0 cash payment in lieu.
2 Prior to his appointment as CEO, and under the terms of a pre-existing contract, Marius Kloppers had the choice of a 1 defined benefit, 2 defined contribution Alberto Calderon Defined Contribution 35.0 underpinned by a defined benefit promise or 3 cash in lieu pension entitlement Andrew Mackenzie Defined Contribution 36.0 for each year since 1 July 2001.
He elected to take cash in lieu for each year except for FY2004 when he elected to take a defined contribution entitlement with a Marcus Randolph Defined Contribution 34.0 defined benefit underpin.
Mr Kloppers retains the option to convert the entitlement accrued in the defined contribution fund to a defined benefit Alex Vanselow Defined Benefit 38.0 entitlement.
Up until 2009, the value of his defined contribution entitlement exceeded the transfer value of the defined benefit underpin that he would be Karen Wood Defined Contribution 34.4 entitled to should he revert to the defined benefit promise, and as such the entitlement was treated on a defined contribution basis.
However, as measured J Michael Yeager Defined Contribution 35.8 at 30 June 2011, the transfer value of the underpin US$603,562 was greater than the defined contribution fund US$530,780.
This was also the case in 2009 and 2010.
BHP Billiton expects that over the long term the value of the defined contribution element will revert to being in excess of the transfer value of the underpin and therefore continues to treat the entitlement on a defined contribution basis.
Upon his succession as CEO on 1 October 2007, Mr Kloppers relinquished all future defined benefit entitlements.
Shareplus all-employee share purchase plan Like all permanent employees, members of the GMC are eligible to participate in Shareplus, an all-employee share purchase plan.
Participants in Shareplus contribute from their post-tax base salary capped at US$5,000 per year to acquire shares in BHP Billiton.
Each of the GMC members chose to contribute the maximum allowable amount to the plan from their post-tax salary in FY2011.
Provided the participant remains employed by BHP Billiton on the third anniversary of the shares being acquired, the plan provides for a grant of matching shares on a 1:1 basis.
The accounting value of the rights acquired is included in remuneration over the share purchase period in the table in section 6.4.
A grant of Matching Shares was made to participants including the members of the GMC on 1 April 2011, and details of the resulting share holdings for GMC members are shown in section 6.4.
Further details regarding Shareplus are set out in note 32 Employee share ownership plans to the financial statements.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 133 6 Remuneration Report continued 6.2.
8 Short-term incentives An individual scorecard of measures is set for each executive at the commencement of each financial year under the Group Incentive Scheme GIS.
These measures are linked to the achievement of the business strategy and financial outcomes and also individual nonfinancial objectives re ecting individual contribution to the business as shown in the scorecard table below.
These measures have been chosen as they reward members of the GMC for their overall performance in the current year, comprising both financial performance and delivery against measures that impact the long-term sustainability of the Group.
At the conclusion of the financial year, each executives achievement against their measures is assessed by the Remuneration Committee and Board and their cash STI award is determined.
The Board believes this method of assessment is transparent, rigorous and balanced, and provides an appropriate and objective assessment of performance.
Cash awards are paid in September following the release of the Groups annual results.
The rules of the GIS outline the circumstances in which participants may be entitled to a cash award for the financial year in which they cease employment.
Such circumstances depend on the reason for leaving.
The only circumstance in which the Remuneration Committee has considered using its discretion to allow members of the GMC to receive a cash award in event of departure is for those individuals who have retired or are retiring.
The value of any cash STI award is matched by an equivalent face value of Deferred Shares or an approximately equivalent value in Options, or a combination of the two, at the election of the participant to which the executive will not have access for two years unless they leave the Group under speci c circumstances.
More details on the terms of these awards are provided below.
Deferred Shares and Options are allocated in December after the Annual General Meetings.
Allocations to the CEO are subject to shareholder approval.
Details of the interests held in BHP Billiton by members of the GMC as a result of participation in the GIS are provided in section 6.4.
Timeline for FY2011 STI assessment and awards Equity awards vest Set targets from Assess Pay cash Allocate equity Aug 2013 Jul 2010 Aug 2011 Sep 2011 Dec 2011 Performance Measurement Value of equity deferred July July July July 2010 2011 2012 2013 Determining STI outcomes The key measures for the GMC in FY2011 and the level of achievement against Group measures are set out below.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the KPIs set and their relative weightings appropriately incentivise short-term performance.
The table below shows how, for the Group CEO and other Group Executives, all non-individual measures are assessed on a Group basis.
For the Business CEOs, the weighting of assessment for measures is split between the Group and the businesses for which they are responsible as shown in the table below.
Weighting for 1 Weighting for Business CEOs Weighting for other Group FY2011 assessment for 2 3 FY2011 key performance indicators Group CEO Group Business Executives Group-based measures Health, safety, environment and community HSEC includes: 15% 7.5% 7.5% 15% The Sustainability and Remuneration Committees reviewed HSEC Total recordable injury frequency TRIF performance.
The two fatalities arising Fatalities Significant environmental incidents in the Manganese business were tragic HSE risk management reminders for the need for constant Human rights impact assessment management focus on safety and were Environment and occupational health at the forefront of consideration when determining the outcomes for the Group and businesses.
Both Committees noted the good progress made on TRIF and, in particular, the strong progress in risk management, environmental risk control and employee health initiatives.
Performance in HSEC was differentiated across the businesses with the overall Group result considered marginally above Target, performance in the Non-Ferrous Materials businesses and Petroleum considered to be between Target and Stretch and an outcome in Ferrous and Coal businesses of below Target.
Profit after tax adjusted for foreign exchange, 50% 25% 35% Performance was considered to be price and exceptional items between Target and Stretch, reflecting positive outcomes against targets, primarily in respect of production volumes and cost management.
134 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 6.2.
8 Short-term incentives continued Determining STI outcomes continued Weighting for 1 Weighting for Business CEOs Weighting for other Group FY2011 assessment for 2 3 FY2011 key performance indicators Group CEO Group Business Executives Group-based measures Underlying EBIT for the relevant business es adjusted 25% Performance for each business for foreign exchange, price and exceptional items varied with results for Petroleum and the Non-Ferrous Materials businesses being between Stretch and Exceptional reflecting positive outcomes against targets, primarily in respect of production volumes and cost management.
Ferrous and Coal performance was between Target and Stretch.
Capital management cost and schedule 15% 7.5% 7.5% 10% With the exception of the Ferrous and Coal businesses that achieved a result above Stretch, the overall performance was below Target for a portfolio of eight major projects.
This reflected the cost and schedule overruns experienced.
Individual measures based on contribution to management 20% 20% 40% Personal performance of the CEO and team, key project deliverables of each role, and the operating other members of the GMC was strong model 1SAP system, scalable organisational structure and across the range of personal measures.
people strategy including diversity Notes 1 Applicable weightings for Andrew Mackenzie, Marcus Randolph and J Michael Yeager.
2 Applicable weightings for Alberto Calderon, Alex Vanselow and Karen Wood.
3 A performance range is set for each measure with the level of performance against each KPI determined as: Threshold: the minimum necessary to qualify for any reward.
Target: where the performance requirements are met.
Stretch: where the performance requirements are exceeded.
Exceptional: where the performance requirements are significantly exceeded.
Actual STI provided for FY2011 performance STI targets for FY2011 were set by the Remuneration Committee as part of Total Remuneration as described in section 6.2.
The target cash award was 80 per cent of base salary for all members of the GMC, with a maximum cash award of 160 per cent of base salary for exceptional performance against all scorecard measures.
The following table shows the amount of at risk remuneration awarded by the Board as STI in cash in September 2011 and in Deferred Shares and or Options to be allocated in December 2011 as a result of Group, business and individual performance against the above scorecard objectives.
As described above, the Deferred Share and or Option awards shown below have not yet delivered any realised value to the executives, as they generally do not vest and cannot be exercised for at least two years from the end of the relevant financial year i. e. the FY2011 awards are expected to vest in August 2013.
The number and value of Deferred Shares and or Options that vested during FY2011 are shown in section 6.4.
Non-statutory table: Cash STI rewards shown below are the same as those reported in section 6.4.
2, but this table shows the market value of the Deferred Shares and or Options at the time of allocation rather than amortising the accounting value of each award over the relevant performance and service periods as per accounting standards.
The actual number of Deferred Shares allocated is determined by dividing the relevant value by the share price at the time of allocation.
The number of Options required to provide an approximately equivalent value will also be determined should any members of the GMC nominate this alternative, or a combination of Deferred Shares and Options based on a valuation calculated by Kepler Associates.
2 The average percentage of maximum is graphed against Group earnings overleaf.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 135 6 Remuneration Report continued 6.2.
8 Short-term incentives continued Relationship between STI rewards and Group performance The following graphs are included as part of satisfying an Australian disclosure requirement to show the relationship between KMP remuneration and earnings.
As shown on the previous page of this report, STI rewards for members of the GMC are based on a balanced scorecard of key performance measures.
A substantial component of each scorecard is based on measures that will drive the long-term success and sustainability of the Group, but which may not have a direct correlation to annual pro tability.
Only a proportion of STI outcomes are directly related to financial measures, and that proportion varies for different members of the GMC.
The pro t measure used for calculating scorecard outcomes as fide ned in that section is not the same as the disclosed pro t attributable to shareholders used in the graph below.
Due to the factors described above, some correlation between STI outcomes and the measures used in the graphs below is evident over the last five years, but there is no guarantee that this will be the case in the future.
Further details of the Groups attributable pro t and basic earnings per share over the past five years can be found in section 1.4.
1 of this Annual Report including fide nitions of these terms.
Average STI reward for GMC members Average STI reward for GMC members vs profit attributable to shareholders excluding exceptional items vs basic earnings per share excluding exceptional items 400 10 100 0 24 100 90 90 90 350 20 80 80 80 300 70 70 70 16 250 60 60 60 12 200 50 50 50 40 40 40 150 8 30 30 30 100 20 20 20 4 50 10 10 10 0 0 0 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Basic earnings per share excluding exceptional items Profit attributable to shareholders excluding exceptional items Average STI reward for GMC members Average STI reward for GMC members Terms of deferred STI Each Deferred Share and each Option is a conditional right to acquire one ordinary BHP Billiton share upon satisfaction of the vesting conditions.
They will not deliver any value to the holder for at least two years from the end of the financial year unless the executives employment with the Group ends earlier in speci c circumstances such as on death, serious injury, disability or illness, retirement and redundancy retrenchment.
The Remuneration Committee considers it as an important principle that Deferred Shares and Options will be forfeited by the individual in speci c circumstances, including if they resign from the Group or are terminated for cause within the two-year vesting period.
Deferred Shares are not ordinary shares and do not carry entitlements to ordinary dividends or other shareholder rights.
Dividends are not received by the executives during the vesting period.
However, a Dividend Equivalent Payment as described in section 6.4.
2 is made to cover the period between grant and exercise, but only on Deferred Shares and or Options that have vested.
This payment is not made in relation to any securities that are forfeited during the vesting period.
Deferred Shares that vest may be exercised at no cost to the participant.
Options have an exercise price that re ects the market price of BHP Billiton shares at the time of allocation, and a greater number of Options are therefore allocated if an executive chooses this alternative.
The Groups Securities Dealing Group Level Document governs and restricts dealing arrangements and the exercise of Deferred Shares and Options as described in section 6.3.
136 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 Profit attributable excluding exceptional items US$B Average STI payments as % of maximum award Basic EPS excluding exceptional items US cents per share Average STI payments as of % of maximum award 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 6.2.
9 Long-term incentives An allocation of Performance Shares is determined as part of Total Remuneration relative to market as described in section 6.2.
4 and provided to each member of the GMC under the Groups Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
The purpose of the LTIP is to focus managements efforts on the achievement of sustainable long-term growth and success of the Group including appropriate management of business risks and to align senior executive rewards with sustained shareholder wealth creation through the relative TSR performance condition.
TSR is detailed and described in the table of terms later in this section.
Details of the interests held in BHP Billiton by members of the GMC as a result of participation in the LTIP are provided in section 6.4.
LTI granted in December 2010 The following table shows the LTI awards determined by the Remuneration Committee as part of Total Remuneration for FY2011 and provided as an award of Performance Shares in December 2010 following approval of the CEOs award by shareholders at the Annual General Meetings to drive long-term performance of the Group over a five-year period with comparative prior year data.
Whether the grants deliver any value to executives will not be determined until the end of the performance period.
In order for any bene t to be obtained by the executives from the Performance Shares, the relative five-year TSR performance hurdle must be achieved over the period from 1 July 2010 to 30 June 2015, and the individual must remain employed by the Group unless they leave the Group in speci c circumstances as described in the table of terms later in this section.
Expected Value of LTI awards The value of Performance Shares within the remuneration mix is based on the Expected Value of the Performance Shares being a percentage of the share price.
Shareholders approved changes to the LTI plan at the 2010 Annual General Meetings, which applied to the December 2010 allocations.
The impact of the changes and the new LTI terms are set out in detail in the table of terms later in this section.
The table includes information on the Expected Value of the LTI awards, as calculated by Kepler Associates, which takes the performance hurdle into account along with other factors as described in the table.
The Expected Value is used to represent the expected remuneration outcomes from the LTIP for the GMC members when the Remuneration Committee is considering Total Remuneration and the appropriate remuneration mix as described in sections 6.2.
The changes in LTI terms from FY2011 resulted in an increase in the Expected Value of LTI awards from 31 per cent to 41 per cent of the face value of a BHP Billiton share.
This has resulted in a reduction in the number of Performance Shares allocated as shown in the table below.
Non-statutory table: LTI awards shown below are included in the table in section 6.4.
2, but this table shows the Expected Value of the awards as described above rather than amortising the accounting value of each award over the relevant performance and service periods as per accounting standards.
The Expected Value for each executive therefore reflects the number of Performance Shares allocated, the entity over which they apply and the relevant exchange rates where applicable.
2 December 2010 Expected Values are calculated on a similar basis to that described in Note 1 above, except that the Expected Value for December 2010 allocations is calculated as 41 per cent of the average closing price in US dollars over the three months up to and including the grant date being A$41.48 for BHP Billiton Ltd shares and 21.84 for BHP Billiton Plc shares.
As the Expected Value of each Performance Shares is higher relative to the prior year even a reduced number of Performance Shares in December 2010 has provided an increased total value.
3 The maximum award under the LTIP is an Expected Value of 200 per cent of base salary for the relevant year as set out the terms table later in this section.
Proposed allocation of FY2012 LTI in December 2011 On the advice of the Remuneration Committee, the Board has approved an award of Performance Shares with an Expected Value as described above the table of US$3,441,000.
This represents a small increase from the FY2011 LTI for the CEO as shown in the table.
The actual number of Performance Shares to be granted will depend on the share price and exchange rate over the three months up to the date of grant.
At the time of determination by the Remuneration Committee, this value was equal to approximately 180,000 Performance Shares compared with 200,000 in FY2011.
This Expected Value was determined with the input of independent advisers and takes into account the appropriate level of total remuneration for the CEO, as assessed by reference to a number of factors, including the extent to which the total remuneration is market competitive.
If approved by shareholders, the Performance Shares will be granted following the Annual General Meetings i. e. in or around December 2011.
The number of Performance Shares allocated will be noti ed to shareholders when provided, along with the number of Performance Shares, which will be granted to the other members of the GMC on the same date in respect of FY2012 LTI.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 137 6 Remuneration Report continued 6.2.
9 Long-term incentives continued LTI vesting outcomes and the delivery of LTIP rewards The performance hurdle for the 2005 and 2006 LTIP awards requires BHP Billitons TSR to exceed the weighted median TSR of a group of peer companies by 5.5 per cent per annum on average over the five years which is 30.7 per cent over five years.
Details of the comparator group companies are set out in section 6.4.
2005 allocations under the LTIP vested in FY2011 The 2005 LTIP vested in August 2010.
The number and value of vested Performance Shares for each GMC member are provided in section 6.4.
Over the performance period, BHP Billitons TSR was 187.7 per cent.
In contrast, the average TSR for the peer group against which the Groups performance was measured was 113.6 per cent.
The impact of the Companys outperformance was to add US$59.2 billion of shareholder value from 1 July 2005 to 30 June 2010 over and above performance in line with the average of the peer group.
2006 allocations under the LTIP tested to the end of FY2011 BHP Billitons TSR performance from 1 July 2006 to 30 June 2011 was assessed as 138.3 per cent compared with an average TSR performance for the comparator group companies of 66.8 per cent.
This outperformance of 71.5 per cent based on BHP Billitons 1 July 2006 market capitalisation of US$122.7 billion represents outperformance of US$87.7 billion over and above performance in line with the average of the peer group.
The Remuneration Committee has considered the TSR outcome in the context of the Groups financial performance over the five-year performance period and determined that the recorded TSR outperformance is a genuine re ection of BHP Billitons underlying financial outperformance.
This qualitative judgement, which is applied before final vesting is con rmed, is an important risk management aspect to ensure that vesting is not simply driven by a formula that may give unexpected or unintended remuneration outcomes.
BHP Billiton outperformance of Index over the 2006 LTIP cycle %, US$B BHP Billiton vs. Index TSR performance over the 2006 LTIP cycle 160 80 Excess BHP Billiton shareholder value creation BHP Billiton Index 5.5% p. a.
5-year TSR performance of BHP Billiton measured against the LTIP comparator groups and the ASX 100 and FTSE 100 rebased in US$ $300 BHP Billiton Limited BHP Billiton Plc Post 07 LTIP $250 comparators 2010 LTIP comparators $200 Pre-07 LTIP comparators $150 Morgan Stanley Capital Index World ASX 100 $100 FTSE 100 $50 $0 June 06 June 07 June 08 June 09 June 10 June 11 Year ended 30 June 5-year share price and dividend history 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 BHP Billiton Limited AUD Share price at beginning of year $28.96 $35.38 $44.45 $33.96 $36.94 Share price at end of year $35.03 $43.70 $34.72 $37.65 $43.80 Dividends paid $0.50 $0.66 $1.12 $0.95 $0.95 BHP Billiton Plc GBP Share price at beginning of year 10.61 13.76 18.97 13.75 17.28 Share price at end of year 13.90 19.20 13.64 17.54 24.47 Dividends paid 0.20 0.28 0.51 0.53 0.58 138 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 US$ TSR rebased to 1 July 2006 Outperformance of Index TSR, % $63.9B TSR % since 1 July 2007 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 6.2.
9 Long-term incentives continued Terms of LTI and the performance hurdle Each Performance Share is a conditional right to acquire one ordinary BHP Billiton share upon satisfaction of the vesting conditions.
It will therefore not deliver any value to the holder for at least five years from the end of the financial year.
Upon vesting, Performance Shares become exercisable at no cost to the participant in accordance with the terms of grant and BHP Billitons Securities Dealing Group Level Document as described in section 6.3.
Participants are prohibited from entering into hedge arrangements in respect of unvested Performance Shares.
All other terms and details of the performance hurdle are outlined below.
Terms Duration of performance period Five years.
Dividends Dividends are not received by the executive during the vesting period.
A Dividend Equivalent Payment as described in section 6.4.
2 will be provided when the vesting period is over and the executive exercises their Performance Shares.
Performance condition BHP Billitons TSR relative to TSR of comparator companies.
TSR measures the return delivered to shareholders over a certain 1 period through the change in share price and any dividends paid which are notionally reinvested for the purposes of the calculation.
Averaging period for TSR for BHP Billiton and for each of the peer companies is averaged over a three-month period to help ensure that short-term 2 measuring TSR performance fluctuations in the market do not affect the vesting results.
LTI granted in December 2009 and prior LTI granted in December 2010 Comparator companies Index Sector peer group.
Sector peer group determines vesting of 67% of the Performance Shares.
Broad stock market group determines vesting of 33% of the Performance Shares, being the Morgan Stanley Capital Index World a market capitalisation index that captures 3 the performance of 1,500 stocks from around the world.
Sector peer group composition Weighted 75% to mining and 25% to oil and gas.
Current oil and gas component expanded to include major companies, with a cap and collar mechanism to reduce sensitivity to any single constituent company.
Vesting scale No Performance Shares vest if BHP Billitons TSR No Performance Shares vest if BHP Billitons TSR is below the is at or below the Index TSR.
25% of the Performance Shares vest if BHP Billitons TSR is at the Index TSR.
For all Performance Shares to vest, BHP Billitons TSR must exceed the Index TSR by an average of 5.5% per annum, which equates to exceeding the average TSR over the five-year performance period by 30.7%.
Vesting occurs on a sliding scale between the Index TSR and the point of full vesting.
Other vesting conditions In the event that the Remuneration Committee does not consider the level of vesting that would otherwise apply based on the Groups achievement of the TSR hurdle to be a true reflection of the long-term financial performance of the Group, it retains the discretion to lapse some or all of a participant's Performance Shares.
This is an important mitigator against the risk of unintended vesting outcomes.
The Remuneration Committee also has the capacity to determine that vesting not be applied for any particular participant s, should they consider that individual performance or other circumstances makes this an appropriate outcome.
It is anticipated that this power would only be exercised in exceptional circumstances.
Retesting if performance Not permitted.
hurdle not met Maximum award each An award not exceeding 200% of base salary at Expected Value.
The Board determines an appropriate allocation for each financial year individual each year.
Expected Value is the outcome weighted by probability, and takes into account the difficulty of achieving performance conditions and the correlation between these and share price appreciation through a Monte Carlo simulation model.
The valuation methodology also takes into account other factors, including volatility and forfeiture risk including through failure to meet the service conditions.
Expected Value has been used because it enables the Remuneration Committee to determine LTI awards within target Total Remuneration, ensuring that awards are externally competitive.
LTI granted in December 2009 and prior LTI granted in December 2010 Expected Value The Expected Value of each Performance Share as calculated The Expected Value of each Performance Share as calculated by Kepler Associates was 31% of the market value of one by Kepler Associates was 41% of the market value of one ordinary BHP Billiton Ltd or BHP Billiton Plc share at the ordinary BHP Billiton Ltd or BHP Billiton Plc share at the allocation date.
Exercise period and Expiry Date Vested Performance Shares are able to be exercised for five years following the date that vesting is determined, with an Expiry Date at a date prior to the fifth anniversary of vesting.
Treatment on departure The Remuneration Committee regards it as an important principle that where a participant resigns without the Remuneration Committeess consent or their employment is terminated for cause, they forfeit the entitlement to their unvested Performance Shares.
The rules of the LTIP provide that should a participant cease employment in specific circumstances, such as retirement, and with the consent of the Remuneration Committee would retain entitlements to a portion of the Performance Shares that have been granted, but that are not yet exercisable.
The number of such Performance Shares would be pro-rated to reflect the period of service from the start of the relevant performance period to the date of departure and, after the employees departure, would only vest and become exercisable to the extent that the performance hurdles are met.
This ensures that any benefit received by the individual remains linked to their contribution to ongoing Group performance.
If a participants employment ends due to death or disability, the Remuneration Committee may choose to allow retention and immediate vesting of all of the participants Performance Shares.
Notes 1 TSR has been chosen as the most appropriate measure as it allows for an objective external assessment over a sustained period on a basis which is familiar to shareholders.
2 Starting with awards to be allocated in December 2011, the averaging period will be doubled to six months as added security against short-term price fluctuations.
3 As BHP Billitons TSR performance relative to its peers tends to be counter-cyclical, the sector-based comparison used in isolation prior to 2010 resulted in less perceived value for executives and potential recruits at times when recruitment and retention pressures were greatest.
As a result, the Remuneration Committee introduced a second TSR comparison based on a broad stock market index for assessing the Groups TSR performance in order to provide a fairer and more balanced measure of performance.
The Morgan Stanley Capital Index World was chosen as a suitable broad stock market index for this second comparison.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 139 6 Remuneration Report continued 6.2.
10 Share ownership guidelines The CEO is required to hold BHP Billiton securities with a value at least equal to 300 per cent of i. e. three times one years pre-tax gross base salary under the Groups Minimum Shareholding Requirements policy.
For other members of the GMC, the minimum requirement is 200 per cent of i. e. two times one years pre-tax gross base salary.
These requirements re ect a strengthening of the policy effective from 1 July 2010 previously the guidelines were set as a percentage of net base salary.
The value of the securities for the purposes of the policy is the market value of the underlying shares.
Unvested securities do not qualify.
All of the members of the GMC currently hold suf cient securities to meet these requirements.
Under the policy, employees are not required to meet the holding requirement before awards are allocated to them, but if they are not holding the required number of shares at the time of exercise of an award, then they will be prohibited from selling all of the underlying shares on exercise.
GMC members are also not allowed to hedge or otherwise protect the value of unvested securities.
6.3 Remuneration governance Board oversight The Board is responsible for ensuring that the Groups remuneration structures are equitable and aligned with the long-term interests of BHP Billiton and its shareholders.
In performing this function, it is critical that the Board is independent of management when making decisions affecting employee remuneration.
Accordingly, the Board has established a Remuneration Committee to assist it in making decisions affecting employee remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee is comprised solely of Non-executive Directors, all of whom are independent.
In order to ensure that it is fully informed when making remuneration decisions, the Remuneration Committee receives regular reports and updates from members of management who the Remuneration Committee invites to attend meetings as and when appropriate and can draw on services from a range of external sources, including remuneration consultants.
Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee members John Buchanan Chairman The activities of the Remuneration Committee are governed Alan Boeckmann Member by Terms of Reference approved by the Board in March 2008, to 23 March 2011 which are available on our website.
The Remuneration Committee Carlos Cordeiro focuses on: John Schubert remuneration policy and its speci c application to the Number of meetings in FY2011 Eight CEO and other members of the GMC, as well as the general application to all employees: Other individuals who regularly Jacques Nasser Chairman 1 attended meetings Marius Kloppers CEO the determination of levels of reward to the CEO and other Karen Wood Group Executive and members of the GMC: Chief People and Public Affairs Officer providing guidance to the Chairman on evaluating the Gerard Bond Head of Group HR performance of the CEO: from 6 September 2010 effective communication with shareholders on the remuneration Richard Doody Vice President policy and the Remuneration Committees work on behalf of Group Reward and Recognition the Board.
Jane McAloon Group Company Secretary Geof Stapledon Group Manager Governance Note 1 Other individuals who regularly attended meetings were not present when matters associated with their own remuneration were considered.
Use of remuneration consultants The Board seeks and considers advice from independent remuneration consultants where appropriate.
Remuneration consultants are engaged by and report directly to the Remuneration Committee.
Potential con icts of interest are taken into account when remuneration consultants are selected and their terms of engagement regulate their level of access to, and require their independence from, BHP Billitons management.
The advice and recommendations of external consultants are used as a guide, but do not serve as a substitute for thorough consideration of the issues by each Director.
Kepler Associates, who were appointed by the Remuneration Committee to act as independent remuneration advisers, provide specialist remuneration advice and do not provide other services to the Group.
During the year, Kepler Associates provided advice and assistance to the Remuneration Committee on a wide range of matters, including: benchmarking of pay of senior executives against comparable roles at a range of relevant comparator groups, including sector and size peers: provision of information and commentary on global trends in executive remuneration: calculation of accounting fair values of equity awards and performance analysis for LTI awards: review of and commentary on management proposals: analysis and support in the review of LTI arrangements: other ad hoc support and advice as requested by the Remuneration Committee.
140 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 6.3 Remuneration governance continued Hedging of BHP Billiton shares and equity instruments Employees are not allowed to protect the value of any unvested equity instruments allocated to them under employee programs or the value of shares and equity instruments held as part of meeting BHP Billitons minimum shareholding requirements as described in section 6.2.
Any securities that have vested and are no longer subject to restrictions or performance conditions may be subject to hedging arrangements, provided that consent is obtained from BHP Billiton in advance of the employee entering into the arrangement.
Such arrangements need to be reported in the Remuneration Report, and no such arrangements were in place during FY2011 or at the date of this Annual Report.
BHP Billiton treats compliance with this policy as a serious issue, and takes appropriate measures to ensure that the policy is adhered to.
In addition, the Group has a policy that prohibits Non-executive Directors and senior executives from using BHP Billiton securities as collateral in any financial transaction, including margin loan arrangements.
6.4 Executive remuneration disclosures This section provides full details of service contract terms, disclosed remuneration and equity holdings for members of the GMC.
1 Senior management in FY2011 Australian Accounting Standards and International Financial Reporting Standards require BHP Billiton to make certain disclosures for Key Management Personnel KMP.
KMP is fide ned as those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly.
For the purposes of this Remuneration Report, it has been determined that the KMP are the Directors and the members of the GMC who served during FY2011.
In addition, the Australian Corporations Act 2001 requires BHP Billiton to make certain disclosures in respect of the top five highest paid executives below Board level.
In FY2011, the five highest paid executives below Board level were all members of the GMC and therefore their remuneration details are already included in the KMP disclosures.
Details of the members of the GMC during FY2011 are set out Name Title Date of contract in this table.
Each individual was a member of the GMC for the whole of FY2011.
Dates of appointment of all GMC members Marius Kloppers Chief Executive Officer CEO 12 February 2008 appear in section 4.2 of this Annual Report, and the dates of and Executive Director their current service contracts appear in the table on the right.
Alberto Calderon Group Executive and Chief Commercial Officer 16 January 2008 The service contracts for all members of the GMC have no xed Andrew Group Executive and 14 November 2007 term.
They typically outline the components of remuneration Mackenzie Chief Executive Non-Ferrous Materials paid to the individual, but do not prescribe how remuneration Marcus Group Executive and 13 December 2005 levels are to be modi ed from year to year.
The contracts are Randolph Chief Executive Ferrous and Coal all capable of termination by BHP Billiton on 12 months notice.
The GMC member must give six months notice.
In addition, Alex Vanselow Group Executive and Chief Financial Officer 14 June 2006 the Group retains the right to terminate a contract immediately Karen Wood Group Executive and 21 February 2006 by making a payment equal to 12 months base salary plus Chief People and Public Affairs Officer retirement bene ts for that period.
J Michael Yeager Group Executive and Chief Executive Petroleum 21 March 2006 6.4.
2 Statutory disclosures The table overleaf has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the UK Companies Act 2006 and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 made thereunder and the Australian Corporations Act 2001 and relevant accounting standards.
Explanation of share-based payments terms used in the table Value of STI and Shareplus awards: The amounts shown in the table include: the estimated fair value of Deferred Shares and Options provided under the GIS as described in section 6.2.
The fair value of the Deferred Shares and Options is estimated at grant date by discounting the total value of the shares that will be issued in the future using the risk-free interest rate for the period to the date of award.
From FY2011, there was a change in accounting policy to account for the Dividend Equivalent Payment DEP from cash settled to equity settled.
The table overleaf incorporates this change with the 2010 value of Deferred Shares and Options under the GIS being restated to include the value of the DEP that will be received on exercise.
Participants who were provided with awards under the GIS in previous years are entitled to a payment upon exercise in lieu of the dividends that would have been payable on ordinary BHP Billiton shares over the period from the allocation date to the time they exercise their awards.
Deferred Shares and Options are equity-settled share-based payments.
The actual Deferred Shares and Options will be awarded to participants following the 2011 Annual General Meetings subject to shareholder approval for the CEO.
Once awarded, the only vesting condition is for participants to remain in employment for two further years.
Accordingly, the number of securities if any that will ultimately vest cannot be determined until the service period has been completed.
The estimated fair value of the Deferred Shares and Options forms part of the STI at risk remuneration appearing throughout this Remuneration Report.
The fair value of Deferred Shares and Options is apportioned to annual remuneration based on the expected future service period, which is normally three years.
The vesting of Deferred Shares and Options may be accelerated in the event of leaving the Group, in which case the expected future service period is amended: the estimated fair value of rights to Matching Shares acquired during each share purchase period under the Shareplus program, as described in section 6.2.
These rights are acquired on each of the quarterly share-purchase dates under the program grant dates, and the fair value is apportioned to annual remuneration based on the future service period required for the Matching Shares to be allocated i. e. the vesting date of the rights.
Where entitlements to the Matching Shares are accelerated on leaving the Group, the expected future service period is amended.
Value of LTI awards: Performance Shares allocated under the LTIP as described in section 6.2.
9 are fide ned as equity-settled share-based payments.
The amount included in this column in respect of each LTI award is the estimated fair value of the Performance Shares as determined by Kepler Associates using a Monte Carlo simulation methodology taking account of the performance hurdle, the term of the award, the share price at grant date, the expected price volatility of the underlying share, the risk-free interest rate for the term of the award and the value of the DEP that will be received on exercise of the award.
The 2010 gures in the table overleaf have been restated to include the change in accounting policy of DEP from cash settled to equity settled.
The fair value of each award is apportioned to annual remuneration in equal amounts to each of the years in the expected future service period, which is normally five years.
Where entitlements to Performance Shares are preserved on leaving the Group, the expected future service period is amended.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 141 6 Remuneration Report continued 6.4.
2 Total remuneration: statutory disclosures continued The gures provided in the shaded columns of the statutory table below for share-based payments were not actually provided to the KMP during FY2011.
These amounts are calculated in accordance with accounting standards and are the amortised accounting fair values of equity and equity-related instruments that have been granted to the executives, either in relation to FY2011 performance or that of prior financial years.
Please refer to sections 6.2 and 6.4.
3 for information on awards allocated during FY2011.
Amounts shown in this table reflect the amounts paid over the 12-month period from 1 July to 30 June each year.
From 1 September 2009, all GMC base salaries are expressed in US dollars.
More detail is provided in section 6.2.
2 Annual cash bonus is the cash portion of STI reward earned in respect of performance during each financial year as described in section 6.2.
8, which shows the STI reward earned as a percentage of the maximum award, where the maximum possible award is 100 per cent.
The remaining portion of the 100 per cent maximum has not been earned i. e. it has been forfeited.
The minimum possible value awarded is nil.
Actual payments are made in September, once performance has been assessed, e. g. in September 2011 for FY2011 awards.
The equity portion of STI rewards are described in Note 6 below.
3 Non-monetary benefits are non-pensionable and include such items as medical and other insurances and fees for professional services such as for tax advice.
4 Other benefits are non-pensionable and include: A relocation allowance of US$175,000 for Alberto Calderon in each year in relation to a change in his place of employment from London to Melbourne.
Payment of US$66,767 in lieu for leave accrued but not taken by J Michael Yeager in FY2011, as Group policy does not allow GMC members to roll forward annual leave entitlements from one financial year to the next.
5 Retirement benefits are calculated as a percentage of base salary for each GMC member, as set out in the table in section 6.2.
6 The amounts shown in this column are described on the previous page.
8 shows the STI reward earned as a percentage of the maximum award, where the maximum possible award is 100 per cent.
These share-based payments may also be forfeited after allocation in specific circumstances as described in section 6.2.
8 and therefore, the minimum possible value of the awards is nil.
The maximum possible value cannot be determined as it depends on future share price movements, but is estimated by the fair value used for accounting purposes in this table.
At the date of this Annual Report, GMC members had not made their elections for Deferred Shares and or Options in regard to FY2011 STI rewards.
In respect of FY2010 awards, Andrew Mackenzie elected to receive Options.
The percentage of his remuneration in 2010 that was represented by these Options was 0.6 per cent.
The actual number of Deferred Shares and Options allocated in respect of FY2010 awards is shown in section 6.4.
7 describes the Shareplus program and the contributions made during FY2011 by members of the GMC in relation to the rights to acquire Matching Shares, which are included as share-based remuneration in the table.
7 The amounts shown in this column are described on the previous page.
9 shows the LTI provided as a percentage of the maximum award, where the maximum possible award is 100 per cent.
9 and therefore the minimum possible value of the awards is nil.
Details of individual awards are set out in the LTIP table in section 6.4.
This column also includes the amount allocated to remuneration for each year in respect of awards received by Andrew Mackenzie on commencement of employment with BHP Billiton in addition to the cash payment shown in Note 4 above.
These awards, are in the form of Performance Shares allocated on 4 December 2008 as shown in the final table in section 6.4.
3 and conditional rights to receive cash sums under two phantom awards, which are treated as cash-settled share-based payments and are included in this column for the purposes of remuneration.
The awards were approved by the Remuneration Committee for the purposes of compensating Mr Mackenzie for awards forgone by him as a result of leaving his former employer.
The value and nature of the awards were determined by the Remuneration Committee as being an equivalent fair value as that forgone by Mr Mackenzie under the at risk remuneration arrangements operated by his former employer.
In valuing the awards, the Remuneration Committee sought the advice of its independent adviser, Kepler Associates.
Full details of the awards were disclosed in the FY2009 Annual Report.
142 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 6.4.
3 Equity awards The following tables set out the interests held by members of the GMC in the Groups equity schemes.
Each vested security can be exercised for one ordinary share in BHP Billiton Ltd or in BHP Billiton Plc.
The value of securities over BHP Billiton Ltd shares is shown in Australian dollars and of securities over BHP Billiton Plc shares in Sterling.
Awards of Deferred Shares under the GIS Each employee may nominate to receive GIS awards in the form of Deferred Shares as shown in this table or in the form of Options as shown in the next table or a combination thereof.
Under the GIS rules, awards will vest and become exercisable on, or as soon as practicable after, the first non-prohibited period date occurring after 30 June.
The expiry date of awards is the day prior to the third anniversary of that vesting date.
2 The market price shown for the December 2010 grant is the closing price of BHP Billiton shares on 6 December 2010.
No price is payable by the individual for acquiring the Deferred Shares at the time of grant.
The grant-date fair values of the awards are estimated as at the start of the vesting period, being 1 July 2010 and were A$37.11 and 16.95.
3 All 100 per cent of the Deferred Shares granted under the GIS in December 2008 became fully vested on 7 September 2010 as the service conditions were met as described in section 6.2.
The price shown is the closing price of BHP Billiton shares on that date.
4 The market price shown and used for calculating the aggregate gain is the closing price of BHP Billiton shares on the date that the individual exercised their Deferred Shares.
No price is payable by the individual for exercising the Deferred Shares.
One ordinary BHP Billiton share is acquired for each Deferred Share exercised.
The amounts shown in this column do not include the value of the DEP paid on exercise of the awards as described in section 6.4.
The DEP is included within the value of share-based payment remuneration in that section.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 143 6 Remuneration Report continued 6.4.
3 Equity awards continued Awards of Options under the GIS Each employee may nominate to receive GIS awards in the form of Options as shown in this table or in the form of Deferred Shares as shown in the previous table or a combination thereof.
Date award may vest Market Market Market Aggregate Exercise At At and price on price on price on gain of Date of price 1 July 30 June becomes date of date of date of shares 1 2 3 Name grant payable 2010 Granted Vested Lapsed Exercised 2011 exercisable grant vesting exercise exercised Alberto 4 Dec 10.89 143,227 143,277 143,277 7 Sep 2010 10.60 18.93 18.93 1,151,947 Calderon 2008 Andrew 6 Dec 23.71 30,389 30,389 Aug 2012 24.40 Mackenzie 2010 14 Dec 18.68 16,119 16,119 Aug 2011 19.06 2009 Total 16,119 30,389 46,508 Alex 4 Dec A$29.15 153,768 153,768 153,768 7 Sep 2010 A$27.50 $38.44 A$37.91 A$1,347,008 Vanselow 2008 Notes 1 The exercise price is determined by the weighted average price at which BHP Billiton shares were traded over the one week up to and including the date of grant.
This is the amount payable by the individual to exercise each Option and to receive one ordinary BHP Billiton share for each Option exercised.
2 The holding period for each award ends on 30 June in the year the award may vest and become exercisable if the conditions for vesting are met including the relevant service conditions.
3 The market price shown for the December 2010 grant is the closing price of BHP Billiton shares on 6 December 2010.
No price is payable by the individual for acquiring the Options at the time of grant.
The grant-date fair value of the Options is estimated as at the start of the vesting period, being 1 July 2010, using a Black-Scholes model, was 4.54.
The value of the underlying shares during the financial year is shown in the table at the top of page 152.
Awards of Matched Shares under the Shareplus all-employee share plan Each member of the GMC may choose to participate in the Shareplus all-employee share plan on the same basis as other employees.
Matched shares were allocated under the plan on 1 April 2011 in relation to contributions made from base salary during the 2008 Shareplus Plan Year i. e. during the period from June 2008 to May 2009.
Differences in exchange rates in relation to the base salaries of the GMC members and the currencies of each securities exchange result in minor differences in the numbers of shares allocated.
GMC interests in BHP Billiton as a result of the plan are shown below.
Further detail on Shareplus is provided in section 6.2.
2 The market price shown is the closing price of BHP Billiton shares on 1 April 2010 and 1 April 2011 respectively.
3 J Michael Yeager was allocated 105 American Depositary Receipts listed on the New York Stock Exchange in April 2011 and 67 American Depositary Receipts in April 2010, which are each equivalent to two ordinary BHP Billiton Ltd shares.
144 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 6.4.
Under the LTIP rules, awards will vest and become exercisable on, or as soon as practicable after, the first non-prohibited period date occurring after 30 June.
The expiry date of awards is the day prior to the fifth anniversary of that vesting date.
No price is payable by the individual for acquiring the Performance Shares at the time of grant.
The accounting grant-date fair values of the awards are estimated as at the start of the vesting period, being 1 July 2010, using a Monte Carlo simulation, and were A$23.38 and 10.68.
3 All 100 per cent of the Performance Shares granted under the LTIP in December 2005 became fully vested on 7 September 2010 following the performance hurdle being fully achieved as described in section 6.2.
4 The market price shown and used for calculating the aggregate gain is the closing price of BHP Billiton shares on the date that the individual exercised their Performance Shares.
No price is payable by the individual for exercising the Performance Shares.
One ordinary BHP Billiton share is acquired for each Performance Share exercised.
The amounts shown in this column do not include the value of DEP paid on exercise of the awards as described in section 6.4.
The DEP is included within the value of the share-based payment remuneration in that section.
The DEP in relation to the vested 225,000 Performance Shares for Marius Kloppers was US$757,125 UK disclosure requirement.
5 The awards allocated to Andrew Mackenzie on 4 December 2008 included 225,000 Performance Shares allocated to him as part of FY2009 Total Remuneration and a further 100,839 Performance Shares allocated to him on commencement with BHP Billiton, in relation to at risk rewards forfeited when he left his former employer.
More information on Mr Mackenzies commencement arrangements is included in Note 7 to the table in section 6.4.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 145 6 Remuneration Report continued 6.4.
3 Equity awards continued Estimated value range of awards The current face value of STI and LTI awards allocated during FY2011 and yet to vest to be disclosed under the Australian Corporations Act 2001 is the number of awards as set out in the previous tables multiplied by the current share price of BHP Billiton Ltd or BHP Billiton Plc as applicable.
The actual value that may be received by participants in the future can not be determined as it is dependent on, and therefore uctuates with, the share prices of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc at the date that any particular award is exercised.
The table below provides FY2011 share price details for BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc.
30 June 2011 Highest Lowest BHP Billiton Limited A$43.80 A$49.55 A$36.98 BHP Billiton Plc 24.47 26.32 16.85 Comparator group for LTIP awards The index of peer group companies for the LTIP since its implementation in 2004 is shown below: December 2004 to 2006 December 2007 to 2009 December 2010 Resources Alcan x Alcoa x x x Alumina x Anglo American x x x Cameco xx Falconbridge x Freeport McMoRan x x x Impala x Inco x Newmont Mining x Norilsk x x x Peabody Energy xx Phelps Dodge x Rio Tinto x x x Southern Copper xx Teck Cominco xx Vale x x x Xstrata x x x Oil and Gas Apache xx BG Group x x x BP x x ConocoPhillips x Devon Energy xx Exxon Mobil x x Marathon Oil x Shell x x Total x Woodside Petroleum x x x A description of the performance hurdle applying to the LTIP Performance Shares is set out in section 6.2.
146 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 6.5 Aggregate Directors remuneration This table sets out the aggregate remuneration of Executive and Non-executive Directors in accordance with the requirements of the UK Companies Act 2006 and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 made thereunder.
US dollars million 2010 2011 Emoluments 8 8 Termination payments Awards vesting under LTI plans 7 10 Gains on exercise of Options Pension contributions 3 1 Total 18 19 6.6 Non-executive Director arrangements This section explains the remuneration policy, structure and outcomes for Non-executive Directors as listed below.
1 Non-executive Directors in FY2011 Details of the Non-executive Directors who held of ce during FY2011 are set out below.
Except where otherwise indicated, the Directors held of ce for the whole of FY2011.
Dates of appointment of all Directors appear in section 4.1 of this Annual Report.
Details if changed Name Title position during FY2011 Alan Boeckmann Non-executive Director Retired 23 March 2011 Malcolm Broomhead Non-executive Director John Buchanan Senior Independent Director Carlos Cordeiro Non-executive Director David Crawford Non-executive Director Carolyn Hewson Non-executive Director Lindsay Maxsted Non-executive Director Appointed 23 March 2011 Wayne Murdy Non-executive Director Jacques Nasser Chairman Keith Rumble Non-executive Director John Schubert Non-executive Director Shriti Vadera Non-executive Director Appointed 1 January 2011 6.6.
2 Remuneration structure Our Non-executive Directors are paid in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 and the ASX Corporate Governance Council Principles of Good Corporate Governance 2007, with 2010 amendments.
The Board is conscious that, just as it must set remuneration levels to attract and retain talented executives, it must also ensure that remuneration rates for Non-executive Directors are set at a level that will attract and retain the calibre of Director necessary to contribute effectively to a high-performing Board.
The remuneration levels re ect the size and complexity of the Group, the multi-jurisdictional environment arising from the Dual Listed Companies structure, the multiple stock exchange listings, the extent of the geographic regions in which the Group operates and the enhanced responsibilities associated with membership of Board Committees.
They also re ect the considerable travel burden imposed on members of the Board.
In setting the remuneration of the Directors, the Remuneration Committee takes into account the economic environment and the financial performance of the Group, along with pay and employment conditions of employees elsewhere in the Group.
Fees for the Non-executive Directors are determined by the Chairman and the CEO.
The Non-executive Directors do not take part in these discussions.
Fees for the Non-executive Directors and Chairman were reviewed in June 2011 and benchmarked against peer companies with the assistance of external advisers.
The table on the following page sets out the fees before and after the 2011 review.
The aggregate sum available to remunerate Non-executive Directors was approved by shareholders at the 2008 Annual General Meetings at US$3.8 million.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 147 6 Remuneration Report continued 6.6.
2 Remuneration structure continued Levels of fees and travel allowances for Non-executive Directors in US dollars From 1 July 2008 From 1 July 2009 From 1 July 2010 From 1 July 2011 Base annual fee 140,000 140,000 154,000 170,000 Plus additional fees for: Senior Independent Director of BHP Billiton Plc 30,000 30,000 35,000 48,000 Committee Chair: Risk and Audit 50,000 50,000 55,000 60,000 Remuneration 35,000 35,000 40,000 45,000 Sustainability 35,000 35,000 40,000 45,000 Nomination No additional fees No additional fees No additional fees No additional fees Committee membership: Risk and Audit 25,000 25,000 30,000 32,500 Remuneration 20,000 20,000 25,000 27,500 Sustainability 20,000 20,000 25,000 27,500 Nomination No additional fees No additional fees No additional fees No additional fees Travel allowance: Greater than 3 but less than 10 hours 7,000 7,000 7,000 7,000 10 hours or more 15,000 15,000 15,000 15,000 Chairmans remuneration 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,100,000 Until 30 June 2011, the time frames were Greater than 3 but less than 12 hours and 12 hours or more.
Non-executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any of our incentive arrangements.
A standard letter of appointment has been developed for Non-executive Directors and is available on our website.
Each Non-executive Director is appointed subject to periodic re-election by shareholders see section 5 of this Annual Report for an explanation of the process.
There are no provisions in any of the Non-executive Directors appointment arrangements for compensation payable on early termination of their directorship.
3 Retirement bene ts The following table sets out the accrued retirement bene ts under the now-closed Retirement Plan of BHP Billiton Limited.
The Retirement Plan was closed on 24 October 2003 and entitlements that had accumulated in respect of each of the participants were frozen.
These will be paid on retirement.
An earnings rate equal to the five-year Australian Government Bond Rate is being applied to the frozen entitlements from that date.
2 Increase in lump sum Lump sum entitlement at Completed service at entitlement 1 US dollars 30 June 2011 years during the year 30 June 2011 30 June 2010 David Crawford 17 144,726 582,572 437,846 John Schubert 11 72,317 291,100 218,783 Notes 1 Since the closure of the Retirement Plan, no further entitlements have accrued.
The movement reflects the application of the earnings rate and foreign exchange rate the translation from Australian dollars to US dollars for the Remuneration Report to the lump sum entitlement at the date of closure.
2 Lump sum entitlements disclosure up to and including 2008 included compulsory Group contributions to the BHP Billiton Superannuation Fund.
Accordingly, the entitlement amounts disclosed relate to the benefits under the Retirement Plan.
148 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Report 6.6.
4 Statutory disclosures The table below has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the UK Companies Act 2006 and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 made thereunder and the Australian Corporations Act 2001, and relevant accounting standards.
2 In respect of superannuation benefits, BHP Billiton Limited makes superannuation contributions of nine per cent of fees paid in accordance with Australian superannuation legislation.
3 FY2011 remuneration for Alan Boeckmann, Lindsay Maxsted, and Shriti Vadera relates to part of that year only, as they retired from, or joined, the Board during the year.
Details of their dates of retirement or appointment are set out in section 6.6.
4 FY2010 remuneration for Malcolm Broomhead, and Carolyn Hewson relates to part of that year only, as they joined the Board during that year.
5 FY2010 remuneration for Jacques Nasser relates to part of the year as Non-executive Director until 30 March 2010, and part of the year as Chairman from 31 March 2010.
The current Chairmans remuneration is set out in section 6.6.
This Report was approved by the Board on 6 September 2011 and signed on its behalf by: John Buchanan Chairman, Remuneration Committee 6 September 2011 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2011 | 149
