Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31 December 2011 1.
Summary of significant accounting the nature of underlying transactions.
Adoption of these revised standards and policies and critical accounting Improvements have also been made in the interpretations did not have any material judgements and estimates presentation relating to the average number effect on the financial performance or position Amlin plc the Company is a public limited of employees in note 11, amounts receivable of the Group.
company registered in England and Wales.
by directors and key management personnel The effects of these changes are as follows: The address of the registered office is under long term incentive schemes in note 10 St Helens, 1 Undershaft, London EC3A 8ND.
and note 38 and share options and awards IAS 24 revised, Related party disclosures IAS 24 revised clarifies the definition in note 28.
These changes in presentation The basis of preparation, basis of consolidation have no effect on the previously reported net of a related party to simplify the identification and significant accounting policies adopted in of such relationships and to eliminate income, shareholders equity or net assets.
the preparation of Amlin plc and subsidiaries Comparative information has been amended inconsistencies in its application.
The revised the Group consolidated financial statements standard introduces a partial exemption of to reflect these changes.
disclosure requirements for government-related Basis of consolidation Basis of preparation entities.
There is no material impact on the The financial statements consolidate the These consolidated financial statements are Group or Companys financial statements.
accounts of the Company and subsidiary prepared in accordance with International undertakings, including the Groups IAS 32 amended, Financial instruments: Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as Presentation Classification of rights issues underwriting through participation on Lloyds adopted for use in the European Union EU.
IAS 32 amended amends the definition syndicates.
Subsidiaries are those entities The consolidated financial statements comply of a financial liability in order to classify rights in which the Group, directly or indirectly, with Article 4 of the EU IAS regulation and issues and certain options or warrants as has the power to govern the operating and Companies Act 2006. equity instruments in cases where such rights financial policies in order to gain economic are given pro rata to all of the existing owners The consolidated financial statements have benefits or are, in substance, controlled of the same class of an entitys non-derivative been prepared on the historical cost basis by the Group and includes the Companys equity instruments, or to acquire a fixed except for cash and cash equivalents, financial employee benefit trusts.
The financial number of the entitys own equity instruments assets and liabilities, share options, and pension statements of all subsidiaries are prepared for for a fixed amount in any currency.
There assets which are measured at their fair value.
the same reporting year as the parent company.
is no impact on the Group or Companys Consolidation adjustments are made to convert Except where otherwise stated, all figures financial statements.
subsidiary accounts prepared under different included in the consolidated financial accounting standards into IFRS so as to remove IFRIC 14 amended, Prepayments of a statements are presented in millions of British the effects of any different accounting policies minimum funding requirement Pounds Sterling sterling shown as m rounded that may exist.
Subsidiaries are consolidated The amendment to IFRIC 14 provides guidance to the nearest 100,000. from the date that control is transferred to the on assessing the recoverable amount of a net The accounting policies adopted in preparing Group and cease to be consolidated from the pension asset.
The amendment permits an these financial statements are consistent with date that control is transferred out.
entity to treat the prepayment of a minimum those followed in the preparation of the Groups funding requirement as an asset.
The All inter-company balances, profits and annual financial statements for the year ended amendment does not have an impact on the transactions are eliminated.
financial statements of the Group or Company.
Details of principal subsidiaries included within In accordance with IFRS 4, the Group has IFRIC 19, Extinguishing financial liabilities with the consolidated financial statements can be applied existing accounting practices for equity instruments found in note 37. insurance contracts, modified as appropriate, The interpretation clarifies that equity to comply with the IFRS framework and Adoption of new and revised Standards instruments issued to a creditor to extinguish a Standards, amendments to published standards applicable standards.
a financial liability qualify as consideration paid.
and interpretations effective on or after 1 January As a result of Amlin Re Europes inclusion The equity instruments issued are measured 2011 as a separate reportable segment and minor at their fair value.
In case this cannot be The accounting policies adopted are modifications to the internal reporting to the reliably measured, they are measured at the consistent with those of the previous financial chief operating decision maker, the fair value of the liability extinguished.
Any gain year, except for the following new and amended comparative segmental reporting information or loss is recognised immediately in profit or IFRS and IFRIC interpretations effective as for the year ended 31 December 2010 has loss.
The adoption of this interpretation has no of 1 January 2011: been restated.
Further details are provided effect on the financial statements of the Group IAS 24 revised, Related party disclosures in note 4. or Company.
IAS 32 amended, Financial instruments: As part of the process to improve the Presentation Classification of rights presentation of the Groups consolidated issues financial statements, certain changes have been made to the presentation of underwriting and IFRIC 14 amended, Prepayments non-underwriting expenses in note 9, derivative of a minimum funding requirement financial instruments in note 3.3 fair value IFRIC 19, Extinguishing financial liabilities hierarchy and note 17, loans and receivables in with equity instruments note 19, deferred acquisition costs in note 20 and other payables in note 30, to better reflect Annual improvements to IFRSs.
103 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2011 1.
Summary of significant accounting However, the Group has determined that the have no impact on the financial statements policies and critical accounting effect shall be quantified in conjunction with of the Group or Company on adoption.
judgements and estimates continued the other phases when issued to present a IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements Annual improvements to IFRSs 2009-2010 comprehensive picture.
IFRS 10 is effective for annual periods In May 2010, the International Accounting 1 IFRS 9 amendments to incorporate financial beginning 1 January 2013, with retrospective Standards Board IASB issued its annual liabilities application.
It replaces the portion of IAS 27, amendments to IFRSs and the related Bases The amendments to IFRS 9 issued in October Consolidated and separate financial for Conclusions and guidance made.
The IASB 2010 incorporate the classification and statements that addresses the accounting for uses the annual improvements process to make measurement of financial liabilities and are consolidated financial statements.
IFRS revises necessary, but non-urgent, amendments to proposed to be effective for annual periods the definition of control, the key factor in IFRSs that will not be included as part of a 1 beginning on or after 1 January 2015. determining whether an entity is consolidated.
The amendments primarily The amendments only affect the measurement The adoption of IFRS 10 may have an impact remove inconsistencies and clarify wording.
of financial liabilities designated at fair value on which entities the Group consolidates within The Group has adopted the amendments to through profit or loss using the Fair Value its financial statements.
standards as they come into effect for the Option FVO.
All other requirements in IAS 39 reporting period beginning on 1 January 2011.
IFRS 11, Joint arrangements in respect of liabilities are carried forward IFRS 11 is effective for annual periods However, these amendments have no material into IFRS 9.
1 impact on the Group or Companys financial beginning 1 January 2013, with retrospective For FVO liabilities, the amount of change application.
It replaces IAS 31, Interests in joint statements.
in the fair value of a liability that is attributable ventures and SIC-13, Jointly-controlled entities b Standards, amendments to published standards to changes in own credit risk must be presented non-monetary contributions by venturers.
and interpretations early adopted by the Group in other comprehensive income OCI.
The The standard clarifies the definition of a joint In 2011, the Group did not early adopt any remainder of the change in fair value is arrangement and uses the principle of control new, revised or amended standards.
presented in profit or loss, unless presentation in IFRS 10 to define joint control.
The standard c Standards, amendments to published standards of the fair value change in respect of the also removes the option to account for jointlyand interpretations that are not yet effective and liabilitys credit risk in OCI would create controlled entities using the proportional have not been early adopted by the Group or enlarge an accounting mismatch in profit consolidation method.
The standard is not Standards issued but not yet effective up to or loss.
The amendments are deemed to have expected to have a significant impact on the the date of issuance of the Groups financial no impact on the financial statements of financial statements of the Group.
IFRS 12, Disclosure of interests in other intends to adopt these standards when they entities IFRS 7 amended, Financial instruments: become effective.
IFRS 12 is effective for annual periods Disclosures Offsetting financial assets and 1 IFRS 7 amended, Financial instruments: beginning 1 January 2013, with retrospective financial liabilities Disclosures Transfers of financial assets application.
It includes all of the disclosures The amendment to IFRS 7 is effective for The amendment to IFRS 7 is effective for that were previously included in IAS 27 related annual reporting periods beginning on or 1 annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011. to consolidated financial statements, as well after 1 January 2013.
The amendment The amendment introduces more extensive as all of the disclosures that were previously introduces new disclosure requirements quantitative and qualitative disclosures about included in IAS 31 and IAS 28, Investment intended to allow investors to better compare the transfer of financial assets to assist users in associates.
A number of new disclosures are the different offsetting of financial assets and in understanding the implications of transfers also required, including the judgements made financial liabilities under IFRS and US GAAP.
of financial assets and the potential risks that by management in determining whether it The amendment is likely to have an impact may remain with the transferor.
The amendment controls an entity.
The standard will impact on the disclosures made by the Group in respect is deemed to have no material impact on the the disclosures made by the Group in respect of its financial assets and financial liabilities.
Group or Companys financial statements.
of its interests in subsidiaries, joint IAS 32 amended, Financial instruments: arrangements and associates on adoption.
IFRS 9, Financial instruments: Classification Presentation Offsetting financial assets and and measurement IAS 27, Separate financial statements and financial liabilities IFRS 9 as issued reflects the first phase IAS 28, Investments in associates and joint The amendments to IAS 32 clarify the of the Boards work on the replacement ventures requirements for offsetting financial instruments of IAS 39 and applies to the classification and As a result of the issuance of IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and are applicable for accounting periods measurement of financial assets as defined 1 and IFRS 12, consequential amendments have beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
The in IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition been made to IAS 27 and IAS 28.
IAS 27 now amendments are not expected to have a and measurement.
The standard is proposed contains requirements only relating to separate material impact on the financial statements to be effective for annual periods beginning on financial statements, while the amendments of the Group on adoption.
In subsequent phases, to IAS 28 incorporate the accounting for joint IAS 12 amended, Income taxes Deferred tax: the Board will address hedge accounting and ventures.
Both standards have been renamed Recovery of underlying assets derecognition.
The adoption of IFRS 9 will have as a result of these amendments, and are The amendments to IAS 12 relate to the an effect on the classification and measurement effective for annual periods beginning on or 1 measurement of deferred tax on investment of the Groups financial assets.
They are effective for annual periods 1 Subject to EU endorsement 1 beginning on or after 1 January 2012 and will 104 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 IFRS 13, Fair value measurement which the initial provisions were set up.
The The Group has allocated goodwill to cash IFRS 13 is effective for annual periods change in claims costs for prior period insurance generating units based on a number of factors, 1 beginning 1 January 2013 and is to be applied claims represents the claims development of which include how the entitys operations are prospectively.
The standard establishes a single earlier reported years incurred in the current monitored.
source of guidance under IFRS for fair value accounting period.
The carrying value of the The carrying value at the reporting date of measurement and introduces new disclosures Groups net outstanding claims reserves goodwill is 76.6 million 2010: 61.8 million.
to help users to better assess the valuation at 31 December 2011 is 2,656.6 million Taxation techniques and inputs used to measure fair 2010: 2,248.8 million.
In 2011, there has Uncertainties exist with respect to the value.
The standard will impact the disclosures been a net positive development of 112.6 interpretation of complex tax regulations made by the Group in respect of fair value million 2010: 156.5 million for the Group, and the amount and timing of future taxable measurement on adoption.
reflecting favourable experience in the 2010 income.
The wide range of international and prior reported years.
Note 3 provides IAS 1 amended, Presentation of financial business relationships and the long-term further details of the method the Group applies statements nature and complexity of existing contractual in estimating insurance contract liabilities.
The amendment to IAS 1 is effective for annual agreements could necessitate future 1 periods beginning 1 July 2012.
The Financial assets and financial liabilities adjustments to tax income and expense already amendment will require companies to group The methods and assumptions used by the recorded.
The Group establishes provisions, together items within other comprehensive Group and Company in estimating the fair value based on reasonable estimates, for possible income that may be reclassified to the profit of financial assets and financial liabilities are consequences of audits by the tax authorities or loss section of the income statement.
The carrying values of the of the respective countries in which it operates.
amendments reaffirm existing requirements Groups financial assets and financial liabilities The amount of such provisions is based on that items in other comprehensive income at 31 December 2011 are 4,080.4 million various factors, such as experience of previous and profit or loss should be presented as 2010: 4,310.1 million and 11.0 million tax audits and differing interpretations of tax either a single statement or two consecutive 2010: 9.7 million respectively.
regulations by the taxable entity and the statements.
Upon adoption, the amendment responsible tax authority.
Such differences Intangible assets will result in changes to the presentation of the of interpretation may arise on a wide variety Intangible assets are recognised on the Groups other comprehensive income.
of issues depending on the conditions acquisition of a subsidiary, on the purchase prevailing in the country of the respective IAS 19 amended, Employee benefits of specific rights to renew a particular Group companys domicile.
The amendment to IAS 19 is effective for underwriting portfolio and on internally 1 annual periods beginning 1 January 2013 and developed computer software.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all is to be applied retrospectively.
The amendment unused tax losses to the extent that it is The value of such intangibles arising from the eliminates the option to defer the recognition probable that taxable profits will be available acquisition of a subsidiary or specific renewal of gains and losses resulting from defined against which the losses can be utilised.
rights is largely based on the expected cash benefit plans referred to as the corridor Significant management judgement is required flows of the business acquired and contractual approach, removes the options for the to determine the amount of deferred tax assets rights on that business.
Certain key presentation of gains and losses relating that can be recognised, based upon the likely assumptions are used to assess the value to those plans and improves the disclosure timing and the level of future taxable profits, of the intangible such as past underwriting requirements in respect of defined benefit together with future tax planning strategies.
performance and past renewal values of plans and the risks arising on those plans.
These are the subject The carrying value at the reporting date The amendment will impact the presentation of specific uncertainty and a reduction in of the deferred tax asset is 26.9 million of gains and losses and disclosures in respect underwriting profitability or renewal patterns 2010: 14.7 million, and of the deferred tax of the Groups defined benefit plans.
of business acquired may result in the value liability is 42.4 million 2010: 87.8 million.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of the intangible being impaired and written Staff incentive plans of estimation uncertainty off in the current accounting period.
The Group recognises a liability and expense The preparation of financial statements requires The value of computer software comprises all for staff incentive plans based on a formula that the use of estimates and assumptions that costs directly attributable to its development.
takes into consideration the underwriting profit affect the reported amounts of assets and after certain adjustments.
Underwriting profit liabilities, and the disclosure of contingent The carrying value of the Groups intangible is estimated based on current expectation of assets and liabilities.
Although these estimates assets excluding goodwill at 31 December premiums and claims and will change as more are based on managements best knowledge 2011 is 142.3 million 2010: 122.7 million.
information is known or future events occur.
of current events and actions, actual results Note 22 provides details of any current Where estimates change, related staff incentive may ultimately differ from those estimates.
plan liabilities may also change.
Insurance contract liabilities Goodwill impairment The carrying value at the reporting date The most significant estimate made in the The Group determines whether goodwill of the liability for the staff incentive plans financial statements relates to unpaid insurance is impaired at least on an annual basis.
claim reserves and related loss adjustment This requires an estimation of the recoverable expenses of the Group.
amount of the cash-generating unit to which goodwill is allocated.
Details of the key The estimated provision for the total level of assumptions used in the estimation of the claims incurred changes as more information recoverable amounts are contained in note 22. becomes known about the actual losses for 105 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2011 1.
Summary of significant accounting On consolidation all resulting exchange under facilities the earned element is calculated policies and critical accounting differences are recognised in other based on the estimated inception date and judgements and estimates continued comprehensive income.
coverage period of the underlying contracts.
Retirement benefit obligations Acquisition costs Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising The Group participates in the Lloyds on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated Acquisition costs comprise brokerage incurred Superannuation Fund defined benefit scheme on insurance contracts written during the as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and and also operates defined benefit schemes translated at the closing rate.
They are incurred on the same in the Netherlands, Belgium and Switzerland.
basis as the earned proportions of the premium Where contracts to sell currency have been The amounts included in these financial they relate to.
Deferred acquisition costs are entered into prior to the year end, the statements are sensitive to changes in the amortised over the period in which the related contracted rates have been used.
Differences assumptions used to derive the value of the revenues are earned.
Deferred acquisition costs arising on the translation of foreign currency scheme assets and liabilities.
are reviewed at the end of each reporting amounts on such items are included in other period and are written off where they are no A loss of 18.3 million 2010: 5.9 million gain operating expenses.
longer considered to be recoverable.
has been recognised in the Statement Details of the principal exchange rates used of Comprehensive Income and a debit Reinsurance premium ceded are included in note 33.
Reinsurance premium ceded comprise of 4.2 million 2010: 1.9 million has been recognised in the Income Statement.
Note 32 Product classification premium on reinsurance arrangements bought which incept during the financial year, provides further details on the Groups Insurance contracts are defined as those retirement benefit obligations.
At 31 December containing significant insurance risk if, and together with adjustments to premiums ceded in previous accounting periods.
The proportion 2011, the Group recognised a balance sheet only if, an insured event could cause an insurer liability of 30.8 million 2010: 15.3 million to make significant additional payments in of reinsurance premium ceded attributable to periods after the balance sheet date is in respect of its defined benefit plans.
any scenario, excluding scenarios that lack commercial substance, at the inception of deferred as reinsurers' share of unearned Significant accounting policies premium.
Reinsurance premium ceded the contract.
Foreign currency translation is earned over the policy contract period The Group and Company present their accounts The significance of insurance risk is dependent on a basis consistent with the related in sterling since it is subject to regulation in the on both the probability of an insured event insurance contracts.
United Kingdom and the net assets, liabilities and the magnitude of its potential effect.
and income of the Group and Company are Insurance contracts liabilities Any contracts not considered to be insurance currently weighted towards sterling.
US dollar Claims paid are defined as those claims contracts under IFRS are classified as and euro revenues are significant but the transactions settled up to the balance sheet date investment contracts.
sterling revenue stream is also currently including internal and external claims settlement Based on the current assessment, all of the material.
All Group entities conduct business expenses allocated to those transactions.
products underwritten by the Groups insurance in a range of economic environments, although Unpaid claims reserves are made for known or entities are insurance contracts within the these are primarily the United Kingdom, United anticipated liabilities under insurance contracts scope of IFRS 4, Insurance contracts.
States of America and Continental Europe.
which have not been settled up to the balance Insurance contracts premium Transactions denominated in foreign currencies sheet date.
Included within the provision is Gross written premium comprise premium are translated using the exchange rates an allowance for the future costs of settling on insurance contracts incepting during the prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
This is estimated based on past financial year together with adjustments to Monetary assets and liabilities are translated experience and current expectations of future premiums written in previous accounting at the rates of exchange at the balance sheet cost levels.
The estimated premium income date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities are in respect of facility contracts, for example Unpaid claims reserves are estimated on an translated at the rate prevailing in the period in undiscounted basis.
Unpaid claims reserves binding authorities and lineslips, is deemed which the asset or liability first arose.
Exchange to be written in full at the inception of the acquired through a business combination are differences are recognised within other measured at fair value, using an applicable contract.
Premium is disclosed before the operating expenses.
deduction of brokerage and taxes or duties risk-free discount rate and having regard to The results and financial position of those the expected settlement dates of the claims.
Group entities whose functional currency is not Provisions are subject to a detailed quarterly The proportion of gross written premium, gross sterling are translated into sterling as follows: review where forecast future cash flows and of commission payable, attributable to periods existing amounts provided are reviewed and Assets and liabilities for each balance after the balance sheet date is deferred as a reassessed.
Any changes to the amounts held sheet presented are translated at the provision for unearned premium.
The change in are adjusted through the income statement.
closing exchange rate at the date of this provision is taken to the income statement Provisions are established above an actuarial the balance sheet: in order that revenue is recognised over the best estimate, reflecting a risk premium relating period of the risk.
Income and expenses for each income to the uncertainty of the actual level of claims statement are translated at the exchange Premium is recognised as earned over the incurred.
There is therefore a reasonable rates at the date of each transaction, or a chance of release of reserves from one year policy contract period.
The earned element practical approximation to these rates: and is calculated separately for each contract on a to the next.
365ths basis where the premium is apportioned over the period of risk.
For premium written 106 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 The unpaid claims reserves also include, where Net investment income irrespective of the extent of any minority Dividends and any related tax credits are necessary, a reserve for unexpired risks where, interest.
The excess of the fair value of at the balance sheet date, the estimated costs recognised as income on the date that the consideration transferred over the fair value related listed investments are marked exof future claims and related deferred acquisition of the Groups share of the identifiable net costs are expected to exceed the unearned dividend.
Other investment income, interest assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
receivable, expenses and interest payable are premium provision.
For each business combination, the Group recognised on an accruals basis.
Reinsurance contracts held measures any non-controlling interests in the Contracts entered into by the Group with Segment reporting acquiree at the non-controlling interests Operating segments are reported in a manner reinsurers under which the Group is proportionate share of the acquirees compensated for losses on contracts issued consistent with the internal reporting provided identifiable net assets.
to the chief operating decision maker.
The chief by the Group and that meet the classification Interests in associate entities requirements for insurance contracts are operating decision maker, which is responsible Investments in associates are accounted for for allocating resources and assessing the classified as reinsurance contracts held.
Insurance contracts underwritten by the Group performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Board of Directors of the under which the contract holder is another Associates are all entities over which the insurer inwards reinsurance are included Company.
Group has significant influence but no control, within insurance contracts.
generally accompanying a shareholding of Business combinations between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Business combinations before 1 January 2010 The benefits to which the Group is entitled Groups share of its associates post-acquisition The acquisitions of subsidiaries are accounted under its reinsurance contracts held are profits and losses after tax is recognised in the for using the purchase method.
The cost of recognised as reinsurance assets.
These assets income statement each period, and its share acquisition is measured as the fair value of consist of short-term balances due from of the movement in associates net assets is assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, reinsurers, as well as longer term receivables reflected in the investments carrying values and equity instruments issued by the Group that are dependent on the expected claims and in the balance sheet.
at the date of exchange, plus any costs directly benefits arising under the related reinsured attributable to the business combination.
Amounts recoverable from Interests in joint ventures Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and Investments in joint ventures are accounted or due to reinsurers are measured consistently contingent liabilities assumed, meeting the with the amounts associated with the reinsured for using the equity method.
conditions for recognition under IFRS 3, insurance contracts and in accordance with the Operations held for sale Business combinations, are recognised at their terms of each reinsurance contract.
Assets and liabilities held for disposal as part fair value at the acquisition date, irrespective of operations which are held for sale are shown Where there is objective evidence that a of the extent of any minority interest.
The separately in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
reinsurance asset is impaired, the Group excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair The relevant assets are recorded at the lower reduces the carrying amount of the reinsurance value of the Groups share of the identifiable of their carrying amount and their fair value, asset to its recoverable amount and recognises net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
less the estimated selling costs.
that impairment loss in the income statement.
Business combination after 1 January 2010 Intangible assets Salvage and subrogation reimbursements The Group policy is to apply IFRS 3 revised i.
Syndicate capacity Some insurance contracts permit the Group to all acquisitions taking place on or after Lloyds syndicate participations that have to sell usually damaged property acquired 1 January 2010. Business combinations are been purchased in the Lloyds capacity auctions in settling a claim for example, salvage.
accounted for using the acquisition method.
Syndicate capacity is The Group may also have the right to pursue The cost of acquisition is measured as the fair considered to have an indefinite life as it will third parties for payment of some or all costs value of assets given, liabilities incurred or provide benefits over an indefinite future period for example, subrogation.
assumed, and equity instruments issued by the and is therefore not subject to an annual Estimates of salvage recoveries are included Group at the date of exchange.
The continuing value as an allowance in the measurement of the revised, with the exception of the costs of of the capacity is reviewed for impairment insurance liability for claims, and salvage registering and issuing debt and securities annually by reference to the expected future property is recognised in other insurance assets that are recognised in accordance with IAS 32 profit streams to be earned from the cashwhen the liability is settled.
The allowance is the and IAS 39 i. e. as a reduction in proceeds, generating units to which the intangible asset amount that can reasonably be recovered from all other acquisition-related costs are to be is allocated, with any impairment in value being the disposal of the property.
charged to the income statement.
Subrogation reimbursements are also When the Group acquires a business, it considered as an allowance in the assesses the financial assets and liabilities measurement of the insurance liability for assumed for appropriate classification and claims and are recognised in other assets designation in accordance with the contractual when the liability is settled.
The allowance terms, economic circumstances and pertinent is the assessment of the amount that can be conditions at the acquisition date.
Identifiable recovered from the action against the liable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent third party.
liabilities assumed, meeting the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3, are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, 107 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2011 1.
Summary of significant accounting Purchases and sales of investments are Leasehold land Over period policies and critical accounting and buildings of lease recognised on the trade date, which is the date judgements and estimates continued the Group commits to purchase or sell the Freehold buildings 5% per annum ii.
These are initially recognised at fair Motor vehicles 33% per annum Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to value, and are subsequently re-measured at fair 20% to 33% per 1 January 1999 was written off to reserves.
value based on quoted bid prices.
Transaction Computer equipment annum Goodwill recognised between 1 January 1999 costs are recognised directly in the income Furniture, fixtures and and the date of transition to IFRS 1 January statement when incurred.
Changes in the fair leasehold improvements 20% per annum 2004 was capitalised and amortised on a value of investments are included in the income straight line basis over its estimated useful life.
statement in the period in which they arise.
The carrying values of property and equipment Following the transition to IFRS this goodwill The uncertainty around valuation is discussed are reviewed for impairment when events is stated at net book value at 1 January 2004. further in note 3. or changes in circumstance indicate that the Goodwill that was recognised subsequent to Derivative financial instruments carrying value may be impaired.
If any such 1 January 2004 is capitalised.
Goodwill is tested Derivative financial instruments primarily condition exists, the recoverable amount of the for impairment annually, or when events or include currency swaps, currency and interest asset is estimated in order to determine the changes in circumstance indicate that it might rate futures, currency options, catastrophe extent of impairment and the difference is be impaired, by comparing the net present linked instruments and other financial charged to the income statement.
value of the future earnings stream of the cashinstruments that derive their value mainly from generating unit to which goodwill has been Gains and losses on disposal of property and underlying interest rates, foreign exchange allocated, against the carrying value of the equipment are determined by reference to their rates or catastrophe risk.
Derivatives are initially goodwill and the carrying value of the related carrying amount and are taken to the income recognised at fair value on the date on which net assets.
Repairs and renewals are charged to a derivative contract is entered into.
They are the income statement when the expenditure is iii.
Other intangible assets subsequently measured at fair value, with their incurred.
The freehold land is not depreciated.
Other intangible assets comprise costs directly fair values obtained from quoted market prices attributable to securing the intangible rights or, where these are not available, by using Financial assets to broker, customer relationships and costs valuation techniques such as discounted cash The Group classifies its financial assets at fair directly attributable to internally-developed flow models or option pricing models.
Changes value through profit and loss FV or available software.
Costs are recognised as intangible in the fair value of derivative instruments for sale.
The classification depends on the assets where they can be identified separately are recognised immediately in the income purpose for which the financial assets were and measured reliably and it is probable that statement unless the derivative is designated acquired.
Management determines the they will be recovered by directly related future as a hedging instrument.
As defined by IAS 39 classification of its financial assets at initial profits.
Other intangible assets are reviewed for Financial instruments: Recognition and recognition.
impairment losses at each reporting date or measurement, the Group designates certain Other than investments in certain unlisted whenever events or changes in circumstances foreign currency derivatives as hedges of net insurance intermediaries see below, the indicate that the carrying amount may not be investments in foreign operations.
The Group Group classifies its financial investments as FV.
Other intangible assets are carried documents at the inception of each hedging This classification requires all fair value changes at cost less accumulated amortisation and transaction the relationship between hedging to be recognised immediately within the impairment losses.
Amortisation is calculated instruments and hedged items, as well as its investment return line in the income statement.
on a straight-line basis based on the estimated risk management objectives and strategy for Within the FV category, fixed maturity and useful economic life of the assets, which is undertaking various hedging transactions.
The equity securities are classified as trading estimated to be between five and fifteen years, Group also documents its assessment, both at as the Group buys with the intention to resell.
and is charged to other operating expenses hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of All other securities are classified as other than in the income statement.
whether the derivatives that are used in hedging trading within the FV category.
transactions are highly effective in offsetting Property and equipment changes in fair values of hedged items.
The Group has investments in certain unlisted Property and equipment are stated at historical insurance intermediaries which are treated cost less accumulated depreciation and Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument as available-for-sale and are measured at fair provision for impairment where appropriate.
related to the effective portion is recognised value, unless their fair value cannot be reliably Cost includes the original purchase price of the in other comprehensive income.
The fair values measured, in which case they are valued asset and the costs attributable to bringing the of derivative instruments used for hedging at cost less impairment.
Changes in fair asset to its working condition for its intended purposes are disclosed in note 17.
Gains and value of investments are included in other use.
Depreciation is calculated on the straight losses accumulated in equity are included comprehensive income in the period in which line method to write down the cost of such in the income statement when the foreign they arise.
They are tested for impairment assets to their residual values over their operation is partially disposed of or sold.
annually, or when events or changes in estimated useful lives as follows: Embedded derivatives with risks and circumstances indicate that impairment characteristics which are not closely related might have occurred.
When securities classified to the host contract, and where the combined as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, instrument is not measured at fair value with the accumulated fair value adjustments changes in fair value recognised in profit or recognised in equity are included in the loss, are separated from the host contract and income statement as gains and losses from measured at fair value.
108 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 Loans and receivables Basic earnings per share are calculated by is determined by discounting the estimated Loans and receivables are measured at dividing profit after tax by the weighted average future cash outflows using interest rates of high amortised cost using an effective interest number of issued shares during the year.
quality corporate bonds, and that have terms rate.
Appropriate allowances for estimated to maturity approximating to the terms of the Diluted earnings per share are calculated by irrecoverable amounts are recognised in the related pension liability.
In respect of ACIs dividing profit after tax by the adjusted average income statement when there is evidence defined benefit scheme in the Netherlands, the number of shares in issue.
The adjusted that the asset is impaired.
These are reversed fair value of the plan assets reflects the benefits average number of shares assumes conversion when the triggering event that caused the that accrue to ACI under the insurance policy of dilutive potential ordinary shares, being impairment is reversed.
taken out to meet its obligations.
This is also shares from the Executive Share Option the case for AREs defined benefit scheme.
Borrowings Scheme ESOT, Long Term Incentive Plan Borrowings are stated initially at the LTIP, Performance Share Plan PSP, Share Pension contributions to defined contribution consideration received net of transaction costs Incentive Plan SIP and the Sharesave scheme.
plans are charged to the income statement incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated when due.
Leases at amortised cost using the effective interest Leases are classified as finance leases ii.
Equity compensation plans equity-settled method.
Any difference between amortised cost whenever the terms of the lease transfer The Company operates a number of executive and the redemption value is recognised in the substantially all the risks and rewards to the and employee share schemes.
Options issued income statement over the period of the Group.
All other leases are classified as after 7 November 2002 are accounted for borrowings.
Transaction costs on borrowings operating leases.
using the fair value method where the cost for are charged through the income statement providing equity compensation is based on the over the period of the borrowings.
Rentals payable under operating leases are fair value of the share option or award at the charged to the income statement in the period Finance costs date of the grant.
The fair value is calculated in which they become payable in accordance Finance costs mainly comprise interest payable using an option pricing model and the with the terms of the lease.
on subordinated loans and commissions corresponding expense is recognised in the charged for the utilisation of letters of credit.
Employee benefits income statement over the vesting period.
These costs are charged to the income i.
Pension obligations The accrual for this charge is recognised in statement as finance costs, as incurred.
The Group participates in a number of pension equity shareholders funds.
When the options Fees paid for the arrangement of debt and schemes, including several defined benefit are exercised, the proceeds received net letter of credit facilities are charged to finance schemes, defined contribution schemes and of any transaction costs are credited to share costs over the life of the facility.
In addition, personal pension schemes.
capital for the par value and the surplus to transaction costs and interest payable in share premium.
The Lloyds Superannuation Fund scheme respect of the issue of catastrophe linked is a multi-employer defined benefit scheme.
Equity compensation plans cash-settled instruments are charged to finance costs over Amlin Corporate Insurance N. V. ACI The Group operates the Amlin Capital Builder the life of the contract.
Gains or losses on any participates in two defined benefit schemes.
Plan which is deemed a cash-settled sharederivative component of catastrophe linked Amlin Re Europes ARE pension scheme is based payment arrangement.
The cost of instruments are included in investment return.
classified as a defined benefit scheme in cash-settled transactions is measured initially Cash and cash equivalents accordance with IAS 19, Employee benefits.
at fair value at the grant date.
Further details Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the are given in note 28.
The fair value is expensed The defined benefit obligation and associated balance sheet at fair value.
For the purposes over the period until the vesting date with pension costs are calculated annually by of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash recognition of a corresponding liability.
The independent actuaries using the projected unit equivalents comprise cash in hand, deposits liability is remeasured at each reporting date credit method.
This method sees each period held on call with banks and other short-term, up to and including the settlement date with of service as giving rise to an additional unit highly liquid investments which are believed changes in fair value recognised in profit of benefit entitlement and measures each unit to be subject to insignificant risk of change or loss.
separately to build up the final liability.
of providing these benefits is charged to the iv.
Other benefits Treasury shares income statement to spread the pension cost Other employee incentive schemes and longTreasury shares are deducted from equity.
over the service lives of employees.
Actuarial term service awards, including sabbatical leave, No gain or loss is recognised on the purchase, gains and losses arising from the recognition are recognised when they accrue to employees.
sale, issue or cancellation of the treasury and funding of the Groups pension obligations A provision is made for the estimated liability shares.
Any consideration paid or received are recognised in other comprehensive income for long-service leave as a result of services is recognised directly in equity.
during the period in which they arise.
rendered by employees up to the balance sheet date.
Earnings per share The liability recognised in the balance sheet Earnings per share are based on the profit in respect of defined benefit pension plans Other income attributable to shareholders and the weighted Fee income from providing information services is the present value of the fair value of plan average number of shares in issue during the assets less the defined benefit obligation at the is recognised on an earned basis.
Shares held by the Employee Share balance sheet date, together with adjustments Ownership Trust ESOT and treasury shares for unrecognised past service costs and for are excluded from the weighted average restrictions on the recognition of a defined number of shares.
benefit asset due to an asset ceiling.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation 109 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2011 1.
Summary of significant accounting Deferred tax is recognised on the profits of as a percentage of the proposed underwriting policies and critical accounting overseas subsidiaries where it is reasonably capacity for the following year of account judgements and estimates continued foreseeable that distribution of the profit back is 42.3% 2010: 46.0%.
Taxation to the UK will take place and the UK dividend The Syndicate also benefits from mutualised Income tax expense represents the sum of the exemption is not expected to apply.
capital within the Lloyds Central Fund, for tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Dividend distribution which a variable annual levy, for 2011 of The tax currently payable is based on taxable Dividend distribution to the Companys 0.5% 2010: 0.5% of Syndicate gross premium, profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from shareholders is recognised as a liability in the is payable.
net profit as reported in the income statement Groups and Companys financial statements The ICA is reviewed annually by Lloyds and because it excludes items of income or expense in the period in which the dividends are periodically by the FSA.
The FSA expect that are taxable or deductible in other years approved by the Companys shareholders.
management to apply their rules continuously.
or that are never taxable or deductible.
The Other payables If a firm breaches its Pillar 1 capital it must Groups and Companys liability for current tax Other payables are measured at amortised cost.
cease trading: if Pillar 2 capital is breached is calculated using tax rates that have been They represent liabilities to pay for goods or steps must be taken urgently to restore capital enacted or substantively enacted by the balance services that have been received or supplied to the required level.
Due to the nature of the sheet date.
in the normal course of business, invoiced Lloyds capital setting process, Funds at Lloyds Deferred tax is recognised on differences by the supplier before the period end, but for requirements are formally assessed and funded which payment has not yet been made.
between the carrying amounts of assets and twice yearly at discrete periods and must be liabilities in the financial statements and the met for the Syndicate to continue underwriting.
Capital corresponding tax bases used in the The capital structure of the Group consists At 31 December 2011 Amlin Corporate Member computation of taxable profit, and is accounted of equity attributable to equity holders of the Limited funded the agreed FAL requirement of for using the balance sheet liability method.
Company, comprising issued capital, reserves 497.0 million 2010: 476.1 million to support Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised and retained earnings as disclosed in the underwriting for the following year of account.
for all taxable temporary differences and Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent The Group does not seek to retain any assets in and note 26, and subordinated debt as that it is probable that taxable profits will be excess of the Lloyds capital requirement within disclosed in note 31.
For business planning available against which deductible temporary the Lloyds framework and any surplus is paid purposes, account is also taken of the Groups differences can be utilised.
Such assets and to the corporate entities in the Group.
debt facilities as disclosed in note 31. liabilities are not recognised if the temporary Amlin AG is supervised by the Swiss Financial Amlin Corporate Member Limited, which difference arises from goodwill or from the Market Supervisory Authority FINMA and the initial recognition other than in a business supports Syndicate 2001, is required to hold Bermuda Monetary Authority BMA.
regulatory capital in compliance with the rules combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax issued by the UKs Financial Services Authority FINMA supervision is composed of various FSA and is also subject to Lloyds capital profit nor the accounting profit.
Under FSA rules, the corporate requirements and minimum solvency levels.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised in respect member must hold capital in excess of the Amlin AG provides regulatory solvency of taxable temporary differences arising on higher of two amounts.
The first is the Pillar 1 reporting to FINMA, under the rules of Solvency investments in subsidiaries and associates, requirement, as prescribed by EU directives, I and the Swiss Solvency Test SST.
Solvency I and interests in joint ventures, except where calculated by applying fixed percentages to is based on the Swiss statutory financial the Group and Company is able to control the premiums and claims.
The second, Pillar 2, statements and required capital is calculated reversal of the temporary difference and it is an Individual Capital Assessment ICA as a fixed percentage of premiums, is probable that the temporary difference will calculated internally by the firm.
The ICA is claims reserves and or net amount at risk.
not reverse in the foreseeable future.
defined as the level of capital that is required The SST is based on an economic view and to contain the probability of insolvency, over The carrying amount of deferred tax assets required capital is derived from an internal is reviewed at each balance sheet date and a one year timeframe, to no greater than capital model.
The ICA calculation basis is generally reduced to the extent that it is no longer The internal model as well as the 2011 SST probable that sufficient taxable profits will considered to be broadly equivalent to a BBB is still subject to approval by FINMA.
Amlin AG insurance financial strength rating.
The ICA be available to allow all or part of the asset calculates available and required capital under to be recovered.
calculation considers all ultimate losses the SST using the aforementioned model.
The incurred over a one year business planning Deferred tax is calculated at the substantively minimum ratio for Solvency I as well as for the horizon, and any prior year reserve movements.
enacted tax rates that are expected to apply SST is set at 100% the SST minimum ratio For the purposes of setting Lloyds capital in the period when the liability is settled or the became legally binding in 2011.
For both ratios asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or requirements, Lloyds currently uplifts all ICAs Amlin AG exceeds the 100% minimum ratio.
by 35% 2010: 35% to bring the capital to a credited to profit or loss, except when it relates Under BMA regulations, Amlin AG is licensed level to support a higher financial strength to items charged or credited directly to other as a Class IV insurer and the minimum solvency rating.
The final capital requirement is then comprehensive income or equity, in which case margin is the greater of US$100 million, 50% subject to a minimum of 40% 2010: 40% the deferred tax is also charged or credited of net premiums written in the current financial of the syndicates agreed regulatory premium directly to other comprehensive income or year, 15% of claims reserves and the Enhanced equity respectively.
At 31 December 2011 the Capital Requirement ECR.
The ECR is calculated agreed Economic Capital Assessment ECA 110 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 on an annual basis through either the Bermuda therefore the premium that should be sufficient disciplined exercise is carried out to provide for Solvency Capital Requirement BSCR model across a portfolio of risks to cover claims claims notified, it is possible that known claims or an approved internal model.
In addition, costs, expenses and to produce an acceptable could develop and exceed the reserves carried.
as a Class IV insurer, the company is required profit.
However, due to the nature of insurance Furthermore, there is increased uncertainty to maintain a minimum liquidity ratio such that risk there is no guarantee that the premium in establishing an accurate provision for IBNR the value of relevant assets is not less than charged will be sufficient to cover claims claims and there is a possibility that claims may 75% of its relevant liabilities.
This shortfall may originate either from arise which, in aggregate, exceed the reserve requirement at 31 December 2011. insufficient premium being calculated and provision established.
This is partly mitigated charged or may result from an unexpected, For trading purposes, Amlin AG believes that by the reserving policy adopted by the Group or unprecedented, high level of claims.
it is necessary to hold at least US$1 billion which is to carry reserves in excess of the of capital, which is currently in excess of the A number of controls are deployed to limit the actuarial best estimate.
minimum required by the BMA and FINMA.
amount of insurance exposure underwritten.
The review of claims arising may result in Each year a business plan is prepared and Amlin Corporate Insurance N. V. ACI underwriters adjusting pricing levels to cater for agreed which is used to monitor the amount of is required to hold regulatory capital in an unexpectedly higher trend of claims advices premium income, and exposure, to be written compliance with the rules issued by its or payments.
However, this may not be possible in total and for each class of business.
Progress regulator and as prescribed by EU directives.
in a competitive market and underwriters may against this plan is monitored during the year.
respond either by accepting business with lower Regulatory capital is calculated by applying The Group also operates under a line guide that expected profit margins or declining to renew fixed percentages to premiums and claims.
determines the maximum liability per policy policies and thus reducing income.
Also, there At 31 December 2011, ACIs available that can be written for each class on a gross is a portfolio of risks already underwritten which regulatory capital was 240.7 million or net of facultative reinsurance basis and for cannot be re-priced until renewal at the end 2010: 341.9 million, compared to a each underwriter.
These limits can be exceeded of the policy period.
minimum requirement of 117.0 million in exceptional circumstances with the approval 2010: 117.0 million.
For wider commercial of senior management.
Apart from the UK and The Group is exposed to the impact of large reasons, ACIs capital is managed so as to international comprehensive motor liability catastrophe events such as windstorms, support its financial strength ratings.
portfolios, which have unlimited liability, all earthquakes or terrorist incidents.
Exposure policies have a per loss limit which caps the to such events is controlled and measured The method by which the Group size of any individual claim.
For larger sum through loss modelling, but the accuracy of this manages its capital base is described insured risks facultative reinsurance coverage exposure analysis is limited by the quality of on page 50 of the Performance section may be purchased.
The Group is also exposed data and the effectiveness of the modelling.
to catastrophe losses which may impact many The Groups broad risk appetite guidelines In addition to regulatory capital requirements, risks in a single event and again reinsurance are set out on page 44.
It is possible that the Group believes that it should retain a level is purchased to limit the impact of loss a catastrophe event exceeds the maximum of capital within the Group to allow it to grow its aggregation from such events.
These reinsurance expected event loss.
This is particularly the case exposures materially in the aftermath of a major arrangements are described in the section on for the direct property proportion of the loss insurance disaster, but also to respond to other page 118. exposure where models are used to calculate opportunities to enhance long term growth, for a damage factor representing the amount of Insurance liabilities are written through example through acquisition.
The overall capital damage expected to exposed aggregate insured individual risk acceptances, reinsurance treaties held by the Group is driven by the business mix, values from a particular scenario.
Errors, or or through facilities whereby the Group is nature and objectives of each business unit and incorrect assumptions in the damage factor bound by other underwriting entities.
Facility its context within the wider Group.
calculation can result in incurred catastrophe arrangements delegate underwriting authority event claims higher, or lower, than predicted 3.
Risk disclosures to other underwriters, or to agents acting as due to unforeseen circumstances or 3.1 Underwriting risk coverholders, that use their judgement to write inadequacies in data or the models used.
The Group accepts underwriting risk in a risks on the Groups behalf under clear As explained on page 118 reinsurance is range of classes of business through Lloyds authority levels.
purchased to protect against the impact of Syndicate 2001, Amlin Corporate Insurance The insurance liabilities underwritten by the any individual or series of severe catastrophes.
N. V. ACI and Amlin AG including the latters Group are reviewed on an individual risk, or However, the price and availability of such branch operation, Amlin Bermuda.
Syndicate contract, basis and through review of portfolio cover is variable and the amount of loss 2001s portfolio is underwritten by Amlin performance.
Claims arising are reserved upon retained by the Group may therefore also London, Amlin UK and through the Groups notification.
Each quarter the entire portfolio increase or reduce.
The Group will alter its wholly owned French coverholder, Amlin France of business is subject to a reserving process insurance and reinsurance exposures to take SAS.
Amlin France also writes business on whereby levels of paid and outstanding advised account of changes in reinsurance availability, behalf of ACI.
The bias of the Groups portfolio but not paid claims are reviewed.
Potential capital levels and profitability in order to is towards short-tail property and accident risk future claims are assessed with a provision for remain within the risk appetite guidelines.
but liability coverage is also underwritten.
incurred but not reported IBNR claims being In underwriting insurance or reinsurance made.
This provision is subject to review by policies the Groups underwriters use their skill senior executives and an independent internal and knowledge to assess each risk and they use actuarial assessment is usually carried out by exposure information and data on past claims the in-house actuarial team to determine the experience to evaluate the likely claims cost and adequacy of the provision.
Whilst a detailed and 111 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2011 3.
Risk disclosures continued A. i Property reinsurance risks A. ii Other reinsurance risks Reinsurance property classes Amlin London also writes other reinsurance The Group has recently acquired coverage for 2011 Current 2011 US hurricane, US earthquake and European classes which contribute diversified exposure Gross maximum Average to the portfolio.
The main classes with the windstorm perils of up to $150 million from premium line size line size a Bermudian special purpose insurer, Tramline maximum sum insured lines are shown below: m m m Re Ltd, which in turn has placed a catastrophe Catastrophe Aviation, marine and special risks reinsurance bond into the capital markets.
reinsurance classes per programme 257 62 4.9 2011 Current 2011 This transaction provides the Group with fully Gross maximum Average collateralised protection over a three year Per risk property premium line size line size reinsurance period from 1 January 2012 and is in addition m m m per programme 69 25 2.3 to the protection the Group purchases through Aviation the traditional reinsurance marketplace.
Proportional reinsurance reinsurance 41 5 1.6 per programme 2 33 2.2 The bond provides significant protection against Notes: Marine a remote aggregation of catastrophe events reinsurance 1 Limits are set in US dollars converted to sterling for the Group.
Through the use of an aggregate at a rate of exchange of 1 US$1.5 and therefore per programme 20 81 2.4 trigger it protects against both severity and currency rate of exchange changes may increase Special risks 20 41 4.2 frequency of losses.
or reduce the sterling limits.
Notes: 2 Maximum line size is after business written and ceded Sections A to E below describe the business by specific proportional treaties to Amlin Bermuda.
1 Limits are set in US dollars converted to sterling and the risks of Amlin London, Amlin UK, at a rate of exchange of 1 US$1.5 and therefore 3 Premium is stated gross of acquisition costs and excludes Amlin France, Amlin AG, which includes Amlin currency rate of exchange changes may increase adjustments in respect of prior periods.
Re Europe and Amlin Bermuda, and Amlin or reduce the sterling limits.
2 Maximum line size is after business written and ceded Catastrophe reinsurance protects insurance by specific proportional treaties to Amlin Bermuda.
A. Amlin London companies against catastrophic losses, such 3 Premium is stated gross of acquisition costs and excludes The geographic spread of all Amlin London as windstorm or earthquake, which may impact adjustments in respect of prior periods.
classes is shown below: more than one risk written by the client.
This portfolio is a key part of the insurance risk The reinsurance team also write a portfolio Gross premium by geography written by the Group.
Programmes are placed of aviation and marine reinsurance risk which Amlin London on a layered or excess of loss basis.
Territorial protects insurers against losses to their direct exposures, from a number of programmes, are portfolios of business.
This is written on an much higher, but are carefully recorded and excess of loss basis.
analysed through loss simulations or realistic The special risks account is mostly terrorism disaster scenarios.
excess of loss and nuclear reinsurance Per risk property reinsurance is also written emanating from all parts of the world and on an excess of loss basis but covers loss or written without excess of loss reinsurance damage to any single risk within the reinsureds protection.
This portfolio protects insureds A. iii Property insurance risks against large individual property losses and Property classes will also be affected by large catastrophes.
2011 Current 2011 Oceania 5% Africa 1% Gross maximum Average South & Central America 3% Asia 8% Proportional reinsurance covers a proportional premium line size line size UK 17% Caribbean 4% share of a reinsureds portfolio of business Other 3% m m m Europe 10% North America 49% subject to payment of commission and or Direct and profit commission.
Almost all proportional facultative reinsurance written by the Group in this class property 84 23 2.8 is property business and risk exposure is limited Binding to US$7.5 million for any one risk.
Proportional authorities 28 2 0.4 reinsurance is normally written with an Notes: occurrence limit.
1 Limits are set in US dollars converted to sterling The portfolio of reinsurance business at a rate of exchange of 1 US$1.5 and therefore currency rate of exchange changes may increase is written with the aim of achieving territorial or reduce the sterling limits.
However, as experienced 2 Maximum line size is after business written and ceded in 2011, a severe catastrophe to a major by specific proportional treaties to Amlin Bermuda.
economic zone in Europe, Japan, Australasia 3 Premium is stated gross of acquisition costs and excludes or the US is likely to result in an overall loss to adjustments in respect of prior periods.
the portfolio prior to retrocessional reinsurance.
Amlin London operates to a maximum loss limit applicable to refined scenarios which is an allocation of a total Group tolerance.
112 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 Property cover is provided to large commercial A. iv US casualty risks A. v Accident and health, auto and special The US casualty portfolio of business provides risks enterprises with high value locations and or Amlin London also writes other property and many locations, and also for small commercial insurance and reinsurance cover to individuals, or companies, in order to indemnify them casualty classes which contribute diversified property.
The perils covered include fire, exposure to the portfolio.
flood, wind and earthquake damage.
Business against legal liability arising from their activities and actions or for incidents occurring on their interruption cover is also provided for loss The main classes with the maximum sum of earnings sustained due to the perils and property.
The account is currently written to insured lines are shown below: a maximum liability of US$6 million on any properties covered but may also be extended to Property and casualty other classes connected enterprises.
Terrorism cover is given one claim but average lines are US$0.8 million 2011 Current 2011 on any one claim.
2011 gross premium was on a limited basis particularly where required by Gross maximum Average local regulation, but nuclear and bio-chemical 53 million.
premium line size line size coverage is excluded from standard property m m m The portfolio is made up of specialist general cover in most territories.
Accident casualty, professional indemnity, medical & health 28 3 1.2 malpractice and errors and omissions cover.
Direct and facultative property insurance is written for the full value of the risk, on Small amounts of directors and officers Auto 27 3 0.5 liability and auto liability are also written.
a primary or excess of loss basis, through Special risks 5 67 5.7 individual placements, or by way of delegated In 2011 the professional lines liability portfolio Notes: has increased following the appointment underwriting facilities given to coverholders 1 Limits are set in US dollars converted to sterling binding authorities.
Binding authority of a dedicated underwriter.
This class includes at a rate of exchange of 1 US$1.5 and therefore professional indemnity cover given to arrangements delegate the day to day currency rate of exchange changes may increase or reduce the sterling limits.
underwriting to underwriting agents working US lawyers, accountants, architects and engineers.
It is written to a maximum liability on our behalf and therefore, for these contracts 2 Maximum line size is after business written and ceded by specific proportional treaties to Amlin Bermuda.
we are reliant on coverholders exercising of US$10 million on any one claim.
3 Premium is stated gross of acquisition costs and excludes underwriting judgement on our behalf.
The casualty portfolio is mostly written adjustments in respect of prior periods.
Coverholders must have local regulatory on a claims notified basis responding to all approval, be Lloyds registered and also claims made during a defined period except The accident and health class is written through approved by the Amlin Binding Authority for small amounts of general liability business medical expense schemes in the US and direct Committee.
For all binding authorities facilities which may be written on a losses occurring personal accident cover, or personal accident we receive a monthly or quarterly bordereau basis the policy responds to losses which occur reinsurance, worldwide.
Medical expense cover which is checked by our underwriting staff.
during the period even if reported after the is subject to a high frequency of claim and The underwriting is controlled by setting clear policy has expired.
Personal authority levels for coverholders stipulated accident insurance and reinsurance could be within the binding authority agreement, Claims from this class emanate from impacted by a single or series of accidents to professional error, negligence or an accident regularly monitoring performance and high value insured individuals or from a multiple periodically carrying out underwriting visits which causes injury, damage or financial loss.
death and injury event such as an air crash The account is vulnerable to a high frequency and or commissioning third party audits.
The coverholder is incentivised to produce of claims, but not individual large losses as the cost to the Group of any individual claim an underwriting profit through the payment The auto class covers property damage of profit commission.
However, with the is small.
Claims frequency may be impacted only fire, theft and collision in the US by a generic claim type which impacts many day to day underwriting not controlled by and property damage and third party motor the Group, there is a risk that coverholder individuals and re insurance policies such as liability combined cover in other international poor housing design or bad medical practice.
underwriting, or claim decisions, are made territories.
This class could be impacted by which would not have been made by Amlin The size of many individual claims is subject to unexpected claim frequency, a multi vehicle the decisions arising from the US court system underwriters or claims staff.
The maximum event such as a severe flood and also large value insured under the Binders class is which can be higher than anticipated.
There bodily injury award claims emanating from is also the potential for US courts to impose a currently limited to US$3 million at any an accident.
bad faith judgement on insurers if it is deemed The special risks class is made up of insurance that the insurer has acted improperly in trying The property portfolio is also exposed to of nuclear installations, contingency business to avoid contractual obligations.
Such awards an above average frequency of individual fire, and film finance risk.
can, in exceptional circumstances, be much explosion or weather related claims.
The higher than the value of the insurance claim.
premium charged for the coverage given may not be sufficient to cover all claims made in any year, particularly in a year in which there is an abnormal frequency of claims.
This account is mainly situated in the US and is therefore exposed to large catastrophe events such as California earthquake and hurricane losses.
113 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2011 3.
Risk disclosures continued War business includes aviation, marine and damage and clean up claims.
The account A. vi Marine risks on land terrorism coverage.
The account is could suffer a large catastrophe incident from a The Division writes a broad account of marine exposed to single incidents or a series of losses collision causing death of crew and passengers risks with maximum lines as follows: arising from concerted action.
Political risk, or an oil, or chemical, spill which could incur confiscation and contract frustration business large clean up costs.
Marine classes is also written.
2011 Current 2011 A. vii Aviation risks Gross maximum Average Specie business consists of the insurance The Group, through Syndicate 2001, premium line size line size underwrites direct and facultative aviation against damage or theft to fine art, the m m m contents of vaults and other high value goods business domiciled in most parts of the world.
Hull 37 10 2.0 Maximum lines are as follows: including jewellers block and cash in transit.
Cargo 29 17 4.6 The fine art may be shown at exhibitions which Aviation classes Energy 64 25 4.6 have very high aggregate values at risk.
The 2011 Current 2011 War and class is therefore exposed to the potential Gross maximum Average terrorism 36 50 10.2 premium line size line size for a frequency of small claims and also large m m m Specie 12 24 6.4 individual losses.
Some specie is written in Airline Bloodstock catastrophe zones e. g. California.
hull & liability 21 84 31.2 livestock 27 4 1.0 The bloodstock account provides coverage General aviation Yacht hull for death, illness or injury to horses mainly in hull & liability 13 57 17.5 and liability 32 5 1.3 the UK.
Business from the US, Australia and Risk excess Liability 33 57 6.3 South Africa is also written.
This covers racing hull & liability 6 57 11.8 or eventing horses and breeding studs.
The Notes: Airports liability 9 57 28.8 average value insured is below 1 million but 1 Limits are set in US dollars converted at a rate Products 6 50 22.4 of exchange of 1 US$1.5 and therefore currency there is the potential for an aggregate loss, rate of exchange changes may increase or reduce such as a stable fire, which could cause Space the sterling limits.
2 Maximum line size is after business written and ceded Notes: by specific proportional treaties to Amlin Bermuda.
Crowe Livestock, a leading Lloyds coverholder 1 Limits are set in US dollars converted at a rate for the insurance of livestock writes a broad 3 Premium is stated gross of acquisition costs and excludes of exchange of 1 US$1.5 and therefore currency adjustments in respect of prior periods.
portfolio of protection for livestock and rate of exchange changes may increase or reduce specialist products such as zoo animals, The hull and cargo account is worldwide, the sterling limits.
with a maximum line of any one policy of covering property damage to ships and loss, or 2 Maximum line size is after business written and US$10 million.
The company also writes ceded by specific proportional treaties to Amlin Bermuda.
damage, to a large variety of cargo or goods in employers liability cover for livestock business transit.
The hull account can include machinery 3 Premium is stated gross of acquisition costs and excludes up to a limit of 10 million.
Again, an event adjustments in respect of prior periods.
breakdown and the portfolio written includes affecting several animals across many policies lower value tonnage, smaller brownwater The airline account is exposed to large claims such as disease could result in a loss vessels and fishing boats as well as larger blue significantly higher than this.
arising from property damage, death or injury water ocean hull risks such as cruise liners, arising from aircraft accidents.
The domicile tankers and bulk carriers.
These accounts Yacht business covers property damage and of the airline and passengers has a notable can be impacted by attritional claims of a small third party injury for small leisure boats and influence on the cost of claims, for example size as well as a single individual large claim.
The bulk of the account is smaller value US court awards are generally higher.
The cargo account in particular could also yachts in the UK and Europe, although there be involved in a major natural catastrophe loss.
The general aviation account covers smaller are a number of binders written by coverholders In an economic recession, it is expected that aircraft or cargo and covers owners or elsewhere, such as Scandinavia, Canada and premium income will fall as trade reduces and operators, against loss or damage and third Australia.
There is an expectation of a large hull values are impacted by reduced freight party injury.
The risk excess account is a book number of small claims, as average values are rates.
It is also possible that claims frequency of general aviation reinsurance business written low in comparison to other claims written in the could increase due to increased economic to protect a small number of insurers against Group.
Third party liability yacht claims arise pressures affecting fraud and theft claims.
from injury or damage caused by one of our policyholders to third parties.
There is also the The energy portfolio is mainly offshore rig and Airport liability insurance covers airport potential for a large catastrophe loss such as a construction policies which may be impacted operators, refuellers and air traffic controllers UK windstorm where there are large aggregate by large individual claims from construction against losses arising from injury caused by sums insured in coastal regions such as fault or property damage such as fire or their activities or occurring on their premises.
Following the acquisition explosion, but is also exposed to severe Product liability covers manufacturers against of Lead Yacht in January 2011, the Group catastrophe losses, for example in the North accidents arising from faulty parts or also writes a lead share of a portfolio of large Sea and Gulf of Mexico.
The account includes equipment, or poor servicing of aircraft.
control of well to limit loss of oil and avoid airport and product liability coverage is written pollution and also some business interruption on a losses occurring basis meaning that claims The marine liability portfolio is written to protect cover which indemnifies companies for loss of advices can be made after the policy has ship-owners, harbours, charterers and energy production.
Space insurance covers property and companies against damage or injury to third liability during launch and the operation of parties.
This includes the potential for pollution 114 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 satellites whilst in orbit for a limited period, result of contact with the insureds personnel, as well as due to an unforeseen increase in normally of one year.
This is written on a losses generic claims such as industrial disease or occurring basis currently, for limits up to other health hazards.
It is expected that claims The aviation account is subject to both small 12 million per assured.
frequency will increase during an economic and large claims.
Claims involving loss of life downturn as unemployment leads to an or serious injury to high earning passengers or Professional indemnity covers liability which increase in action against employers and people third parties are subject to the ongoing inflation may arise from services provided by the are more likely to seek redress for third party of court awards particularly in the US.
Large assured, for example as a result of negligence advice or behaviour which may have led to accidents involving the potential death of 500 or error which may lead to financial or physical financial loss or injury.
It is also possible that or more passengers are feasible and could loss.
This includes, but is not limited to, services many claims could arise under many policies potentially result in a gross claim to the from architects, engineers, surveyors, from a common cause such as financial advice business of more than the vertical reinsurance advertising firms, medical professionals and or generic building defect.
The financial programme if, for example, two large aircraft financial advisors and is written on a claims institutions account could be affected by were to collide.
Space losses are generally large made basis covering losses notified in the a major fraud or a series of related liability single claim amounts caused by launch failure policy period.
A proportion of this income is claims arising from banking, investment activity, or operational failure in orbit.
The principal generated by a single coverholder, Manchester stockbroking or other practices.
The property aviation accounts are protected by a Underwriting Management, which is also portfolio could sustain a large loss from the reinsurance programme on both a risk sharing developing a portfolio of product recall business effects of a UK windstorm or flood event.
proportional and excess of loss basis.
The which indemnifies producers against the costs Group reinsurance arrangements are discussed of replacement production for specific goods.
B. ii UK motor insurance risks The Divisions motor insurance risk is on page 50.
The space account is written with Amlin UK package policies combine one risks shared with Amlin Bermuda but is not predominantly UK business covering fire, or more of the liability coverages mainly theft, collision and third party property and protected by excess of loss reinsurance.
employers and public liability with motor bodily injury liability.
2011 gross premium was B. Amlin UK and or property damage protection.
Under the requirements of UK B. i Non motor risks alone property protection is also written within law third party liability coverage is unlimited, Non motor classes this class, mainly on a 100% basis for small and but matching reinsurance is purchased.
The 2011 Current 2011 medium commercial and household properties.
account is biased towards commercial clients Gross maximum Average premium line size line size such as coach operators, haulage companies, In January 2011 the Group acquired JR Clare m m m Underwriting Agencies Limited, a managing commercial vehicle fleets and company Employers executive fleets.
The Division leads facilities general agent specialising in UK household liability 14 27 9.9 and commercial property insurance.
for fleets involved in the transportation of Public products hazardous waste.
A small UK agriculture facility, The property owners account has continued liability 19 12 3.8 a taxi book and a specialist private car account to develop since the recruitment of an are also written.
Professional underwriting team in June 2009 and through indemnity 24 7 2.0 Claims frequency has improved in recent the hiring of a specialist high value homes UK commercial underwriting team in December 2011.
This years due to car and road safety measures but property package 115 52 0.5 can fluctuate due to factors such as weather portfolio is exposed to eastern European Financial weather conditions whereby a large windstorm, conditions.
UK inflation is a key factor in institutions determining the size of motor claims.
Car flood or winter freeze could result in a large fidelity and number of small claims.
values affect the size of theft claims and for liability 5 6 1.9 physical damage claims size is linked to repair Through AUA Insolvency Risk Services Ltd, Notes: costs.
Inflationary pressure on court awards an FSA registered broker, Amlin UK writes a within the UK and Irish legal systems impacts 1 Premium is stated gross of acquisition costs and excludes portfolio of UK insolvency practitioners which adjustments in respect of prior periods.
Government intervention provides protection against fraud or negligence such as liability award limit changes or expense committed by the practitioners and also Amlin UK writes three classes of UK liability recoveries for government bodies, including the protects the property assets under their business.
The vast majority of the business National Health Service, will also impact claim management.
emanates from the UK with the balance mainly size.
For the motor account, severe bodily injury from Ireland and Canada.
and catastrophe damage claims e. g. UK flood The Group also writes a small account of financial institutions policies covering fidelity, are limited through the purchase of a Employers liability insurance protects reinsurance programme, the highest layer of professional indemnity and directors and employers against accident or injury to officers liability for companies providing which is unlimited.
This is written on a losses occurring financial services.
The current maximum line basis covering events that occurred in the Motor insurance is a highly competitive is 6 million.
Approximately half of the income policy period even if they are not notified until area of insurance and pricing levels fluctuate.
is from western European financial institutions after expiry for limits up to 27 million per Whilst underwriters accept business subject with the balance spread broadly by territory.
to sufficient rates per vehicle, in a year where Coverage is given on a claims made basis.
there is an unexpectedly high level of claims Public liability insurance provides coverage, the total premium may not be sufficient to The expected claims costs from these lines often written in conjunction with employers cover all the claims.
There is also a risk that of business may be impacted by larger than liability, for accident or injury occurring to legal changes impact bodily injury payments anticipated damage awards to injured parties clients, customers or another third party as a 115 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2011 and result in a requirement to increase reserves damage insurance for the industrial and account provides general liability coverage for for outstanding claims.
commercial premises of small and medium French industrial and commercial enterprises.
Risk disclosures continued D. Amlin AG a comprehensive package, including liability C. Amlin France In October 2010 the Group re-domiciled its cover for discotheques, bowling alleys, In May 2010 Anglo French Underwriters SAS wholly-owned subsidiary, Amlin Bermuda Ltd, restaurants, bars and casinos.
Perils offered AFU and the French operations of Amlin from Bermuda to Switzerland following include fire, lightning and associated risks, Corporate Insurance N. V. ACI were merged approval from the Swiss Financial Market electrical damage, water damage, storm, to form Amlin France.
Prior to the merger AFU Authority and the Bermuda Monetary Authority.
tempest, hail, snow and glass breakage.
was the foremost managing general agent The Zurich-based underwriting business trading Optional coverages include business serving Lloyds in France and ACI had started as Amlin Re Europe writes all major non-life interruption, indirect losses, theft from to build a property and liability co-insurance reinsurance classes.
Amlin Bermuda Ltd, which individuals and theft from break-ins.
The merger has created was established in December 2005, has insurance is also offered for owners who a business with increased critical mass with become a Bermuda-based branch of Amlin AG.
greater recognition in the French market.
D. i. Amlin Re Europe In the marine class, Amlin France provides 2011 Current 2011 Drawing business from a large network of yacht insurance which includes cover for Gross maximum Average brokers across France, Amlin France is able premium line size line size damage, theft and liability as well as for the to offer a wide range of direct and facultative m m m costs of marine assistance and marine personal insurance products designed to respond to the Property 42 20 2.2 accident.
Worldwide stock and transit insurance needs of both individuals and corporate clients.
is also provided with All Risks coverage granted Engineering 14 20 1.5 Amlin Frances business is situated on a start to finish basis from the point of Liability 27 20 1.2 predominantly in France.
supplier to the point of delivery.
Transit cover Marine 3 20 0.9 Amlin France writes a diverse book of business includes all periods when the goods are Motor limited 36 20 6.7 on behalf of Syndicate 2001 including property, stocked, in whatever location and without any Personal cargo, professional liability and specie through break in coverage.
accident 2 20 1.5 a network of more than 1,350 independent Jeweller's block cover is provided for high value Terrorism 1 20 5.3 retail brokers.
Although the vast majority contents.
All risks coverage is given for stock Credit 1 5 1.5 of these risks have been written on behalf within the premises, including for break-in, of Syndicate 2001 or ACI, there continue to Notes: hold-up, fire and water damage.
Cover is also be a limited number of policies which do not 1 Premium is stated gross of acquisition costs and excludes given for commercial retail premises such as involve the Group.
The portfolio consists of the adjustments in respect of prior periods.
gunsmiths, perfume and clothing shops and following classes with maximum and average 2 Lines are per programme.
art galleries, including damage caused to art line sizes: while on show at exhibitions and damage to art The Zurich portfolio consists of both direct and Amlin France classes kept in private residences.
A comprehensive intermediary produced business from Europe, 2011 Current 2011 multi-risk product is provided for retailers which Gross Maximum Average Israel and a few other countries in Africa and includes an extension for fire and water damage Premium line size Line Size the Middle East.
within the premises, liability coverage and the m m m preservation of goodwill or business The book of business is predominantly Property interruption following a loss.
treaty reinsurance with an emphasis on Synd 2001 28 20 3.5 liability classes.
Professional indemnity and financial guarantee ACI 28 50 19.8 insurance is provided to insurance and banking The motor portfolio is written on a proportional Marine intermediaries as well as financial advisers, and excess of loss basis and is at risk from Synd 2001 5 10 2.5 real estate agents and financial and investment increases in frequency or severity of motor Specie consultants.
This is a multi-layered package accident claims, bodily injury or third party Synd 2001 4 3 0.2 which responds to the particular needs of property claims payments which may take Professional several regulated professions which may several years to settle.
Unlimited and limited indemnity require differing types of cover.
Whilst the original Synd 2001 3 7 1.5 premium and the investment income generated Amlin France also offers insurance for events, Liability are expected to be more than sufficient to meet including cancellation cover, organisers such claims, there is no guarantee that this will Synd 2001 1 10 0.8 liability, all risks exhibition cover and all risks be the case, particularly due to inflation or ACI 3 25 10.0 coverage on equipment belonging to, hired super imposed inflation from changes to court by or installed by the assured.
The aim is to diversify the portfolio also provides personal accident insurance for 1 Premium is stated gross of acquisition costs and excludes across several territories in order to reduce the professions involving risk and the practice of adjustments in respect of prior periods.
impact of a single legal jurisdiction changing sporting activities which are deemed hazardous.
2 Maximum line size is shown after facultative reinsurance.
For ACI, Amlin France writes a portfolio of large The general third party liability book is mainly In respect of property, Amlin France acts as property and liability risks.
The property book excess of loss reinsurance and protects both a leading underwriter and co-insurer for is mostly written on a co-insurance basis for companies against significant public or industrial high hazard risks providing material commercial or industrial premises.
The liability 116 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 products liability claims.
The liability account Amlin Bermuda direct business risks The accident and health class is written 2011 Current 2011 also includes some professional liability through medical expense schemes in the US Gross Maximum Average reinsurance.
Again this business is long-tail and provides personal accident reinsurance Premium line size Line Size in nature.
Personal accident reinsurance could US$m US$m US$m be impacted by a single or series of accidents The Zurich office also writes both property Catastrophe to high value insured individuals or from a reinsurance risk and catastrophe excess of loss business multiple death and injury event such as an air per programme 328 75 7.9 and a book of property proportional treaties.
This portfolio is subject to European windstorm Proportional and flood events as well as earthquakes in reinsurance 89 13 1.6 The growth in the casualty class during 2011 zones such as Israel, Turkey, Italy and Portugal.
reflects the appointment of a dedicated Per risk property A retrocessional reinsurance programme is underwriter writing US casualty business, similar reinsurance purchased as discussed on page 50. per programme 72 13 3.2 to the portfolio written by Syndicate 2001.
Special risks 47 40 4.4 E. Amlin Corporate Insurance In 2011, through the appointment of a Marine specialist underwriter, the construction and In July 2009 Amlin acquired Fortis Corporate reinsurance 4 7510.6 Insurance N. V. subsequently renamed Amlin engineering portfolio was expanded.
This Accident & health 2 10 3.7 provides property and liability reinsurance Corporate Insurance N. V. ACI, a leading commercial insurer operating in the Benelux.
cover for construction projects which may Casualty 12 51.3 be of several years duration.
As described in Section C, ACIs French Notes: operation was merged with Amlin France Amlin Re Europe has written a marine excess of 1 Premium is stated gross of acquisition costs and excludes in May 2010. adjustments in respect of prior periods.
loss account which includes maritime exposures ACI writes four main classes of business: across the world.
There is also a book of Amlin Bermudas direct business has strong personal accident reinsurance and smaller motor, liability, property and marine, mainly similarities to the portfolio of the Reinsurance for commercial clients locally.
Exposures are portfolios of terrorism and credit business.
business unit of Amlin London.
All of the predominantly in Belgium, the Netherlands and D ii.
Amlin Bermuda business written emanates from London broker France apart from marine transportation risks The geographic spread of all Amlin Bermuda markets and is frequently seasoned business or where an insured has exposures overseas.
classes is shown below: already underwritten by Syndicate 2001.
Risk ACI classes balance is provided by a whole account quota Gross premium by geography 2011 Current 2011 share of Syndicate 2001.
This is further Amlin Bermuda Gross Maximum Average supplemented by a number of specific variable Premium line size Line Size m m m quota share treaties on short tail classes such as property and energy.
Property 81 50 4.5 Engineering 30 25 4.1 Property reinsurance is written through treaty arrangements on a proportional, individual risk Hull 130 25 2.6 excess of loss, or catastrophe excess of loss Cargo 136 25 1.3 basis.
The catastrophe reinsurance portfolio P&I 62 50 18.9 is the largest class of insurance risk written by Liability 95 13 2.3 Amlin Bermuda.
Exposures to each programme Fleet Motor 46 unlimited unlimited are currently limited to US$12.5 million per risk and US$75 million any one catastrophe Notes: Africa 1% Oceania 8% programme.
Overall catastrophe loss limits are 1 This analysis excludes captive companies where there Asia 10% South & Central America 1% is little or minimum retention of risks.
applied in relation to specific scenarios as an Caribbean 5% UK 12% Europe 8% Other 1% allocation of total Group tolerances.
The current 2 Maximum line size is shown after facultative reinsurance.
North America 56% highest modelled loss is US$239 million at 3 Maximum line size for Builders risks and Yachts Notes: both written in Hull is 50 million.
1 Geographical split only includes direct business.
4 Premium excludes adjustments in respect of prior periods Since 2011 Amlin Bermuda has bought a more Amlin Bermuda has continued to write a significant reinsurance programme as discussed portfolio of reinsurance business on a direct on page 50. basis and to reinsure part of the Syndicate The special risks account includes small 2001 portfolio.
The direct written portfolio premium classes mostly relating to terrorism consists of the following classes with maximum reinsurance but also includes nuclear, shortline sizes: term trade credit and contingency which is written in all parts of the world.
In 2010 the portfolio of special risks was expanded to include Trade Credit reinsurance which covers companies against the non-payment of monies due as goods or services from trade partners locally or overseas.
117 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2011 3.
Risk disclosures continued Reinsurance arrangements combined aggregate and catastrophe excess Syndicate 2001 purchases proportional ACIs property account is mainly large of loss protection has been renewed.
schedules of properties e. g. for municipalities reinsurance to supplement line size and to Amlin Re Europe places quota share and reduce exposure on individual risks, notably written on a co-insurance basis in the catastrophe excess of loss reinsurance to Netherlands and larger commercial industrial for aviation and large property risks.
A part protect the property portfolio.
Motor excess of the premium ceded under such facilities is clients in Belgium and France.
The company is of loss protection is also purchased.
Overseas exposure placed with Amlin Bermuda and a separate proportional facility protects the excess of loss is written mainly from the large commercial ACI buys a comprehensive programme for each industrial portfolio where there are client reinsurance portfolio through a Special Purpose class of business.
Specific cover is placed for Syndicate at Lloyds, Syndicate 6106.
The engineering book engineering, personal accident, motor, liability includes contractors all risks, machinery 2001 also purchases a number of excess of loss and energy.
A general programme protects reinsurances to protect itself from severe breakdown and some computer equipment.
The property frequency or size of losses.
The structure of the account is protected by both per risk and The marine portfolio covers general cargo, programme and type of protection bought will catastrophe excess of loss programmes with the a large commodities book for Belgian and vary from year to year depending on the latter additionally protecting European property French trading corporations, hull, land availability and price of cover.
business written by Amlin UK and Amlin France.
equipment, shipbuilders risk where ACI are a recognised market leader, inland hull and large On large risks, individual facultative reinsurance There is no guarantee that reinsurance may be bought which protects against a loss yachts.
This portfolio is being re-underwritten coverage will be available to meet all potential due to high loss ratios in some sub-classes and to that specific risk.
loss circumstances as, for very severe the mix of business is therefore likely to change.
catastrophe losses, it is possible that the full Specific risk excess of loss reinsurance is extent of the cover bought is not sufficient.
purchased for each class of business.
The ACI also underwrites a range of marine Any loss amount which exceeds the programme products via an agency agreement with amount of cover bought depends upon the line would be retained by the Group.
It is also size written for each class.
The deductibles or RaetsMarine including marine liability, cargo possible that a dispute could arise with a and hull.
amounts borne prior to recovery vary from class reinsurer which reduces the recovery made.
to class as do the amounts of co-reinsurance The non-marine liability portfolio in the The reinsurance programme is bought to cover or unplaced protection.
Specific programmes Netherlands is professional indemnity and the expected claims arising on the original are purchased to deal with large individual general liability written on a claims-made basis, portfolio.
However, it is possible for there to risk losses, such as fire or large energy losses, particularly for property related professions and be a mismatch, or a gap in cover, which would and these programmes may be combined miscellaneous professions such as travel result in a higher than expected retained loss.
at a higher level into a general programme operators.
In Belgium, ACI are a recognised for larger losses.
Many parts of the programme also have limited leader in medical liability and general liability reinstatements and therefore the number of is written on a losses occurring form.
UK and French direct property business is claims which may be recovered from second or protected by a European wind programme which Across the portfolio maximum and average subsequent major losses is limited.
It is possible also protects ACIs Dutch and French exposures.
line sizes are higher for ACI than those written for the programme to be exhausted by a series in Amlin London.
This reflects the leading The combined claims to Syndicate 2001 from of losses in one annual period and it may not be several losses which aggregate in a single position of the company in the local industrial, possible to purchase additional reinsurance at commercial and marine markets.
Furthermore, catastrophe event are protected by catastrophe all or for an acceptable price.
A separate excess of loss programme there is limited aggregation between this in the Group bearing higher losses from further portfolio and catastrophe reinsurance business is purchased to protect the excess of loss events occurring.
It should also be noted that reinsurance portfolio against such losses.
Since written elsewhere in the Group and ACIs book the renewal date of the reinsurance is protected by reinsurance on a per risk and 2006, the amount of excess of loss reinsurance programmes does not necessarily correspond purchased is lower and in 2011 first loss cover catastrophe excess of loss basis.
to that of the business written.
Where business responded to losses exceeding US$135 million.
is not protected by risk attaching reinsurance The commercial motor account is comprised The 2012 programme has been restructured which provides coverage for the duration of all of domestic company fleets including a large to provide first loss protection in excess of the policies written this reinsurance protection leasing and rental fleets portfolio written in the US$60 million for international catastrophe could expire resulting in an increase in possible Netherlands and a smaller portfolio in Belgium.
In addition, the combined aggregate loss retained by the Group if renewal of the Over 70% of the account is cars, vans or and catastrophe protection has been renewed programme is not achieved.
to provide lower level cover in the event of multiple losses to the portfolio.
Captive business is written in Belgium as fronting for captive reinsurers of large industrial For 2012 the excess of loss programme companies.
ACI retain small amounts of these purchased by Amlin Bermuda has also been risks but receive a fronting fee.
Analysis is restructured to provide first event cover for carried out on captives to manage potential international losses at a similar level to the credit risk.
London placement deductibles vary slightly by territory and peril.
Enhanced first event cover for US losses and additional vertical protection has also been purchased.
In addition the 118 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 Realistic Disaster Scenario RDS analysis most severe scenarios modelled are simulated deductible of each policy written.
For casualty The Group has a defined event risk tolerance events and these simulations could prove business, the policy form will determine which determines the maximum net loss that to be unreliable.
whether claims can be made on a claims the Group intends to limit its exposure with made as advised or as a losses occurring Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets: respect to major modelled catastrophe event determined by date of loss basis.
This has a Calculation of incurred but not reported IBNR scenarios.
Currently this is a maximum of 350 significant impact on the reporting period in and claims development million for Group.
The Group Catastrophe Risk which claims can be notified.
In setting the The Group adopts a rigorous process in team are responsible for aggregating potential IBNR provision estimates are made for the the calculation of an adequate provision for scenarios and as at 1 January 2012 levels of ultimate premium and ultimate gross claims insurance claim liabilities.
The overriding aim is exposure are significantly below the potential value for each underwriting year.
Allowance to establish reserves which are expected to be maximum tolerance, the largest, the Japanese is then made for anticipated reinsurance at least adequate and that there is consistency Earthquake scenario being 314 million for the recoveries to reach a net claim position.
Therefore, the level of Group.
At present the Group is not utilising the Reinsurance recoveries are calculated for reserves are set at a level above the actuarial full extent of its risk tolerance.
outstanding and IBNR claims, sometimes best estimate position.
However, there is through the use of historical recovery rates a risk that, due to unforeseen circumstances, These scenarios are extraordinary events or statistical projections, and provisions are the reserves carried are not sufficient to meet with an occurrence probability of less than 1 made as appropriate for bad debt or possible insurance claim liabilities reported in future in 100 years estimated for the natural peril or disputes.
The component of ultimate IBNR years on policy periods which have expired.
The Group also adopts risk provision estimates and reinsurance recoveries tolerance maximum net limits for a number Process and methodology that relates to future events occurring to the of other non-elemental scenarios, including The reserving process commences with the existing portfolio is removed in order to reflect aviation collision and North Sea rig loss.
proper recording and reporting of claims GAAP accounting practice.
information which consists of paid and notified The risk tolerance policy recognises that there To assist with the process of determining or outstanding claims.
For the London market may be circumstances in which the net event the reserves, triangulation statistics for each business information is received through limit could be exceeded.
Such circumstances class are produced which show the historical Xchanging the London market bureau and, include changes in rates of exchange, non development of premium, as well as paid and in the case of Amlin UK business, service renewal or delay in renewal of reinsurance incurred losses, for each underwriting year, companies, ACI, Amlin Bermuda and Amlin Re protection, reinsurance security failure, or from inception to the date of review.
ACI has Europe, directly from brokers and policyholders.
similar statistics based on the date of premium Claims records are maintained for each policy A detailed analysis of catastrophe exposures is receipt and claim advice rather than policy and class.
For notified or outstanding claims, carried out every quarter and measured against inception.
Each class triangulation is also a case reserve is established based on the risk tolerance.
The following assumptions and independently analysed by the internal actuarial views of underwriting management and claims procedures are used in the process: team using actuarial software as appropriate.
managers, using external legal or expert advice The aim of the actuarial exercise is to produce where appropriate.
This reserve is expected to The data used reflects the information best estimate ultimate premium and claims be sufficient to meet the claim payment when supplied to the Group by insureds and amounts which can be compared to, or used it is finally determined.
For some classes ceding companies.
This may prove to be to produce, the figures proposed by divisional of business, particularly liability business, incomplete, inaccurate or could develop management.
Amlin London, Amlin UK, Amlin settlement may be several years after the during the policy period: France and ACI meetings are held in which initial notification of the claim, as it may be The exposures are modelled using a mixture executive management, actuarial staff and subject to complexities or court action.
For of stochastic models and underwriter input business management discuss claims issues claims received from Xchanging, the market to arrive at damage factors these factors and analyse the proposed and independently reserve is generally set by the lead underwriter, are then applied to the assumed aggregate generated reserves to conclude the provision but there are circumstances on larger claims exposure to produce gross loss estimates.
where the Group will post higher reserves than The damage factors may prove to be those notified.
For Amlin Bermuda, which commenced inadequate: underwriting in 2005, historical statistics for To establish a provision for IBNR claims, The reinsurance programme as purchased Syndicate 2001s relevant classes of business the underwriting and claims teams in the UK, is applied a provision for reinsurer have been used as a guide for actuarial review Bermuda, France and Switzerland use their counterparty failure is included in the in addition to Amlin Bermudas own data experience and knowledge of the class of analysis but may prove to be inadequate: and the review discussion is conducted business to estimate the potential future and in conference or by email correspondence.
development of each class for every underwriting The review process for Amlin Re Europe is year.
ACI adopt a different approach with Group Reinstatement premiums both payable conducted in a similar manner.
Actuarial producing a set of best estimate and receivable are included.
reserves to which local management add Final reserve submissions are provided for the There is no guarantee that the assumptions and additional prudence based on their knowledge approval of Boards, as required.
techniques deployed in calculating these event of the business.
Statistics are used in all cases loss estimate figures are accurate.
to fully recognise the different potential development of each class of business.
The Furthermore, there could also be a loss which development period varies by class, by method exceeds these figures.
The likelihood of such a of acceptance and is also determined by the catastrophe is considered to be remote, but the 119 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2011 3.
Risk disclosures continued authorities and lineslips, is deemed to be Key assumptions over levels of correlation Areas of uncertainty written in full at the inception of the contract between classes may over time prove to The reserves established can be more or less and may turn out to be more or less then be incorrect: and than adequate to meet eventual claims arising.
Catastrophe model inputs, which estimate The level of uncertainty varies significantly from Internal capital modelling of risk the severity and frequency of large class to class but can arise from inadequate To improve the Groups risk management catastrophes on the portfolio, may case reserves for known large losses and capability, and assessment of capital be incorrect.
catastrophes or from inadequate provision requirements, Amlin has developed a stochastic for IBNR.
The impact on profit before tax The result reproduced in the table below model covering all entities of the Group.
This of a 1% improvement deterioration in the total represents the modelled loss sustained by enables standalone modelling for each entity net claims reserves would be 26.6 million the business from a single 1 in 200 bad year as well as a consolidated Group total position.
This probability is The output from the model includes a the calculation benchmark required by the FSA Large loss case reserves are determined distribution of outcomes of all material risks, and Lloyds.
However, it does not represent through careful analysis of the individual claim, giving distributions for: reserves for prior written the level of capital required for the Group to often with the advice of legal advisers.
Liability liabilities, investment performance, and new support current and expected business levels, claims arising from events such as the 11 business underwriting performance.
The result which should be considered over a longer September 2001 terrorist attacks in the US is a combined view of the expected best period of modelling.
Furthermore, the Group is are examples of cases where there continues estimate mean profitability and the range required to carry higher levels of capital which to be some uncertainty over the eventual value of possibilities around it.
are sufficient in the eyes of rating agencies and of claims.
The model requires the input of a large number clients.
This analysis includes the modelling Property catastrophe claims, such as of explicit parameters.
Those inputs are based of the Group.
earthquake or hurricane losses, can take several on many different sources of information 2012 forecast m months, or years, to develop as adjusters visit including detailed historical data on premium Underwriting risk 436 damaged property and agree claim valuations.
and claims, forecast income and exposures, Reserving risk 240 Until all the claims are settled it requires an estimated rating levels and catastrophe loss analysis of the area damaged, contracts data from proprietary models applied to the Credit reinsurance exposed and the use of models to simulate Groups portfolio.
It enables projection of an counterparty risk 50 the loss against the portfolio of exposure in estimated mean ultimate loss ratio and the Investment market risk 20 order to arrive at an estimate of ultimate loss distribution of results around it.
The model Liquidity risk 3 to the Group.
There is uncertainty over the explicitly recognises diversification credit, since Operational risk 28 adequacy of information and modelling of class results are not all strongly correlated and Currency risk 43 major losses for a period of several months thus individual classes are unlikely to all Diversified result 820 after a catastrophe loss.
Account should also produce losses or profits in the same year.
be taken of factors which may influence the Due to the inherent uncertainty of predicting Notes: size of claims such as increased inflation or the key drivers of business performance, 1 All figures are based on business plan forecasts which a change in law.
including in particular claims levels, any are currently under review for changes in the trading environment, interest rate outlook and movements individual simulation of the model viewed in The long tail liability classes, for which a in rates of exchange.
isolation cannot be relied upon as an accurate large IBNR has to be established, represent 2 These figures are derived from the Group DFA model forecast.
However, the output from many the most difficult classes to reserve because and based on data as at the end of Q4 2011. thousands of simulated results can provide a claims are notified and settled several years 3 Capital has been allocated to risk categories using the picture of the possible distribution of business Percentile Layer Capital Allocation approach.
It should after the expiry of the policy concerned.
This output is useful in developing be recognised that allocating capital has a number This is particularly the case for US liability of limitations and different allocations can be obtained an understanding of the losses which may written on a losses occurring basis.
by using alternative allocation approaches.
be borne by the business at varying levels 4 No dividend or tax is considered.
The use of historical development data, of probability.
5 Investment market risk includes explicit modelling adjusted for known changes to wordings There are a large number of uncertainties and of currency risk.
or the claims environment, is fundamental to difficulties in achieving accurate results from 6 Non-sterling amounts have been converted reserving these classes.
It is used in conjunction the model.
Some of the key issues are: at market rates of exchange as at Q4 2011 with the advice of lawyers and third party US$1.55: CAN$1.59: 1.20. claims adjusters on material single claims.
The model is based on a best estimate view 7 Figures include an allowance for investment returns of business volumes and rate expectations, generated on assets backing the insurance liabilities The allocation of IBNR to the reinsurance which may not be borne out in practice: i. e. discounting.
programme is an uncertain exercise as there 8 Investment income includes Group corporate A significant change in the portfolio of is limited knowledge of the size or number surplus assets.
The assumption over business could result in the past not being 9 No credit has been taken for carried reserve margins.
a reliable guide to the future: future reinsurance recoveries may be incorrect and unforeseen disputes could arise which Changing external environmental factors would reduce recoveries made.
may not be assessed accurately: The estimated premium income in respect Model risk may be significant in such of facility contracts, for example binding a complex and developing discipline: 120 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 Claims development The tables below illustrate the development of the estimates of ultimate cumulative claims for the consolidated Group excluding ACI, Amlin London, Amlin UK, Amlin France excluding ACI France, Amlin Bermuda and Amlin Re Europe after the end of the underwriting year, illustrating how amounts estimated have changed from the first estimates made.
Tables for ACI, which include ACI France, have been constructed on an accident year basis.
All tables are prepared excluding the effect of intra-group reinsurance arrangements and are prepared on an undiscounted basis.
Non-sterling balances have been converted using 2011 exchange rates to aid comparability.
In part, this arises from the Groups reserving philosophy which aims to make the most recent years, with the greatest uncertainty of result, prudently reserved leaving a potential for subsequent release.
This differs from the 211.7 million increase in reserves stated in the claims development table above as the table above is on an underwriting year basis and the surpluses in this narrative are on an annually accounted basis.
The table above excludes any net aggregate reserve releases from 2002 and prior years.
Also the table above excludes ACI, which is accounted for on an accident year basis and for which net reserve releases are 6.6 million 2010: 43.4 million.
The ACI table also excludes any net aggregate reserve releases from 2002 and prior years.
Further details on these reserve releases and other aspects of the underwriting performance are included in the Performance Section of this Annual Report.
121 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2011 3.
This also resulted in an increase in associated claims.
123 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2011 3.
Risk disclosures continued Amlin France excluding ACI France Gross basis 2008 2009 2010 2011 Underwriting year m m m m Current ultimate gross written premium 2.1 24.3 32.1 33.8 Current gross earned premium 2.1 24.3 32.4 26.4 Estimate of cumulative claims at end of underwriting year 0.0 13.3 21.4 22.1 One year later 0.4 15.0 19.0 Two years later 0.4 14.8 Three years later 0.4 Cumulative payments 0.3 13.4 13.0 2.7 Estimated balance to pay 0.1 1.4 6.0 19.4 Net basis 2008 2009 2010 2011 Underwriting year m m m m Estimate of cumulative claims at end of underwriting year 0.0 13.3 21.4 22.1 One year later 0.4 15.0 19.0 Two years later 0.4 14.8 Three years later 0.4 Cumulative payments 0.3 13.4 13.0 2.7 Estimated balance to pay 0.1 1.4 6.0 19.4 Note: In the tables above, business written prior to the acquisition of Amlin France in 2008, ceded to Syndicate 2001, is included in the Amlin London table.
Risk disclosures continued 3.2 Financial investment risk Market risk Risk management The following section describes the Groups investment risk management from a quantitative and qualitative perspective.
The Group has two main categories of assets: Underwriting assets.
These are premiums received and held to meet future insurance claims.
These are the capital required by the regulators to support the underwriting business plus working capital and surplus funds.
Apart from the outstanding borrowings, these assets do not have specific current liabilities attached to them.
Investment governance The Group manages its investments in accordance with investment frameworks that are set by the Boards of Amlin plc and its subsidiaries.
These frameworks determine investment governance and the investment risk tolerance.
They are reviewed on a regular basis to ensure that the Boards fiduciary and regulatory responsibilities are being met.
Day to day management of the investments is delegated to the Investment Management Executive or members of the relevant subsidiarys executive, who are advised by the Chief Investment Officer.
The Investment Management Executive comprises the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Chief Investment Officer, and meets at least quarterly to consider whether the strategic asset allocation and tactical asset allocation ranges are appropriate to optimise investment returns within the risk tolerances set by the Boards.
Group Investments, led by the Chief Investment Officer, is responsible for tactical asset allocation and the appointment of external investment managers and custodians.
The Investment Advisory Panel, which consists of external investment professionals as well as members of the Investment Management Executive, meets quarterly.
The Panel provides challenge to the Groups view of future economic activity and asset class performance.
In addition, Group Compliance and external lawyers provide advice on investment regulations.
Risk tolerance Investment risk tolerances are set by the Board of Amlin plc and its subsidiaries.
The investment process is driven from the risk tolerance which is determined by reference to factors such as the underwriting cycle and the requirements of the capital providers.
In a hard underwriting market capital preservation is paramount in order to support the insurance business and, therefore, the risk tolerance for the capital assets will be low.
Conversely, the risk tolerance for the underwriting assets under these circumstances will be relatively high due to the strong cash flow.
In a soft underwriting market the opposite applies.
Investment risk is independently monitored by the Risk Assessment and Monitoring department using a bespoke investment risk model.
The Head of Investment Risk reports regularly to the Investment Management Executive and to the Group Risk Committee.
Strategic asset allocation Each of the Groups principal subsidiaries has its own strategic asset allocations which are set according to its risk tolerance and liabilities.
1 The strategic asset allocation for capital assets are set by using a Value at Risk VaR model, to determine the optimum asset allocation for the current risk tolerance which ensures that appropriate solvency levels are maintained.
The expected timescale for future cash flows in each currency is calculated by the Group Actuarial team.
The average durations are the neutral position for the strategic asset allocation for the policyholders funds.
Tactical ranges around these strategic asset allocations provide flexibility to ensure that an appropriate risk reward balance is maintained in changing investment markets.
Investment management The investments are run on a multi-asset, multi-manager basis.
Exposure to the asset classes is achieved using physical or derivative instruments and 2 may be managed by Group Investments or by outsourced managers, on a segregated, pooled or commingled basis.
The manager selection is based on a range of criteria that leads to the expectation that they will add value to the funds over the medium to long-term.
The managers have discretion to manage the funds on a day to day basis within investment guidelines or prospectuses applicable to their funds that ensure that they comply with the investment frameworks.
The managers performance, compliance and risk is monitored on an ongoing basis.
1 VaR is a statistical measure, which calculates the possible loss over a year, in normal market conditions.
As VaR estimates are based on historical market data this should not be viewed as an absolute gauge of the level of risk to the investments.
2 Segregated funds are managed separately for the Group.
Pooled funds are collective investment vehicles in which the Group and other investors purchase units.
Commingled funds combine the assets of several clients.
126 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 The managers as at 31 December 2011 were as follows: Manager Asset class Segregated funds Aberdeen Fund Management Ltd US Dollar bonds Artemis Investment Management LLP Global equities CB Richard Ellis Collective Investors Limited Global property Insight Investment Management Global Ltd Sterling and Euro bonds Townsend Group Europe Ltd Global property Veritas Asset Management UK Ltd Active global equity Wellington Management International Ltd US and Canadian Dollar bonds Pooled vehicles BlackRock Inc. Sterling, Euro and US Dollar liquidity funds BlueBay Asset Management Ltd Euro bonds BNP Paribas Investment Partners Sterling, Euro and US Dollar liquidity funds Citibank NZD and AUD cash management Goldman Sachs Asset Management International Sterling, Euro and US Dollar liquidity funds and LIBOR plus fund HSBC Asset Management US Dollar and Euro liquidity funds: NZD and AUD cash management H20 AM LLP LIBOR plus funds Insight Investment Management Global Ltd Sterling liquidity fund JP Morgan Asset Management US Dollar liquidity funds Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP Insurance linked securities PIMCO Sterling and US Dollar bonds Western Asset Management US Dollar liquidity fund Commingled funds Corporation of Lloyds Treasury Services US Dollar, Canadian Dollar, Australian Dollar, South African and Japanese bonds Union Bank of Switzerland Canadian and US Dollar liquidity funds The funds under management with each manager are shown below: Black BNP Corporation Goldman Citibank H20 Aberdeen Artemis rock BlueBay Paribas CBRE of Lloyds Sachs HSBC ING m m m m m m m m m m m m Total as at 31 December 2011 259.2 46.4 355.7 315.9 1.2 43.5 24.9 146.7 661.0 195.6 46.4 % 6.3 1.1 8.6 7.6 1.1 0.6 3.5 16.0 4.7 1.1 Total as at 31 December 2010 253.6 119.5 337.5 130.4 84.3 734.0 241.7 43.9 % 5.9 2.8 7.8 3.0 2.0 17.1 5.6 1.0 Leadenhall THS Insight JP Morgan Capital PIMCO Townsend UBS Veritas Wellington Western Total m m m m m m m m m m m Total as at 31 December 2011 672.5 190.4 75.4 417.7 85.7 47.8 169.5 353.9 25.1 4,134.5 % 16.3 4.6 1.8 10.1 2.1 1.2 4.1 8.6 0.6 100.0 Total as at 31 December 2010 776.6 54.1 74.9 605.6 30.7 244.9 27.3 130.0 390.4 20.8 4,300.2 % 18.1 1.3 1.7 14.1 0.7 5.7 0.6 3.0 9.1 0.5 100.0 Note: The table above excludes the Groups directly held securities of 44.5 million 2010: 25.4 million comprising index linked bonds 24.7 million 2010: 20.3 million, insurance linked securities 7.5 million 2010: 3.3 million, unlisted equities 4.0 million 2010: nil and other liquid investments 8.3 million 2010: 1.8 million.
127 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2011 3.
Risk disclosures continued Asset allocation The total value of investments in the following tables is reconciled to note 17 financial assets and liabilities as follows: 2011 2010 m m Net financial investments per note 17 4,069.4 4,300.4 Assets liabilities shown separately in the notes to the accounts: Accrued income 11.2 14.8 Net unsettled payables for investments purchased 5.1 5.1 Cash funds held by financial institutions 112.0 35.7 Assets not analysed in the investment asset allocation tables: Liquid investments 0.6 10.3 Unlisted equities 0.2 9.0 Margin and collateral relating to derivative instruments 8.9 0.9 Total investments in asset allocation tables below 4,179.0 4,325.6 The asset allocation of the Groups investments is set out below.
Pooled vehicles held are represented by 24.6% government agency bonds 2010: 31.8%, 24.0% corporate bonds 2010: 36.0%, 26.2% mortgage backed and asset backed securities 2010: 20.0%, 5.6% insurance linked securities 2010: nil and 19.6% other liquid investments 2010: 12.2%.
The industry and geographical splits were as follows: 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 Corporate Global Corporate Global bonds equities Total bonds equities Total Industry % % % % % % Asset backed securities 0.1 0.1 Oil & Gas 6.4 14.6 9.7 6.4 13.3 10.5 Basic materials 0.9 1.2 1.0 1.6 3.0 2.4 Industrials 5.4 8.3 6.5 6.5 10.0 8.6 Consumer goods and services 9.0 18.2 12.7 7.9 23.0 16.9 Healthcare 2.7 15.7 8.0 2.3 11.3 7.7 Miscellaneous 0.5 0.4 0.5 0.3 0.1 Government guaranteed 15.2 9.1 17.7 7.2 Mortgage backed securities 0.1 0.1 Telecommunications 3.0 15.2 7.9 2.9 15.3 10.2 Utilities 3.3 0.4 2.1 4.8 1.8 3.0 Financials 51.5 15.2 36.8 46.6 17.4 29.2 Technology 2.0 10.8 5.6 2.9 4.9 4.1 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Note: The table above excludes government bonds but includes 48.1 million 2010: 42.2 million of corporate bonds with government guarantees and 1.3 million 2010: 4.2 million of mortgage backed securities.
Valuation risk The Groups earnings are directly affected by changes in the valuations of the investments held in the portfolios.
These valuations vary according to the movements in underlying markets.
Factors affecting markets include changes in the economic and political environment, risk appetites, liquidity, interest rates and exchange rates.
These factors have an impact on the Groups investments and are taken into consideration when setting strategic and tactical asset allocations.
The price of holdings can also vary due to specific risks, such as the corporate strategy and companies balance sheet structure, which may impact the value of individual equity and corporate bond holdings.
This is mitigated by holding diversified portfolios.
Group assets are marked to market at bid price.
Prices are supplied by the Groups custodians whose pricing processes are covered by their published annual audits.
In accordance with their pricing policies, prices are sourced from market recognised pricing vendor sources.
These pricing sources use closing trades, or where more appropriate in illiquid markets, pricing models.
These prices are reconciled to the fund managers records to check for reasonableness.
Mark to market valuations for over the counter derivatives are supplied by the custodian and checked to the relevant counterparty and Bloomberg.
Property funds are based on the most recent price available, which in some instances may be a quarter in arrears.
Where a property transaction has taken place the transaction price is used if it is the most recent price available.
As an additional check, where available, prices as at 31 December 2011 have been verified by the Group using available quoted prices on Bloomberg to verify that the prices used are a good estimation for fair value.
As at 31 December 2011, a limited number of stale prices were identified, the overall value of which are considered immaterial.
Further details on the fair value measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities are included in note 3.3.
The valuation of investments is sensitive to equity risk.
The impact on profit before tax of a 1% improvement deterioration in the total market value of shares and other variable yield securities would be a 2.0 million gain loss 2010: 3.5 million.
Sensitivities in relation to other risks are considered in the remainder of note 3.2.
129 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2011 3.
Risk disclosures continued Interest rate risk 3 Investors expectations for interest rates will impact bond yields.
Therefore, the value of the Groups bond holdings is subject to fluctuation as bond 4 yields rise and fall.
If yields fall the capital value will rise, and visa versa.
The sensitivity of the price of a bond is indicated by its duration.
The greater the duration of a security, the greater its possible price volatility.
Typically, the longer the maturity of a bond the greater its duration.
The maturity bands of the Groups bond holdings at year end are shown below.
The duration of underwriting assets is set with reference to the duration of the underlying liabilities.
It should be noted that the liabilities are not currently discounted and therefore their value is not impacted by interest rate movements.
Cash is raised, or the duration of the portfolio reduced, if it is believed that yields may rise and therefore capital values will fall.
The average durations of the bond and cash portfolios for the underwriting assets and associated insurance liabilities of Syndicate 2001, Amlin AG and Amlin Corporate Insurance N. V. ACI at year end were as follows: 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Underwriting assets Years Years Years Years Sterling 0.4 3.5 1.4 3.9 US Dollars 1.2 2.7 0.9 1.9 Euro 0.9 3.2 1.9 4.7 Canadian Dollars 1.7 3.8 2.5 3.8 Note: The table above includes pooled investments.
The average duration of assets and liabilities in Japanese yen and New Zealand dollars are currently not separately modelled.
The asset durations above are calculated by the custodian.
Some differences occur between custodian durations and those reported by the fund managers due to the use of different prepayment assumptions.
Using fund manager calculations for 31 December 2011, the following asset year durations would result: sterling 0.4: US dollars 1.0: euro 0.9: and Canadian dollars 1.7.
As an additional check, where available, durations as at 31 December 2011 have been verified by the Group using Bloomberg data.
In all instances, the duration differences are within the ranges permitted by the investment guidelines.
Liabilities durations are calculated by the Group actuarial team.
An indication of the potential sensitivity of the value of the bond and cash funds to changes in yield is shown below.
The calculation is based on the coupon rate, length of time to maturity and the market price.
It assumes coupon interest paid over the life of the security is reinvested at the same rate.
4 The duration is the weighted average maturity of the securitys cash flows, where the present values of the cash flows serve as the weights.
130 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 Foreign exchange risk The exposure to translation, revaluation and asset liability currency matching risk, combine to form the Groups overall exposure to foreign exchange risk.
The Groups reporting currency is sterling and significant subsidiary functional currencies are sterling, euro and US dollar.
The Group holds assets and liability balances in base currencies of sterling, euro, US dollar, Canadian dollars, New Zealand dollars and Japanese yen.
Translation risk Foreign exchange translation risk exposure arises when business is written in non-functional currencies.
These transactions are translated into the functional currency of the relevant Group entity at the prevailing spot rate once the premium is received.
Consequently, there is exposure to currency movements between the exposure being written and the premium being converted.
Payments in non-functional currencies are converted back into the policy currency at the time a claim is to be settled, therefore, the Group is exposed to exchange rate risk between the claim being made and the settlement being paid.
Revaluation risk The Group is subject to revaluation risk as a result of the translation into the Groups sterling reporting currency of the balance sheets of the Group companies that have a non-sterling functional currency.
At 31 December 2011 the material balance sheets that have a non-sterling functional currency were Amlin AGs Bermuda branch with net assets of US$1,360.9 million, Amlin Corporate Insurance with net assets of 226.1 million and the Solo Absolute Bonds and Currency Fund with net assets of 234.8 million 2010: US$1,573.9 million, 320.5 million and nil respectively.
Foreign exchange gains and losses on investments in overseas subsidiaries are recognised in other comprehensive income in accordance with IAS 21 The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates.
The loss recognised in other comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2011 was 38.9 million 2010: 17.6 million gain.
This reflects the movement in the US dollar rate from 1.56 at the start of the year to 1.55 at the balance sheet date and the movement in the euro rate from 1.17 at the start of the year to 1.20 at the balance sheet date.
In order to mitigate the impact of these currency fluctuations, the Group adopts a policy of hedging up to 50% of the net currency exposure resulting from the net investments in these subsidiaries.
For this purpose, the Group uses options that are accounted for as hedges of net investments in overseas subsidiaries, in accordance with the hedge accounting requirements of IAS 39.
Consequently all realised and unrealised fair value gains and losses on the hedging instruments are taken to reserves to match the underlying movement in the valuation of the net investment in overseas subsidiaries, which includes applicable fair value adjustments and goodwill.
At the year end, hedges were in place for US$589.0 million 2010: US$729.0 million and 164.0 million 2010: 204.0 million.
These were in the form of long sterling calls US dollar puts funded by short sterling puts US dollar calls and long sterling calls euro puts funded by short sterling puts euro calls.
The net valuation of these trades was a 0.8 million liability 2010: 1.4 million asset at the year end.
The net realised and unrealised gain from hedging options recognised in reserves at the year end was 2.4 million 2010: 4.2 million loss.
In relation to revaluation of overseas subsidiaries, if the USD GBP exchange rates were to improve by 10%, this would result in a decrease of 97.7 million in exchange loss recognised in other comprehensive income.
This decrease would be offset by a valuation loss of 22.7 million on the designated portion of the hedging instruments.
The same exchange rate deterioration would result in an additional 79.3 million exchange loss through consolidated reserves.
This loss would be offset by a valuation gain of 14.0 million on the designated portion of the hedging instruments.
If the EUR GBP exchange rate were to improve by 10%, this would result in a decrease of 84.0 million in exchange loss recognised in other comprehensive income.
This decrease would be offset by a valuation loss of 6.4 million on the designated portion of the hedging instruments.
The same exchange rate deterioration would result in an additional 3.9 million exchange loss through consolidated reserves.
This loss would be offset by a valuation gain of 10.2 million on the designated portion of the hedging instruments.
Asset liability matching by currency risk If a liability in a currency, other then the functional currencies of sterling, euro and US dollars, is considered to be sufficiently large following a major event, for example such as the 2010 and 2011 New Zealand earthquakes, that currency will be bought and held as a base currency to cover the potential liability.
Underwriting assets are held in the base currencies of sterling, euros, US dollars, Canadian dollars, New Zealand dollars and Japanese yen, which represent the majority of the Groups liabilities by currency, thus limiting the underwriting asset liability matching currency risk.
131 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2011 3.
If the base currencies were to deteriorate improve by 10%, the movement in the monetary net underwriting assets and liabilities and borrowings of the Group, excluding overseas subsidiaries, would result in the following gains losses in the Group income statement at 31 December 2011: 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 10% Deterioration 10% Improvement 10% Deterioration 10% Improvement Currency m m m m US Dollars 5.3 3.3 13.7 12.5 Canadian Dollars 5.3 4.3 1.0 0.8 Euro 10.1 8.3 3.9 3.5 New Zealand Dollars 17.8 14.5 Japanese Yen 3.2 2.6 41.7 33.0 18.6 16.8 Further foreign exchange risk arises until non-sterling profits or losses are converted into sterling.
Foreign exchange risk is mitigated by converting the subsidiaries functional currency profits into the Groups reporting currency.
Given the inherent volatility in some business classes, a cautious approach is adopted on the speed and level of sales, but the Group seeks to extinguish all currency risk on earned profit during the second year after the commencement of each underwriting year.
This approach avoids the inherent dangers of lumpier sales.
It is not the intention to take speculative currency positions in order to make currency gains.
At 31 December 2011 the investment managers held some forward foreign exchange contracts in their portfolios to hedge non-base currency investments.
These were transacted with banks with a short term rating of at least A1 and are marked to market in investment valuations.
132 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 Liquidity risk It is important that the Groups companies can pay their obligations as they fall due.
Levels of cash are therefore managed on a daily basis and buffers of liquid assets are held in excess of the immediate requirements.
This is to reduce the risk of being forced sellers of any of the Groups assets, which may result in realising prices below fair value, especially in periods of below normal investment market liquidity.
The Group funds its insurance liabilities with a portfolio of cash and debt securities exposed to market risk.
The following table indicates the contractual timing of cash flows arising from assets and liabilities for management of insurance contracts as of 31 December 2011: Contractual cash flows undiscounted No stated Carrying 31 December 2011 maturity 0-1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs amount Financial assets m m m m m m Shares and other variable yield securities 207.5 0.5 208.0 Debt and other fixed income securities 1,348.7 286.6 633.3 360.7 150.1 2,739.0 Property funds 117.3 117.3 Liquidity funds and other liquid investments 1,112.1 6.1 1,118.2 Derivative financial instruments, net 2.9 0.6 3.5 Total 2,782.7 293.2 632.7 360.7 150.1 4,179.0 Expected cash flows undiscounted No stated Carrying maturity 0-1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs amount Insurance liabilities m m m m m m Insurance contracts 1,208.7 1,044.4 644.8 382.5 3,273.6 Less assets arising from reinsurance contracts held 350.3 313.7 212.9 134.7 617.0 Total 858.4 730.7 431.9 247.8 2,656.6 Difference in contractual cash flows 2,782.7 565.2 98.0 71.2 97.7 1,522.4 Contractual cash flows undiscounted No stated Carrying 31 December 2010 maturity 0-1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs amount Financial assets m m m m m m Shares and other variable yield securities 346.5 0.6 347.1 Debt and other fixed income securities 1,575.8 231.4 580.3 439.7 139.2 2,880.1 Property funds 60.2 60.2 Liquidity funds and other liquid investments 1,033.6 0.1 1,033.5 Derivative financial instruments, net 4.7 4.7 Total 3,020.8 231.9 580.3 439.7 139.2 4,325.6 Expected cash flows undiscounted No stated Carrying maturity 0-1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs amount Insurance liabilities m m m m m m Insurance contracts 671.1 557.4 198.4 137.7 1,564.6 Less assets arising from reinsurance contracts held 87.9 82.2 38.6 29.9 238.6 Total 583.2 475.2 159.8 107.8 1,326.0 Difference in contractual cash flows 3,020.8 351.3 105.1 279.9 31.4 2,999.6 The expected cash flows and carrying amount for the ACI insurance liabilities, in respect of 2010, was not available and have not been included in the table above.
The carrying amount of these liabilities was 922.8 million.
Liquidity, in the event of a major disaster, is tested regularly using internal cash flow forecasts and realistic disaster scenarios.
In addition pre-arranged revolving credit facilities are available note 31.
If a major insurance event occurs the investment strategy is reviewed to ensure that sufficient liquidity is also available in the assets.
133 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2011 3.
Risk disclosures continued Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that the Group becomes exposed to loss if a specific counterparty fails to perform its contractual obligations in a timely manner impacting the Groups ability to meet its claims as they fall due.
Credit risk can also arise from underlying causes that have an impact upon the creditworthiness of all counterparties of a particular description or geographical location.
The Group is exposed to credit risk in its investment portfolio and with its premium and reinsurance receivables.
The table below shows the breakdown at 31 December 2011 of the exposure of the bond portfolio 5 and insurance and reinsurance receivables by credit quality.
Insurance Reinsurers and share of Debt Liquidity reinsurance outstanding securities funds receivables claims 31 December 2010 m % m % m % m % AAA 1,060.8 36.8 988.3 100.0 1.1 0.3 AA 1,398.8 48.7 84.3 21.0 A 333.7 11.5 249.5 62.1 BBB 26.7 0.9 0.2 Other 60.1 2.1 777.0 100.0 66.6 16.6 2,880.1 100.0 988.3 100.0 777.0 100.0 401.7 100.0 5 Credit ratings on debt securities are State Street composite ratings based on Standard & Poors, Moodys and Fitch, depending on which agency agencies rate each bond.
Insurance and reinsurance The table includes premium receivables, representing amounts due from policyholders.
The quality of these receivables is not graded, but based on historical experience there is limited default risk relating to these amounts.
Premium credit risk is managed through a number of controls that include broker approval, annual financial review and internal rating of brokers and regular monitoring of premium settlement performance.
Also included are reinsurance receivables, which represent the amounts due at 31 December 2011, as well as amounts expected to be recovered on unpaid outstanding claims including IBNR in respect of earned risks.
These are stated net of provisions for bad and doubtful debts.
The credit risk in respect of reinsurance receivables including reinsurers share of outstanding claims is primarily managed by review and approval of reinsurance security by the Groups Reinsurance Security Committee, prior to the purchase of the reinsurance contract.
Guidelines are set, and monitored, that restrict the purchase of reinsurance security based on the Groups own ratings for each reinsurer and Standard & Poors ratings.
The Group holds collateral from certain reinsurers including those that are non-rated.
At 31 December 2011 the Group held collateral of 226.5 million 2010: 124.5 million as security against potential default by reinsurance counterparties.
Provisions are made against the amounts due from certain reinsurers, depending on the age of the debt and the current rating assigned to the reinsurer.
The impact on profit before tax of a 1% variation in the reinsurance assets would be 6.7 million 2010: 4.4 million.
The details of overdue reinsurance assets and insurance receivables are provided in notes 18 and 19.
Investments As well as failure of a counterparty to perform its contractual obligations, the price of government and corporate bond holdings will be affected by investors perception of a borrowers creditworthiness.
Credit risk within the investment funds is managed through: restrictions on the exposures by credit rating, as determined by the rating agencies, the credit research carried out by the investment managers and by holding diversified portfolios.
21.0 million of bonds held at 31 December 2011 were subject to downgrades during the year 2010: 2.5 million.
The Groups largest non-government counterparty as at 31 December 2011, excluding liquidity funds, has an AA rating and is valued at 63.7 million 2010: 46.8 million.
The investment comprises cash of 53.8 million 2010: 24.1 million, corporate bonds of 9.4 million 2010: 7.4 million, asset backed securities of 0.5 million 2010: nil and nil mortgage backed securities 2010: 15.3 million.
134 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 The tables below show the credit rating of the Groups non-government bonds and the Groups exposure to sovereign debt.
Non-government bonds Total 31 December 2011 m AAA AA A BBB Other Corporate Financials 155.1 16.4% 39.3% 41.7% 2.6% Corporate Other 105.2 14.7% 60.8% 22.5% 2.0% Mortgage backed securities 162.3 90.7% 4.8% 0.6% 0.1% 3.8% Asset backed securities 50.1 83.8% 12.2% 1.0% 3.0% Insurance linked securities 7.5 100.0% Non-government bonds Total 31 December 2010 m AAA AA A BBB Other Corporate Financials 107.2 8.9% 41.8% 48.9% 0.4% Corporate Other 84.4 17.9% 58.2% 23.9% Mortgage backed securities 153.4 90.3% 4.2% 0.4% 5.1% Asset backed securities 72.4 82.3% 10.4% 3.4% 1.0% 2.9% Insurance linked securities 55.5 100.0% The table excludes 48.1 million 2010: 42.2 million of corporate bonds with explicit government guarantees.
The table includes 1.3 million 2010: 4.2 million of government agency mortgage backed securities.
A breakdown of the Groups exposure to sovereign debt is set out below: 2011 2010 m m Investments in sovereign debt US 433.7 507.3 Germany 316.0 314.5 Canada 60.8 Australia 45.6 UK 83.1 Netherlands 71.7 Other 191.1 283.7 Investments in sovereign debt issued by Italy, Republic of Ireland, Portugal, Spain and Greece Italy 62.7 13.6 Ireland 8.3 Portugal 2.0 Spain 52.6 1.8 Greece 2.9 1,162.5 1,288.9 Sovereign debt is included in the asset allocation table under government securities, government index-linked securities, government agencies guaranteed assets, supranational bonds and within the underlying holdings of pooled vehicles.
135 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2011 3.
Risk disclosures continued 3.3 Fair value methodology For financial instruments carried at fair value the Group has categorised the measurement basis into a fair value hierarchy as follows: Level 1 Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
An active market is one in which transactions for the asset occur with sufficient frequency and volume to provide readily and regularly available quoted prices.
Level 2 Inputs to a valuation model other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
Level 3 Inputs to a valuation model for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs and are significant to the overall fair value measurement.
Unobservable inputs may have been used to measure fair value to the extent that observable inputs are not available, thereby allowing for situations in which there is little, if any, market activity for the asset or liability at the measurement date or market information for the inputs to any valuation models.
As such, unobservable inputs reflect the assumptions it is considered that market participants would use in pricing the asset.
Shares and other variable yield securities Listed equities traded on a primary exchange are classified as Level 1.
Unlisted equities are valued using internal models, based principally upon managements assumptions, and are classified as Level 3.
Debt and other fixed income securities The fair value is based upon quotes from pricing services where available.
These pricing services derive prices based on an average of quotes provided by brokers.
Where multiple quotes are not available, the fair value is based upon evaluated pricing services, which typically use proprietary cash flow models and incorporate observable market inputs, such as credit spreads, benchmark quotes and other trade data.
If such services do not provide coverage of the asset, then fair value is determined manually using indicative broker quotes, which are corroborated by recent market transactions in similar or identical assets.
Where there is an active market for these assets and their fair value is the unadjusted quoted market price, these are classified as Level 1.
This is typically the case for government bonds.
Level 1 also includes exchange-traded bond funds, where fair value is based upon quoted market prices and the funds are actively traded.
Where the market is inactive or the price is adjusted, but significant market observable inputs have been used by the pricing sources, then these are considered to be Level 2 inputs.
This is typically the case for government agency debt, corporate debt, mortgage and asset backed securities and catastrophe bonds.
Certain assets, for which prices or other market inputs are unobservable, are classified as Level 3.
Property funds The fair value is based upon valuations provided by the fund manager.
The inputs into that valuation are primarily unobservable and, as such, these assets are classified as Level 3.
Participation in investment pools These are investment funds and the value is based upon unadjusted, quoted and executable prices provided by the fund manager.
These are classified as Level 1, except where there is evidence these are not being actively traded at the fund managers price.
Derivatives Listed derivative contracts, such as futures, that are actively traded are valued using quoted prices from the relevant exchange and are classified as Level 1.
Margin or collateral relating to derivatives are classified as Level 1.
Over-the-counter currency options are valued by the counterparty using quantitative models with multiple market inputs.
The market inputs are observable and the valuation can be validated through external sources.
These are classified as Level 2.
Certain derivatives for which prices or other market inputs are unobservable, are classified as Level 3.
This is typically the case for catastrophe linked instruments.
136 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 Fair Value Hierarchy Restated Fair Value Hierarchy Total Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2011 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2010 m m m m m m m m Assets Financial assets held for trading at fair value through income Shares and other variable yield securities 204.0 204.0 347.2 347.2 Debt and other fixed income securities 2,122.2 615.8 0.6 2,738.6 2,268.1 597.4 20.5 2,886.0 Property funds 117.3 117.3 60.2 60.2 Derivative instruments 6.3 13.1 19.4 0.5 0.1 0.6 Other financial assets at fair value through income Participation in investment pools 1,000.2 1,000.2 987.4 987.4 Deposits with credit institutions 18.3 18.3 Other 1.1 1.6 2.7 0.9 5.7 6.6 Available for sale financial assets Unlisted equities 4.2 4.2 9.0 9.0 Other Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 3.5 1.7 5.2 9.6 9.6 Total assets 3,337.3 630.6 123.7 4,091.6 3,621.5 608.0 95.4 4,324.9 Liabilities Financial liabilities held for trading at fair value through income Derivative instruments 1.5 7.0 8.5 0.2 1.2 1.4 Other Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 2.5 2.5 8.3 8.3 Total liabilities 1.5 9.5 11.0 0.2 8.3 1.2 9.7 Net financial assets 3,335.8 621.1 123.7 4,080.6 3,621.3 599.7 94.2 4,315.2 Assets shown separately in the notes to the accounts Accrued income 11.2 14.8 Net financial investments note 17 4,069.4 4,300.4 Improvements have been made to the disclosure of 2010 comparative values for derivative financial instruments, previously included within other financial assets at fair value through income, in order to better reflect their classification under IFRS.
There is no impact on the total value of derivative financial instruments and net financial assets at fair value at 31 December 2010.
137 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2011 3.
Risk disclosures continued The table below analyses the movements in assets and liabilities classified as Level 3 investments during 2011 calendar year: Debt and other fixed income Property Derivative Unlisted securities funds instruments Other equities Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2011 20.5 60.2 1.2 5.7 9.0 94.2 Total net gains losses recognised in investment return in the income statement 4.5 0.2 4.3 Sales 36.7 3.9 40.6 Purchases 0.6 89.8 90.4 Assets of operation subject to deemed disposal 20.6 1.2 19.4 Investments recognised as associates 4.6 4.6 Foreign exchange gains losses 0.1 0.5 0.2 0.6 At 31 December 2011 0.6 117.3 1.6 4.2 123.7 Total gains for the period included in income for assets and liabilities held at the end of the reporting period 4.3 A transfer of 26.0 million from Level 2 to Level 1 was made during the year relating to an investment fund within debt and other fixed income securities, as quoted prices became available.
There were no significant transfers into or out of Level 3 during the year.
The table below analyses the movements in assets and liabilities classified as Level 3 investments during 2010 calendar year: Debt and other fixed income Property Derivative Unlisted securities funds instruments Other equities Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2010 6.2 125.7 8.5 8.9 149.3 Total net losses recognised in investment return in the income statement 0.1 2.2 2.3 Sales 5.3 93.7 2.7 101.7 Purchases 33.8 0.2 0.1 34.1 Assets of operation previously classified as held for sale 20.5 1.2 19.3 Transfers out of Level 3 0.6 0.6 Foreign exchange losses 0.2 3.4 0.3 3.9 At 31 December 2010 20.5 60.2 1.2 5.7 9.0 94.2 Total losses for the period included in income for assets and liabilities held at the end of the reporting period 0.5 The majority of the Groups investments are valued based on quoted market information or other observable market data.
The Group holds 3.0% 2010: 2.2% of its assets at a fair value based on estimates and recorded as Level 3 investments.
Where estimates are used, these are based on a combination of independent third party evidence and internally developed models, calibrated to market observable data where possible.
While such valuations are sensitive to estimates, it is believed that changing one or more of the assumptions to reasonably possible alternative assumptions would not change the fair value significantly.
138 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 4.
Segmental reporting Management has determined the Groups operating segments based on the management information reviewed by the Board of Directors of the Company that are used to make strategic decisions.
All operating segments used by management meet the definition of a reportable segment under IFRS 8, Operating segments.
The Group is organised into seven operating segments.
Segments represent the distinct units through which the Group is organised and managed.
These segments are as follows: Amlin London, consisting of the Reinsurance, Property & Casualty, Marine and Aviation business units, underwritten via Syndicate 2001: Amlin UK, underwriting commercial insurance in the UK domestic market, via Syndicate 2001: Amlin France, which writes a diverse book of specialty business in France, via Syndicate 2001 and Amlin Corporate Insurance N. V. : Amlin Bermuda, which writes predominantly property reinsurance business, via Amlin AG, including reinsurance ceded by Syndicate 2001: Amlin Re Europe, which writes continental European non-life reinsurance business, via Amlin AG: Amlin Corporate Insurance, a leading provider of marine, corporate property and casualty insurance in the Netherlands and Belgium: and Other corporate companies, comprising all other entities of the Group including holding companies.
Included within the intra group items column are consolidation adjustments.
Amlin Re Europe was established in October 2010 to write Continental European non-life reinsurance business.
The business written by Amlin Re Europe in 2010 was not material to the Group and was reported within the Amlin Bermuda segment in the annual financial statements.
As a result of its increased contribution to the Groups financial position and performance in the current period, Amlin Re Europe has been identified as a separate reportable segment in accordance with IFRS 8.
Additionally, to ensure continued consistency with the management information provided to the Board of Directors, each operating segment now includes the insurance intermediary and service entities, which generate income and expenses directly related to that respective segment, and intra-group commission income and certain operating expenses have been reclassified as acquisition costs and underwriting expenses respectively.
Accordingly, the information for the year ended 31 December 2010 has been restated to reflect these changes.
Transactions between segments are carried out at arms length.
The revenue from external parties reported to the Board of Directors is measured in a manner consistent with that in the income statement and revenues are allocated based on the country in which the insurance risk is located.
Management considers its external customers to be the individual policyholders, and as such the Group is not reliant on any individual customer.
139 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2011 4.
Investment return in other corporate companies includes 3.2 million loss 2010: 23.4 million gain generated from investments in Funds at Lloyds that support the business reported in the Amlin London, Amlin UK and Amlin France segments.
1 Other operating income is mainly agency fees payable by Syndicate 2001 to Amlin Underwriting Limited and external commission income earned by service companies: 2 Agency expenses allocated to segments represent fees and commission payable to Amlin Underwriting Limited: 3 Finance costs are incurred in support of the entire business of the Group and have not been allocated to particular segments.
Amlin Other Intra Assets and liabilities Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin Re Corporate corporate group by business segment London UK France Bermuda Europe Insurance companies items Total At 31 December 2011 m m m m m m m m m Assets 2,160.3 476.0 85.4 1,846.8 101.8 1,583.9 3,519.6 3,271.7 6,502.1 Liabilities 2,136.8 476.0 97.8 971.1 108.6 1,383.3 1,744.6 1,836.5 5,081.7 Total net assets 23.5 12.4 875.7 6.8 200.6 1,775.0 1,435.2 1,420.4 Amlin AG consists of a Bermudian branch and a Zurich based underwriting unit, which are reported as Amlin Bermuda and Amlin Re Europe segments respectively, therefore the net assets for Amlin Bermuda and Amlin Re Europe should be analysed on a combined basis.
Other corporate companies segmental assets include 563.1 million 2010: 416.3 million of investments in Funds at Lloyds that support the business reported in the Amlin London, Amlin UK and Amlin France segments.
140 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 Included in assets are the following: Amlin Other Intra Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin Re Corporate corporate group London UK France Bermuda Europe Insurance companies items Total At 31 December 2011 m m m m m m m m m Investments in associates and joint venture 8.3 8.3 Additions to non-current assets 0.2 1.8 1.3 8.0 27.6 16.4 55.3 The Groups non-current assets, consisting of property and equipment and intangible assets, are 238.8 million 2010: 197.0 million of which 214.7 million 2010: 181.9 million is located in the UK and 24.1 million 2010: 15.1 million is located in foreign countries such as Bermuda, the US, Continental Europe and Canada.
Depreciation has been charged on property and equipment for the year amounting to 5.3 million 2010: 3.5 million of which 1.1 million 2010: 0.8 million has been charged to Amlin London, 1.2 million 2010: 0.8 million to Amlin UK, 0.1 to Amlin France 2010: nil, 0.4 million to Amlin Bermuda 2010: 0.3 million, 0.3 million to Amlin Re Europe 2010: nil, 1.7 million to Amlin Corporate Insurance 2010: 0.9 million and 0.5 million to Other corporate companies 2010: 0.7 million.
No impairment losses in respect of intangible assets have been recognised during the year 2010: nil.
141 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2011 4.
Segmental reporting continued Restated Amlin Other Intra Assets and liabilities Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin Re Corporate corporate group by business segment London UK France Bermuda Europe Insurance companies items Total At 31 December 2010 m m m m m m m m m Assets 1,859.9 522.1 54.4 1,675.4 6.2 1,720.3 3,443.8 3,167.5 6,114.6 Liabilities 1,626.4 502.7 53.4 595.1 9.2 1,440.7 2,035.7 1,878.5 4,384.7 Total net assets 233.5 19.4 1.0 1,080.3 3.0 279.6 1,408.1 1,289.0 1,729.9 Included in assets are the following: Amlin Other Intra Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin Re Corporate corporate group London UK France Bermuda Europe Insurance companies items Total At 31 December 2010 m m m m m m m m m Investments in associate and joint venture 2.2 2.2 Additions to non-current assets 0.2 9.8 13.5 23.5 5.
Net earned premium 2011 2010 m m Gross earned premium Gross written premium 2,304.1 2,172.5 Change in unearned premium provision 80.9 170.1 2,223.2 2,002.4 Reinsurance premium ceded Reinsurance premium payable 290.9 262.2 Change in unearned reinsurance premium provision 4.9 7.9 295.8 254.3 Net earned premium 1,927.4 1,748.1 142 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 6.
Investment return 2011 2010 m m Investment income dividend income 12.2 5.8 interest income 42.8 54.0 cash and cash equivalents interest income 5.7 0.5 60.7 60.3 Net realised gains losses on assets held for trading equity securities 12.8 13.8 debt securities 29.2 64.0 property funds 2.6 22.9 derivative instruments 8.7 3.7 on assets classified as other than trading participation in investment pools 2.4 38.3 31.0 Net unrealised gains losses on assets held for trading equity securities 29.4 40.6 debt securities 35.1 18.4 property funds 1.7 20.1 derivative instruments 4.1 2.0 on assets classified as other than trading participation in investment pools 0.2 assets of operations previously classified as held for sale 6.1 liability to purchase non-controlling interest in Amlin France Holdings SAS 0.5 58.5 83.7 40.5 175.0 7.
Net insurance claims 2011 2010 m m Insurance claims and claims settlement expenses Current year insurance claims and claims settlement expenses 1,948.1 1,313.6 Reduced costs for prior period insurance claims 78.5 145.0 1,869.6 1,168.6 Insurance claims and claims settlement expenses recoverable from reinsurers Current year insurance claims and claims settlement expenses recoverable from reinsurers 336.1 98.0 Additional costs for prior period claims recoverable from reinsurers 34.1 11.5 370.2 109.5 Net insurance claims 1,499.4 1,059.1 8.
Expenses for the acquisition of insurance contracts 2011 2010 m m Expenses for the acquisition of insurance contracts 401.7 378.7 Changes in deferred expenses for the acquisition of insurance contracts 21.5 39.6 380.2 339.1 143 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2011 9.
Other operating expenses Restated 2011 2010 m m Expenses relating to underwriting Employee expenses, excluding employee incentives 95.1 88.7 Lloyds expenses 18.3 17.7 Other administrative expenses 74.5 52.1 Underwriting exchange losses note 15 5.9 5.8 193.8 164.3 Other expenses Employee expenses, excluding employee incentives 15.7 10.5 Employee incentives 9.5 27.7 Asset management fees 6.8 6.2 Other administrative expenses 16.1 12.2 ACI integration costs 16.8 16.6 Non-underwriting exchange losses note 15 4.3 6.5 69.2 79.7 263.0 244.0 Employee and other administrative expenses not relating to underwriting represent costs associated with the corporate activities of the Group.
As a result of changes to the Groups segmental information in note 4, comparative information has been restated to reflect the reclassification of insurance intermediary and service entities employee and other administrative expenses, totalling 16.5 million, from non-underwriting to underwriting expenses.
There is no impact on the total value of operating expenses in 2010.
Directors remuneration The aggregate remuneration of the directors of the Company, including amounts received from subsidiaries, was: Restated 2011 2010 m m Remuneration of executive directors 2.5 2.7 Remuneration of non-executive directors 0.6 0.6 Amounts excluding equity settled share options and awards receivable under long term incentive schemes 1.1 2.9 4.2 6.2 Pension contributions 0.2 0.2 4.4 6.4 Amendments have been made to the comparative information in respect of remuneration receivable by directors for their participation in the Groups long term incentive schemes in 2010.
Details of directors remuneration and pension benefits, including those of the highest paid director, are included in the Remuneration Report in the Governance section of the Annual Report.
Payments were made to both a defined benefit pension scheme and stakeholder defined contribution scheme for two 2010: one executive directors and to stakeholder defined contribution schemes for two 2010: two other executive directors.
Employee benefit expenses The average number of persons employed by the Group, including individuals on fixed term contracts and directors, were: Restated 2011 2010 Underwriting divisions Underwriting, claims and reinsurance 672 631 Administration and support 371 336 Central functions Operations 258 193 Finance 152 117 Internal audit and compliance 16 12 1,469 1,289 144 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 Restated 2011 2010 By location UK 909 791 Bermuda 40 33 Continental Europe excluding UK 510 457 Singapore 10 7 US 1 1,469 1,289 Comparative information for 2010 has been restated to reflect the use of average headcount figures instead of average full-time equivalents for Amlin Corporate Insurance N. V. to ensure consistency with the information reported by the rest of the Group.
The aggregate payroll costs incurred by Group companies are analysed as follows: 2011 2010 m m Wages and salaries 114.6 93.6 Employee incentive and related social security costs 9.5 28.3 Equity settled share options and awards granted to directors and employees note 28 3.8 3.1 Social security costs 13.8 11.1 Pension costs defined contribution schemes note 32 6.4 5.4 Pension costs defined benefit schemes note 32 4.2 1.9 152.3 143.4 12.
Finance costs 2011 2010 m m Letter of credit commission 2.2 2.1 Subordinated bond interest 20.3 21.7 Other similar charges 5.3 3.6 27.8 27.4 13.
Loss profit before tax Loss profit before tax is stated after charging the following amounts: 2011 2010 m m Depreciation owned assets note 21 5.3 3.5 Amortisation note 22 4.9 5.5 Operating lease expenditure note 35 9.0 9.7 Foreign exchange losses note 15 10.2 12.3 Fees paid to the Groups auditors during the year are set out below: 2011 2010 000 000 Amounts charged to the income statement Audit of the Groups annual accounts 255.5 266.5 Audit of subsidiary companies 1,081.6 730.7 Taxation advice 151.8 108.8 Market research 268.7 Other non-statutory fees 217.7 100.4 1,706.6 1,475.1 145 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2011 14.
Tax 2011 2010 m m Current tax current year Corporation tax 25.5 81.0 Foreign tax 4.8 3.6 Double tax relief 3.2 3.0 27.1 81.6 Current tax adjustments in respect of previous years Corporation tax 15.9 10.9 Deferred tax current year Movement for the year 61.9 38.8 Deferred tax adjustments in respect of previous years Movement for the year 10.4 7.9 Effect of reduced tax rate on opening net liability 4.0 2.5 6.4 5.4 Taxes on income 44.3 37.3 In addition to the above, tax of 6.4 million 2010: 4.6 million has been credited directly to other comprehensive income as follows: 2011 2010 m m Current tax on gains losses on revaluation of hedge instruments 0.1 5.3 Current tax on foreign exchange losses on translation of overseas operations 2.0 2.1 Deferred tax on defined benefit pension fund actuarial losses gains 4.5 2.8 Taxes credited to other comprehensive income 6.4 4.6 In addition to the above, tax of 1.0 million 2010: 0.4 million has been charged directly to reserves as follows: 2011 2010 m m Deferred tax on employee share option scheme 1.0 0.4 Taxes charged to reserves 1.0 0.4 Underwriting profits and losses are recognised in the technical account on an annual accounting basis, recognising the results in the period in which they are earned.
UK corporation tax on Syndicate 2001s underwriting result is charged in the period in which the underwriting profits are actually paid by the Syndicate to the corporate member subsidiary.
This creates a deferred tax position.
Deferred tax is provided on the underwriting result with reference to the forecast ultimate result of each of the years of account.
Where this is a taxable loss, deferred tax is only provided on the movement on that year of account to the extent that forecasts show that the taxable loss will be utilised in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax before netting off has been provided on the underwriting result for this accounting period of 10.5 million 2010: 68.9 million.
Reconciliation of tax expense The UK standard rate of corporation tax is 26.5% 2010: 28.0%, whereas the tax charged for the year ended 31 December 2011 as a percentage of loss before tax is 22.9% 2010: 14.4%.
The reasons for this difference are explained below: 2011 2011 2010 2010 m % m % Loss profit before tax 193.8 259.2 Taxation on loss profit on ordinary activities at the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 51.4 26.5 72.6 28.0 Non-deductible or non-taxable items 4.1 2.1 0.7 0.2 Tax rate differences on overseas subsidiaries 10.9 5.6 29.7 11.5 Over provision in respect of prior periods 5.5 2.8 3.0 1.2 Irrecoverable overseas tax 1.6 0.8 0.6 0.3 Deferred tax rate change 4.0 2.1 2.5 1.0 Taxes on income 44.3 22.9 37.3 14.4 146 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 The Groups reinsurance subsidiary, Amlin Bermuda Ltd, was re-domiciled from Bermuda to Switzerland during 2010 and renamed Amlin AG.
The company now operates in Switzerland as Amlin Re Europe, with the Bermudian business operating as a branch.
The Groups tax provision for 2011 has been prepared on the basis that Amlin AG is non-UK resident for UK corporation tax purposes and is exempt from the UK controlled foreign company regime.
The corporation tax rate for profits earned by the Bermudian branch of Amlin AG is currently nil% 2010: nil%.
The combined rate which is applicable to profits arising for the Swiss operation only, of Swiss cantonal and federal taxes is 21.2% 2010: 21.2% Deferred tax has been provided for at the local tax rate in force when the temporary differences are expected to reverse.
The Budgets in June 2010 and March 2011 announced a change in the main rate of UK corporation tax.
The UK tax rate applied for deferred tax purposes 25.0% was enacted in July 2011.
Further reductions in the UK corporation tax rate have been announced, which will ultimately reduce the corporation tax rate to 23.0%.
These subsequent reductions have not yet been enacted or substantively enacted and therefore the rate at which deferred tax is provided remains 25.0% in accordance with IAS 12.
The estimated impact of the reduction from 25.0% to 23.0% will be a reduction in the net deferred tax liability of 4.2 million 2010: 2.6 million.
The Group is subject to US tax on US underwriting profits.
No provision has been made in respect of such tax arising in 2011 2010: nil as any net provision is likely to be immaterial.
Deferred tax The deferred tax asset is attributable to temporary differences arising on the following: Provisions Other Pension Other timing for losses provisions provisions differences Total m m m m m At 1 January 2010 0.2 5.7 6.5 16.7 29.1 Movements in the year 13.6 4.8 6.5 16.7 14.4 At 31 December 2010 13.8 0.9 14.7 Movement in the year 24.6 4.2 8.0 24.6 12.2 At 31 December 2011 38.4 5.1 8.0 24.6 26.9 The deferred tax liability is attributable to temporary differences arising on the following: Underwriting Unrealised Syndicate Other timing results capital gains capacity differences Intangibles Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2010 96.5 4.4 6.1 0.7 17.3 125.0 Movements in the year 53.0 9.3 0.8 8.3 2.6 37.2 At 31 December 2010 43.5 13.7 6.9 9.0 14.7 87.8 Movement in the year 33.0 6.2 0.2 2.7 3.3 45.4 At 31 December 2011 10.5 7.5 6.7 6.3 11.4 42.4 A deferred tax asset of 23.9 million 2010: 26.6 million liability settled is expected to be recovered after more than 12 months from the balance sheet date.
147 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2011 15.
Net foreign exchange losses The Group recognised net foreign exchange losses of 10.2 million 2010: 12.3 million in the income statement during the year.
The Group writes business in many currencies and although a large proportion of the Groups balance sheet assets and liabilities are matched, minimising the effect of movements in foreign exchange rates on the Groups result, it is not practical to match exactly all assets and liabilities in currency.
Accounting standards also require that certain classes of assets and liabilities be translated at different rates see foreign currency translation accounting policy.
Included within the Groups foreign exchange losses in the income statement are: 2011 2010 m m Net losses on underwriting transactions and translation of underwriting assets and liabilities at closing rates 5.9 5.8 Underwriting exchange losses 5.9 5.8 Losses on long-term US dollar borrowings 0.2 2.0 Net losses on non-underwriting transactions and translation of non-underwriting assets and liabilities at closing rates 4.1 4.5 Non-underwriting exchange losses 4.3 6.5 10.2 12.3 The above excludes foreign exchange gains losses in relation to financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss.
In addition, the following exchange movements have been charged directly to other comprehensive income: 2011 2010 m m Losses gains on translation of overseas operations: Amlin Bermuda 0.2 27.8 Amlin Singapore 0.3 0.2 Amlin France 0.1 0.2 Amlin Corporate Insurance N. V. 6.4 7.7 Amlin Re Europe 0.6 Solo Absolute Bonds & Currency Fund 30.5 36.7 20.5 Gains losses on derivative instruments that hedge investments in overseas operations 2.4 4.2 Losses on translation of intangibles arising from investments in overseas operations 2.2 2.9 36.5 13.4 16.
Cash and cash equivalents 2011 2010 m m Cash and cash in hand 132.9 66.9 Short-term deposits 123.5 14.6 256.4 81.5 Cash and cash equivalents represent cash at bank and in hand, short-term bank deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments that are subject to insignificant risk of changes in fair value.
148 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 17.
Financial assets and financial liabilities Restated At valuation At valuation At cost At cost 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m Assets Financial assets held for trading at fair value through income Shares and other variable yield securities 203.3 347.1 194.1 306.5 Debt and other fixed income securities 2,728.1 2,876.9 2,896.2 2,811.2 Property funds 117.3 60.2 120.0 64.7 Derivative instruments 19.4 4.8 4.9 5.2 Other financial assets at fair value through income Participation in investment pools 1,000.2 984.7 1,000.3 976.0 Deposits with credit institutions 9.8 9.5 Other 2.7 8.0 2.7 7.9 Available for sale financial assets Unlisted equities 4.2 9.0 4.0 9.0 Other Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 5.2 9.6 Total financial assets 4,080.4 4,310.1 4,222.2 4,190.0 Liabilities Financial liability held for trading as fair value through income Derivative instruments 8.5 1.4 1.3 Other Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 2.5 8.3 Total financial liabilities 11.0 9.7 1.3 Net financial assets 4,069.4 4,300.4 4,222.2 4,188.7 Debt and other fixed income securities include pooled funds, and other fixed income securities.
The valuation of these funds is 1,348.7 million 2010: 1,523.5 million.
Included in these funds at 31 December 2011 is 75.4 million 2010: nil in respect of the Leadenhall Value Insurance Linked Investments Fund and the Leadenhall Diversified Insurance Linked Investments Fund.
The Group ceased to consolidate these funds with effect from 1 June 2011 and 2 August 2011 respectively, with additional external investment resulting in the disposal of the Groups controlling interests by way of dilution.
Participation in investment pools includes units held in money market funds.
The Group holds hedged and non-hedged derivatives.
Hedged derivatives are designated at inception and qualify for hedge accounting under IAS 39.
Non-hedged derivatives either do not qualify for hedge accounting or the option to hedge account has not been taken.
Improvements have been made to the disclosure of 2010 comparative values for derivative financial instruments, previously included within other financial assets at fair value through income, in order to better reflect their classification under IFRS.
There is no impact on the total value of derivative financial instruments and net financial assets at 31 December 2010.
Derivative instruments include margins and collateral of 10.9 million 2010: 1.2 million.
Details are included in note 29.
The reconciliation of opening and closing financial investments is as follows: 2011 2010 m m At 1 January 4,300.4 3,965.0 Exchange gains losses 7.1 47.0 Net sales purchases 215.9 214.1 Net realised gains on assets held for trading or other than trading 38.3 31.0 Net unrealised losses gains on assets held for trading or other than trading 58.5 77.1 Net unrealised gains on assets designated as available for sale 0.2 Assets of operation previously classified as held for sale 64.4 Asset recognised as associate 4.6 Net realised and unrealised gains losses on derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 2.4 4.2 At 31 December 4,069.4 4,300.4 149 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2011 18.
Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets 2011 2010 Insurance Insurance contract Reinsurance Net contract Reinsurance Net liabilities share liabilities liabilities share liabilities Claims reserves m m m m m m At 1 January 2,631.9 383.1 2,248.8 2,431.4 421.1 2,010.3 Claims incurred during the current year 1,948.1 336.1 1,612.0 1,313.6 98.0 1,215.6 Movements arising from prior year claims 78.5 34.1 112.6 145.0 11.5 156.5 Claims paid during the year 1,234.1 119.3 1,114.8 977.3 147.0 830.3 Novation of liability 2.0 0.4 1.6 Accretion of fair value adjustment 4.8 0.8 4.0 4.0 0.7 3.3 Other movements 9.4 10.5 19.9 3.2 3.2 Exchange adjustments 8.0 7.3 0.7 7.2 4.0 11.2 At 31 December 3,273.6 617.0 2,656.6 2,631.9 383.1 2,248.8 Further information on the calculation of claims reserves and the risks associated with them is provided in the risk disclosures in note 3.
Claims reserves are further analysed between notified outstanding claims and incurred but not reported claims below: 2011 2010 Insurance Insurance contract Reinsurance Net contract Reinsurance Net liabilities share liabilities liabilities share liabilities Claims reserves m m m m m m Notified outstanding claims 2,288.4 385.8 1,902.6 1,892.4 271.0 1,621.4 Claims incurred but not reported 985.2 231.2 754.0 739.5 112.1 627.4 Insurance contracts claims reserve 3,273.6 617.0 2,656.6 2,631.9 383.1 2,248.8 The current and non-current portions for claims reserves are expected to be as follows: 2011 2010 Insurance Insurance contract Reinsurance Net contract Reinsurance Net liabilities share liabilities liabilities share liabilities Claims reserves m m m m m m Current portion 1,175.0 189.6 985.4 1,047.2 129.6 917.6 Non-current portion 2,098.6 427.4 1,671.2 1,584.7 253.5 1,331.2 3,273.6 617.0 2,656.6 2,631.9 383.1 2,248.8 2011 2010 Insurance Insurance contract Reinsurance Net contract Reinsurance Net liabilities share liabilities liabilities share liabilities Unearned premium reserves m m m m m m At 1 January 914.4 55.3 859.1 744.8 52.8 692.0 Premiums written during the year 2,304.1 290.9 2,013.2 2,172.5 262.2 1,910.3 Premiums earned during the year 2,223.2 295.8 1,927.4 2,002.4 254.3 1,748.1 Other movements 0.5 0.1 0.6 4.0 4.0 Exchange adjustments 3.2 0.1 3.3 0.5 1.4 0.9 At 31 December 998.0 50.4 947.6 914.4 55.3 859.1 150 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 The current and non-current portions for unearned premium reserves are expected to be as follows: 2011 2010 Insurance Insurance contract Reinsurance Net contract Reinsurance Net liabilities share liabilities liabilities share liabilities Unearned premium reserves m m m m m m Current portion 870.2 39.0 831.2 865.3 45.5 819.8 Non-current portion 127.8 11.4 116.4 49.1 9.8 39.3 998.0 50.4 947.6 914.4 55.3 859.1 In connection with the purchase accounting for the acquisition of Amlin Corporate Insurance N. V. the Group adjusted claims reserves and related reinsurance recoveries to fair value on acquisition.
The reduction to the original carrying value of 39.1 million and 6.4 million to claims reserves and reinsurance recoveries respectively is being recognised through a charge to the income statement over the period the claims are settled.
This net charge is 4.0 million in 2011 2010: net charge 3.3 million.
The fair value was based on the present value of the expected cash flows with consideration for the uncertainty inherent in both the timing of, and the ultimate amount of, future payments for losses and receipts of amounts recoverable from reinsurers.
The nominal amounts were discounted to their present value using an applicable risk-free discount rate.
The total reinsurers share of claims reserves and unearned premium reserves is set out in the table below: 2011 2010 m m Reinsurers share of insurance liabilities 686.8 454.4 Less provision for impairment of receivables from reinsurers 19.4 16.0 Reinsurance assets 667.4 438.4 The Group assesses its reinsurance assets for impairment on a quarterly basis by reviewing counterparty payment history and credit grades provided by rating agencies.
The credit ratings of the Groups reinsurance assets are shown in note 3.2.
As at 31 December 2011 there were no reinsurance assets greater than 3 months overdue 2010: 4.0 million, which were fully provided for.
The Group holds collateral of 226.5 million 2010: 124.5 million in relation to reinsurance assets.
The Group has recognised a total net impairment loss of 0.1 million 2010: 11.4 million on reinsurance assets and insurance and reinsurance receivables.
The carrying amounts disclosed are reasonably approximate to the fair value at the reporting date.
Loans and receivables, including insurance and reinsurance receivables 2011 2010 m m Receivables arising from insurance and reinsurance contracts 953.5 820.1 Less provision for impairment of receivables from contract holders and agents 20.0 24.5 Insurance and reinsurance receivables 933.5 795.6 Other receivables 51.6 39.4 Prepayments and other accrued income 17.4 48.7 Other loans and receivables 69.0 88.1 1,002.5 883.7 The current and non-current portions are expected to be as follows: Restated 2011 2010 m m Current portion 932.5 857.1 Non-current portion 70.0 26.6 1,002.5 883.7 Comparative information for 2010 has been restated to reflect the correct classification of certain non-current reinsurance receivables, which were incorrectly disclosed within the current portion of loans and receivables in the prior period.
There is no impact on the total value of loans and receivables at 31 December 2010.
151 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2011 19.
Loans and receivables, including insurance and reinsurance receivables continued Receivables arising from reinsurance contracts are comprised principally of amounts recoverable from reinsurers in respect of paid claims and premium receivables on inward reinsurance business, including reinstatement premium.
The Group assesses its insurance and reinsurance receivables for impairment on a quarterly basis by reviewing counterparty payment history and for circumstances which may give rise to a dispute or default.
As of 31 December 2011 insurance and reinsurance receivables at a nominal value of 50.5 million 2010: 117.2 million were greater than 3 months overdue and provided for on the basis of credit rating to the value of 11.3 million 2010: 24.2 million.
The carrying amounts disclosed above are reasonably approximate to the fair value at the reporting date.
The ageing analysis of insurance and reinsurance receivables overdue, before impairment provision, is as follows: 2011 2010 m m 3 to 6 months 10.9 18.9 6 to 9 months 14.6 14.0 Greater than 9 months 25.0 84.3 50.5 117.2 The Netherlands and Belgium business of Amlin Corporate Insurance N. V. does not currently produce an ageing report for insurance receivables due to the interaction of local market practice and the offices internal systems.
The total level of insurance receivables in the Netherlands and Belgium is 88.4 million 2010: 90.3 million.
The provision for non-recovery is 5.0 million 2010: 3.2 million.
Other receivables comprise principally of amounts receivable from investment managers for financial investments sold, input VAT and other sundry receivables.
Deferred acquisition costs The reconciliation of opening and closing deferred acquisition costs is as follows: Restated m At 1 January 2010 145.8 Expense deferred 378.7 Amortisation 339.1 Exchange adjustment 0.4 At 31 December 2010 185.8 Expense deferred 401.7 Amortisation 380.2 Exchange adjustment 0.4 At 31 December 2011 207.7 The current and non-current portions are expected to be as follows: 2011 2010 m m Current portion 182.1 176.0 Non-current portion 25.6 9.8 207.7 185.8 The comparative information for 2010 in respect of expenses deferred and amortisation has been restated to more appropriately reflect the pattern of deferral and amortisation of acquisition costs.
There is no impact on the total value of deferred acquisition costs at 31 December 2010.
152 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 21.
Property and equipment Fixtures, fittings and Freehold land Computer leasehold and buildings Motor vehicles equipment improvements Total m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2011 4.1 0.2 30.9 11.3 46.5 Foreign exchange losses 0.3 0.1 0.4 Additions 2.7 0.1 6.3 3.6 12.7 Acquisition through business combination 0.1 0.2 0.3 Disposals 0.2 0.1 0.6 0.9 At 31 December 2011 6.8 0.1 36.9 14.4 58.2 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2011 0.3 0.1 24.9 8.7 34.0 Foreign exchange gains 0.2 0.2 Charge for the year 4.0 1.3 5.3 Disposals 0.1 0.1 0.6 0.8 At 31 December 2011 0.3 28.8 9.2 38.3 Net book value At 31 December 2011 6.5 0.1 8.1 5.2 19.9 At 1 January 2011 3.8 0.1 6.0 2.6 12.5 Fixtures, fittings and Freehold land Computer leasehold and buildings Motor vehicles equipment improvements Total m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2010 4.1 0.2 26.8 9.9 41.0 Foreign exchange losses 0.2 0.2 Additions 4.7 1.5 6.2 Disposals 0.4 0.1 0.5 At 31 December 2010 4.1 0.2 30.9 11.3 46.5 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2010 0.3 0.1 22.7 8.0 31.1 Foreign exchange gains 0.2 0.2 Charge for the year 2.8 0.7 3.5 Disposals 0.4 0.4 At 31 December 2010 0.3 0.1 24.9 8.7 34.0 Net book value At 31 December 2010 3.8 0.1 6.0 2.6 12.5 At 1 January 2010 3.8 0.1 4.1 1.9 9.9 There were no assets held under finance lease and hire purchase contracts at 31 December 2011 2010: nil.
153 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2011 22.
Intangible assets Broker and Syndicate customer Computer Other Goodwill participations relationships software intangibles Total m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2011 62.2 63.2 51.1 17.4 2.5 196.4 Additions 25.7 25.7 Acquisition through business combination 16.3 16.3 Adjustments to prior acquisitions 0.5 0.5 Foreign exchange losses 1.0 0.8 0.5 2.3 At 31 December 2011 77.0 63.2 50.3 42.6 2.5 235.6 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2011 0.4 10.3 1.2 11.9 Charge for the year 4.4 0.5 4.9 Foreign exchange gains 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2011 0.4 14.6 1.7 16.7 Net book value At 31 December 2011 76.6 63.2 35.7 42.6 0.8 218.9 At 1 January 2011 61.8 63.2 40.8 17.4 1.3 184.5 Broker and Syndicate customer Computer Other Goodwill participations relationships software intangibles Total m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2010 64.3 63.2 39.3 2.5 169.3 Additions 17.4 17.4 Acquisition through business combination 13.0 13.0 Adjustments to prior acquisitions 0.4 0.4 Foreign exchange losses 1.7 1.2 2.9 At 31 December 2010 62.2 63.2 51.1 17.4 2.5 196.4 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2010 0.4 5.4 0.7 6.5 Charge for the year 5.0 0.5 5.5 Foreign exchange gain 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2010 0.4 10.3 1.2 11.9 Net book value At 31 December 2010 61.8 63.2 40.8 17.4 1.3 184.5 At 1 January 2010 63.9 63.2 33.9 1.8 162.8 Additions to goodwill during the year of 16.3 million relate to the acquisitions of J R Clare Underwriting Agencies Limited 4.8 million and Lead Yacht Underwriters Limited 11.5 million.
Further details on these acquisitions are provided in note 39.
Syndicate participations represent the ongoing rights to trade on Syndicate 2001 within the Lloyds insurance market.
Broker and customer relationship intangibles include those acquired in relation to AUA Insolvency Risk Services Limited, Amlin Corporate Insurance N. V. ACI and Amlin France Holdings SAS, the net book value being 11.0 million 2010: 12.1 million, 21.7 million 2010: 24.0 million and 3.0 million 2010: 4.7 million respectively.
These intangibles are being amortised over a period of 13, 15 and 5 years respectively, and their remaining amortisation life is 12, 13 and 2 years respectively.
Computer software represents the costs that the Group has incurred on internally developed software relating to a new underwriting platform for ACI.
It is expected that this software will be amortised over ten years from the date that it is completed.
Goodwill and the intangible asset in relation to syndicate participations are considered to have an indefinite life.
As such, they are tested for impairment annually.
Computer software is also tested for impairment annually on the basis that it is not yet ready for use.
All other intangible assets are tested for impairment only if an indication exists that the asset may be impaired at the reporting date.
154 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 For the purpose of impairment testing, intangible assets are allocated to the Groups cash-generating units CGUs, identified according to the way in which management operates and monitors the business.
The intangible asset relating to the syndicate participations supports the underwriting in Amlin London, Amlin UK and Amlin France.
In 2010 this intangible asset was not allocated to these three CGUs and the impairment testing was performed based on aggregate Syndicate 2001 profit forecasts.
In 2011, following improvements to the Groups impairment testing methodology, the syndicate participations intangible asset has been allocated to the three CGUs on the basis of the benefit expected to be derived from the asset.
The analysis of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets by CGU is shown below: 2011 2010 m m Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin Corporate Amlin Amlin Corporate 1 London Amlin UK France Insurance Total London France Insurance Total Goodwill 19.2 4.8 24.0 28.6 76.6 7.6 25.0 29.2 61.8 Syndicate participations 51.7 10.7 0.8 63.2 63.2 70.9 15.5 24.8 28.6 139.8 7.6 25.0 29.2 125.0 1 The Amlin London goodwill balance comprises the goodwill from three cash-generating units.
The largest individual balance is the goodwill from the acquisition of Lead Yacht Underwriters Limited totalling 11.5 million 2010: nil.
When testing for impairment, the recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on value in use calculations.
Value in use is calculated for each CGU using a discounted cash flow projection based on business plans and growth assumptions approved by management and discounted at an appropriate discount rate.
Key assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: Cash flow projections are based on the budgeted operating profit for each CGU contained within the most recent business plans approved by management, and adjusted for non-cash items such as depreciation.
As such, these forecasts reflect the best estimate of future cash flows based on historical trends and expected growth rates.
The period covered by the projections is 5 years.
The most significant assumptions used to derive the operating profit include an assessment of the market cycle, retention rates, claims inflation, outwards reinsurance expenditure and long-term investment return.
In order to extrapolate future cash flows beyond the business plan period, a long term average growth rate of 2.5% has been assumed for all CGUs, based on historical growth rates and managements estimates of future growth.
A risk adjusted pre-tax discount rate of 8.5%, has been applied to each CGUs cash flow projection, which reflects a combination of factors including the Groups expected return on equity and costs of borrowing.
In each case, the results of this exercise indicate that the recoverable amount exceeds the intangible assets carrying value and would not be sensitive to reasonable possible changes in assumptions.
Associates and joint venture a Associates i Miles Smith Holding Limited MS Holding During 2011, Amlin Corporate Services Limiteds ACS investment in Miles Smith Limited MS Limited of 19.9% was transferred to MS Holding, via a share swap agreement.
At the same time MS Holding acquired the entire share capital of MS Limited.
MS Holding subsequently increased its share capital through a rights issue in which ACS acquired an additional 12,552 of voting and non-voting shares for 1.1 million, thereby increasing its shareholding to 25.8% of the voting shares and the total value of the investment to 5.6 million.
MS Limited is an insurance broker, and MS Holding operates as a holding entity.
Summary consolidated financial information for MS Holding at 31 December 2011 is as follows: 2011 m Assets 27.0 Liabilities 23.7 Revenues 4.6 Loss for the year 0.3 Groups share of loss 0.1 Groups carrying value of investment 5.6 GWP sourced by entity on behalf of Syndicate 2001 24.1 Groups net insurance receivables from the associate 0.6 Groups loans to the associate 0.5 Loan stock issued to the Group by the associate 0.7 155 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2011 23.
Associates and joint venture continued The loan to MS Holding is repayable in three instalments, with the final instalment due on 31 December 2014.
Interest is charged at 4.0% over the 3 month LIBOR.
The 0.7 million loan stock was issued by the associate during 2011 in place of an existing 0.7 million loan.
The conversion date is 31 December 2015.
Interest is accrued at 5% over 5 year gilts.
No amounts were provided for doubtful recovery of these receivables and no expense was recognised during the year in respect of bad or doubtful debts from MS Holding.
ii Manchester Underwriting Management Limited MUM During 2010 Amlin Corporate Services Limited invested 0.5 million to acquire a 25.0% share of the voting rights in MUM.
MUM was established as a managing general agent and is initially underwriting professional indemnity insurance.
The majority of the business written by MUM is underwritten by Amlin UK.
Summary financial information for MUM at 31 December is as follows: 2011 2010 m m Assets 0.4 0.5 Liabilities 0.4 0.1 Revenues 0.6 0.2 Loss for the year 0.5 0.6 Groups share of loss 0.1 Groups carrying value of investment 0.5 0.5 GWP sourced by entity on behalf of Syndicate 2001 3.2 1.1 Groups net insurance receivables from the associate 0.2 Groups loans to the associate 0.2 The loan to MUM is repayable in full on 31 December 2014.
Interest is charged at 5.1% above the Bank of England base rate.
No amounts were provided for doubtful recovery of this receivable and no expense was recognised during the year in respect of bad or doubtful debts from MUM.
b Joint venture Amlin Corporate Services Limited has an investment of 2.2 million 2010: 1.7 million in a joint venture, Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP LCP.
LCP was established in 2008 as a new asset management company focused on insurance linked investments.
LCP is incorporated in England and Wales.
The Group holds 50.0% of the voting rights.
The Group has a contractual commitment to pay up to US$7.0 million to support the operations of the agency.
At 31 December 2011 2.5 million 2010: 2.0 million has been drawn.
Summary financial information for LCP at 31 December is as follows: 2011 2010 m m Assets 5.3 4.8 Liabilities 2.2 1.9 Revenues 2.9 2.6 Profit for the year 0.7 0.6 Groups share of profit 0.1 Groups carrying value of investment 2.2 1.7 Groups funds under management of LCP 75.4 74.9 Management fees charged to Group 2.3 2.6 Service agreement charged by Group 0.5 0.4 Groups receivables from LCP 1.6 1.2 All of LCPs assets and liabilities are classified as current.
No amounts were provided for doubtful recovery of the receivable from LCP and no expense was recognised during the year in respect of bad or doubtful debts from LCP.
156 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 24.
Share capital Authorised share capital 2011 2011 2010 2010 Number m Number m Allotted, called up and fully paid ordinary shares At 1 January issued ordinary shares of 28.125p each 2010: 28.125p 502,076,006 141.2 502,076,006 141.2 At 31 December issued ordinary shares of 28.125p each 2010: 28.125p 502,076,006 141.2 502,076,006 141.2 The Company transferred 488,309 shares out of treasury at a cost of 1.2 million 2010: 1,228,723 shares at a cost of 3.3 million.
The shares have been transferred to meet exercises of employee share options, leaving 5,387,392 shares in Treasury at 31 December 2011 2010: 5,875,701 shares.
Earnings and net assets per share Basic and diluted earnings per share are as follows: 2011 2010 Loss profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent Company 149.9m 221.8m Weighted average number of shares in issue 494.1m 493.0m 1 Dilutive shares 6.6m Adjusted average number of shares in issue 494.1m 499.6m Basic earnings per share 30.3p 45.0p Diluted earnings per share 30.3p 44.4p 1 5.8 million potential ordinary shares have not been treated as dilutive as their conversion to ordinary shares would decrease the loss per share.
Net assets and tangible net assets per share are as follows: 2011 2010 Net assets 1,420.4m 1,729.9m Adjustments for intangible assets 218.9m 184.5m Tangible net assets 1,201.5m 1,545.4m Number of shares in issue at end of the year 502.1m 502.1m Adjustment for ESOT and treasury shares 7.6m 8.7m Basic number of shares after ESOT and treasury shares adjustment 494.5m 493.4m Basic net assets per share 287.2p 350.6p Basic tangible net assets per share 243.0p 313.2p 26.
Other comprehensive income All items of other comprehensive income in 2011 and 2010 are charged to Other reserves.
Other reserves are comprised of 45.7 million 2010: 45.7 million being the cumulative amount of goodwill written off to reserves on acquisitions prior to January 1999, a capital redemption reserve, charges for share options issued, deferred tax and current tax see note 14, cumulative foreign exchange gains of 65.1 million 2010: 104.0 million on investments in overseas operations and 47.2 million 2010: 49.6 million cumulative losses on hedges of investments in overseas operations.
157 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2011 27.
Dividends The amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders are as follows: 2011 2010 m m Group Final dividend for the year ended: 31 December 2010 of 15.8 pence per ordinary share 78.0 31 December 2009 of Amlin Plus Limited to minority shareholders 0.1 Interim dividend for the year ended: 31 December 2011 of 7.2 pence per ordinary share 35.6 31 December 2010 of 7.2 pence per ordinary share 35.6 Second interim dividend for the year ended: 31 December 2009 of 13.5 pence per ordinary share 66.8 113.6 102.5 The final ordinary dividend of 15.8 pence per ordinary share for 2011, amounting to 78.1 million, payable in cash, was agreed by the Board on 2 March 2012, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM 17 May 2012, and has not been included as a liability as at 31 December 2011.
Share options and share-based incentive awards During the year ended 31 December 2011 the Group operated a number of long-term employee incentive schemes.
The total cost recognised in the income statement under IFRS 2: Share-based payment for the Groups share-based payment arrangements is shown below: 2011 2010 m m Equity settled schemes 3.8 3.1 Cash settled scheme Capital Builder Plan 6.2 Total income expense arising from share-based payments 2.4 3.1 a Equity settled schemes i Share options Details of the Groups executive and all employee share option schemes are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
A summary of the status and the changes to new or treasury shares under option during the year were as follows: Weighted average Restated weighted Number exercise price Restated average exercise of shares per share number of shares price per share 2011 pence 2010 pence Outstanding at 1 January 2,463,133 267.00 3,384,274 244.00 Granted during the year 1,108,929 247.00 448,975 334.00 Exercised during the year 488,309 227.00 1,288,723 228.00 Expired during the year 7,770 108.00 16,959 293.00 Forfeited during the year 403,177 318.00 64,434 280.00 Total shares outstanding at 31 December 2,672,806 258.00 2,463,133 267.00 Total shares exercisable at 31 December 940,818 246.00 1,184,572 238.00 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was 360.00 pence 2010: 407.00 pence.
The following table summarises information about options outstanding at the end of the year: Number of Weighted average Restated number Restated weighted outstanding remaining of outstanding average remaining shares under contractual life shares under contractual life Range of exercise prices option 2011 years option 2010 years 0.76 1.11 29,096 0.90 89,688 1.70 1.12 1.62 268,038 2.80 348,776 3.70 1.63 2.46 216,455 1.60 457,682 2.20 2.47 2.93 1,817,551 4.00 872,135 4.70 2.94 3.34 341,666 2.80 694,852 3.90 Corrections have been made to the comparative information in respect of the total shares outstanding and exercisable in 2010, which have been restated by 6,430 and 13,870 shares respectively.
The comparative information for 2010 in respect of the numbers of shares under option and the weighted average remaining contractual life has also been restated accordingly.
158 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 ii Share awards Details of the Groups share awards are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report in the Governance section.
At 31 December 2011, the total awards over new or treasury shares outstanding, or committed to be met by the Groups Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT, or shares held in Trust under these schemes are summarised below: Number of Number of shares under shares under conditional award conditional award 2011 Vesting period 2010 Vesting period LTIP grants 3,592,717 2011 to 2014 2,887,977 2011 to 2013 PSP grants 2,549,456 2011 to 2016 2,216,940 2011 to 2015 SIP grants 1,899,117 2010 to 2014 1,803,998 2010 to 2013 Amlin Special 74,167 2012 to 2014 61,470 2011 to 2013 The comparative information on SIP grants have been restated by 257,239 shares.
iii Modifications to share-based payment arrangements LTIP and PSP awards are normally exercisable from three and five years after grant respectively.
During 2010, the period for rewards exercised following these vesting periods was extended from 6 to 30 months.
The effect of these modifications on the fair value of awards granted was not material.
There have been no modifications to share-based payment arrangements in 2011. iv Options from the ESOT The trustee of the ESOT held 2,179,168 ordinary shares as at 31 December 2011 2010: 2,811,679 ordinary shares to meet potential future exercises of executive awards and long term incentive plans.
The ESOT shares are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The market value of Amlin plc ordinary shares on the last trading day of the year being 30 December 2011 was 313.9 pence per share 2010: 408.9 pence per share.
The assets, liabilities, income and costs of the ESOT are incorporated into the consolidated financial statements.
The ESOT waives the right to dividends on ordinary shares in excess of 0.01 pence per each share ranking for an interim or final dividend.
v Fair value of options and awards At 31 December 2011, the weighted average fair values of options and awards granted during the year were 29.49 pence per option and 163.22 pence per award respectively 2010: 56.17 pence and 189.02 pence.
The Black Scholes option pricing model has been used to determine the fair value of the option grants and share awards listed above.
The assumptions used in the model are as follows: 2011 2010 Weighted average share price on grant pence 346.66 249.63 Weighted average exercise price pence 271.86 194.21 Expected volatility 30.00% 30.00% Expected life years 3.00 7.50 3.00 7.50 Risk free rate of return 1.50% 5.00% 2.00% 5.00% Expected dividend yield 2.00% 7.00% 2.00% 7.00% Volatility The volatility of Amlin plcs share price is calculated as a normalised standard deviation of the log of the daily return on the share price.
In estimating 30% volatility, the volatility of return for six months, one year and three year intervals are considered.
As a guide to the reasonableness of the volatility estimate similar calculations are performed on a selection of Amlins peer group.
159 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2011 28.
Share options and share-based incentive awards continued Interest rate The risk free interest rate is consistent with government bond yields.
Dividend yield The assumptions are consistent with the information given in the report and accounts for each relevant valuation year.
Staff turnover The option pricing calculations are split by staffing grades as staff turnover is higher for more junior grades.
Furthermore historical evidence suggests that senior employees tend to hold their options for longer whereas more junior levels within the organisation appear to exercise earlier.
In addition, senior employees hold a larger proportion of the options but represent a smaller group of individuals.
Market conditions The Group issues options that include targets for the Groups performance against a number of market and non-market conditions.
Failure to meet these targets can reduce the number of options exercisable.
In some circumstances no options may be exercised.
Assumptions are made about the likelihood of meeting the market and non-market conditions based on the outlook at the time of each option grant.
b Cash settled scheme The Group rewards senior underwriters through payments under the Capital Builder Plan the Plan if they achieve performance below the target loss ratio for their class es of business or business area over the five year period of each award under the Plan.
Under the scheme rules, the Group has the option to settle the awarded bonus in the shares of the Company as an alternative to cash payment.
In accordance with IFRS 2, the Plan is deemed to be a cash-settled share-based payment arrangement.
Provision for payments of an award under the Plan is calculated every year where actual profits exceed the target profit on a cumulative basis over the performance period to date under the Plan.
The rate of accrual for each five year performance period is determined at the start of the period reflecting the share of the excess return payable and committed under the terms of the Plan.
Under this approach, the services received and the related liability are recognised as the services are rendered, in that the liability at any point in time for the Plan reflects the level of actual performance by underwriters in relation to the target.
The carrying amount and the intrinsic value of the liability under this Plan at the end of 2011 are 3.4 million 2010: 8.7 million and included in note 30 for other payables.
The income in the year arising from the cash settled scheme reflects the movement in the provision of payments under the Capital Builder Plan, following performance below the Plans target.
Restricted funds held placed by the Group At 31 December 2011, the Group holds restricted funds in the form of trust fund investments, letter of credit LOC collaterals, initial margin calls on derivative financial instruments and collateral received from reinsurance counterparties.
Trust funds Syndicate 2001 holds gross assets of 3,131.2 million 2010: 2,839.8 million, matched by gross liabilities of 2,642.7 million 2010: 2,240.3 million, which are held within individual trust funds.
The Group cannot obtain or use these assets until such time as each Syndicate underwriting year is closed and profits are distributed, or an advance profit release is made.
Furthermore, 11.5 million 2010: 6.6 million of Amlin Singapore and Amlin Labuans assets are held within trust funds and restricted from use within the working capital of the Group until settlement has been made to Syndicate 2001.
Money market funds At 31 December 2011 Amlin AG recognises US$150.0 million 2010: US$nil of money market funds in relation to the sale of catastrophe linked instruments.
The use by the Group of the funds is restricted.
Details of the corresponding liability are included in note 31.
LOC facilities At 31 December 2011, US$211.8 million 2010: US$181.7 million of Amlin Bermudas assets are restricted for use by the Group.
These assets are collateral for the LOC facility drawn at the end of the year.
Details are included in note 31.
Financial assets and liabilities Derivative instruments traded across the Group give rise to collateral being placed with, or received from, external counterparties.
At 31 December 2011 the Group placed 3.4 million 2010: 0.1 million held of collateral in relation to over the counter options and 7.5 million 2010: 1.3 million in relation to listed futures.
Insurance and reinsurance collateral received At 31 December 2011 Syndicate 2001 recognised 0.9 million 2010: 1.9 million of cash drawn down from LOC facilities as a liability on the balance sheet.
This has been received from reinsurance counterparties as a guarantee for business written and is included within total funds held by Syndicate 2001.
Collateral of 161.4 million 2010: 228.1 million and 162.0 million 2010: 120.2 million is held in third party trust funds to guarantee Syndicate 2001 against insurance and reinsurance counterparties respectively.
Furthermore, collateral of 45.7 million 2010: 37.2 million and 17.1 million 2010: nil is held in third party trust funds as a guarantee against reinsurance counterparties to Amlin Bermuda and Amlin Re Europe respectively.
Collateral held in third party trust funds is not recognised as assets pertaining to the Group but is available for immediate drawdown in the event of a default.
160 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 Funds withheld as premium claim deposits At 31 December 2011 the Group had placed funds totalling 3.5 million 2010: 15.5 million as premium deposits and 2.5 million 2010: 1.2 million as claim deposits.
These funds are held by external brokers.
Funds in escrow At 31 December 2011 the Group holds 5.0 million 2010: nil of funds in an escrow account to meet any potential funding requirements of the Lloyds Superannuation Fund.
Further details are provided in note 32.
Other payables, including insurance and reinsurance payables and deferred income 2011 2010 m m Insurance and reinsurance payables 218.8 245.9 Trade payables 48.3 53.9 Accrued expenses 62.3 79.3 Social security and other tax payables 7.9 6.5 Other payables 118.5 139.7 337.3 385.6 The current and non-current portions are expected to be as follows: Restated 2011 2010 m m Current portion 239.3 280.0 Non-current portion 98.0 105.6 337.3 385.6 Comparative information for 2010 has been restated to reflect the correct classification of certain non-current payables, which were incorrectly disclosed within the current portion of other payables in the prior period.
There is no impact on the total value of other payables at 31 December 2010.
Insurance payables are comprised principally of premium payable for reinsurance, including reinstatement premium.
Borrowings 2011 2010 m m Subordinated debt 292.8 318.0 Catastrophe linked instrument 95.7 388.5 318.0 The borrowings in the above table are all non-current.
a Subordinated debt and credit facilities Details of the Groups three issues of subordinated debt are as follows: Interest rate to Interest rate from reset date reset date to maturity date Issue date Principal amount Reset date Maturity date % % 1 23 November 2004 US$50m November 2014 November 2019 7.11 LIBOR 3.48 1 15 March 2005 US$50m March 2015 March 2020 7.28 LIBOR 3.32 1 25 April 2006 230m December 2016 December 2026 6.50 LIBOR 2.66 1 Debt issued by Amlin plc The subordinated debt will be redeemed on the maturity dates at the principal amounts, together with any outstanding accrued interest.
The Group has the option to redeem the bonds in whole, subject to certain requirements, on the reset dates or any interest payment date thereafter at the principal amount plus any outstanding accrued interest.
In March 2011, Amlin plc purchased the rights and obligations in respect of the 30 million subordinated debt issued by Amlin Corporate Insurance N. V. ACI.
The directors estimation of the fair value of the Groups subordinated debt is 368.3 million 2010: 384.6 million.
The aggregate fair values are based on a discounted cash flow model.
This model uses a current yield curve appropriate for the remaining terms to maturity.
161 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2011 31.
Borrowings continued On 3 September 2008 the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into a renegotiated debt facility with its banks which is available for five years from the date of signing and provides an unsecured 250 million multicurrency revolving credit facility available by way of cash advances and a secured US$200 million letter of credit LOC.
The facility is guaranteed by the Companys subsidiaries Amlin Corporate Services Limited and Amlin Overseas Holdings Limited.
The secured LOC is secured by a fixed charge over a portfolio of assets managed by Insight Investment Management Global Limited with State Street Bank and Trust Company as custodian.
As at 31 December 2011 the facility was undrawn 2010: undrawn.
Amlin AG has a secured US$250 million LOC facility with Lloyds TSB Bank plc and the Royal Bank of Scotland plc as lead arrangers.
The facility is secured by a registered charge over a portfolio of assets managed by Aberdeen Asset Management Inc with State Street Bank and Trust Company as custodian.
As at 31 December 2011, US$194.7 million of LOC were issued 2010: US$174.6 million.
The total value of restricted assets as at 31 December 2011 was US$211.8 million 2010: US$181.7 million.
In June 2009, ACI entered into a credit facility with Fortis Bank Nederland N. V. as arranger.
The facility provides a guarantee to a third party of up to 10.0 million and a guarantee standby LOC for up to 22.5 million.
As at 31 December 2011, 28.5 million of guarantees were issued 2010: 28.7 million.
There are no restricted assets to secure the facility.
b Catastrophe linked instrument In December 2011 the Group issued a catastrophe linked instrument, which provides it with $150 million fully collateralised protection against extreme severity and or frequency of US perils and European windstorm events above a pre-set scale and in the aggregate in a calendar year.
The instrument has a duration of three years and will be redeemed on 31 December 2014.
The carrying amount disclosed above is reasonably approximate to the fair value at 31 December 2011.
Retirement benefit obligations The Group participates in a number of pension schemes, including defined benefit, defined contribution and personal pension schemes.
The total charge to the income statement for these schemes is shown in the table below: 2011 2010 m m Defined contribution schemes 6.4 5.4 Defined benefit schemes: Lloyds Superannuation Fund 1.1 0.2 Amlin Corporate Insurance N. V. ACI defined benefit schemes 4.5 2.1 Amlin Re Europe ARE defined benefit schemes 0.8 4.2 1.9 10.6 7.3 a Defined benefit schemes i The Lloyds Superannuation Fund funded defined benefit scheme Scheme description The scheme is operated as part of the Lloyds Superannuation Fund the Fund.
Historically the Fund has catered for a number of employers in the Lloyds market.
As a consequence of the consolidation in the market, employers closing final salary schemes and some companies failing, there are now only two 2010: three employers with active members in the Fund.
A large proportion of the liability of the Fund relates to employers no longer participating in the Fund.
The assets of the Fund are pooled and the current active employers are responsible collectively for the funding of the Fund as a whole.
For the purposes of determining contributions to be paid, the Trustee has split the Fund into a number of notional sections.
This is a notional split and has no legal force.
Previously this notional split allowed for separate sections in respect of each employers active members and one combined section for non-employed members of all current and former employers.
With effect from 31 December 2002, the Trustee altered this notional split so that, from that date, the active employers contributing to the Fund, including the Amlin Group, have individual notional sections comprising the notionally allocated assets in respect of their active employees, deferred pensioners and pensioners, and their corresponding liabilities.
A separate notional fund is maintained for members whose former employers no longer contribute to the Fund Orphan Schemes.
The Group is also liable for a proportion of the Orphan Schemes liabilities.
Since this alteration and the exit of other employers the Group has been able to more clearly identify its expected contribution requirement to the Fund and to ascertain its share of the assets and liabilities with sufficient certainty to account for the pension as a defined benefit scheme and bring the assets and liabilities of the scheme onto the balance sheet of the Group.
During the year the number of active employers participating in the Fund was reduced to two.
It is uncertain how the Trustee will allocate the revised Orphan Schemes liabilities between the two remaining employers.
However, the Groups share of the assets and liabilities of the Fund will increase and an actuarial estimate of the allocation has been included at 31 December 2011.
This has resulted in an increase in the defined benefit obligations of 34.0 million and an increase in the plan assets of 34.2 million, which are included in actuarial gains losses recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
162 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 Fund contributions Contributions are paid to provide for the cost of benefit accrual.
The rate of contribution agreed with the Trustee is 16% 2010: 19% paid by the employer plus 5% 2010: 5% member contributions, in each case of pensionable earnings, and totalled 2.8 million 2010: 0.9 million.
The expected contribution to the fund for the year ending 31 December 2012 is 2.6 million by the Group and 0.2 million by plan participants.
The total amounts paid in respect of the Fund are analysed in the table below: 2011 2010 m m Contributions relating to: Annual top up payment 2.0 Ongoing funding 0.6 0.7 Group share of total payment 2.6 0.7 Funding assessment assumptions The funding position of the Fund is assessed every three years by an independent qualified actuary.
Contributions are made at the funding rates recommended by the actuary, which vary across different sections of the Fund reflecting the notional sections then adopted, and typically include adjustments to amortise any funding surplus or shortfall over a period.
Amounts paid under the scheme are charged to Syndicate 2001 or other Group companies.
Actuarial amounts quoted below are for the Groups notional share of the scheme.
The last completed formal valuation of the Fund was as at 31 March 2010 and was completed in June 2011 by Mr R N Wharmby, Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries, and used the projected unit credit actuarial method.
On 30 June 2011, the Group agreed a schedule of contributions with the Trustee.
The schedule requires seven separate payments of 2.0 million to the Fund over a period of seven years.
The first payment was made in July 2011, with six further annual payments commencing on 31 March 2012.
The present value of the future payments has been recognised as a liability at 31 December 2011, to the extent that the contributions will not be available after they are paid into the Fund, as the Funds rules do not allow the Group to receive a refund of contributions in any circumstances.
The Group has also entered into an agreement with the Trustee to hold certain funds within an escrow account.
These funds would be transferred to the Trustee in full for the purpose of defined benefit funding if any one of a number of enforcement events within the agreement were to occur.
The Group made a payment of 5.0 million to the escrow account in July 2011.
Two further payments to the escrow account of 5.0 million and 4.0 million will be made in June 2012 and June 2013 respectively.
The Group considers it unlikely that any one of the enforcement events defined within the agreement will occur.
In both cases, the additional defined benefit funding is in respect of the Groups notional section of the notionally allocated assets and liabilities of the Fund.
For the purpose of providing disclosure in accordance with IAS 19, the Group has requested the actuary to update the 2010 valuation to 31 December 2011 using appropriate techniques and the following assumptions: 2011 2010 % pa % pa Price inflation 3.2 3.6 Rate of increase in pensions payment: LPI maximum 5% pa 3.1 3.5 LPI minimum 3% pa, maximum 5% pa 3.3 3.8 LPI maximum 3% pa 2.5 2.6 Rate of increase of statutory revaluation on deferred pension 2.2 2.9 Discount rate 4.8 5.4 During 2005 the Group reviewed its remaining defined benefit arrangements and made a number of changes to the schemes operations, which were implemented during 2006.
In particular, in order to remove much of the risk associated with salary inflation, the scheme was changed to allow members to continue accruing additional years service under the schemes, but these accruals would be generally based on March 2006 pensionable salaries.
Future salary increases are pensionable through the defined contribution schemes.
Therefore the salary inflation assumption used for the ongoing valuation is now nil% 2010: nil%.
In 2010 the UK Government announced that inflation measured by the Consumer Price Index CPI rather than the Retail Price Index RPI would be used as the measure for minimum increases to occupational pensions.
In accordance with the Funds revaluation rules, CPI has been used as an assumption in valuing the defined benefit obligation at 31 December 2011.
163 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2011 32.
Retirement benefit obligations continued The mortality assumptions used in the latest valuation included the following life expectancies: 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 Male Female Male Female Life expectancy years at age 60 for a member currently: Aged 60 27.7 29.2 25.5 28.5 Aged 45 29.7 30.8 26.8 29.6 The table below shows the impact on the defined benefit obligation that a change in certain key assumptions would have: Defined benefit obligation impact m Assumption change Increase decrease in discount rate by 0.25% 14 16 Decrease increase in inflation rate by 0.25% 7 7 Increase in floor mortality improvements for males of 1.5% and females of 1.25% per annum 4 ii ACI defined benefit plans Scheme description ACI operates defined benefit pension plans covering the majority of its employees.
These plans are funded partly by means of employee contributions.
Under these plans, benefits are based on years of service and level of salary.
Pension obligations are determined based on mortality, employee turnover, wage increases and economic assumptions such as inflation, value of plan assets and discount rate.
The discount rate is set on the basis of the yield on the valuation date of debt securities issued by blue-chip companies.
In addition to pension charges, costs of defined benefit plans also include other post-employment benefits such as reimbursement of part of the health insurance premiums and favourable conditions on financial products e. g. mortgage loans, which continue to be granted to employees after retirement.
Funding assessment assumptions The table below shows the actuarial assumptions used: The The Netherlands Belgium Netherlands Belgium 2011 2011 2010 2010 % % % % Discount rate for pension benefits 4.5 3.9 5.15 4.7 Discount rate for Jubilee benefits 3.8 3.4 4.0 3.8 Discount rate for farewell premium 3.6 4.4 Discount rate for post retirement medical 4.8 5.1 Expected return on plan assets 4.5 4.0 5.15 4.0 Expected wage increases general 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 Expected wage increases merit 0-6.75 1.5 0-6.75 1.5 Inflation 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 Indexation for active employees 2.0 2.0 Indexation for formerly active employees 2.0 2.0 Medical trend rate 4.0 4.0 The mortality assumptions used in the latest valuation included the following life expectancies: 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 The Netherlands Belgium The Netherlands Belgium Life expectancy years at age 60 for a member currently: Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Aged 60 24.5 27.4 22.1 25.9 24.5 27.4 22.1 25.9 Aged 45 26.6 28.4 22.1 25.9 26.6 28.4 22.1 25.9 164 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 The table below shows the impact on the defined benefit obligation that a change in certain key assumptions would have: Defined benefit obligation impact m Assumption change Increase decrease in discount rate by 0.25% 2.7 2.9 Decrease increase in inflation rate by 0.25% 2.4 1.9 Increase in floor mortality improvements for males of 1.5% and females of 1.0% per annum 0.2 Fund contributions The expected contribution to the funds during 2012 is 3.1 million 2011: 3.1 million by the Group, and 0.6 million 2011: 0.5 million by the plan participants.
iii ARE defined benefit plans Scheme description In Switzerland, ARE operates a pension scheme which meets the classification of a defined benefit plan under IAS 19.
In accordance with Swiss legislation, ARE provides for occupational pension insurance, the regulations of which, as may be amended from time to time, apply to both ARE and the employee.
The insured salary is based on the agreed compensation exclusive of bonus and or other benefits granted by ARE.
The employees pay a portion of the premiums determined in the applicable pension fund regulations.
Funding assessment assumptions The table below shows the actuarial assumptions used: 2011 % pa Price inflation 1.5 Expected return on plan assets 2.5 Expected wage increases 2.5 Discount rate 2.5 The mortality assumptions used in the latest valuation included the following life expectancies: 31 December 2011 Male Female Life expectancy years at age 60 for a member currently: Aged 60 26.0 28.7 Aged 45 27.5 30.1 The table below shows the impact on the defined benefit obligation that a change in certain key assumptions would have: Defined benefit obligation impact m Assumption change Increase decrease in discount rate by 0.25% 0.2 0.2 Decrease increase in inflation rate by 0.25% 0.1 0.1 Fund contributions The expected contribution to the funds during 2012 is 0.6 million by the Group, and 0.2 million by the plan participants.
iv Amounts recognised in the Groups financial statements for defined benefit schemes Amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of the defined benefit schemes are as follows: 2011 2010 m m Current service cost 3.7 2.5 Interest cost 19.4 19.7 Expected return on scheme assets 19.0 18.8 Reversal of provision for additional pension payments 1.5 Other 0.1 Total debited to income statement included in staff costs 4.2 1.9 165 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2011 32.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Amounts recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income are as follows: 2011 2010 m m Recognition of net losses gains 18.1 11.9 Ceiling limit on asset gains 0.2 6.0 Losses gains recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 18.3 5.9 The amount included in the balance sheet arising from the Groups obligations in respect of its defined benefit retirement benefit schemes is as follows: 2011 2010 m m Present value of defined benefit obligations 446.0 364.9 Fair value of scheme assets 421.4 355.6 Deficit in schemes 24.6 9.3 Restriction to defined benefit asset due to asset ceiling 6.2 6.0 Liability recognised in the balance sheet 30.8 15.3 A schedule of contributions has been agreed with the Trustee of the Lloyds Superannuation Fund, as explained above.
The Funds rules do not allow the Group to receive a refund of contributions in any circumstances.
As such, a liability has been recognised to the extent that asset gains arising from the contributions will not be available after they are paid into the Fund.
At 31 December 2010 the ceiling limit on asset gains is attributable to the Fund being in surplus at that date.
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations during the year are as follows: 2011 2010 m m At 1 January 364.9 359.0 Employer service cost 3.7 2.5 Interest cost 19.4 19.7 Contributions from scheme members 1.0 0.7 Actuarial losses gains 72.5 2.1 Benefits paid from plan assets 16.4 13.4 Other movements 3.2 Foreign exchange gains 2.3 1.5 At 31 December 446.0 364.9 The expected total benefit payments to plan participants during 2012 is 14.8 million for the Lloyds Superannuation Fund LSF, 1.7 million for the ACI defined benefit schemes 2011: LSF 12.5 million and ACI schemes 1.2 million and 0.4 million for the ARE defined benefit scheme.
Movements in the fair value of scheme assets during the year are as follows: 2011 2010 m m At 1 January 355.6 334.5 Expected return on scheme assets 19.0 18.8 Difference between expected and actual return 21.0 19.3 Other actuarial gains 34.2 Employer contributions 6.3 5.4 Plan participant contributions 1.0 0.7 Benefits paid 16.4 13.4 Administrative expenses 0.5 Foreign exchange losses 1.3 1.3 Other movements 2.5 8.4 At 31 December 421.4 355.6 Other movements for the year ended 31 December 2011 include an increase of 2.5 million in scheme assets and an increase of 3.0 million in defined benefit obligations in respect of the ARE defined benefit scheme for the year ended 31 December 2010, during which the scheme was accounted for as a defined contribution scheme due to materiality.
166 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 The analysis of the plan assets and the expected rate of return at the balance sheet date are as follows: Asset mix Long term rate of return 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 2011 2010 LSF LSF LSF LSF Equities 12.0% 28.0% 7.3% 8.1% Bonds 68.8% 64.0% 3.7% 4.9% Property 8.0% 8.0% 6.8% 7.5% Diversified growth funds 12.0% 7.3% The long term rates of return are estimated by the directors based upon current expectations of future investment performance.
The analysis of the plan assets and the expected rate of return by asset class are not provided for the ACI or ARE defined benefit schemes as the investment decisions are at the discretion of the third parties to whom ACI and ARE have ceded investment risk under the insurance policies taken out to meet their obligations.
The five-year history of experience adjustments is as follows: 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 m m m m m LSF Asset experience Fair value of scheme asset 374.0 320.0 295.0 256.0 318.0 Asset gain loss during period 50.9 18.7 30.3 71.5 9.0 Asset gain loss as percentage of plan assets 13.6% 5.8% 10.3% 27.9% 3.0% Liability experience Present value of defined benefit obligations 378.0 314.0 315.0 260.0 295.0 Liability loss gain during period 34.0 0.5 6.7 5.0 Liability loss gain as percentage of defined benefit obligations 9.0% 0.2% 2.6% 2.0% Liability assumptions Liability loss gain over period 30.6 6.0 51.0 47.0 15.0 Liability loss gain as percentage of defined benefit obligations 8.1% 1.9% 16.2% 18.1% 5.0% 2011 2010 2009 ACI m m m Asset experience Fair value of scheme asset 41.4 35.6 39.5 Asset gain loss during period 3.7 7.8 0.2 Asset gain loss as percentage of plan assets 8.8% 21.8% 1.0% Liability experience Present value of defined benefit obligations 60.8 50.9 44.0 Liability gain during period 0.2 0.2 Liability gain as percentage of defined benefit obligations 0.4% 0.3% Liability assumptions Liability loss gain over period 7.2 4.2 2.6 Liability loss as percentage of defined benefit obligations 11.9% 8.2% 5.9% 167 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2011 32.
Retirement benefit obligations continued 2011 ARE m Asset experience Fair value of scheme asset 6.0 Asset loss during period 0.0 Asset loss as percentage of plan assets 0.0% Liability experience Present value of defined benefit obligations 7.2 Liability loss during period 0.5 Liability loss as percentage of defined benefit obligations 7.1% Liability assumptions Liability loss over period 0.2 Liability loss as percentage of defined benefit obligations 2.5% The cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognised in other comprehensive income for all defined benefit schemes is 49.7 million of which 5.5 million relates to the acquisition of ACI.
b The stakeholder defined contribution scheme The defined contribution schemes operated by the Group are stakeholder arrangements.
The total contributions for the year ended 31 December 2011 to the schemes were 6.4 million 2010: 5.4 million.
The estimated amounts of contributions to the Groups defined contribution pension schemes for the year ending 31 December 2012 are approximately 7.6 million 2011: 5.7 million.
c Other arrangements Other pension arrangements include an occupational money purchase scheme which provides Death In Service protection for all employees.
Regular contributions, expressed as a percentage of employees earnings, are paid into this scheme and are allocated to accounts in the names of the individual members, which are independent of the Groups finances.
There were no outstanding contributions at 31 December 2011 2010: nil.
Principal exchange rates The principal exchange rates used in translating foreign currency assets, liabilities, income and expenditure in the production of these financial statements were: Average rate Year end rate 2011 2010 2011 2010 US dollar 1.60 1.55 1.55 1.56 Canadian dollar 1.59 1.59 1.59 1.55 Euro 1.15 1.17 1.20 1.17 New Zealand dollar 2.03 2.14 2.00 2.00 Japanese yen 127.88 135.46 119.54 126.69 34.
Contingent liabilities Aside from the escrow account entered into with the Trustee of the Lloyds Superannuation Fund defined benefit pension scheme, the Group has no contingent liabilities at 31 December 2011 2010: nil.
Commitments a Capital commitments There were no capital commitments at the end of the financial year except the commitments made to Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP as described in note 23. b Operating lease commitments where Group companies are the lessees The Group leases various offices under cancellable operating lease agreements.
The Group is required to give various notice for the termination of these agreements.
The lease expenditure charged to the income statement during the year is disclosed in note 13.
168 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2011 2010 m m No later than 1 year 7.1 7.4 Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years 22.5 16.8 Later than 5 years 3.3 6.4 32.9 30.6 36.
Cash generated from operating activities 2011 2010 Notes m m Loss profit on ordinary activities before taxation 193.8 259.2 Adjustments: Depreciation charge 13 5.3 3.5 Amortisation charge 13 4.9 5.5 Finance costs 12 27.8 27.4 Interest income 6 48.5 54.5 Dividends income 6 12.2 5.8 Losses gains on investments realised and unrealised 6 20.2 114.7 Other non-cash movements 2.8 6.6 Movement in operating assets and liabilities: Net sales purchases of financial investments 17 215.9 214.1 Exchange gains losses on investments 17 7.1 47.0 Assets of operations previously classified as held for sale 17 64.4 Decrease in assets of operation classified as held for sale 63.7 Decrease increase in loans and receivables 3.1 63.8 Increase in insurance and reinsurance contract assets 366.8 94.2 Increase in insurance contract liabilities 698.2 353.7 Decrease increase in other payables 40.7 7.2 Decrease in retirement benefits 2.7 Exchange losses on long term borrowings 1.1 1.1 Exchange gains losses on other non-operating assets and liabilities 36.4 20.2 Cash generated from operating activities 271.1 183.6 169 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2011 37.
Principal subsidiary companies The principal subsidiary undertakings at 31 December 2011 which are consolidated in these financial statements, all of which are wholly owned unless otherwise stated, operate in the UK, Belgium, Bermuda, France, the Netherlands, Singapore and Switzerland: Subsidiary undertakings Principal activity Registered in Amlin Underwriting Limited Lloyds managing agency England and Wales Amlin Corporate Services Limited Group service, employing and intermediate holding company England and Wales Allied Cedar Insurance Group Limited Intermediate holding company England and Wales Amlin Underwriting Services Limited Lloyds coverholder England and Wales Amlin Plus Limited Lloyds coverholder England and Wales Amlin Corporate Member Limited Corporate member at Lloyds England and Wales Amlin Overseas Holdings Limited Intermediate holding company England and Wales AUA Insolvency Risk Services Limited Regulated broker England and Wales Amlin AG Reinsurance company Switzerland Amlin Singapore Pte Limited Lloyds service company Singapore Amlin Corporate Insurance N. V. Insurance company Netherlands Amlin France Holdings SAS Intermediate holding company France Amlin France SAS Lloyds coverholder France Crowe Livestock Underwriting Limited Lloyds coverholder England and Wales JR Clare Underwriting Agencies Limited Lloyds coverholder England and Wales Lead Yacht Underwriting Limited Lloyds coverholder England and Wales Solo Absolute Bonds & Currency Fund Investment fund France Some subsidiaries have been omitted from this statement to avoid providing particulars of excessive length but none materially affects the results or net assets of the Group.
60.0% owned by the Group 96.5% owned by the Group 38.
Related party transactions a Transactions and balances with related parties i Amlin Plus Amlin Underwriting Limited and Lycetts Holdings Limited, the owners of Lycett, Browne-Swinburne and Douglas Limited and Lycetts Hamilton Limited, own 60% and 40% respectively of the share capital of Amlin Plus Limited Amlin Plus.
The business of Amlin Plus bloodstock insurance is written under a binding authority agreement with Syndicate 2001, some of which is sourced through a single broker, Lycett, Browne-Swinburne and Douglas Limited.
Syndicate 2001 is managed by Amlin Underwriting Limited.
The capacity on Syndicate 2001 is underwritten by a fellow subsidiary in the Amlin Group.
All transactions between Amlin Plus and its related parties are conducted on an arms length basis.
During the year Amlin Plus wrote 14.0 million 2010: 12.3 million of premium under the binding authority agreement, of which 5.1 million 2010: 5.8 million was produced by Lycett, Browne-Swinburne and Douglas Limited earning brokerage commission of 0.8 million 2010: 1.0 million on this business.
At the year end, Syndicate 2001 was owed 2.6 million 2010: 2.8 million by Amlin Plus and Lycett Browne-Swinburne and Douglas Limited owed 1.1 million 2010: 1.6 million to Amlin Plus.
ii Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP At 31 December 2011, the Group had a balance receivable from Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP of 1.6 million 2010: 1.2 million.
The Group enters into transactions with its joint venture in the normal course of business.
The sales to and purchases from related parties are made at normal market prices.
Details of the Groups joint venture are given in note 23. iii Miles Smith Holding Ltd MS Holding and Manchester Underwriting Management Ltd MUM At 31 December 2011, the Group had a net receivable from MS Holdings of 0.6 million and a net receivable from MUM of nil 2010: 0.2 million.
The Group enters into transactions with its associates in the normal course of business.
Details of the Groups associates are given in note 23. iv Syndicate 6106 For the 2011 underwriting year of account the Special Purpose Syndicate S6106, managed by Amlin Underwriting Limited, wrote a 12.9% 2010: 15.0% quota share contract of the excess of loss reinsurance account of Syndicate 2001.
The transactions provide external members capital to support 2011 underwriting, enabling Syndicate 2001 to take advantage of strong opportunities in peak zones in the US, Japan and Europe.
All transactions with S6106 are undertaken on an arms length basis.
170 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 b Compensation of key management personnel Key management personnel are those directors and Group Management Committee members responsible for planning and control of the activities of the Group.
Key management comprises twelve executive directors and employees and seven non-executive directors 2010: eleven and seven respectively.
Compensation during the year to key management personnel is analysed below: Restated 2011 2010 m m Short term employee benefits 6.4 6.1 Long term employee benefits 1.8 4.0 Post-employment benefits 0.3 0.5 Equity-settled share-based payments 1.2 1.0 Cash-settled share-based payments 0.3 10.0 11.6 Amendments have been made to the comparative information in respect of remuneration receivable by directors for their participation in the Groups long term incentive schemes in 2010. c Transactions with directors Certain directors of the Company are also directors of other companies, as described in the directors biographical details on page 60 of the Annual Report.
Such other companies and or their subsidiaries may, and in some cases do, conduct business with companies in the Amlin Group, including GeoVera Insurance Holdings Ltd of which Mr Feinstein is a non-executive director and TrygVesta A S of which Mrs Bosse was Chief Executive Officer until 31 January 2011, which both purchase reinsurance or whose subsidiaries purchase reinsurance from the Amlin Group.
In all cases transactions between the Amlin Group and such other companies are carried out on normal arms length commercial terms.
d Internal reinsurance arrangements During the current and prior year, there were a number of reinsurance arrangements entered into in the normal course of trade between various group companies, i. e. the reinsurance contracts between Syndicate 2001 and Amlin Bermuda, Syndicate 2001 and Amlin Corporate Insurance N. V. ACI, Amlin Re Europe and ACI and between Amlin Bermuda and ACI.
The related results of these transactions have been eliminated on consolidation.
39. Business Combinations a JR Clare Underwriting Agencies Limited On 25 January 2011 Amlin Corporate Services Limited acquired the entire share capital and voting rights of JR Clare Holding Company Limited and its subsidiary undertaking JR Clare Underwriting Agencies Limited, which is a managing general agent of UK household and commercial insurance.
The fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, the consideration paid and the resulting goodwill have been revised from those disclosed in the subsequent events note of the Annual Report 2010, following the completion of the acquisition accounting for the business combination.
The revised purchase consideration is an initial 1.3 million with two further amounts of 1.0 million payable 24 months and 36 months after the acquisition date.
The revised fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired is 1.8 million net liability and the fair value of the consideration is 3.0 million, resulting in the recognition of 4.8 million of goodwill on acquisition.
The goodwill arose from the premium paid for acquiring a new book of household and commercial insurance business.
JR Clare Holding Company Limited was placed into voluntary liquidation in September 2011, with Amlin Corporate Services Limited becoming the new immediate parent company of JR Clare Underwriting Agencies Limited.
b Lead Yacht Underwriters Limited On 3 February 2011 Amlin Corporate Services Limited acquired the entire share capital and voting rights of Lead Yacht Underwriters Limited, an underwriting agency of yacht insurance.
The total revised consideration is 16.1 million, consisting of an initial 10.1 million paid on completion and a further 6.0 million payable between 2012 and 2016, subject to the financial performance of Lead Yacht Underwriters Limited.
The revised fair value of the net assets acquired is 3.2 million and the fair value of the consideration is 14.7 million, resulting in the recognition of 11.5 million of goodwill on acquisition.
The goodwill arose from the premium paid for acquiring a platform to further develop the Groups existing yacht business and diversify its underwriting portfolio.
Subsequent events No subsequent events have been identified between the balance sheet date and the date on which the financial statements were authorised.
171 Independent Auditors Report To the members of Amlin plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Amlin plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the Parent Company Balance Sheet, the Parent Company Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity, and the Parent Company Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes 41 to 53.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 96, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Amlin Annual Report 2011 to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of its cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the parent company financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Other matter We have reported separately on the group financial statements of Amlin plc for the year ended 31 December 2011.
Andrew Kail Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 2 March 2012 172
