Glossary of terms Accident year Combined ratio Gross and net underwriting The calendar or accounting year in which a Claims ratio plus expense ratio.
When referring to premium written or earned, loss occurs.
losses or underwriting results, these terms denote Commercial combined before gross and after net the application Actuarial best estimate Also known as Package.
Policies where several of reinsurance.
The result projected from a statistical model in different types of insurance cover are combined which the intention is to be neither prudent nor into one policy.
Actuarial best estimate reserves An estimate of claims or losses which have been Contingent capital should be enough to pay the expected average incurred but not yet reported to the insurer.
Contingent capital arrangements provide the future liabilities but include no margin for the option to raise capital during a defined IFRS emergence of worse than expected experience.
commitment period based upon the occurrence International Financial Reporting Standards.
AIR of a qualifying event, such as a defined Incurred loss Service providing up-to-date information and loss insurance loss.
Paid claims plus claims advised by a policyholder estimates for major natural catastrophes Coverholder but not paid.
A company authorised by a Lloyds syndicate Incurred loss ratio Beurs to enter into contracts of insurance and or issue Incurred losses divided by earned premium.
The Dutch corporate co-insurance market.
insurance documentation on their behalf.
Lead non-lead Binders Binding authority DFA Lead denotes an underwriter in the subscription An authority granted by an active underwriter to Dynamic Financial Analysis uses a detailed market who sets the terms and price of a policy.
an intermediary whereby that intermediary is modelling assessment of the key risks facing an Following underwriters accept the policy on the entitled to accept, within certain limits, insurance insurer to help assess its financial position.
business on behalf of members.
areas of use include the assessment of capital requirements and understanding the possible Letter of credit LOC Box at Lloyds impact of future plans and strategies.
Written undertaking by a financial institution Accommodation in the underwriting room at to provide funding if required.
Lloyds from which business may be transacted Direct and facultative with Lloyds brokers.
Direct property insurance and facultative Line size reinsurance of property.
The monetary limit of a policy for a first claim Capacity accepted by an underwriter.
The maximum amount of business which may Earned premium be accepted by a Lloyds syndicate.
Proportion of insurance premium recognised in Line slip the income statement based on the estimated A facility operated by a Lloyds broker whereby Catastrophe bonds risk period falling in the financial year.
risks can be bound to a panel of insurers through Risk-based securities that pay high interest rates the agreement of a leading underwriter plus one and provide insurance companies with a form of ECF or two following markets as specified on the slip reinsurance to pay losses from a catastrophe.
They allow insurance risk to be sold to Efficient frontier institutional investors in the form of bonds, thus Loss ratio Represents the combinations of securities that spreading the risk.
Other financial instruments See incurred loss ratio and ultimate loss ratio.
produce the maximum expected return for a used to transfer catastrophe risk to capital given level of risk.
NFIP markets include catastrophe swaps and industry The National Flood Insurance Programme is a US loss warrants.
Endorsement federal insurance programme providing property Any addition to a policy, or addition to the printed CDOs insurance as protection against flood losses in wording, which changes or varies terms of, or Collateralised debt obligations.
Entities owning exchange for floodplain management regulations parties to, the contract.
cash generating assets, which sell the rights to that reduce future flood damages.
the cash flows from those assets along with Excess of loss reinsurance XL Non-life associated risks.
A reinsurance that covers that part of a loss General insurance companies which sell paid by the reinsured which is in excess of an Cede policies other than life insurance, annuities agreed amount and then pays up to the limit To transfer risk from a direct insurer to or pension products.
Non-monetary assets & liabilities Expense ratio Claims ratio Assets and liabilities that are accounting entries Underwriting expenses divided by net earned Net claims plus claims expenses divided and are not expected to be exchanged for cash premium.
such as unearned premium reserves.
Facultative Co-insurance Outstanding claims Where the insurer accepts risks on an In the context of the European insurance market, Losses which have been reported to the insurer individual basis.
co-insurance is the joint assumption of risk but not yet paid.
182 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 Package Return on equity ROE Surplus See commercial combined.
After tax profit divided by opening shareholders The amount by which the gross sum insured equity, adjusted for any capital raisings or returns.
accepted by the insurance company exceeds Personal lines its own retention.
Property casualty insurance products that are Risk-based capital designed for and bought by individuals, including Risk-based capital is a method used to measure Surplus lines homeowners and automobile policies.
the minimum amount of capital that an insurance A reinsurance where the surplus of the company needs to support its overall business reinsureds retention is ceded up to an agreed Proportional reinsurance operations taking into account the size and type amount.
Once accepted, both parties pay their A type of reinsurance where the ceding insurer of risk taken by the insurer.
cedes to its reinsurer a predetermined proportion of the premium and liability of those policies RMS Total shareholder returns subject to the reinsurance agreement.
Provider Returns combining share price performance of catastrophic modelling software.
Quantitative Impact Study QIS5 A field test of the proposed quantitative aspects Run-off Treaty of Solvency II, including the solvency capital Increase or decrease to claims on old years A reinsurance contract covering entire portfolios requirement SCR under the standard formula, of account.
the minimum capital requirement MCR and the Service company Ultimate loss ratio ULR regulatory solvency balance sheet.
A company set up to operate a binding authority Total forecast claims divided by total forecast Quota share on behalf of the Syndicate to write business from premium expected to arise from a policy or A form of proportional reinsurance where the non-Lloyds brokers or policyholders directly.
Losses include those paid, reinsurer receives a percentage of every risk, as those notified and IBNR.
Sidecars defined by the reinsurance contracts, written by Specialty reinsurance companies designed to Underwriting year the ceding company.
provide additional capital to a specific reinsurance The year to which a policy is allocated and to Rating agency company.
Investors, such as hedge funds, invest which all premiums and claims in respect of that Credit agencies which determine insurers in a reinsurance company, the sidecar, to reinsure policy are attributed.
Allocation is determined financial strength and company debt ratings.
specific risks for a specific reinsurance company.
by the inception date of the policy.
Realistic disaster scenario RDS Solvency II Unearned premium Modelling of the probable loss which may arise A proposed EU-wide regulatory regime which Proportion of insurance premium covering from a defined catastrophic event.
intends to align solvency capital to an insurers periods after the end of the financial year.
Expected to be implemented in Held in the unearned premium reserve.
A reinsurer US admitted market assumes part of the risk and part of the premium Special purpose vehicle The market provided by insurers who are licensed originally taken by the insurer, known as the Corporate entity designed to isolate financial risk, to do business in US States.
often to allow other investors to participate in that VaR risk.
Reinsurance to close A statistical measure which calculates the Premium paid by a closing year of account to a Specie possible loss over a year in normal market later year to cover its outstanding liabilities.
A The insurance of high value items including conditions.
As VaR estimates are based reinsurance to close is usually made three years deposits, bullion and fine art.
on historical market data this should not after the commencement of a year of account.
be viewed as an absolute gauge of the level Subordinated debt of risk to the investments.
Reserves Subordinated debt is debt that takes a lower Funds that have been set aside to meet priority than other debt.
If an issuer is liquidated XL outstanding claims and IBNR.
then subordinated debt holders will only be paid See excess of loss.
after senior creditors have been fully paid.
Retention ratio Year of account yoa The percentage of the previous years premium Sub-prime The year for Lloyds syndicates to which a policy that is renewed.
Mortgages provided to home buyers with lower is allocated and to which all premiums and claims credit scores.
Nearly all sub-prime loans in the in respect of that policy are attributed.
Allocation Retrocession US are packaged into mortgage backed securities is determined by the inception date of the policy.
The reinsurance of liability accepted by way for sale to investors.
Subscription market Return on capital ROCE Insurance market, such as Lloyds, whereby After tax profit divided by opening shareholders underwriters subscribe to proportions of risks.
equity plus debt, adjusted for any capital raisings or returns.
