Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 Operations During 2011 our main priorities remained t he ACI Platform Replacement Programme and supporting the development of the Groups Target Operating Model in preparation for Solvency II.
Andrew Grant, Chief Operations Officer We also concluded that step by step transition As well as these implementations, we 2011 highlights was not possible, since it was not practical developed further tools to improve the quality Progress towards moving ACI onto core to establish temporary new interfaces between of aggregate and catastrophe modelling Amlin systems, albeit with a delay to existing Fortis systems and new ACI systems data and progressed the implementation manage risk during transition.
of a new data management system for the Upgrade of key catastrophe modelling investment team.
systems, enabling better monitoring and During 2011, considerable progress was management of the catastrophe portfolio made, with the design complete and build Amlins approach to Solvency II has been across the Group progressing.
However, it became apparent to drive commercial benefit for the business.
that the complexities of the project would Implementation of these systems has delivered ACI Platform Replacement Programme require a postponement of the planned demonstrable benefits to the Group.
An The primary objective of this programme is to mid-year deployment to ensure that the example is within our War Terrorism book, migrate ACIs business operations from former risks to the business were minimised.
where implementation of an aggregate parent Fortis Group to a new platform based Implementation of the new system is now management system has enabled the team on existing Amlin Group systems components.
planned for the second quarter of 2012. to expand through improved understanding This has always been a necessary integration of exposure.
following the purchase of ACI but it will also Solvency II facilitate improvements in ACI business Amlin made significant progress towards Supporting the development processes and improve operational efficiency internal model approval and Solvency II of the business through the adoption of key Amlin compliance during the year pp43.
We are committed to ensuring that Amlins underwriting and risk management processes.
Part of this included delivery of new and revenue generating businesses are well The platform replacement is complex with upgraded systems.
supported and technology is used effectively.
all ACIs IT systems being replaced together.
During 2011 we created a Business The following were implemented as part This includes policy and claims administration Relationship Management function to work of our preparation for Solvency II: systems, operational accounting and general with each division or business to ensure that ledger, document production and scanning, Two new aggregate management systems we understand their needs and deliver to their market and broker interfaces and other requirements.
This is supported by a Group A new catastrophe modelling system for components.
The transition to the replacement wide Projects Board and Shared Services our marine business systems platform also requires migration Committee which help to prioritise projects A new data quality toolkit to improve data of approximately 100,000 live policies, open and plan workload.
The Projects Board, quality within our core catastrophe claims and histories.
comprising representatives from Corporate modelling systems Centre functions and the business divisions, Insurers rarely replace their entire systems System upgrades for two catastrophe was established to provide controls and platform in one event.
Typically, the platform modelling systems manage the allocation of budget for business would be replaced component by component A new market risk tool to support the projects, including contingency funding.
over a period of several years, in order to investments front office and to feed our The Shared Services Committee is similarly reduce complexity and cost.
However, due internal model comprised of representatives from all parts to the unusual circumstances of the acquisition A new document management system of the Group and oversees how our shared of ACI, our initial planning assumption was to improve control around our internal technology services are provided and what that we should aim to complete the transition model and Solvency II reporting investments to make.
within two years rather than the three or four Enhancements to our risk assessment years that might more typically be planned.
