362 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Glossary Mortgage endowment Product definitions An insurance contract combining savings and protection Annuities elements which is designed to repay the principal of a A type of policy that pays out regular amounts of loan or mortgage.
benefit, either immediately and for the remainder of a persons lifetime, or deferred to commence from a Mortgage life insurance future date.
Immediate annuities may be purchased for A protection contract designed to pay off the an individual and his or her dependants or on a bulk outstanding amount of a mortgage or loan in the event purchase basis for groups of people.
Deferred annuities of death of the insured.
are accumulation contracts, which may be used to provide benefits in retirement, and may be guaranteed, Non profits unit-linked or index-linked.
Long-term savings and insurance products sold in the UK other than With profits see definition below Bonds and savings products.
These are accumulation products with single or regular premiums and unit-linked or guaranteed investment OEIC returns.
Our product ranges include single premium An open ended investment company is a collective investment bonds, regular premium savings plans and investment fund structured as a limited company in mortgage endowment products.
which investors can buy and sell shares.
Critical illness cover Pensions Critical illness cover pays out a lump sum if the insured A means of providing income in retirement for an person is diagnosed with a serious illness that meets the individual and possibly his her dependants.
The cover is often provided in conjunction products include personal and group pensions, with other benefits under a protection contract.
stakeholder pensions and income drawdown.
Deferred annuities Personal pensions An annuity or pension due to be paid from a future A pension plan tailored to the individual policyholder, date or when the policyholder reaches a specified age.
which includes the options to stop, start or change A deferred annuity may be funded by a policyholder by their payments.
payment of a series of regular contributions or by a capital sum the latter often provided from a pension fund.
Protection An insurance contract that protects the policyholder or Group pensions his her dependants against financial loss on death or A pension plan that covers a group of people, which ill-health.
Our product ranges include term assurance, is typically purchased by a company and offered to mortgage life insurance, flexible whole life and critical their employees.
Guaranteed annuities Regular premium A policy that pays out a fixed regular amount of benefit A series of payments are made by the policyholder, for a defined period.
typically monthly or annually, for part of or all of the duration of the contract.
Income drawdown The policyholder can transfer money from any pension SICAVs fund to an income drawdown plan from which they Socit dinvestissement capital variable variable receive an income.
The remainder of the pension fund capital investment company.
This is an open-ended continues to be invested, giving it the potential for growth.
investment fund, structured as a legally independent joint stock company, whose units are issued in the form Index linked annuities of shares.
An index linked annuity is a type of deferred annuity whose credited interest is linked to an equity index.
It Single premium guarantees a minimum interest rate and protects against A single lump sum is paid by the policyholder at a loss of principal.
Investment sales Stakeholder pensions Comprise retail sales of mutual fund-type products such Low cost and flexible pension plans available in the UK, as unit trusts, individual savings accounts ISAs and governed by specific regulations.
open ended investment companies OEICs.
Takaful ISAs Insurance products that observe the rules and Individual savings accounts Tax-efficient plans for regulations of Islamic law.
investing in stocks and shares, cash deposits or life Term assurance insurance investment funds, subject to certain limits.
A simple form of life insurance, offering cover over a fixed number of years during which a lump sum will Monolines be paid out if the life insured dies.
Financial companies specialising in a single line of products such as credit cards, mortgages or home equity loans.
Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 363 Aviva plc Glossary continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 listing to disclose, in relation to the UK Corporate Product definitions cont.
Governance Code, how they have applied its principles Unit trusts and whether they have complied with its provisions A form of open ended collective investment constituted throughout the accounting year.
Where the provisions under a trust deed, in which investors can buy and have not been complied with, companies must provide sell units.
Unit-linked annuities Deferred acquisition costs DAC A unit-linked annuity is a type of deferred annuity The costs directly attributable to the acquisition of new which is invested in units of investment funds, whose business for insurance and investment contracts may value depends directly on the market value of assets in be deferred to the extent that they are expected to those funds.
be recoverable out of future margins in revenue on these contracts.
Whole life Whole life insurance is a protection policy that remains Fair value in force for the insureds whole life.
Traditional whole life The price that a reasonable buyer would be willing to contracts have fixed premium payments that typically pay and a reasonable seller would be willing to accept cannot be missed without lapsing the policy.
Flexible for a product on the open market.
whole life contracts allow the policyholder to vary the premium and or amount of life cover, within certain limits.
FSA The UKs Financial Services Authority Main regulatory With-profits body appointed by the Government to oversee the A type of long-term savings and insurance product sold financial services industry in the UK.
Since December in the UK under with-profits policies premiums are paid 2001 it has been the single statutory regulator into a separate fund.
Policyholders receive a return on responsible for the savings, insurance and investment their policies through bonuses, which smooth the business.
investment return from the assets which premiums are invested in.
Bonuses are declared on an annual and Funds under management terminal basis.
Shareholders have a participating interest Represents all assets actively managed or administered in the with-profit funds and any declared bonuses.
by or on behalf of the Group including those funds Generally, policyholder and shareholder participation managed by third parties.
in with-profit funds in the UK is split 90:10.
Funds under management by Aviva Wrap investments Represents all assets actively managed or administered An account in which a broker or fund manager executes by the fund management operations of the Group.
investment decisions on behalf of a client in exchange for a single quarterly or annual fee, usually based on General insurance the total assets in the account rather than the number Also known as non-life or property and casualty of transactions.
Property insurance covers loss or damage through fire, theft, flood, storms and other specified General terms risks.
Casualty insurance primarily covers losses arising Acquired value of in force AVIF from accidents that cause injury to other people or An estimate of future profits that will emerge over the damage the property of others.
remaining term of all existing life and pensions policies Gross written premiums for which premiums are being paid or have been paid The total earnings or revenue generated by sales of at the statement of financial position date.
insurance products, before any reinsurance is taken into Association of British Insurers ABI account.
Not all premiums written will necessarily be Association of British Insurers A major trade association treated as income in the current financial year, because for UK insurance companies, established in July 1985. some of them could relate to insurance cover for a subsequent period.
Available for sale AFS Securities that have been acquired neither for short-term Hard insurance market sale nor to be held to maturity.
These are shown at fair A term used to describe the state of the general value on the statement of financial position and changes insurance market.
A hard insurance market is in value are taken straight to equity instead of the characterised by high levels of underwriting profits and income statement.
the ability of insurers to charge high premium rates.
Hard insurance markets generally occur when capital is Bancassurance scarce and are the opposite of soft insurance markets.
An arrangement whereby banks and building societies sell insurance and investment products to their Independent financial advisers IFAs customers on behalf of other financial providers.
A person or organisation authorised to give advice on financial matters and to sell the products of all financial UK Corporate Governance Code service providers.
In the UK they are legally obliged to The UK Corporate Governance Code sets out guidance offer the product that best suits their clients needs.
in the form of principles and provisions on how Outside the UK IFAs may be referred to by other names.
companies should be directed and controlled to follow good governance practice.
The Financial Services Authority FSA requires companies with a UK Premium 364 Aviva plc Glossary continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 General terms cont.
Market Consistent Embedded Value IFRS MCEV terms International Financial Reporting Standards.
These are Asymmetric risk accounting regulations designed to ensure comparable Risks that will cause shareholder profits to vary where statement of financial position preparation and the variation above and below the average are not equal disclosure, and are the standards that all publicly listed in distribution.
companies in the European Union are required to use.
CFO Forum Operating profit The CFO Forum www.
nl is a high-level group From continuing operations on an IFRS basis, stated formed by the chief financial officers of major European before tax attributable to shareholders profits, listed and non-listed insurance companies.
Its aim is to impairment of goodwill and exceptional items.
discuss issues relating to proposed new accounting This is also referred to as adjusted operating profit.
regulations for their businesses and how they can create greater transparency for investors.
Inherited estate In the UK, the assets of the long-term with-profit funds The forum was created in 2002, the Market Consistent less the realistic reserves for non-profit policies written Embedded Value Principles were launched in June 2008. within the with-profit funds, less asset shares The principles are a further development of the aggregated across the with-profit policies and any European Embedded Value Principles first launched in additional amounts expected at the valuation date to May 2004. be paid to in-force policyholders in the future in respect of smoothing costs and guarantees.
Cost of non-hedgeable risks This is the cost of undertaking those risks for which a Long-term and savings business deep and liquid market in which to hedge that risk does Collective term for life insurance, pensions, savings, not exist.
This can include both financial risks and noninvestments and related business.
financial risks such as mortality, persistency and expense.
MCEV Covered business Avivas Market Consistent Embedded Value MCEV The contracts to which the MCEV methodology has methodology which is in accordance with the MCEV been applied.
Principles published by the CFO Forum in June 2008 as amended in October 2009.
EU solvency The excess of assets over liabilities and the worldwide Net asset value per ordinary share minimum solvency margins, excluding goodwill and the Net asset value divided by the number of ordinary additional value of in-force long-term business, and shares in issue.
Net asset value is based on equity excluding the surplus held in the Groups life funds.
The Group solvency calculation is determined according to the UK Financial Services Authority application of EU Net written premiums Insurance Groups Directive rules.
Total gross written premiums for the given period, minus premiums paid over or ceded to reinsurers.
Financial options and guarantees Features of the covered business conferring potentially Present value of new business PVNBP valuable guarantees underlying, or options to change, Present value of new regular premiums plus 100% the level or nature of policyholder benefits and of single premiums, calculated using assumptions exercisable at the discretion of the policyholder, consistent with those used to determine the value whose potential value is impacted by the behaviour of new business under MCEV principles published of financial variables.
Free surplus Soft insurance market The amount of any capital and surplus allocated to, but A term used to describe the state of the general not required to support, the in-force covered business.
A soft insurance market is characterised by low levels of profitability and market Frictional costs competition driving premium rates lower.
Soft insurance The additional taxation and investment costs incurred markets generally occur when there is excess capital and by shareholders through investing the required capital are the opposite of hard insurance markets.
in the Company rather than directly.
Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control Group MCEV The Turnbull Guidance sets out best practice on A measure of the total consolidated value of the Group internal controls for UK listed companies, and provides with covered life business included on an MCEV basis additional guidance in applying certain sections of the and non-covered business including pension schemes UK Corporate Governance.
and goodwill included on an IFRS basis.
Gross risk-free yields Gross of tax yields on risk-free fixed interest investments, generally swap rates under MCEV.
Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 365 Aviva plc Glossary continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk-free rate reference rate in CFO Forum Market Consistent Embedded Value terminology MCEV terms cont.
The risk-free rate is taken as swaps except for all Implicit items contracts that contain features similar to immediate Amounts allowed by local regulators to be deducted annuities and are backed by appropriate assets, from capital amounts when determining the EU required including paid-up group deferred annuities and all other minimum margin.
contracts in the Netherlands, and deferred annuities and all other contracts in the US.
The adjusted risk-free rate Life business is taken as swaps plus the additional return available for Subsidiaries selling life and pensions contracts that are products and where backing asset portfolios can be held classified as covered business under MCEV.
Life MCEV Service companies The MCEV balance sheet value of covered business as Companies providing administration or fund at the reporting date.
Excludes non-covered business management services to the covered business.
including pension schemes and goodwill.
Solvency cover Life MCEV operating earnings The excess of the regulatory value of total assets over Operating earnings on the MCEV basis relating to the lines total liabilities, divided by the regulatory value of the of business included in the embedded value calculations.
From continuing operations and is stated before tax, impairment of goodwill and exceptional items.
Spread business Contracts where a significant source of shareholder Life MCEV earnings profits is the taking of credit spread risk that is not Total earnings on the MCEV basis relating to the lines passed on to policyholders.
The most significant spread of business included in the embedded value calculations.
business in Aviva are immediate annuities and US From continuing operations.
deferred annuities and life business.
Look-through basis Statutory basis Inclusion of the capitalised value of profits and losses The valuation basis and approach used for reporting arising from subsidiary companies providing financial statements to local regulators.
administration, investment management and other services to the extent that they relate to covered business.
Stochastic techniques Techniques that incorporate the potential future Long-term savings variability in assumptions.
Includes life and pension sales calculated under MCEV and retail investment sales.
Symmetric risks Risks that will cause shareholder profits to vary where Market consistent the variation above and below the average are equal A measurement approach where economic assumptions and opposite.
Financial theory says that investors do are such that projected asset cash flows are valued not require compensation for non-market risks that consistently with current market prices for traded assets.
are symmetrical as the risks can be diversified away by investors.
Net worth The market value of the shareholders funds and the Time value and intrinsic value shareholders interest in the surplus held in the nonA financial option or guarantee has two elements of profit component of the long-term business funds, value, the time value and intrinsic value.
The intrinsic determined on a statutory solvency basis and adjusted value is the discounted value of the option or guarantee to add back any non-admissible assets, and consists of at expiry, assuming that future economic conditions the required capital and free surplus.
The time value is the additional value arising from uncertainty about future New business margin economic conditions.
New business margins are calculated as the value of new business divided by the present value of Value of new business new business premiums PVNBP, and expressed Is calculated using economic assumptions set at the start as a percentage.
of each quarter and the same operating assumptions as those used to determine the embedded values at the Present value of new business premiums PVNBP end of the reporting period and is stated after the effect The present value of new regular premiums plus 100% of any frictional costs.
Unless otherwise stated, it is also of single premiums, calculated using assumptions quoted net of tax and minority interests.
consistent with those used to determine the value of new business.
Required capital The amount of assets, over and above the value placed on liabilities in respect of covered business, whose distribution to shareholders is restricted.
