Please note that each Aviva ADR represents two 2 ordinary Aviva shares.
2012 financial calendar Annual General Meeting 3 May 2012 Announcement of first quarter Interim Management Statement 17 May 2012 Announcement of unaudited half-year results 9 August 2012 Announcement of third quarter Interim Management Statement 8 November 2012 2011 final dividend dates ordinary shares Ex-dividend date 21 March 2012 Record date 23 March 2012 Scrip dividend price setting period 21, 22, 23, 26, 27 March 2012 Scrip dividend price announcement date 28 March 2012 Last date for receipt of Scrip elections 18 April 2012 Dividend payment date 17 May 2012 Please note that the ADR local payment date will be approximately five business days after the proposed dividend date for ordinary shares.
Annual General Meeting AGM Dividends The 2012 Aviva AGM will be held at The Barbican Centre, Dividends on Aviva ordinary shares are normally paid in May Silk Street, London EC2Y 8DS, on Thursday, and November: please see the table above for the key dates 3 May 2012 at 11am.
in respect of the 2011 final dividend.
Details of all the resolutions to be considered at the AGM Dividends paid on Aviva preference shares are normally paid are given in the Notice of AGM, which is available on the in March, June, September and December: please visit Companys website at www.
com preferenceshares for the latest dividend Shareholders can vote: payment dates.
by attending the meeting in person: Holders of ordinary and preference shares will receive any electronically at www.
com agm: or dividends payable in sterling and holders of ADRs will by completing and returning the relevant voting card s receive any dividends payable in US dollars.
Direct credit of dividend payments: The voting results for the 2012 AGM, including proxy votes If you would like to have your cash dividends paid directly and votes withheld, will be accessible on the Companys into your bank or building society account, please visit website at www.
com agm shortly after the meeting.
com dividendmandate for more information If you are unable to attend the AGM but would like to ask or contact Computershare on the telephone number the directors a question regarding the business listed overleaf.
of the meeting, please send an email to avivashareholders@aviva.
We will endeavour to provide a formal response to all questions submitted Aviva Scrip Dividend Scheme: by shareholders.
If you would like to receive your dividends on ordinary shares in the form of new shares instead of cash, you can choose Do you receive duplicate documents?
to join the Aviva Scrip Dividend Scheme.
Please contact A number of shareholders still receive duplicate documentation Computershare on the telephone number listed overleaf and split dividend payments as a result of having more than to acquire a personalised application form and a copy one account on the Aviva Register of Members.
If you think of the terms and conditions or, alternatively, you may visit you fall into this group and would like to combine your www.
com ecomms for more information on how accounts, please contact the Companys Registrar, to make this election online.
Computershare, on the telephone number listed overleaf.
Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 367 Aviva plc Shareholder services continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Online Shareholder Services Centre Contact details Ordinary and preference shares Computershare www.
com shareholderservices Shareholders will be aware that Aviva changed its Registrar The online shareholder services centre has been designed to from Equiniti Limited to Computershare Investor Services plc provide useful information for holders of Aviva ordinary shares, in July 2011. preference shares and ADRs, and includes features to allow For any queries regarding your shareholding, or to advise of shareholders to manage their Aviva shareholdings easily changes to your personal details, please contact Computershare: and efficiently.
Within the online centre you will be able to find a In writing: Computershare Investor Services plc, shareholders guide, current and historic ordinary share and The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZZ ADR prices, share dealing information, news, updates and, when available, presentations from Avivas senior management.
By telephone: 0871 495 0105 Lines are open from You will also be able to download an electronic copy of recent 8.30am to 5pm UK time, Monday to Friday Company reports.
44 117 378 8361 if you are calling outside the UK.
The Shareholders Guide contains answers to a range of frequently asked questions on holding shares in Aviva.
co. uk Manage your holdings online American Depositary Receipts ADRs Citibank You can view and manage your shareholding online by Aviva has a sponsored ADR facility administered by Citibank, NA.
To log in you will require Any queries regarding Aviva ADRs can be directed to Citibank: your 11-digit Shareholder Reference Number SRN, which you will find on your proxy or voting card, latest dividend In writing: Citibank Shareholder Services, stationery, or any share certificate issued since 4 July 2011.
PO Box 43077, Providence, Shareholders can elect to receive electronic Rhode Island 02940-5000, USA communications by registering their email address online, or by contacting Computershare directly.
Making this election By telephone: 1 877 248 4237 will save on printing and distribution costs and has free phone for callers within the US environmental benefits.
1 781 575 4555 for callers outside the US non-free phone.
Aviva share price information For ordinary shares and ADRs, please visit By email: citibank@shareholders-online.
com shareprice For preference shares, please visit Fax enquiries: 1 201 324 3284 www.
com dr for further information about Avivas ADR programme.
ShareGift If you have a small number of shares which you consider Group company secretary uneconomical to sell, you may wish to consider donating Shareholders may contact the Group company secretary them to ShareGift Registered Charity: 1052686, a charity as follows: that specialises in accepting such unwanted small shareholdings.
Donated shares are aggregated and sold, In writing: Kirstine Cooper, Group Company Secretary, with the proceeds being used to support a wide range of St Helens, 1 Undershaft, London EC3P 3DQ UK registered charities.
You can find out more about ShareGift by visiting By telephone: 44 0 20 7283 2000 www.
If you would like to donate your shares to ShareGift, By email: aviva.
Form 20-F Aviva is a foreign private issuer in the United States of America and is subject to certain reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Commission SEC.
Aviva files its Form 20-F with the SEC, copies of which can be found at www.
Be on your guard beware of fraudsters!
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited telephone calls or correspondence offering to buy shares at a discount or offering free financial advice or company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited calls or advice: make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation: check that they are properly authorised by the Financial Services Authority FSA by visiting www.
uk register : and if the calls persist, hang up.
For more information please visit the warning to shareholders page at: www.
368 Aviva plc Shareholder services continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Useful links for shareholders Aviva shareholder services centre www.
com shareholderservices ADR holders www.
com adr Aviva preference shareholders www.
com preferenceshares Dividend information for ordinary shares www.
com dividends Register for electronic communications www.
com ecomms Annual General Meeting information and Electronic Voting www.
com agm Aviva share price www.
com shareprice Completed proxy instructions must be submitted to the Companys Registrar, Computershare, as soon as possible, but in any event to arrive by no later thans: 11am on Tuesday, 1 May 2012 for ordinary shareholders.
11am on Monday, 30 April 2012 for members of the Aviva Share Account and participants in the Aviva All Employee Share Ownership Plan.
Aviva provides around 43 million customers with insurance, savings and investment products.
We are the UKs largest insurer and one of Andrew Moss Europes leading providers of life and general Group chief executive insurance.
We combine strong life insurance, general insurance and asset management businesses under one powerful brand.
We are committed to serving our customers Watch the video online: well in order to build a stronger, sustainable www.
com 2011ar business, which makes a positive contribution to society, and for which our people are proud to work.
View our reports online 2011 Annual report and accounts You can find more detailed information regarding Avivas performance from our online annual report and accounts.
Providing our reports online allows us to reduce the paper we print and distribute.
com 2011ar Corporate responsibility report online In our online corporate responsibility report you can find out more about our commitment to acting as a responsible member of the international business Designed by saslondon.
You can view our Corporate responsibility report here This document is printed on Revive Pure White Uncoated, which is www.
com 2011cr a recycled grade containing 100% post consumer waste and manufactured at a mill accredited with ISO14001 environmental management standard.
The pulp used in this product is bleached using an Elemental Chlorine Free process ECF.
This document Based on aggregate FY10 UK life and pension sales PVNBP and general insurance gross written premiums.
was printed by Butler Tanner and Dennis who are FSC, and ISO14001 accredited.
ARA2011 03.12 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Aviva plc Aviva plc St Helens, 1 Undershaft Annual Report and London EC3P 3DQ 44 0 20 7283 2000 Accounts 2011 www.
com Registered in England Number 2468686 Gal Roux When Hurricane Xynthia cut a swathe of destruction across west France, in its wake came Aviva adviser Gal Roux, ready to help.
He arranged advance payments so that Aviva customers could start repairing the damage without delay.
com 2011ar T hey saw us not only as insurers, but also and most importantly as human beings who were there to help them.
