Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 359 Aviva plc MCEV financial statements continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the MCEV basis When compliance with the European Insurance CFO Forum Market Consistent Embedded Value Principles MCEV Principles, published in October 2009, is stated, those principles require the directors to prepare supplementary information in accordance with the methodology contained in the MCEV Principles and to disclose and explain any non-compliance with the guidance included in the MCEV Principles.
In preparing this supplementary information, the directors have done so in accordance with these MCEV Principles and have also fully complied with all the guidance included therein.
Specifically, the directors have: determined assumptions on a realistic basis, having regard to past, current and expected future experience and to relevant external data, and then applied them consistently: made estimates that are reasonable and consistent: and, provided additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements of the MCEV Principles is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions and the Groups financial position and financial performance.
By order of the Board Patrick Regan Chief financial officer 7 March 2012 360 Aviva plc MCEV financial statements continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Independent auditors report to the directors of Aviva plc on the consolidated MCEV financial statements We have audited the consolidated MCEV financial statements of Aviva plc for the year ended 31 December 2011, which comprises the Condensed consolidated income statement MCEV basis, the Condensed consolidated statement of comprehensive income MCEV basis, the Condensed consolidated statement of changes in equity MCEV basis, the Condensed consolidated statement of financial position MCEV basis, the Reconciliation of shareholders equity on IFRS and MCEV bases, the Reconciliation of IFRS total equity to MCEV net worth, the Group MCEV analysis of earnings and the related notes E1 to E19.
The Consolidated MCEV financial statements have been prepared by the directors of Aviva plc in accordance with the MCEV Principles issued in June 2008 by the CFO Forum as amended in October 2009 the CFO Forum Principles and the basis of preparation set out on pages 328 to 331.
Directors responsibilities for the Consolidated MCEV financial statements The directors are responsible for the preparation of these Consolidated MCEV financial statements in accordance with the basis of preparation set out on pages 328 to 331 and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of the financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditors responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Consolidated MCEV financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Consolidated MCEV financial statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Consolidated MCEV financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on the auditors judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the Consolidated MCEV financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, we consider internal control relevant to the entitys preparation of the Consolidated MCEV financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entitys internal control.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by Directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the Consolidated MCEV financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
Opinion In our opinion the Consolidated MCEV financial statements, for the year ended 31 December 2011, are prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the CFO Forum Principles and the basis of preparation set out on pages 328 to 331.
Basis of accounting and restriction on use Without modifying our opinion, we draw attention to Note E1 to the Consolidated MCEV financial statements, which describes the basis of preparation.
The Consolidated MCEV financial statements are prepared by Aviva plc in accordance with the CFO Forum Principles.
As a result, the Consolidated MCEV financial statements may not be suitable for another purpose.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys directors as a body in accordance with our letter of engagement dated 3 August 2011 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other matter We have reported separately on the statutory Group financial statements of Aviva plc for the year ended 31 December 2011.
The information contained in the consolidated MCEV financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements prepared on an IFRS basis.
Ernst & Young LLP London 7 March 2012 1 The maintenance and integrity of Aviva plcs website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 361 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Other information Page In this section Glossary 362 Shareholder services 366
