38 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2011 Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies a Basis of preparation The consolidated and parent company financial statements for the year ended 31 October 2011 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRSs.
IFRSs comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, together with interpretations of the International Accounting Standards and Standing Interpretations Committee approved by the International Accounting Standards Committee IASC that remain in effect, to the extent that IFRSs have been adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Where presentational guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice the SORP for investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment Companies the AIC in January 2009 is consistent with the requirements of IFRSs, the directors have sought to prepare the financial statements on a basis consistent with the recommendations of the SORP.
Accounting Standards i Standards, amendments and interpretations becoming effective in the current financial year: IFRS 1 Amendment, First Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards simplified the structure of IFRS 1 without making any technical changes.
No impact on the Groups or Companys Financial Statements.
IFRS 3 Revised, Business Combinations harmonised business combination accounting with US GAAP.
Not currently relevant to the Group or Company and therefore has no impact on the Financial Statements.
IFRS 5 Amendment, Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations as part of Improvements to IFRS issued in 2009.
IAS 27 Revised, Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements introduced changes to the accounting for transactions with non-controlling interests in consolidated financial statements.
Adoption did not have any impact on the Group or Company Financial Statements.
IAS 32 Amendment, Financial Instruments: Presentation amendments relating to classification of rights issues.
IAS 39 Amendment, Eligible Hedged Items.
The amendment prohibits designating inflation as a hedgeable component of a fixed debt, and, in a hedge of a one-sided risk with options, prohibits including time value in the hedged risk.
IFRIC 15, Agreements for Construction of Real Estate.
Not relevant to the Group or Company.
IFRIC 16, Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation.
Provides clarification to net investment hedging issues.
Not currently relevant to the Group or Company and therefore no impact on the Financial Statements.
IFRIC 17, Distributions of Non Cash Assets to Owners clarifies how an entity should measure distributions of assets other than cash made as a dividend to its owners.
