42 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2011 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued m Capital reserves The following are accounted for in the Capital reserve arising on investments sold: expenses and finance costs charged to capital net of tax relief: gains and losses on the disposals of investments: realised foreign exchange differences of a capital nature: and costs of repurchasing ordinary share capital.
The following are accounted for in the Capital reserve arising on investments held: increases and decreases in the valuation of investments held at the year end: and unrealised foreign exchange differences of a capital nature.
n Key estimates and assumptions Estimates and assumptions used in preparing the financial statements are reviewed on an ongoing basis and are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The results of these estimates and assumptions form the basis of making judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
There are no estimates and assumptions that may cause material adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities.
o Policy on operating segments Under IFRS 8, operating segments are considered to be the components of an entity, about which separate financial information is available, that is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision-maker the Manager, with oversight from the Board in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance.
The directors meet regularly to consider investment strategy and to monitor the Companys performance.
The Portfolio Manager, who has been appointed to manage the Companys investments, attends all Board meetings at which investment strategy and performance are discussed.
The directors consider that the Group has two operating segments: i the Parent Company, The Bankers Investment Trust PLC, which invests in shares and securities primarily for capital appreciation in accordance with the Companys published investment objective: and ii its wholly owned subsidiary, The Army and Navy Investment Company Limited, which trades in securities to enhance the Groups returns.
The business is not managed on a geographical basis, however, for the convenience of investors, disclosure by geographical segment has been provided in note 3 and in the Portfolio Review on pages 6 to 18.
Further analyses of expenses, investment gains or losses, profit and other assets and liabilities by country have not been given as either it is not possible to prepare such information in a meaningful way or the results are not considered to be significant.
