The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2011 39 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued IFRIC 18 Transfer of Assets from Customers.
Not relevant to the Group.
Improvements to IFRS issued in 2009 comprised numerous other minor amendments to IFRS, resulting in accounting changes for presentation, recognition or measurement purposes as well as terminology or editorial amendments.
These amendments had no impact on the Group or Company Financial Statements.
ii Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that become effective in future accounting periods and have not been adopted early by the Group or the Company: IAS 24 Revised, Related Party Disclosures effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011, subject to EU endorsement.
Revises the definition of related parties.
Unlikely to have a significant effect.
IFRS 9, Financial Instruments effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
Simplifies accounting for financial assets, replacing the current multiple measurement categories with a single principle-based approach to classification.
All financial assets to be measured at either amortised cost or fair value.
The Group and Company will apply IFRS 9 from 1 November 2013, subject to endorsement by the EU.
iii Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that become effective in future accounting periods and are not relevant to the Groups or the Companys operations: IFRS 1 Amendment First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRIC 19, Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments.
IFRIC 14 Amendment, IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
b Basis of consolidation The Group accounts consolidate the accounts of the Company and of its sole wholly owned subsidiary undertaking, The Army and Navy Investment Company Limited.
The intragroup balances are eliminated on consolidation.
The investment in the subsidiary is recognised at fair value in the financial statements of the Company.
c Investments held at fair value through profit or loss All investments are designated upon initial recognition as held at fair value through profit or loss.
Investment transactions are accounted for on a trade date basis.
Assets are fide-recognised at the trade date of the disposal.
Proceeds are measured at fair value, which are regarded as the proceeds of sale less any transaction costs.
The fair value of the financial instruments in the balance sheet is based on their quoted bid price at the balance sheet date, without deduction of the estimated future selling costs.
Unquoted investments including the Companys investment in its subsidiary are valued by the directors using primary valuation techniques such as earnings multiples, recent transactions and net assets.
Where fair value cannot be reliably measured, the investment will be carried at the previous reporting date value unless there is evidence that the investment has since been impaired, in which case the value will be reduced.
Changes in the fair value of investments held at fair value through profit or loss and gains and losses on disposal are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income as Gains or losses on investments held at fair value through profit or loss.
Also included within this caption are transaction costs in relation to the purchase or sale of investments, including the difference between the purchase price of an investment and its bid price at the date of purchase.
