64 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2011 Investor Information Results Gearing Half year announced June Gearing is defined as the difference between the values of Full year announced January investments and equity shareholders funds, divided by equity shareholders funds x100.
The Report and Financial Statements are posted to shareholders in January and the AGM is held in London in Dividends late February.
Ordinary shares: First interim paid end May Share Price Information Second interim paid end August The market price of the Companys ordinary shares is Third interim paid end November published in The Financial Times and other leading Final paid end February newspapers.
The share price and details of the Companys Debenture stock interest performance can be found on the following websites: 1 10 % debenture stock 2016 and 8% debenture stock 2023 2 www.
com paid on 30 April and 31 October.
com Total Expense Ratio The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List SEDOL code is Total Expense Ratio is defined here as the total annual pre tax 0076700. operating expenses management fee and other The Financial Times also provides on a daily basis an estimate administration costs expressed as a percentage of average of the net asset value and of the discount premium.
shareholders funds at the beginning and end of the year.
A brief history Investing in Bankers The Company was incorporated in 1888.
Since seven of the Ordinary shares may be bought directly through Halifax Share nine original directors were bankers by profession, the name Dealing.
In addition, they may be bought or sold directly The Bankers Investment Trust, Limited was considered through a stockbroker, accountant, other independent appropriate.
The Company has paid dividends on the equity financial adviser or through a number of banks or building capital every year since incorporation except in the years 1892 societies who are also providing this service.
Disability Nominee Code Copies of this Report and Financial Statement or other The Bankers Investment Trust PLC undertakes to provide documents issued by the Company are available from the copies of shareholder communications to nominee Company Secretary.
operators who have indicated in advance a wish to receive If needed, copies can be made available in a variety of them, for the purpose of distribution to their customers.
formats, either Braille or on audio tape or larger type as Nominee operators are encouraged to advise investors that appropriate.
they are able to attend meetings and to speak at meetings You can contact our registrars, Equiniti Limited, who have when invited by the Chairman.
installed textphones to allow speech and hearing impaired Investors through Halifax Share Dealing Limited receive all people who have their own textphone to contact them shareholder communications, an invitation to the AGM and directly by ringing 0870 600 3950 without the need for an a Voting Instruction Form to facilitate voting.
Specially trained operators are available during normal business hours to answer queries via this Capital Gains Tax service.
The calculation of the tax on chargeable gains will depend on personal circumstances.
If you are in any doubt about your Alternatively, if you prefer to go through a typetalk operator personal tax position, you are recommended to contact your provided by the Royal National Institute for Deaf People you professional adviser.
should dial 18001 followed by the number you wish to dial.
Investor Information continued Directors Independent Auditors Richard Brewster Chairman  LLP, Richard Burns 7 More London Riverside, Richard Killingbeck Senior Independent Director London SE1 2RT Peter Sullivan Registrars Matthew Thorne UK Registrar Audit Committee Equiniti Limited, Matthew Thorne Chairman Aspect House, Richard Killingbeck Spencer Road, Peter Sullivan Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA Management Engagement Committee Telephone: 0871 384 2471 44 0 121 415 7047 Richard Brewster Chairman Calls to this number cost 8p per minute from a BT landline, Richard Burns other providers costs may vary.
Lines are open 8.30 am to Richard Killingbeck 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday.
Peter Sullivan Matthew Thorne There is now a range of shareholder information online.
You can check your holding and find practical help on transferring Nominations Committee shares or updating your details at www.
co. uk Richard Brewster Chairman Richard Killingbeck New Zealand Registrar Richard Burns Computershare Investor Services Limited, Private Bag 92119, Investment Manager Victoria Street West, Henderson Global Investors Limited is Auckland 1142, New Zealand authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority Telephone: New Zealand 64 09 488 8777 and is represented by Alex Crooke Stockbrokers Secretary Henderson Secretarial Services Limited UK represented by Wendy King FCIS JP Morgan Cazenove, 10 Aldermanbury, Registered Number London EC2V 7RF Registered in England No.
00026351 New Zealand Registered Office First NZ Capital Securities, 201 Bishopsgate, Level 20, ANZ Centre, London EC2M 3AE 23-29 Albert Street, Telephone: 020 7818 1818 PO Box 5333, Auckland, New Zealand Solicitors Norton Rose, 3 More London, Riverside, London SE1 2AQ Custodian BNP Paribas Securities Services, The Company is a member of The Company is a member of 55 Moorgate, London EC2R 6PA Halifax Share Dealing Limited Lovell Park Road, Leeds LS1 1NS Telephone: 0845 609 408 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC is managed by This report is printed on 9lives, a paper containing 55% recycled fibre from both preand post-consumer waste & 45% FSC certified virgin fibre.
Pulps used are elemental chlorine free manufactured at a mill accredited with the ISO 14001 environmental management system.
The FSC logo identifies products which contain wood from well managed forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
This report was printed by Pureprint Group using their pureprint environmental print technology which minimises the negative environmental impacts of the printing process.
Vegetable-based inks were used throughout and 99% of the dry waste and 95% of the cleaning solvents associated with this production were recycled.
Pureprint Group is a CarbonNeutral company.
