The strategic report Governance Risk management Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport 275 Shareholder information 276 Shareholder information 281 Index 282 Shareholder enquiries Graduating from the scheme Graduates of the scheme will have benefited from the opportunity to develop their teamwork, communication and financial skills as well as having gained a recognised qualication.
Successful graduates have gone on to work across the cycling industry in a variety of roles, including on the Barclays Cycle Hire scheme in London.
276 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Shareholder information Articles of Association viii The Board may authorise any matter in relation to which a Director has, or can have, a direct interest that conicts, or possibly may The Company was incorporated in England on 20 July 1896 under the Companies Acts 1862 to 1890 as a company limited by shares and was conict with, the Companys interests.
Only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to authorise the reregistered in 1982 as a public limited company under the Companies Acts 1948 to 1980.
The Company is registered under company number relevant matter and they may impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
The Company was reregistered as Barclays PLC on 1 January 1985. ix A Director may hold positions with, or be interested in, other Under the Companies Act 2006 Act a companys Memorandum of companies and, subject to legislation applicable to the Company and Association now need only contain the names of the subscribers and the the FSAs requirements, may contract with the Company or any other number of shares each subscriber has agreed to take.
For companies in company in which the Company is interested.
A Director may not existence as of 1 October 2009, all other provisions which were contained vote or count towards the quorum on any resolution concerning any in the companys Memorandum of Association, including the companys proposal in which he she or any person connected with him her objects, are now deemed to be contained in the companys articles.
The has a material interest other than by virtue of his her interest in Act also states that a companys objects are unrestricted unless that securities of the Company or if he she has a duty which conicts or companys articles provide otherwise.
Barclays PLC adopted new Articles may conict with the interests of the Company, unless the resolution of Association at its Annual General Meeting AGM on 30 April 2010 to relates to any proposal: reect these changes and as a result, its objects are now unrestricted.
a to indemnify a Director or provide him her with a guarantee or The Company may, by Special Resolution, amend its Articles of Association.
security in respect of money lent by him her to, or any obligation incurred by him her or any other person for the benefit of or at the In addition to the changes referred to above, the Articles of Association adopted at the 2010 AGM updated the Articles of Association to reect the request of, the Company or any other member of the Group : implementation of the remaining provisions of the Companies Act 2006. b to indemnify or give security or a guarantee to a third party in respect The following is a summary of the current Articles of Association Articles : of a debt or obligation of the Company or any other member of the Group for which the Director has personally assumed responsibility: Directors c to obtain insurance for the benefit of Directors: i The minimum number of Directors excluding alternate Directors is five.
There is no maximum limit.
There is no age limit for Directors.
d involving the acquisition by a Director of any securities of the ii Excluding executive remuneration and any other entitlement to Company pursuant to an offer to existing holders of securities or to the public: remuneration for extra services including service on board committees under the Articles, a Director is entitled to a fee at a rate e that the Director underwrite any issue of securities of the Company determined by the Board but the aggregate fees paid to all Directors or any of its subsidiaries : shall not exceed 2,000,000 per annum or such higher amount as f concerning any other company in which the Director is interested as may be approved by an ordinary resolution of the Company.
Each Director is entitled to reimbursement for all travelling, hotel and other an officer or creditor or shareholder but, broadly, only if he she together with his her connected persons is directly or indirectly expenses properly incurred by him her in or about the performance of his her duties.
interested in less than 1% of either any class of the issued equity share capital or of the voting rights of that company: and iii No Director may act either himself herself or through his her rm as an auditor of the Company.
A Director may hold any other ofce of g concerning any other arrangement for the benefit of employees of the Company on such terms as the Board shall determine.
the Company or any other member of the Group under which the Director benets or stands to benefit in a similar manner to the iv At each AGM of the Company, one third of the Directors rounded employees concerned and which does not give the Director any down are required to retire from ofce by rotation and may offer advantage which the employees to whom the arrangement relates themselves for re-election.
The Directors so retiring are those who would not receive.
have been longest in ofce and in the case of equality of service x A Director may not vote or be counted in the quorum on any length are selected by lot.
Other than a retiring Director, no person shall unless recommended by the Board be eligible for election resolution which concerns his her own employment or appointment to any ofce of the Company or any other company in which the unless a member noties the Company Secretary in advance of his her intention to propose a person for election.
v The Board has the power to appoint additional Directors or to ll a xi Subject to applicable legislation, the provisions described in casual vacancy amongst the Directors.
Any Director so appointed sub-paragraphs ix and x may be relaxed or suspended by an holds ofce until the next AGM, when he she may offer himself ordinary resolution of the members of the Company or any herself for re-election.
He she is not taken into account in applicable governmental or other regulatory body.
determining the number of Directors retiring by rotation.
xii A Director is required to hold an interest in ordinary shares having a nominal value of at least 500, which currently equates to 2,000 vi The Board may appoint any Director to any executive position or employment in the Company on such terms as they determine.
Ordinary Shares unless restricted from acquiring or holding such interest by any applicable law or regulation or any applicable vii A Director may appoint either another Director or some other person governmental or other regulatory body.
A Director may act before approved by the Board to act as his her alternate with power to acquiring those shares but must acquire the qualication shares attend Board meetings and generally to exercise the functions of the within two months from his her appointment.
Where a Director is appointing Director in his her absence other than the power to unable to acquire the requisite number of shares within that time appoint an alternate.
owing to law, regulation or requirement of any governmental or other relevant authority, he she must acquire the shares as soon as reasonably practicable once the restriction s end.
com annualreport 277 xiii The Board may exercise all of the powers of the Company to borrow All unclaimed dividends payable in respect of any share may be invested or otherwise made use of by the Board for the benefit of the Company until money, to mortgage or charge its undertaking, property and uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities.
If a dividend is not claimed after 12 years of it becoming payable, it is forfeited and reverts to the Company.
Classes of Shares The Board may although it currently does not, with the approval of an The Company only has Ordinary Shares in issue.
The Articles also provide for sterling preference shares of 100 each, dollar preference shares of ordinary resolution of the Company, offer shareholders the right to choose to receive an allotment of additional fully paid Ordinary Shares instead of US$100 each, dollar preference shares of US$0.25 each, euro preference shares of 100 each and yen preference shares of 10,000 each together, cash in respect of all or part of any dividend.
In accordance with the authority granted at the AGM, Preference Shares may be issued by the Board from time to time in ii Voting one or more series with such rights and subject to such restrictions and Every member who is present in person or by proxy or represented at any limitations as the Board may determine.
No Preference Shares have been general meeting of the Company, and who is entitled to vote, has one vote issued to date.
The Articles contain provisions to the following effect: on a show of hands when a proxy is appointed by more than one member, the proxy will have one vote for and one vote against a resolution i Dividends if he has received instructions to vote for the resolution by one or more Subject to the provisions of the Articles and applicable legislation, the members and against the resolution by one or more members.
On a poll, Company in General Meeting may declare dividends on the Ordinary every member who is present or represented and who is entitled to vote Shares by ordinary resolution, but such dividend may not exceed the has one vote for every share held.
In the case of joint holders, only the vote amount recommended by the Board.
The Board may also pay interim or of the senior holder as determined by order in the share register or his final dividends if it appears they are justied by the Companys financial proxy may be counted.
If any sum payable remains unpaid in relation to a position.
members shareholding, that member is not entitled to vote that share or exercise any other right in relation to a meeting of the Company unless the Each Preference Share confers the right to a non-cumulative preferential Board otherwise determine.
dividend Preference Dividend payable in such currency at such rates If any member, or any other person appearing to be interested in any of whether xed or calculated by reference to or in accordance with a the Companys Ordinary Shares, is served with a notice under Section 793 specified procedure or mechanism, on such dates and on such other of the Act and does not supply the Company with the information terms as may be determined by the Board prior to allotment thereof.
required in the notice, then the Board, in its absolute discretion, may direct that that member shall not be entitled to attend or vote at any meeting of The Preference Shares rank in regard to payment of dividend in priority to the Company.
The Board may further direct that if the shares of the the holders of Ordinary Shares and any other class of shares in the defaulting member represent 0.25% or more of the issued shares of the Company ranking junior to the Preference Shares.
relevant class, that dividends or other monies payable on those shares shall be retained by the Company until the direction ceases to have effect Dividends may be paid on the Preference Shares if, in the opinion of the and that no transfer of those shares shall be registered other than certain Board, the Company has sufficient distributable profits, after payment in specified excepted transfers.
A direction ceases to have effect seven days full or the setting aside of a sum to provide for all dividends payable on or after the Company has received the information requested, or when the in the case of shares carrying a cumulative right to dividends, before the Company is notied that an excepted transfer of all of the relevant shares relevant dividend payment date on any class of shares in the Company to a third party has occurred, or as the Board otherwise determines.
ranking pari passu with or in priority to the relevant series of Preference Shares as regards participation in the profits of the Company.
iii Transfers Ordinary Shares may be held in either certicated or uncerticated form.
If the Board considers that the distributable profits of the Company Certicated Ordinary Shares shall be transferred in writing in any usual or available for distribution are insufficient to cover the payment in full of other form approved by the Board and executed by or on behalf of the Preference Dividends, Preference Dividends shall be paid to the extent of transferor.
Transfers of uncerticated Ordinary Shares shall be made in the distributable profits on a pro rata basis.
accordance with the Act and Uncerticated Securities Regulations.
Notwithstanding the above, the Board may, at its absolute discretion, The Board is not bound to register a transfer of partly paid Ordinary determine that any Preference Dividend which would otherwise be Shares, or fully paid shares in exceptional circumstances approved by the payable may either not be payable at all or only payable in part.
The Board may also decline to register an instrument of transfer of certicated Ordinary Shares unless it is duly stamped and deposited at the If any Preference Dividend on a series of Preference Shares is not paid, or is prescribed place and accompanied by the share certicate s and such only paid in part, for the reasons described above, holders of Preference other evidence as reasonably required by the Board to evidence right to Shares will not have a claim in respect of such non-payment.
transfer, it is in respect of one class of shares only, and it is in favour of not more than four transferees except in the case of executors or trustees of If any dividend on a series of Preference Shares is not paid in full on the a member.
relevant dividend payment date, a dividend restriction shall apply.
The dividend restriction means that, subject to certain exceptions, neither the Preference Shares may be represented by share warrants to bearer or be in Company nor Barclays Bank may a pay a dividend on, or b redeem, registered form.
purchase, reduce or otherwise acquire, any of their respective ordinary shares, other preference shares or other share capital ranking equal or Preference Shares represented by share warrants to bearer are transferred junior to the relevant series of Preference Shares until the earlier of such by delivery of the relevant warrant.
Preference Shares in registered form time as the Company next pays in full a dividend on the relevant series of shall be transferred in writing in any usual or other form approved by the Preference Shares or the date on which all of the relevant series of Board and executed by or on behalf of the transferor.
The Companys Preference Shares are redeemed.
registrar shall register such transfers of Preference Shares in registered form by making the appropriate entries in the register of Preference Shares.
278 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Shareholder information continued Each Preference Share shall confer, in the event of a winding up or any Annual and other general meetings The Company is required to hold an AGM in addition to such other general return of capital by reduction of capital other than, unless otherwise provided by their terms of issue, a redemption or purchase by the meetings as the Directors think t. The type of the meeting will be specified in the notice calling it.
Under the Companies Act 2006, the AGM Company of any of its issued shares, or a reduction of share capital, the right to receive out of the surplus assets of the Company available for must be held within six months of the financial year end.
A general meeting may be convened by the Board on requisition in accordance with distribution amongst the members and in priority to the holders of the Ordinary Shares and any other shares in the Company ranking junior to the the applicable legislation.
relevant series of Preference Shares and pari passu with any other class of Preference Shares, repayment of the amount paid up or treated as paid up In the case of an AGM, a minimum of 21 clear days notice is required.
The in respect of the nominal value of the Preference Share together with any notice must be in writing and must specify the place, the day and the premium which was paid or treated as paid when the Preference Share was hour of the meeting, and the general nature of the business to be issued in addition to an amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends.
A notice convening a meeting to pass a special resolution shall specify the intention to propose the resolution as such.
The accidental iv Redemption and Purchase failure to give notice of a general meeting or the non-receipt of such Subject to applicable legislation and the rights of the other shareholders, notice will not invalidate the proceedings at such meeting.
any share may be issued on terms that it is, at the option of the Company or the holder of such share, redeemable.
The Directors are authorised to Subject as noted above, all shareholders are entitled to attend and vote at determine the terms, conditions and manner of redemption of any such general meetings.
The Articles do, however, provide that arrangements shares under the Articles.
While the Company currently has no may be made for simultaneous attendance at a satellite meeting place or, redeemable shares in issue, any series of Preference Shares issued in the if the meeting place is inadequate to accommodate all members and future will be redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the proxies entitled to attend, another meeting place may be arranged to Company on a date not less than five years after the date on which such accommodate such persons other than that specified in the notice of series of Preference Shares was first issued.
Note that under the meeting, in which case shareholders may be excluded from the principal Companies Act 1985, in addition to obtaining shareholder approval, place.
companies required specic enabling provisions in their articles to purchase their own shares.
Following implementation of the Act, this Holders of Preference Shares have no right to receive notice of, attend or enabling provision is now included in the Act and is therefore no longer vote at, any general meetings of the Company as a result of holding included in the Articles.
Shareholder approval is still required under the Act Preference Shares.
in order to purchase shares.
Limitations on foreign shareholders v Calls on capital There are no restrictions imposed by the Articles or subject to the effect The Directors may make calls upon the members in respect of any monies of any economic sanctions that may be in force from time to time by unpaid on their shares.
A person upon whom a call is made remains liable current UK laws which relate only to non-residents of the UK and which even if the shares in respect of which the call is made have been limit the rights of such non-residents to hold or when entitled to do so transferred.
Interest will be chargeable on any unpaid amount called at a vote the Companys Ordinary Shares.
rate determined by the Board of not more than 20% per annum.
Notices If a member fails to pay any call in full following notice from the Board A document or information may be sent by the Company in hard copy that such failure will result in forfeiture of the relevant shares, such shares form, electronic form, by being made available on a website, or by another including any dividends declared but not paid may be forfeited by a means agreed with the recipient, in accordance with the provisions set resolution of the Board, and will become the property of the Company.
Accordingly, a document or information may only be sent in Forfeiture shall not absolve a previous member for amounts payable by electronic form to a person who has agreed to receive it in that form or, in him her which may continue to accrue interest.
the case of a company, who has been deemed to have so agreed pursuant to applicable legislation.
A document or information may only be sent by The Company also has a lien over all partly paid shares of the Company for being made available on a website if the recipient has agreed to receive it all monies payable or called on that share and over the debts and liabilities in that form or has been deemed to have so agreed pursuant to applicable of a member to the Company.
If any monies which are the subject of the legislation, and has not revoked that agreement.
lien remain unpaid after a notice from the Board demanding payment, the Company may sell such shares.
In respect of joint holdings, documents or information shall be sent to the joint holder whose name stands first in the register.
vi Variation of Rights The rights attached to any class of shares may be varied either with the A member who having no registered address within the UK has not consent in writing of the holders of at least 75% in nominal value of the supplied an address in the UK at which documents or information may be issued shares of that class or with the sanction of special resolution sent is not entitled to have documents or information sent to him her.
passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
In addition, the Company may cease to send notices to any member who The rights of shares shall not unless expressly provided by the rights has been sent documents on two consecutive occasions over a period of attached to such shares be deemed varied by the creation of further at least 12 months and when each of those documents is returned shares ranking equally with them.
undelivered or notication is received that they have not been delivered.
com annualreport 279 Capitalisation of profits The Company may, by ordinary resolution, upon the recommendation of the Board capitalise all or any part of an amount standing to the credit of a reserve or fund to be set free for distribution provided that amounts from the share premium account, capital redemption reserve or any profits not available for distribution should be applied only in paying up unissued shares to be allotted to members credited as fully paid and no unrealised profits shall be applied in paying up debentures of the Company or any amount unpaid on any share in the capital of the Company.
Indemnity Subject to applicable legislation, every current and former Director or other officer of the Company other than any person engaged by the company as auditor shall be indemnified by the Company against any liability in relation to the Company, other than broadly any liability to the Company or a member of the Group, or any criminal or regulatory ne.
Ofcers of the Group Date of appointment as officer Lawrence Dickinson Company Secretary 2002 Mark Harding Group General Counsel 2003 Antony Jenkins Chief Executive of Retail and Business 2009 Banking Thomas L. Kalaris Chief Executive of Barclays Wealth 2009 Robert Le Blanc Chief Risk officer 2004 Jerry del Missier Co-Chief Executive of Barclays Capital and 2009 Co-Chief Executive of Corporate and Investment Banking Maria Ramos Group Chief Executive, Absa and Chief 2009 Executive of Barclays Africa Rich Ricci Co-Chief Executive of Barclays Capital and 2009 Co-Chief Executive of Corporate and Investment Banking Sally Bott Group Human Resources Director 2011 John Worth Group Financial Controller 2011
