The strategic report Governance Risk management Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport 281 Liabilities Segmental reporting 139-150 Liquidity risk 173 by class of business 174 by geographical segments 238 Loans and advances to banks 258-260 Share based payments 238 Loans and advances to customers 275 Shareholder information 121-129 Market risk Statement of comprehensive income 276-279 Memorandum and Articles of Association 198 consolidated 255-256 Non-controlling interests 251-254 subordinated liabilities Net fee and commission income Tax 209 notes to the accounts 257 bank payroll tax 166 summary 169 tax contribution Net interest income 78 tax risk 208 notes to the accounts 213-216 notes to accounts 166 summary 213 UK bank levy 269-271 Off-balance sheet arrangements 171 Total assets Operating expenses 219 Trading portfolio 211-212 administration and general expenses UK Retail and Business Banking 167 staff costs 176-177 business analysis 167 summary 174 business description Ordinary shares, share premiums, and other equity 254 Called-up 202-203 Parent Company accounts Barclays PLC Pensions 59 Directors 261-265 notes to the accounts 95 Potential credit risk loans 194 Presentation of information 240-241 Property, plant and equipment 246-247 Provisions 272-274 Related party transactions 54-65 Remuneration report 255 Reserves 173-191 Results by business 74-78 Risk factors Risk Management 68-73 Barclays approach to risk management 74-78 principal risks 79-120 credit risk 121-129 market risk 130-138 funding risk capital 139-150 funding risk liquidity 151-153 operational risk 154-158 supervision and regulation 134 Risk weighted assets 239 Reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements including other similar lending and borrowing 268-269 Securitisation 282 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Shareholder enquiries Investors who have any questions about their investment in Barclays, or about Barclays in general, may write to the Director, Investor Relations at our Head ofce as follows: Director, Investor Relations Barclays PLC 1 Churchill Place London E14 5HP or, in the United States of America: The Corporate Communications Department Barclays Bank PLC 745 Seventh Avenue New York, NY 10019, USA Registered and Head Ofce 1 Churchill Place London E14 5HP Tel: 44 0 20 7116 1000 Registrar The Registrar to Barclays Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Tel: 0871 384 2055 or 44 0 121 415 7004 from overseas Email: questions@share-registers.
co. uk ADR Depositary JP Morgan Chase Bank, N. A. PO Box 64504 St. Paul MN 55164-0504 USA Tel: 1-800-990-1135 toll-free for US domestic callers or 1 651 453 2128 Email: jpmorgan.
com The strategic report Governance Risk management Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport 283 Shareholder information Your Barclays shareholding Alternative formats Shareholder documentation can be provided in large print, audio or Braille free of charge by calling the Barclays Shareholder Helpline.
0871 384 2055 in the UK 44 121 415 7004 from overseas Audio versions of the Annual Review will also be available at the AGM.
Barclays e-view You do not have to receive paper shareholder documentation from us.
An increasing number of shareholders receive their Barclays communications electronically and are discovering the convenience of using the internet and email to nd out about their shareholding and Barclays.
Barclays e-view is an easy and convenient way to: access your Barclays shareholding details and check share sales, purchases or transfers: receive important shareholder information directly to your inbox: view dividend information, including electronic tax vouchers: change your address and bank details online: see shareholder documents such as the Annual Review, Annual Report or Results Announcements online: and register your voting instructions for General Meetings.
Why not log on to Barclays e-view and see the benets for yourself in 3 easy steps?
3 step guide to Barclays e-view Step 1 Go to www.
co. uk Step 2 Register for electronic communications by following the instructions onscreen Step 3 You will be sent a secure access number in the post the next working day Your dividends Key dates It is our policy to pay cash dividends on a quarterly basis.
There will be Barclays goes to great lengths to keep to the dates published here but three equal quarterly payments in June, September and December and a please note that all future dates are provisional and subject to change.
final variable payment in March each year.
16 March 2012 2011 Final dividend payment date Receiving your dividends A majority of shareholders mandate their dividends to their bank or 27 April 2012 Barclays 2012 Annual General Meeting building society account.
It is safer, quicker and easier for your dividends to 8 June 2012 2012 First interim dividend payment date be paid directly to you.
You may be charged if you lose your dividend cheque and we have to reissue it to you.
If you havent already arranged to 7 September 2012 2012 Second interim dividend payment date mandate your dividend and hold 2,500 shares or less, phone the Barclays 2012 Third interim dividend payment date 7 December 2012 Shareholder Helpline.
For your security, if you hold more than 2,500 shares, you will need to write to The Registrar or you can download a form online at www.
com investorrelations How Barclays shareholders receive their dividends % 1 Bank mandate 54 1 2 Cheque 32 3 3 Dividend Re-investment Plan DRIP 14 Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute if using a BT landline.
Call charges may vary if using other telephone providers.
Lines are open from 8.30am 2 to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 This Report is printed on Revive 100 White Offset made from 100% FSC certied recycled bre sourced from fide-inked post-consumer waste.
The printer and manufacturing mill are both credited with ISO14001 Environmental Management Systems Standard and both are FSC certied.
Registered ofce: 1 Churchill Place, London E14 5HP Registered in England.
Registered No: 48839 Barclays Bank PLC 2012 9912300 Designed by Further furthercreative.
co. uk Cover and divider photography by John Wildgoose Board photography by Philip Gatward Barclays PLC Annual Review 2011 Barclays PLC Annual Review 2011 www.
com annualreport The term Barclays PLC Group or the Group means Barclays PLC together with its subsidiaries and the term Barclays Bank PLC Group means Barclays Bank PLC together with its subsidiaries.
Barclays and Group are terms which are used to refer to either of the preceding groups when the subject matter is identical.
The term Company, Parent Company or Parent refers to Barclays PLC and the term Bank refers to Barclays Bank PLC.
In this report, the abbreviations m and bn represent millions and thousands of millions of pounds sterling respectively: the abbreviations US$m and US$bn represent millions and thousands of millions of US Dollars respectively and m and bn represent millions and thousands of millions of euros respectively.
Unless otherwise stated, the income statement analyses compare the 12 months to 31 December 2011 to the corresponding 12 months of 2010 and balance sheet comparisons, relate to the corresponding position at 31 December 2010.
Unless otherwise stated, all disclosed figures relate to continuing operations.
Relevant terms that are used in this document but are not defined under applicable regulatory guidance or International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS are explained in the glossary online at www.
A hard copy can be provided on request by contacting Barclays Investor Relations, Barclays PLC, 1 Churchill Place, London E14 5HP.
Adjusted profit before tax and adjusted performance measures have been presented to provide a more consistent basis for comparing business performance between periods.
Adjusted profit Our leadership team discusses the before tax is explained further on page 22 and defined in the online glossary at www.
com annualreport year and the future for Barclays Forward-looking statements More detail, including videos, can be found online at This document contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 27A of the US Securities www.
com annualreport Act of 1933, as amended, with respect to certain of the Groups plans and its current goals and expectations relating to its future financial condition and performance.
Barclays cautions readers that no forward-looking statement is a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate only to historical or current facts.
Forward-looking statements sometimes use words such as may, will, seek, continue, aim, anticipate, target, expect, estimate, intend, plan, goal, believe or other words of similar meaning.
Examples of forward-looking statements include, among others, statements regarding the Groups future financial position, income growth, assets, impairment charges, business strategy, capital ratios, leverage, payment of dividends, projected levels of growth in the banking and financial markets, projected costs, estimates of capital expenditures What our strategy is and how we and plans and objectives for future operations and other statements that are not historical fact.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to manage our business to achieve this future events and circumstances, including, but not limited to, UK domestic, Eurozone and global economic and business conditions, the effects of continued volatility in credit markets, market related risks such as changes in interest rates and exchange rates, effects of changes in valuation It is important that we run our business with a clear of credit market exposures, changes in valuation of issued notes, the policies and actions of strategy that takes in to account market conditions governmental and regulatory authorities including requirements regarding capital and Group structures and the potential for one or more countries exiting the Euro, changes in legislation, the further development of standards and interpretations under IFRS applicable to past, current and future periods, evolving practices with regard to the interpretation and application of standards under IFRS, the outcome of current and future litigation, the success of future acquisitions and other strategic transactions and the impact of competition a number of such factors being beyond the Groups control.
As a result, the Groups actual future results may differ materially from the plans, goals, and expectations set forth in the Groups forwardlooking statements.
Any forward-looking statements made herein are as at the date they are made.
Except as required by the UK Financial Services Authority FSA, the London Stock Exchange plc LSE or applicable law, Barclays expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly updates or revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect any change in Barclays expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
The reader should, however, consult any additional disclosures that Barclays has made or may make in documents it has filed or may file with the LSE and or the SEC.
The Annual Report includes certain information required to be included in the joint Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC Annual Report on Form 20-F for 2011.
Form 20-F will contain as exhibits certificates pursuant to Sections 302 and 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, signed by the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director.
Cover image How we measure success within Barclays and reward performance As part of our Citizenship agenda, we focus on empowering young people with the necessary financial, entrepreneurial and life skills to achieve economic The evidence our strategy is being successfully implemented independence and security.
Barclays supports Cycle into Work, an initiative developed and delivered by our social enterprise partner Bikeworks, which helps disadvantaged Londoners to learn key skills and find employment in the cycling industry.
The community investment programme supports Bikeworks to work in partnership with homeless hostels and shelters in London to reach vulnerable young people, offering them bicycle building and maintenance courses.
Employees also volunteer as mentors to help participants improve their Shareholder information confidence, communication skills and job prospects, as well as provide them with opportunities for team work and social interaction.
Full disclosure and discussion in depth www.
com annualreport Trainees access on-the-job training and professional qualifications in bike mechanics alongside tailored personal development support.
Graduates of the programme are then supported to access employment opportunities with Barclays Cycle Hire and cycling retailers in London.
uk Barclays PLC Annual Review 2011 www.
com annualreport 01 Your 2011 Barclays Annual Report We have changed the way we present and organise our reporting to help make it easier to understand.
Within the strategic report you will find the following icon which indicates where you can obtain more detailed information.
Barclays at a glance Group Chairmans statement Chief Executives review An overview of The Chairman presents The Chief Executive presents a the Group and its a review of the year and the summary of our performance performance in 2011 key events and impacts on and priorities looking forward our business Page 02 Page 04 Page 06 Market and operating environment Risk management Our strategy and business model The environment in which There are risks associated with What we do to increase shareholder we operate and run our running our business that both returns and deliver on our strategy Page 10 business influences the shape our strategy and require strategy we employ careful management Board of Directors and Executive Committee An overview of the Groups leadership team Page 12 Governance How the Board and its committees support the delivery of strategic priorities Page 14 Citizenship How we use our resources and expertise to create long term value for all our stakeholders Page 18 Page 08 Page 16 Key performance Finance Directors Summary financial Divisional Summary remuneration indicators review statements review report How we monitor and Review of the financial Summary of the The business heads Details how we reward evaluate our performance performance of the audited financial give an overview performance within the against our strategy Group in 2011 statements of the of each of their Group and among our Group businesses senior management Page 20 Page 22 Page 24 Page 26 Page 30 Shareholder capital and other information Page 33 Shareholder information Page 34 02 Barclays PLC Annual Review 2011 www.
com annualreport Barclays at a glance Barclays universal banking model continues to be a competitive strength.
Revenues remained resilient overall, reflecting the strength of our customer franchise and the balanced mix of our business.
We have intensified our cost discipline while selectively investing in growth areas that support our execution priorities.
Total income Credit impairment Profit before tax 32,292m 3,802m 5,879m Total income up 3% on 2010. Credit impairment improved 33% Profit before tax down 3%.
Adjusted profit Adjusted income excluding own credit on 2010 before tax down 2% and broadly balanced and debt buy-backs down 8% across the retail and investment banking businesses Liquidity pool Core Tier 1 ratio Return on equity 152bn 11.0% 5.8% Liquidity pool remained strong, Core Tier 1 ratio strengthened from Return on average shareholders' equity in line with 2010 10.8% at year end 2010 down on prior year due to worse than predicted macro economic conditions.
Adjusted return on average shareholders' equity 6.6% Gross new lending to UK Institutional funding People supported 45.0bn $1 trillion 2,000,000 Gross new lending to UK households and Raised over $1trn of funding for institutions, Supported over 2 million people, primarily businesses of 45.0bn and Project Merlin including almost $400bn for governments building their enterprise, employment lending targets exceeded by 13% and public sector entities and money management skills, including helping 3,500 people to find employment through a range of programmes Net tangible asset value per shareAdjusted profit before tax Dividends per share 391p 5,707m 6.0p 5,590m 5.5p 346p 337p 4,942m 2.5p 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Barclays PLC Annual Review 2011 www.
com annualreport 03 Why we report by segment and geography We move, lend, invest and protect money for customers and clients worldwide.
By reporting by business segment and geography, we demonstrate the diversification of our business, and the universal banking model which we operate.
Barclays is a major global financial services provider engaged in retail banking, credit cards, corporate and investment banking and wealth management with an extensive international presence.
With over 300 years of history and expertise in banking, Barclays operates in over 50 countries and employs over 140,000 people.
Retail and Business Banking 1 7 1 UK Retail and Business Banking 4,656m UK Retail and Business Banking is a leading UK high street bank providing current account and savings products and Woolwich branded mortgages.
8 UK Retail and Business Banking also provides unsecured loans and general 6 insurance as well as banking and money transmission services to small and medium sized businesses.
2 2 Europe Retail and Business Banking 1,226m Total income by 3 Europe Retail and Business Banking provide retail services, including credit business segment cards, in Spain, Italy, Portugal and France, as well as lending to small and medium sized businesses, through a variety of distribution channels.
3 Africa Retail and Business Banking 3,767m Africa Retail and Business Banking provides retail, corporate and credit card services across Africa and the Indian Ocean.
Africa Retail and Business Banking combines the operations previously reported as Barclays Africa and Absa.
4 4 Barclaycard 4,095m Barclaycard is an international payments business service provider to retail and business customers including credit cards and consumer lending.
5 Corporate and Investment Banking 5 Barclays Capital 10,335m Barclays Capital is the investment banking division of Barclays providing A E large corporate, government and institutional clients with a full spectrum of solutions to meet their strategic advisory, financing and risk management needs.
6 Barclays Corporate 2,912m Barclays Corporate provides integrated banking solutions to large corporates, financial institutions and multi-nationals in the UK and internationally.
Total income by D 7 Barclays Wealth 1,744m geographic region Barclays Wealth is the wealth management division of Barclays.
It focuses on private and intermediary clients worldwide, providing international and A UK 11,981m private banking, fiduciary services and brokerage.
B Europe 4,207m C Americas 6,025m 8 Investment Management 53m D Africa and Middle East 4,967m Investment Management manages the Groups economic interest in E Asia 1,274m BlackRock, Inc. and the residual elements relating to Barclays Global Investors, which was sold on 1 December 2009.
C B Barclays Head Office Functions and Other Operations 334m Head Office Functions and Other Operations comprise head office and central support functions and consolidation adjustments.
This figure excludes excluding own credit and debt buy-backs own credit gain of 2,708m and gains on debt buy-backs of 1,130m.
04 Barclays PLC Annual Review 2011 www.
com annualreport Group Chairmans statement Our performance in 2011 reflected the challenging economic environment in which we operated.
Marcus Agius Group Chairman Barclays PLC Annual Review 2011 www.
com annualreport 05 Your Chairmans view The Chairmans primary role is to provide leadership to the Board, creating the conditions for overall Board effectiveness and ensuring that Barclays satisfies its legal and regulatory responsibilities.
Here he takes the opportunity to provide his views on the performance of Barclays, the Board, and thoughts on current economic conditions.
Market conditions in the second half of the year were particularly difficult as investor nervousness over global economic growth prospects grew and concerns about the fiscal deficit of certain Eurozone countries became acute.
The Board is resolved to navigate the current difficult economic has been intense competition for talent, particularly in the investment environment safely, ensuring that Barclays is positioned to continue to be banking industry.
The difficult economic environment and the impact profitable and successful in the future.
We are also committed to acting as of regulation on the profitability of investment banking lessened this responsible corporate citizens at a time when so many people have been competition in 2011 and, as a consequence, performance related pay affected by the financial crisis and subsequent economic downturn.
across the Group reduced significantly.
We recognise that compensation has to adjust to the new reality of lower returns for the sector and we The Board and I are very conscious that returns to shareholders have been will continue to ensure that our remuneration policies and practices are unacceptably low in recent years.
The urgent priority for the Group in this aligned with the long-term interests of our shareholders.
respect is to improve its Return on Equity whilst not increasing leverage, as the correlation between the price to book value ratio and hence share Citizenship price and Return on Equity has been very strong.
In the short term, our Barclays has always taken its role in society seriously and believes that business is still adjusting to the significantly higher levels of capital that being a valued, respected and trusted citizen is vital in creating sustainable we now have to hold as a result of new regulatory requirements.
That ethos has been part of our corporate values since Accordingly, we are focused on ensuring that actions are in place to drive the bank was founded over 300 years ago.
Events in the global economy a significant and sustainable increase in the Return on Equity and, hence, have led us to reflect further on how we help others recognise the value the share price over the medium term.
The share prices of banks were of what we do.
impacted during the year by the Eurozone debt crisis, which deteriorated further in 2011, with sovereign bond yields in a number of countries rising Citizenship as an execution priority for Barclays is about three things: how to unsustainable levels.
Fortunately, there has been notable progress over we contribute to growth in the real economy: the way we do business: and the past few months, with Eurozone leaders committing to a system of supporting our communities.
We see our success as inseparable from that enforceable fiscal rules designed to bolster confidence in the ability of of the communities we serve and so will bring the same discipline and focus countries to service and repay their debt.
In addition, the action of the to this part of our agenda as for everything else that we do.
Indeed, our European Central Bank to provide liquidity support to banks has helped community investment increased by 15% to 63m in 2011.
Although financial market volatility is likely to remain high, by aligning our community investment strategy to our core business, the we believe the current European downturn will be moderate.
positive impact of our activity is much more than just a financial contribution.
Youth unemployment is at record levels and last year we saw the Uncertainty of regulation continues to dominate the agenda, however consequences of the resulting disaffection expressed in a very public way.
there are welcome signs that some of the regulatory fog within which we The future of communities and economies around the world is reliant on have been operating over the last four years is beginning to clear.
The the next generation having the right skills.
Our community programmes publication of the rules regarding the capital levels to be held by are focused on empowering disadvantaged young people by helping them Systemically Important Financial Institutions, of which Barclays is one, access the skills they need to achieve financial independence and security.
and the acceptance by the UK Government of the Final Report by the Independent Commission on Banking, were important milestones in this Talented and diverse employees are not only crucial to delivering our respect.
We welcome the move towards regulatory certainty that this Citizenship agenda, but are the foundation of our success across all brings, as it allows Barclays and the rest of the banking industry in the UK business priorities.
We have committed to ensure that at least 20% of our to plan ahead with a greater level of clarity.
Barclays engaged constructively Board will be made up of women by the end of 2013, rising to 25% by 2015. with the commissioners during their deliberations and the final report makes a number of recommendations which will make the industry Board Changes safer and more sound.
Whilst we do not agree that the proposed retail The only Board change during the year was the retirement of Sir Richard ring-fence is the best solution, we are clear that Barclays can accommodate Broadbent as Deputy Chairman in September.
Richard joined the Board in it and we will work with the regulators and the Government on its 2003 and was an outstanding non-executive Director, chairing the Board introduction.
Most importantly, it means that the universal banking model Risk Committee from 2006 to 2009 and the Board Remuneration which we operate, and which we believe brings diversified strength to our Committee from 2007 to 2011.
He became Senior Independent Director in business, will continue to be valid for the future.
It is critically important 2004 and Deputy Chairman in 2009.
His clarity of thought and steadiness that the new regulatory architecture is monitored carefully to ensure that of nerve were particularly valuable during the financial crisis.
We will miss it does not result in unintended consequences, particularly given the his insights and immense contribution and wish him well for the future.
essential role that banks need to play in supporting economic recovery.
It also continues to be vital that international banks such as Barclays can Conclusion operate on a global level playing field and there are some concerning signs In conclusion, I would like, on behalf of the Board and on behalf of all our that the UK continues to be super equivalent in a number of key areas.
shareholders to thank Barclays 140,000 employees.
They have continued to work hard in a very difficult environment to deliver excellent service to Remuneration our customers and clients.
It is through their efforts that Barclays will Remuneration continues to be the subject of considerable discussion.
It succeed in rebuilding the trust of our key stakeholders and deliver remains our policy that we only pay for performance, not failure, and that sustainable value to our shareholders.
we only pay the minimum necessary to be competitive.
Historically, there 06 Barclays PLC Annual Review 2011 www.
com annualreport Chief Executives review When were at our best, we serve the real economy by doing our best for all our stakeholders: our customers and clients, the communities we serve, our people and our shareholders.
Bob Diamond Chief Executive Barclays PLC Annual Review 2011 www.
com annualreport 07 Your Chief Executives view The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for managing the daily operations of Barclays through working closely with the Executive Committee and overseeing successful delivery of the Group strategy.
His priorities are a focus on four areas of execution: Capital, Funding and Liquidity: Returns: Income Growth: and Citizenship, which he uses to guide Barclays through the uncertain economic and regulatory environment and deliver shareholder returns.
In this summary, he reflects on the year, giving his views on progress towards delivery of our strategy.
2011 was marked by a challenging market and economic environment and our solid performance relative to global peers demonstrates the strength of our universal banking model and our relentless focus on clients and customers.
Our focus in 2011 was firmly on delivering progress against the four execution priorities.
Id like to give you a review of what we achieved.
Citizenship Capital, Funding and Liquidity When I look back over the last few years, one of Barclays best decisions We have recognized that banks need to become better citizens and that came in October 2008 when regulators made clear that they wanted our ability to do this is critical to generate long term value for shareholders.
banks to raise the bar for equity capital.
We decided to raise capital swiftly This is not philanthropy its about using Barclays unique skills and and in scale, to put our ratios ahead of regulatory requirements.
We resources to deliver real commercial benefits in a way that also creates wanted to put a metaphorical sign up for customers and clients saying sustainable value for society.
that Barclays was open for business.
Today were recognised for our strength in terms of capital, liquidity and funding, and as a result we are We have made firm progress against our Citizenship agenda in 2011, seen by customers as a safe haven in times of stress.
delivering benefits to the real economy.
We exceeded our Project Merlin targets by 13% and delivered 44bn to UK business: we helped 108,000 Our capital position remains rock solid.
Even after absorbing the full businesses start up: we helped corporates and institutions raise $1 trillion impact of the third Capital Requirements Directive, our Core Tier 1 ratio of financing through the capital markets globally, including almost $400bn stands at 11% and we have a liquidity pool of 152bn that provides for governments and the public sector: we employed almost 1,500 protection against unexpected market fluctuations.
graduates and have committed to creating over 1,000 apprenticeships: Returns and we will continue to do everything we can to support our customers While we use many metrics to manage and measure the business, and clients in 2012. return on equity is the financial measure that correlates most closely with shareholder value, so its extremely important to us.
Our 13% return target We know we have a responsibility to help generate economic growth and was a vital factor in helping us make disciplined choices over the last create jobs and we are fully committed to playing our part.
12 months, but we know that our returns today remain unsatisfactory and that we have a lot more work to do.
You will find additional information relating to our Citizenship agenda in this document and a Citizenship Report with detailed information on our Since we set this target last year we have faced some significant external goals, our targets and our achievements will be available online from headwinds which are detailed over the page in our review of the market 23 April 2012. and operating environment.
Notwithstanding these, we have made a lot of progress on the journey towards achieving our targets.
Through operating Looking forward to 2012 as a more integrated business we have been able to begin to drive the cost As I look back at 2011, we made firm progress and right across Barclays efficiency that will be necessary to deliver that goal, and as a result have we entered 2012 in a stronger position.
We recognise that in order to increased our cost target to a saving of 2bn by 2013. achieve our return target we need to improve profitability substantially Our portfolio of businesses continued to evolve and strengthen, and most going forward and we are determined to do that, using all the means of our businesses increased their return on equity in 2011. within our control to drive the business.
We continue to believe that a return on equity of 13% is the right goal, Turning to the external environment, while there are some positive signs but our ability to achieve this by 2013 will depend upon economic, market of economic recovery, particularly in the US, and increasing clarity on and regulatory developments.
We remain fully committed to delivering regulation, the global macro-economic, political and regulatory 13% returns over time, by driving improved business performance, environment remains uncertain and we must again expect a challenging reducing expenses, and maintaining a disciplined approach to capital environment in 2012. and funding costs.
Income growth As we have shown in the past year, however, Barclays is well positioned Given the difficult economic environment, were pleased that we were to improve our competitive positioning across businesses in challenging able to grow income, underlying profit, and market share in many of our environments.
Our universal banking model, as well as our rock solid businesses.
We enter 2012 in a stronger competitive position.
capital, liquidity and funding positions, give us the balance and flexibility to meet the challenges ahead.
We are confident that by putting clients In UK Retail and Business Banking net operating income grew 11%, and customers at the center of everything we do, we will support Barclaycard net income was up 21%, our African business net income economic growth more broadly and generate the financial returns were grew 11% in local currencies, and Wealth Management had its third targeting over time.
successive year of double digit income growth as we continue to build that business.
When were at our best, we serve the real economy by doing our best for Income and profits were down in Investment Banking in a very tough all our stakeholders: our customers and clients, the communities we serve, market but we continue to have real momentum, which is particularly our people and our shareholders.
To be anything less than our best is evident in those areas where weve been actively investing, such as letting all these people down.
Thats why we aspire for Barclays to be one Equities and Advisory.
This progress was recognized by International of the best organised, best managed and most productive private sector Financing Review IFR when it named Barclays Capital its 2011 Bank banks in the world.
of the Year for growing market share across the board, and becoming an increasingly go-to investment bank.
08 Barclays PLC Annual Review 2011 www.
com annualreport Market and operating environment 2011 saw further clarity from regulators with implementation of the third Capital Requirements Directive and the final report from the Independent Commission on Banking.
The year also saw difficult conditions due to the Eurozone crisis and a slowdown in economic growth, with both events adversely impacting client activity and funding markets.
Although our performance in 2011 was adversely impacted by difficult Market factors economic conditions, we welcome the increased clarity from the UK and global regulators and expect further developments throughout 2012.
Nevertheless, our capital, funding and liquidity positions remain a source Economic growth of stability for our customers and clients and support us meeting future The year saw downward revisions of global GDP forecasts by a regulatory requirements.
number of supranational bodies with a worsening outlook on the pace of recovery following the recent economic crisis.
This Economic growth impacted Barclays income growth as customers and clients were 2011 saw a number of government agencies, including the UK Treasury more conservative.
This was offset by the improved impairment and US Fed, and supranational bodies, such as the IMF and the World performance across the Group.
Bank, downgrade their GDP growth forecasts.
Although financial market volatility is likely to remain high, we believe the current European downturn Eurozone crisis and funding will be moderate.
The funding requirements of certain Eurozone governments caused market dislocations through the year due to investor fears Eurozone of government default and the risk of contagion to other countries.
In 2011, the Eurozone continued to weaken with slowing GDP This made it difficult for some European banks to raise funding and growth, high unemployment and ongoing political uncertainty.
This has added to pressures on their liquidity positions.
impacted Barclays through low client volumes as investors reduced their exposure to riskier asset classes, currency risk with significant fluctuations in the value of the Euro, and through increased funding costs due to a perceived deterioration in the credit risk of European banks.
What we have done about it.
Barclays continues to closely monitor its Market uncertainty exposure to Eurozone countries.
The majority of sovereign exposures are used for hedging interest rate risk relating to local activities and have been actively replaced by non-government instruments.
The remaining portion is actively managed reflecting our role as leading primary dealer, market maker and liquidity provider to our clients.
Barclays also enters into credit Regulatory factors mitigation arrangements to further protect against adverse Eurozone conditions.
Despite the difficult conditions, Barclays remains open for Basel and the Capital Requirements Directive CRD business and will continue to contribute to growth in the Eurozone Regulations CRD3 requiring banks to hold more capital for economies in which we operate.
market risk were implemented on 31 December 2011.
Further regulatory change linked to Basel 3 CRD4 will be implemented Funding on 1 January 2013.
In the summer of 2011, the funding markets experienced significant stress due to market concerns on the European sovereign Independent Commission on Banking ICB debt crisis, resulting in sovereign bond yields for a number of European ICB recommendations on reforms to the UK banking sector countries rising to unsustainable levels.
to promote financial stability and competition were submitted in September 2011.
The Government is expected to announce What we have done about it.
Barclays emerged as one of the higher a white paper on the future of UK banking regulation in 2012. quality names in Europe and we have continued to access a variety of global funding markets.
Our funding strategy is to maintain a diversified Dodd-Frank Act DFA funding base, access a variety of alternate funding sources and hold Becoming law in the US in July 2010, the DFA impact remains liquidity to meet unexpected demands.
This enables us to minimise the unclear.
The rules are yet to be implemented and, in some areas, cost of funding and provides protection against unexpected fluctuations in yet to be proposed.
In 2011, our strong position gave us a competitive advantage during the market dislocation in the second half of the year.
Recently, the ECB introduced mechanisms to provide liquidity to banks.
This action was a positive development for the sector and reduces the risk of a fundinginduced credit crunch in 2012.
Barclays PLC Annual Review 2011 www.
com annualreport 09 Understanding Business Conditions It is important that we understand the conditions in which we operate in order to run the company effectively.
In this section we aim to highlight some of the major factors affecting the banking industry to help the reader understand the context of the current market and environment.
Below we have set out the key market and environment issues faced by Barclays in 2011.
Regulatory change There has been continuing regulatory change in the wake of the financial Regulatory timeline crisis.
Barclays maintains a proactive stance to regulation, seeking to be involved in the policy discussion in a constructive manner, and taking a Basel 2.5 CRD3 implemented on 2011 serious approach to ensuring compliance with the resulting legislation and 31 December regulation.
Outlined below are the key regulatory uncertainties we face.
UK Government to publish White Basel and the Capital Requirements Directive CRD H1 2012 Paper on banking reform following The issue.
The Basel Committee published a paper on Strengthening ICB recommendations in 2011 resilience of the banking sector in 2009.
The report covered wide ranging proposals including more stringent capital and Risk Weighted Asset RWA Implementation of RWA calculations Q1 2013 treatments than the current regulatory regime.
under Basel 3 CRD4 What we have done about it.
Barclays maintains a strong dialogue with international regulators including the FSA and the Basel Committee.
We Financial Services Act to be implemented H1 2013 are focused on conservative capital management and management of our which will change the structure of the RWAs with significant reductions of Credit Market Exposures improving UK regulatory bodies the capital efficiency of the Group, enabling us to maintain a robust Core Expected enactment of UK Government 2013 2015 Tier 1 ratio of 11.0% after the impact of CRD3.
The strength of our capital White Paper on banking reform ratios, our ability to generate capital organically and our actions to optimise RWAs will enable us to meet our targeted capital ratios under CRD4.
Phasing in of capital deductions under 2014 2018 Independent Commission on Banking ICB Basel 3 CRD4 The issue.
One of the key proposals in the final ICB report, which has been endorsed by the Government, is for UK retail and SME operations Implementation of UK Government to be ring-fenced entities.
The ICB has also recommended a potential 2019 White Paper on banking reform loss-absorbing capacity of 17%.
These factors are likely to increase operational costs and could have an adverse impact on the cost of funding for UK banks.
Full compliance with US Dodd-Frank Act 2022 What we have done about it.
Barclays strategy and financial targets remain valid in the context of the ICB recommendations.
The ICB has estimated the cost to the industry at 4-7bn per annum, however we are unable to provide more accurate estimates of the cost to Barclays until detailed specification is provided and the market reflects the cost of funding.
We welcome both the implementation timeline, allowing opportunity to get the detail right, and the ring-fenced entity design flexibility.
In addition, we continue to develop internal Recovery and Resolution Plans to ensure Barclays remains a going concern and to assist regulators in the unlikely event that the bank is wound down.
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act DFA The issue.
The DFA was enacted by the US to implement financial regulatory reform as a response to the recent economic crisis.
Certain provisions of the DFA may have an effect on the Group, including: the Fed imposing additional risk management requirements: the Volcker Rule, which aims to restrict proprietary trading and fund-related activities: and derivatives trading requirements, where certain swaps-related activities may be limited in our US entities.
Barclays continues to engage with the US authorities as they consult on proposals for rules and proceed to ruleFor more detailed information, please see Supervision making.
We have taken a centralised approach to monitoring this process and Regulation at www.
com annualreport and to ensuring compliance with the rules that are developed as a result.
10 Barclays PLC Annual Review 2011 www.
com annualreport Our strategy and business model Barclays moves, lends, invests and protects money for customers and clients worldwide.
Business model Customers Our purpose: Store and Manage Offer financial Provide Manage risks Make transfer and invest advice and access to and different markets To help individuals, institutions and economies money money other services loans and maturities and trade progress and grow payments liquidity Our vision: Integrated universal banking model One of the premier globally integrated universal banks providing superior benefits to each of Diversification by business, geography, client and funding our stakeholders customers, shareholders, colleagues, and communities Relentless customer and client focus Our execution: Operational Excellence Risk Management Financial Discipline Deliver cost effective, Increase resilience by Allocate capital efficiently Execute our strategy focusing on four priorities high quality solutions for matching, balancing, and across our businesses to capital, funding and liquidity, returns, income customers, particularly those diversifying income and maximise returns growth, and citizenship with global and complex funding and in managing needs our risks Create value for shareholders and deliver a top quartile Total Shareholder Return Shareholders The ultimate objective of our strategy is to create and deliver long-term As banking markets around the world continue to evolve, with regulatory sustainable shareholder value.
We fulfil our purpose by delivering the change, and with the distinct need for rebuilding trust in the banking fundamental functions of a bank to our customers.
We do this through industry post crisis, our strategy and our execution priorities allow us to an integrated universal banking model which we believe is the best continue to serve the wide ranging needs of our customers in a safe and model through which to build strong and stable relationships with our stable manner that is aligned with our responsibilities as corporate citizens customers, employees and suppliers to deliver operational excellence: and is able to deliver attractive returns for shareholders.
manage our risks appropriately: and allocate scarce resources, including capital, efficiently.
We take a long-term view on our strategy and have not changed it for many years.
Changes in the environment continue to influence Barclays, especially how we choose to execute our strategy.
We are currently focused on four execution priorities: Capital, Funding and Liquidity: Returns: Income Growth: and Citizenship.
com annualreport 11 Implementing our strategy To achieve the primary objective of maximising Total Shareholder Returns, we focus on four key execution priorities.
These execution priorities drive Barclays performance and continue to improve our competitive position.
We have made solid progress, with a resilient financial performance despite the difficult trading conditions in 2011, and the bank is well positioned to generate the financial returns that we are targeting over time.
Strategy Total Shareholder Return TSR Our focus is on execution and in particular delivering our promises Our primary objective is to maximise returns for shareholders and in in four key areas.
doing so, we aim to deliver top quartile TSR.
At the beginning of 2011 we set out our execution priorities based on a TSR consists of two components: the movement in market value of three year plan to improve both the bank's performance and its position.
the shares and the income received on those shares in the form of We have made solid progress in 2011 despite the market uncertainty.
Over the past five years there has been a clear relationship between TSR and return on equity RoE with the market value of 1.
Capital, Funding and Liquidity shares improving with higher reported RoE.
Increased dividend We remain mindful of the changing regulatory environment and our rock payments positively affect both TSR and RoE.
Therefore, improving solid capital, funding and liquidity positions give us confidence that we the bank's RoE is a key driver in the way we manage the business will meet future requirements.
Our robust Core Tier 1 ratio of 11.0% is to maximise TSR.
supported by our ability to generate capital organically and we do not expect to seek additional capital from our shareholders.
We have also While we seek to have a progressive dividend policy, we must balance maintained resilient funding and liquidity profiles despite recent market this with requirements for capital in order to ensure sustainable and stresses caused by the Eurozone crisis.
This has allowed us to access long term TSR creation.
diverse funding sources, minimising the cost of funding and providing protection against unexpected fluctuations.
As RoE declined throughout the crisis to a low point in 2008, so too did TSR.
Barclays maintained positive RoE and outperformed peers 2.
Returns during the crisis as we remained profitable.
Our focus on delivering returns is a key driver in the way we manage the business.
We seek to improve return on equity to ultimately increase In recent years TSR and RoE have become more closely aligned as shareholder returns, reflecting the strong link between the share price share prices have reflected market uncertainty, low sector RoEs, and and return on equity.
In doing so we also look to maintain strong capital, low dividend payout ratios.
This has strengthened the link between liquidity and leverage ratios, to enable us to deliver returns on a market valuation and returns, and therefore TSR and RoE.
Although the worse than predicted macroeconomic conditions as well as new regulatory constraints mean that we may not be able to deliver 13% returns by 2013, we will continue to focus on delivering a steady improvement in returns and achieve 13% over time.
Income Growth A component of delivering improved returns is generating income growth.
Despite the macro environment depressing income growth, we generated momentum and improved the competitive positions of all our major businesses in 2011.
We grew net operating income in all businesses, except Barclays Capital which was most affected by difficult trading conditions, as we remain focused on improving the quality of assets to ensure that we do not grow at the expense of future credit losses.
Citizenship We believe that being a valued, respected and trusted citizen is vital in creating long term value for all our stakeholders.
We produce a Citizenship Report each year in order to benchmark our progress in the key areas of focus: contributing to growth in the real economy: the way we do business: and supporting our communities.
For more detailed information, please see the Financial review at www.
com annualreport 12 Barclays PLC Annual Review 2011 www.
com annualreport Board of Directors Key responsibilities of the Board of Directors The non-executive Directors are independent The Boards principal duty is to promote the long-term success of management.
Their role is to advise and of Barclays by creating and delivering sustainable shareholder value.
It does this by setting strategy and overseeing its implementation constructively challenge management and by management.
While the ultimate focus is long-term growth, monitor the success of management in the Board seeks to ensure that management strikes the right balance between long and short-term objectives.
delivering the agreed strategy within the risk appetite and control framework set by the Board.
In setting and monitoring the execution of strategy, the Board aims to ensure that the Group maintains an effective system of internal control and an effective risk management and oversight process across the For more detailed information, please see Board of Directors Group, delivering growth in a controlled and sustainable way.
com annualreport Marcus Agius 65 Alison Carnwath 59 Reuben Jeffery III 58 Dambisa Moyo 43 Group Chairman, Chairman of Non-executive Director, Non-executive Director Non-executive Director the Board Corporate Governance Chairman of the Board and Nominations Committee, Remuneration Committee Sir Andrew Likierman 68 Sir Michael Rake 64 Chairman of the Board Citizenship Non-executive Director Senior Independent Director, Committee Fulvio Conti 64 Chairman of the Board Audit Non-executive Director Chris Lucas 51 Committee Bob Diamond 60 Group Finance Director Chief Executive Simon Fraser 52 Sir John Sunderland 66 Non-executive Director Non-executive Director David Booth 57 Non-executive Director, Chairman of the Board Risk Committee Barclays PLC Annual Review 2011 www.
com annualreport 13 Charter of Expectations Executive Committee The role profiles, responsibilities, time commitments, key competencies and behaviours we expect of our Directors, together with the key indicators of high performance, are set out in our Charter of Expectations, which was reviewed and updated during 2011 to take account of the best practice recommendations set out in the Guidance on Board Effectiveness issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
The Charter of Expectations is available on our website at www.
Key responsibilities of the Executive Committee The Board delegates responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Group to the Chief Executive, who is responsible for ensuring that the business is operating effectively within the strategy and risk appetite agreed by the Board.
The Chief Executive is supported by the Executive Committee, which he chairs.
Bob Diamond Mark Harding Jerry del Missier Rich Ricci Chief Executive Group General Counsel Co-Chief Executive of Corporate Co-Chief Executive of Corporate and Investment Banking and Investment Banking Chris Lucas Antony Jenkins Group Finance Director Chief Executive of Maria Ramos Sally Bott Retail and Business Banking Group Chief Executive, Group Human Resources Director Robert Le Blanc Absa and Chief Executive of Chief Risk Officer Thomas L. Kalaris Barclays Africa Chief Executive of Barclays Wealth 14 Barclays PLC Annual Review 2011 www.
com annualreport Governance Board Group Chairman, two executive Directors, nine non-executive Directors Board Committee oversight Board Corporate Board Audit Committee Board Risk Committee Board Remuneration Board Citizenship Governance and Five independent Five independent Committee Committee Nominations Committee non-executive Directors non-executive Directors Three independent Group Chairman and Group Chairman and four non-executive Directors two independent independent nonand the Group Chairman non-executive Directors executive Directors Management Chief Executive Executive Committee Business Unit Heads and the Heads of Key Group Control Functions Management Committees including Disclosure Committee, Group Governance and Control Committee, Financial Risk Committee, Operational Risk Committee, Treasury Committee Board Corporate Governance and Board Audit Committee Nominations Committee Marcus Agius Sir Michael Rake Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee % Board Audit Committee % Allocation of time 2011 2010 Allocation of time 2011 2010 5 1 1 2 1 Corporate governance matters 19 29 1 Control issues 4 8 6 4 2 Board and committee 2 Financial results 42 41 2 composition 31 13 3 Internal audit matters 6 8 3 Succession planning and talent 30 34 4 External audit matters 6 5 4 Board effectiveness 16 17 5 Business control environment 23 23 5 Other 4 7 6 Other including Governance 5 4 and Compliance 19 15 3 3 In order to deliver our strategy, we need the right people.
The Board It is important that we generate income in a sustainable way and Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee has a key role manage our risks and costs properly, without eroding the controls in reviewing new appointments and succession plans to ensure that we have in place.
The Board Audit Committee has a key oversight we have a Board and an executive management team with the role in ensuring that our financial statements are a true and fair appropriate skills, knowledge and experience to operate effectively representation of our financial position and strength and that our in an ever challenging environment.
control environment is robust and maintained.
For more detailed information on the Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee, For more detailed information on the Board Audit please see www.
com annualreport Committee, please see www.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Review 2011 www.
com annualreport 15 Good corporate governance is vital in supporting the delivery of our strategic priorities.
Our Board Committees play an important role in working with management to ensure our business is financially strong, that it is well-governed and that any risks are identified and mitigated.
Our corporate governance practices have been brought together in Corporate Governance in Barclays, which is available on our website at www.
This framework provides the basis for promoting the highest standards of corporate governance in Barclays.
The fundamental purpose of any company is the creation and delivery Actions taken in this respect during the year included: of long-term sustainable shareholder value in a manner consistent once again conducting a rigorous, externally facilitated Board with its obligations as a responsible corporate citizen, and corporate Effectiveness Review: governance must be seen in this context.
in addition to our scheduled Board meetings, we held eight additional meetings to discuss key issues that our business has faced: We aim to create and sustain value over the long term by understanding the external factors that present risks and opportunities for our business, creating, in late 2011, a Board Citizenship Committee to have oversight thereby ensuring our strategy is appropriate: building strong and stable of our conduct with regard to our wider value and obligations to society relationships with our customers, employees and suppliers: and ensuring and our reputation as a responsible corporate citizen: and that we manage our risks and resources, including capital, appropriately.
Our strategy is focused on four key priorities: Capital: Returns: Income while ensuring that all Directors are appointed on merit, and ensuring that there is an appropriate range and balance of skills, experience and Growth: and Citizenship and we ensure our Board discussions are focused on these issues.
background on the Board, we have set ourselves the aspirational target of ensuring that at least 20% of our Board is made up of women by the We have complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code and applied end of 2013 and for this position to exceed 25% by the end of 2015. its principles throughout 2011 and we continue to review our corporate governance processes and practices to ensure they remain fit for purpose.
Marcus Agius Group Chairman 7 March 2012 Board Risk Committee Board Remuneration Committee David Booth Alison Carnwath Board Risk Committee % Board Remuneration Committee % Allocation of time 2011 2010 Allocation of time 2011 2010 1 5 1 4 1 Risk profile Risk appetite 1 Incentive awards 43 49 3 including capital and 3 2 Compensation frameworks liquidity management 45 51 and policy 39 42 2 Key risk issues 38 24 3 Financial performance, 3 Internal control Risk polices 6 2 risk and regulation 18 9 4 Regulatory frameworks 4 4 5 Other including Remuneration 2 2 and Governance issues 7 19 Understanding, monitoring and mitigating risk is a fundamental The debate on executive remuneration has continued, with particular task for any board.
The Board Risk Committee plays a critical role focus on the relationship between bonus payments and company in setting the tone and culture that promotes the achievement of performance.
It is essential that we reward our people appropriately, effective risk management across the Group and has provided that their pay reflects performance and that we do not incentivise oversight of, and advice on, both our risk appetite and risk them to take inappropriate levels of risk.
The Board Remuneration management and our capital and liquidity strategies.
Committee provides direction and oversight of remuneration policy.
For more detailed information on the Board For more detailed information on the Board Risk Remuneration Committee, please see Committee, please see www.
com annualreport 16 Barclays PLC Annual Review 2011 www.
com annualreport Risk management Banking involves risks that must be understood and managed to successfully deliver sustainable returns and play our key role in supporting wider economic growth.
Risk management Barclays has clear risk management objectives and a well-established strategy to deliver them, through core risk management processes.
Responsibility for risk management resides at all levels within the Group, from the Board and the Executive Committee down through the organisation to each business manager and risk specialist.
Barclays distributes these responsibilities so that risk return decisions are taken at the most appropriate level: as close as possible to the business, and subject to robust and effective review and challenge.
Risk appetite, which is the level of risk Barclays is prepared to sustain whilst pursuing its business strategy, is approved by the Board.
Financial Risk Committee, Treasury Committee, Operational Risk Committee and Tax Risk Committee monitor their relevant risk profiles against risk appetite and the output is presented to the Board Risk Committee.
Management assurance processes are assessed by Barclays Internal Audit and the effectiveness of the Groups control framework is assessed by the Governance and Control Committee.
During 2011, the Principal Risk Policy, which covers the categories of risk Our impairment performance and asset to which Barclays has its most significant actual or potential exposures, was updated resulting in risks being grouped into four categories: Credit, quality continued to improve in spite of the Market, Funding and Operational.
Each risk owned is by a Group Principal difficult economic environment.
Risk Owner, who is a senior individual within the Group Risk function.
There was no significant change to the underlying risk types monitored Robert Le Blanc as a result of this regrouping.
Chief Risk Officer Performance in 2011 Loan impairment charges reduced 33% on 2010 reflecting the generally improving underlying trends across the retail and wholesale businesses.
The Group loan loss rate decreased to 77bps 2010: 118bps, which was a very strong performance for this point in the economic cycle.
Retail loan impairment decreased as portfolio quality improved across almost all businesses.
This included lower charges in our cards businesses in the UK and internationally.
Similarly, impairment rates in unsecured loans and mortgages remained very moderate in the domestic and international markets.
Loan impairment also dropped in our wholesale portfolios across all businesses.
Our corporate portfolios in Spain and Portugal remained under pressure from the difficult economic environment in those countries.
Key developments in relation to capital funding and liquidity are covered in the Finance Directors review on page 22.
Market exposures decreased in 2011 although there was a moderate increase in daily value at risk due to higher market volatility.
There have been no significant changes in our operational risk profile during 2011.
com annualreport 17 Our risk management overview Barclays has clear risk management objectives and a well-established strategy to deliver them, through core risk management processes.
This enables us to fully understand and minimise the impact of uncertainty on the business.
Board Board Corporate Governance Board Audit Board Risk Board Remuneration Board Citizenship and Nominations Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Authority controls appetite Assurance Reporting and control Chief Executive Group Executive Committee Financial Risk Committee Treasury Committee Operational Risk CommitteeTax Risk Committee Credit risk Market risk Funding risk Operational risk Four Principal Risks Credit risk Funding risk Credit risk is the risk of the Group suffering financial loss if any of its Funding risk comprises three key risks: customers, clients or market counterparties fails to fulfil their contractual Liquidity risk the Group is unable to meet its obligations as they fall obligations to the Group.
This arises mainly from wholesale and retail due resulting in: an inability to support normal business activity: failing loans and advances together with the counterparty credit risk arising from to meet liquidity regulatory requirements: or changes to credit ratings.
derivative contracts entered into with its clients.
Other sources of credit Capital risk the Group is unable to maintain appropriate capital ratios risk arise from trading activities, including debt securities, settlement which could lead to an inability to support business activity: failing to balances with market counterparties, available for sale assets and reverse meet regulatory requirements: or changes to credit ratings.
This can also arise when an entitys credit rating is Structural risk management of non-contractual risks and primarily arises downgraded, leading to a fall in the value of Barclays investment in its from the impact on the Groups balance sheet of changes in primarily issued financial instruments.
interest rates on income or foreign exchange rates on capital ratios.
Market risk Operational risk Market risk is the risk of the Group suffering financial loss due to being Operational risk is the risk of direct or indirect impacts resulting from unable to hedge its balance sheet at prevailing market levels.
The Group human factors, inadequate or failed internal processes and systems or can be impacted by changes in both the level and volatility of prices e. g. external events.
Operational risks are inherent in the Groups business interest rates, credit spreads, commodity prices, equity prices and foreign activities.
The key risks that this principal risk includes are external exchange rates.
The risk is reported as traded risk where Barclays supports suppliers, fraud, financial reporting, information, legal, product, payments, customer activity primarily via Barclays Capital: non-traded risk to support people, premises & security, regulatory, taxation, technology and customer products primarily in the retail bank: and pension risk in relation transaction operations.
For definitions of these key risks see pages 74 to investment returns within the defined benefit scheme.
For more detailed information, please see the Risk Management section at www.
com annualreport 18 Barclays PLC Annual Review 2011 www.
com annualreport Citizenship At Barclays, we have a clear sense of our business purpose: to help individuals, businesses and economies progress and grow.
For us, the term Citizenship captures this purpose and directs how we use our resources and expertise to create long term value for all our stakeholders.
Citizenship is one of Barclays four execution priorities and is integral to our business.
In the first instance, Citizenship is about contributing to growth in the real economy, creating jobs and supporting sustainable growth.
Second, it is about the way we do business: putting our customers interests at the heart of what we do, and managing our impact responsibly.
Third, it is about supporting our communities through investment programmes and the direct efforts of our employees.
Our approach Throughout the year, we engaged with a diverse set of stakeholders to understand the challenges they face and how we can best help.
Stakeholders play a pivotal role in helping us determine how we prioritise the issues we need to address.
This involves listening to our customers and clients, our shareholders and employees, while working in collaboration with charities and governments.
We made firm progress in 2011 but still have a long way to go.
Thats why in 2012 we will launch a Citizenship Plan outlining our longer term commitments to 2015.
These objectives will be aligned to rigorous Banks need to become better citizens.
planning and reporting processes to drive delivery of this agenda, including responsibilities as corporate taxpayers.
In this respect, we note This is not about philanthropy its about HMRCs reaction to a transaction that we voluntarily disclosed to them delivering real commercial benefits in a way and recognise that we need to anticipate better its changing approach to the taxation of corporates.
that also creates value for society.
Board Citizenship Committee Bob Diamond In 2011, we strengthened our governance framework by creating a Chief Executive Board Citizenship Committee as a formal sub-committee of our Board of Directors.
The committee is chaired by Group Chairman Marcus Agius and includes two non-executive Directors.
Progress against our priorities is reviewed regularly and will be formally assessed at least twice yearly by the Board Citizenship Committee and the Executive Committee.
A range of management committees are responsible for specific aspects of Citizenship performance.
Citizenship reporting We have included here a summary of our progress.
We will publish a comprehensive analysis in our Citizenship Report.
We measure and monitor progress across a wider range of issues in our annual Citizenship Report.
The Report contains an extensive amount of information on our strategy, impacts, and performance and is independently assured using a robust reporting framework.
Read the online Report from 23 April 2012 to access full 2011 data.
For more information, please see barclays.
com citizenship Barclays PLC Annual Review 2011 www.
com annualreport 19 Understanding our role within society Banks play an integral role in society.
Without a strong banking sector, economies and communities cannot thrive.
We believe that the creation of sustainable value is particularly important in challenging economic times.
Businesses, especially banks, need to help create jobs and foster growth.
To do this effectively, we are working to rebuild trust and focus on the interests of the customers, clients and communities.
Our Citizenship strategy Contributing to growth The way we do business Supporting our communities We operate a profitable We seek to reinforce our Our role in the communities business helping individuals, integrity every day in the way goes far beyond what we businesses and institutions that we manage our business deliver through our core to pursue their goals.
We are committed to increasing lending to The interests of our customers and clients The future success of communities and businesses and have exceeded our Project are at the heart of what we do, and we strive economies is reliant on the next generation Merlin targets in the UK.
Of the 43.6bn to improve the service that we provide.
UK having the right skills.
We focus on delivered, 14.7bn was provided to SMEs.
Banking complaints reported to the FSA empowering young people with the We raised over US$1trillion in funding for excluding PPI fell 30% year on year, but we necessary financial, entrepreneurial and life institutions, including US$388bn for recognise we have more to do to in this area.
skills to achieve financial independence and governments and public sector entities.
In a We make responsible decisions in how we security.
In 2011, we invested 63.5m in difficult year for the Eurozone, we were the govern the business and treat our colleagues community programmes which reached leading manager of bonds for the European and actively manage the social and over two million people.
These activities Financial Stability Mechanism.
We also help environmental impacts of what we do.
As were supported by 73,000 colleagues who individuals to manage their money, and last part of our Climate Action Programme, we donated their time, skills and money to year supported 10,000 people in buying their have committed to reduce our carbon support community causes.
Case study: supporting UK SMEs Case study: customer satisfaction Case study: empowering young people In 2011, we helped over 100,000 businesses We worked to improve customer satisfaction Our partnership with Youth Business to start up and our nationwide seminars across the business during 2011. International YBI helps young people start provided practical business advice to over their own businesses and create employment.
We were one of the first banks For example, in the UK, our corporate YBI works with young people to provide to respond to the riots in UK communities in bank ranked first for client satisfaction access to capital, training, mentoring and August, helping assess cash flow impact and amongst peers and a division in our wealth other business development services.
management business won Best Customer This benefits 50,000 young entrepreneurs Experience Award in Financial Services in the in 34 countries.
We are holding lending clinics across the Customer Experience Awards.
Our UK retail UK, answering questions on lending and the bank improved customer satisfaction ranking Our employees volunteer in a variety of loan application process, to provide small to fourth amongst peers and received the ways, including mentoring and providing businesses with the confidence to invest Which?
20 Barclays PLC Annual Review 2011 www.
com annualreport Key performance indicators Key Performance Indicators KPIs are used to measure our success against each of the four execution priorities.
We have made solid progress in 2011 through improving the competitive position across all of our businesses but we recognise there is still work to do to achieve our medium term targets.
Core Tier 1 ratio Rock solid capital funding and liquidity Measures 2011 2010 2009 Capital have been maintained to better deal with Core Tier 1 ratio 11.0% 10.8% 10.0% We have further improved our Core Tier 1 ratio to 11.0% through 11.0% regulatory and economic conditions 10.8% Adjusted gross leverage 20x 20x 20x 10.0% generating capital organically and reducing risk weighted assets.
We therefore do not expect to seek additional capital from our shareholders to meet future regulatory requirements.
Our diverse funding sources and strong liquidity pool of 152bn has minimised the cost of funding and provided protection against unexpected market fluctuations, despite the Eurozone crisis and subsequent market stress.
2009 2010 2011 Measures 2011 2010 2009 RoE down due to increased equity Return on equity Returns base and challenging market conditions.
Return on average shareholders equity RoE 5.8% 7.2% 6.7% The Group continues to evolve and the strength of our universal banking We continue to target an RoE goal of 13% 7.2% Return on average tangible equity RoTE 6.9% 8.7% 9.0% 6.7% model helped to achieve balanced profits across our retail and business 5.8% banking and corporate and investment banking businesses but we Return on average risk weighted assets RoRWA 1.0% 1.1% 0.9% recognise that our Return on Equity was below our stated goal of 13% Profit before tax 5,879m 6,065m 4,585m for 2013.
Although the worse than predicted macroeconomic conditions Cost: income ratio 64% 64% 57% as well as new regulatory constraints mean that we may not be able to deliver 13% returns by 2013, we will continue to focus on delivering a Loan loss rate 77bps 118bps 156bps steady improvement in returns and achieve 13% over time.
Dividend per share 6.0p 5.5p 2.5p 2009 2010 2011 Measures 2011 2010 2009 Total income remained resilient in 2011, Total income Income growth as improving income from our UK operations Total income 32,292m 31,440m 29,123m Total income has increased 3% and benefited from gains on own credit helped mitigate income pressures from the 32,292m Income by geography: UK 49% 40% 45% 31,440m and debt buy-backs.
Excluding these items, total income declined 8% challenging economic environment 29,123m Europe 13% 15% 15% impacted by the macro environment.
However, we have improved the The geographical regions have been revised since January competitive positions of all our major businesses and all businesses have Americas 25% 22% 19% 2011, Ireland is now included within the Europe region grown adjusted net operating income, with the exception of Barclays and Middle East is now reported with Africa.
Comparatives Africa and Middle East 15% 16% 15% Capital, which was most affected by difficult trading conditions.
As we have been updated to reflect these changes.
deliver income growth, we remain focused on improving the quality of Asia 4% 4% 3% assets to ensure that we do not grow at the expense of future impairment.
2009 2010 2011 Measures 2011 2010 2009 Our commitment to lending remains strong Gross new lending to UK Citizenship with gross new lending to UK households households and businesses Gross new lending to UK households 45.0bn 43.5bn 35.0bn We have a clear sense of our business purpose to help individuals, and businesses of 45.0bn and Project Merlin and businesses 45.0bn 43.5bn businesses and economies progress and grow.
We clearly demonstrated commitment exceeded by 13%.
Global investment in our communities 55.3m 54.9m 63.5m this by delivering 45.0bn gross new lending to UK households and 35.0bn Colleagues involved in volunteering, 73,000 62,000 58,000 businesses.
We exceeded Project Merlin targets in providing 43.6bn EOS figure excludes Absa and Barclays Capital for 2011 regular giving and fundraising initiatives to UK businesses, including 14.7bn to SMEs.
We also supported 10,000 as surveys conducted in 2010 in Absa and Barclays first time buyers in the UK.
Capital were designed to span a two-year cycle.
Taking Group Employee Opinion Survey EOS 81% 83% 81% their 2010 survey findings into account, the group-wide Proud to be Barclays rate for 2011 is 82%.
Percentage of senior managers who are female 22% 24% 24% For more detailed information, please see the Financial Review 2009 2010 2011 section at www.
com annualreport 21 How we measure our strategy's success We use KPIs to help report on the progress of our business against our strategic objectives.
This allows us to measure, monitor and manage performance improvement.
Our KPIs represent a set of measures focusing on aspects of performance that are the most critical for the current and future success of Barclays.
Rock solid capital funding and liquidity Measures 2011 2010 2009 Capital have been maintained to better deal with Core Tier 1 ratio 11.0% 10.8% 10.0% We have further improved our Core Tier 1 ratio to 11.0% through regulatory and economic conditions Adjusted gross leverage 20x 20x 20x generating capital organically and reducing risk weighted assets.
Measures 2011 2010 2009 RoE down due to increased equity Returns base and challenging market conditions.
Return on average shareholders equity RoE 5.8% 7.2% 6.7% The Group continues to evolve and the strength of our universal banking We continue to target an RoE goal of 13% Return on average tangible equity RoTE 6.9% 8.7% 9.0% model helped to achieve balanced profits across our retail and business banking and corporate and investment banking businesses but we Return on average risk weighted assets RoRWA 1.0% 1.1% 0.9% recognise that our Return on Equity was below our stated goal of 13% Profit before tax 5,879m 6,065m 4,585m for 2013.
Dividend per share 6.0p 5.5p 2.5p Measures 2011 2010 2009 Total income remained resilient in 2011, Income growth as improving income from our UK operations Total income 32,292m 31,440m 29,123m Total income has increased 3% and benefited from gains on own credit helped mitigate income pressures from the Income by geography: UK 49% 40% 45% and debt buy-backs.
Excluding these items, total income declined 8% challenging economic environment Europe 13% 15% 15% impacted by the macro environment.
Measures 2011 2010 2009 Our commitment to lending remains strong Citizenship with gross new lending to UK households Gross new lending to UK households 45.0bn 43.5bn 35.0bn We have a clear sense of our business purpose to help individuals, and businesses of 45.0bn and Project Merlin and businesses businesses and economies progress and grow.
Global investment in our communities 55.3m 54.9m 63.5m this by delivering 45.0bn gross new lending to UK households and Colleagues involved in volunteering, 73,000 62,000 58,000 businesses.
Percentage of senior managers who are female 22% 24% 24% 22 Barclays PLC Annual Review 2011 www.
com annualreport Finance Directors review We have delivered resilient profits in 2011 despite the difficult trading environment in the second half of the year.
Our capital, funding and liquidity positions remained strong throughout 2011 and we are well protected against further economic stress.
For 2011 we reported a slight decrease in profits, as a reduction in income at Corporate and Investment Banking was partly offset by income improvements in all other businesses, a significant improvement in credit impairment and cost reductions.
Prudent capital management led to a further increase in our Core Tier 1 ratio.
Our funding and liquidity remains strong.
Income Statement Barclays delivered adjusted profit before tax of 5.6bn in 2011 which was well balanced across the Group.
Statutory profits were broadly similar at 5.9bn.
The adjusted basis helps to provide a more consistent basis for comparing business performance between periods and principally excludes gains on own credit and debt buy-backs of 3.8bn, impairment on our stake in BlackRock, Inc. of 1.8bn, a 1bn provision for PPI, and almost 600m of goodwill write offs, mainly in Spain.
Income increased 3% including gains on debt buy-backs of 1.1bn and an increase in own credit gains of 2.3bn.
Excluding these one-off items, income declined 8% to 28,512m, principally reflecting a decrease in income at Barclays Capital.
However, income increased in most other businesses despite continued low interest rates and difficult We have delivered profit before tax of macroeconomic conditions.
This resilience of income is reflected in the RBB, Corporate and Wealth net interest margin which remained stable at 5.9bn in 2011 which was well balanced across 204bps 2010: 203bps.
Net interest income from RBB, Corporate, Wealth our retail and investment banking businesses.
and Barclays Capital increased 5% to 13.2bn of which the contribution from hedging including 463m of increased gains from the disposal of Our Core Tier 1 ratio improved to 11.0% despite hedging instruments increased by 3%.
the impact of the third Capital Requirements Credit impairment charges decreased 33% to 3,802m, reflecting Directive CRD3.
significant improvements across all businesses, and impairment charges as a proportion of Group loans and advances improved to 77bps, Chris Lucas compared to 118bps for 2010.
In addition, impairment of 1.8bn was Group Finance Director taken against our investment in BlackRock, Inc.
Adjusted operating expenses, which exclude the 1bn provision for PPI redress and 597m 2010: 243m goodwill impairment, were down 548m to 19,180m.
Excluding the UK bank levy of 325m introduced in 2011, operating expenses were down 4% to 18,855m, which included 408m 2010: 330m of restructuring charges taken now in order to deliver future benefits.
Despite cost savings, the adjusted cost: income ratio increased to 67% 2010: 64%, reflecting lower income, increased restructuring charges and the UK bank levy.
At Barclays Capital the cost: net operating income ratio was 71% 2010: 65% and the compensation: income ratio was 47% 2010: 43%, reflecting lower income in difficult conditions.
Balance Sheet Net asset value per share increased 9% to 456p with net tangible asset value per share, which adjusts for goodwill and other intangible assets, increasing 13% to 391p.
For more detailed information, please see the Financial Review section at www.
com annualreport 23 Your Finance Director's Review The Finance Director is responsible for monitoring the Bank's financial performance and position and communicating this to both internal and external stakeholders.
Below he discusses in detail the Banks performance during 2011 and its year end position as at 31 December 2011.
Total shareholders equity including non-controlling interests was 65.2bn The Group had 265bn of wholesale debt diversified across currencies, 2010: 62.3bn.
Excluding non-controlling interests, shareholders equity of which just 39bn was secured.
Term funding maturing in 2012 totals increased 4.7bn to 55.6bn, driven by profit after tax of 3.0bn and 27bn.
Term funding raised in 2011 amounted to 30bn 2010: 35bn positive available for sale and cash flow hedge reserve movements offset by compared to term funding maturities of 25bn.
During January 2012, negative currency translation and dividends paid.
5bn of term funding was raised.
Total assets increased to 1,564bn 2010: 1,490bn, principally due Approximately 10% of customer loans and advances at 31 December to an increase in the fair value of gross interest rate derivative assets as 2011 were secured against external funding, leaving significant headroom major forward curves decreased, partially offset by a decrease in reverse for further secured issuance.
The liquidity pool remained resilient at 152bn and moved within a The Groups loan to deposit ratio continued to improve to 118% 2010: month-end range of 140bn to 167bn, with short-term funding being 124% and the loan to deposit and long term funding ratio was 75% rolled over despite the stress in the wholesale funding markets.
As a key measure of stability, adjusted gross leverage liquidity pool comprises high quality liquid unencumbered assets, remained at 20x, moving within a month end range of 20x to 23x.
diversified across currencies, broadly in line with wholesale debt Excluding the liquidity pool assets held as contingency to meet cash requirements, with 93% 2010: 88% of the pool comprising cash and outflows in the event of stressed market conditions, adjusted gross deposits with central banks and government bonds.
The Group monitors compliance against anticipated Basel 3 metrics, Capital Management including the Liquidity Coverage Ratio at 82% and Net Stable Funding At 31 December 2011, the Groups Core Tier 1 ratio was 11.0% 2010: Ratio at 97%, and is on track to meet the 100% compliance required by 10.8% reflecting the contribution from retained earnings and reductions 2015 and 2018 respectively.
in risk weighted assets, which more than offset the impact of CRD3.
Conclusion The Group continued to generate Core Tier 1 capital from retained profits To summarise, we delivered resilient adjusted profits of 5.6bn, with excluding own credit, impairment of investment in BlackRock, Inc. and adjusted net operating income growth in every business except Barclays goodwill impairment, which are added back for regulatory capital Capital.
We delivered a 33% improvement in credit impairment, managed purposes.
This contribution of 2.6bn was largely offset by other adjusted costs down 4% excluding the bank levy, and we increased the movements in Core Tier 1 capital, notably pension contributions and dividend by 9%.
Our Core Tier 1 ratio increased to 11%, and our funding foreign currency movements, resulting in an increase in Core Tier 1 capital and liquidity strength continues to give us a competitive advantage.
Risk weighted assets decreased slightly to 391bn 2010: 398bn largely reflecting foreign exchange movements and decreases in Barclays Capital from lower levels of activity, risk reduction and sales of credit market exposures, which more than outweighed the approximate 30bn increase resulting from the implementation of CRD3 in December.
Proportion of adjusted profit before tax by business % We expect that the strength of our Core Tier 1 ratio, our ability to generate capital organically and our optimal use of risk weighted assets will enable 2011 2010 3 us to meet our targeted capital ratios after absorbing the impact of Basel 3.
1 Retail and Business Banking RBB 49 35 2 Funding and Liquidity 2 Corporate and The Groups overall funding strategy is to develop a diversified funding Investment Banking 46 62 base and maintain access to a variety of alternate funding sources, so 3 Wealth and Investment Management 5 3 minimising the cost of funding and providing protection against unexpected fluctuations.
Within this, the Group aims to align the sources 1 and uses of funding.
Customer loans and advances are largely funded by customer deposits, with any excess being funded by long-term wholesale 2011 2010 secured debt and equity.
Wholesale funding is well managed with Our universal banking model enabled us to generate adjusted derivative assets and liabilities largely matched.
profit before tax of 5.6bn, driven by increased profits in the majority of our businesses.
Note: The table above excludes Head Office Functions and Other Operations 24 Barclays PLC Annual Review 2011 www.
com annualreport Summary financial statements Summary consolidated income statement The summary consolidated income statment and the summary consolidated balance sheet were approved by the Board of Directors on 7 March 2012 and signed on its behalf by the Group Chairman.
For more detailed information, please see the Financial Statements at www.
com annualreport 2011 2010 For the year ended 31 December m m Continuing operations Net interest income 12,201 12,523 Net fee and commission income 8,622 8,871 Net trading income 7,660 8,078 Net investment income 2,305 1,477 Net premiums from insurance contracts 1,076 1,137 Gains on debt buy-backs and extinguishments 1,130 Other income 39 118 Total income 33,033 32,204 Net claims and benefits incurred on insurance contracts 741 764 Total income net of insurance claims 32,292 31,440 Credit impairment charges and other provisions 3,802 5,672 Impairment of investment in BlackRock, Inc. 1,800 Net operating income 26,690 25,768 Staff costs 11,407 11,916 Administration and general expenses 6,356 6,585 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 673 790 Amortisation of intangible assets 419 437 Operating expenses excluding provision for PPI redress, goodwill impairment and UK bank levy 18,855 19,728 Provision for PPI redress 1,000 Goodwill impairment 597 243 UK bank levy 325 Operating expenses 20,777 19,971 Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 60 58 Loss profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 94 81 Gain on acquisitions 129 Profit before tax 5,879 6,065 Tax 1,928 1,516 Profit after tax 3,951 4,549 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 3,007 3,564 Non-controilling interests 944 985 Profit after tax 3,951 4,549 Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency Independent auditors statement to the of the Summary financial statement within the Annual Review with the members of Barclays PLC full annual financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 428 of the We have examined the Summary financial statement which comprises the Companies Act 2006 and the regulations made thereunder.
Summary consolidated income statement, Summary consolidated balance sheet and the Summary remuneration report set out on pages 30, 31 and 32.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review and consider the implications for our statement if we become aware of any Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Summary The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review in financial statement.
accordance with applicable United Kingdom law.
com annualreport 25 Summary financial statements Summary consolidated balance sheet 2011 2010 For the year ended 31 December m m Assets Cash and balances at central banks 106,894 97,630 Items in the course of collection from other banks 1,812 1,384 Trading portfolio assets 152,183 168,867 Financial assets designated at fair value 36,949 41,485 Derivative financial instruments 538,964 420,319 Available for sale financial investments 68,491 65,110 Loans and advances to banks 47,446 37,799 Loans and advances to customers 431,934 427,942 Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending 153,665 205,772 Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 4,563 5,143 Investments in associates and joint ventures 427 518 Property, plant and equipment 7,166 6,140 Goodwill and intangible assets 7,846 8,697 Current and deferred tax assets 3,384 2,713 Retirement benefit assets 1,803 126 Total assets 1,563,527 1,489,645 Liabilities Deposits from banks 91,116 77,975 Items in the course of collection due to other banks 969 1,321 Customer accounts 366,032 345,788 Repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing 207,292 225,534 Trading portfolio liabilities 45,887 72,693 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 87,997 97,729 Derivative financial instruments 527,910 405,516 Debt securities in issue 129,736 156,623 Subordinated liabilities 24,870 28,499 Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities 12,580 13,233 Provisions 1,529 947 Current and deferred tax liabilities 2,092 1,160 Retirement benefit liabilities 321 365 Total liabilities 1,498,331 1,427,383 Shareholders equity Shareholders equity excluding non-controlling interests 55,589 50,858 Non-controlling interests 9,607 11,404 Total shareholders equity 65,196 62,262 Total liabilities and shareholders equity 1,563,527 1,489,645 This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only Opinion for the companys members as a body in accordance with section 428 In our opinion the Summary financial statement is consistent with the of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving full annual financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to of Barclays PLC for the year ended 31 December 2011and complies with any other person to whom this statement is shown or into whose hands the applicable requirements of section 428 of the Companies Act 2006, it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
and the regulations made thereunder.
We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 2008 3 issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Our report on the companys full annual financial  LLP statements describes the basis of our audit opinion on those financial Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors statements, the Directors report and the Directors Remuneration Report.
London, United Kingdom 7 March 2012 26 Barclays PLC Annual Review 2011 www.
com annualreport Divisional review Retail and Business Banking Retail and Business Banking RBB has performed strongly in 2011 with two businesses, UK RBB and Barclaycard, delivering returns well above our 2013 goal.
We have also made significant progress in implementing our vision of One Africa and have taken robust action to reposition Europe RBB.
Our focus in Retail and Business Banking RBB is on making our customers lives much easier.
We have put this at the heart of our business and this is now making a significant difference for our customers.
We have focused on improving customer service, listening to our customers and understanding their needs.
As a result, we have made changes, so that, for example, all standing order and direct debit changes in the UK are now processed on the day they are received.
On a year-onyear basis, banking complaints in the UK excluding PPI reduced by 30% and we are committed to reducing these further still.
In a tough economic climate, we have ensured we are open for business, supporting our customers when and where they need us.
In addition to exceeding our lending targets to businesses in the UK, Barclays ran more than 800 seminars across the country to help customers network with their peers and improve their growth.
We returned 1,900 existing businesses to health and helped 108,000 entrepreneurs to open their doors for the first time.
Of the almost one million home owners to whom we provided loans, more than 10,000 were buying their first property, with our new 90 per cent loan to value mortgage helping customers access the In a tough economic climate, we housing market.
Every day, across our network, our staff help customers to achieve their aspirations, whether buying a new home, starting a have ensured we are open for business, business, investing for the future or simply managing their day to day supporting our customers when and finances.
Their engagement and commitment is the bedrock of our success.
Innovation has also continued to be a differentiator for Barclays as we look Antony Jenkins to address the changing needs of our customers.
We now have 17 million Chief Executive, Retail and Business Banking contactless cards in issue in the UK and we have maintained our leading position in this fast-developing area of payments with more than 61,000 retailers using our contactless terminals.
We also began the roll-out of contactless payments in South Africa during 2011 and Barclaycard launched the first contactless mobile phone in the UK with Orange.
More recently we have launched Barclays Pingit in 2012, Europes first personto-person service for sending and receiving money using mobile phone numbers.
We will continue to innovate to meet our customers' needs.
A relentless focus on our customers is the foundation of our performance and, we believe, will generate sustainable value for our shareholders.
In 2011, in our core UK banking market, we attracted new customers in all our major product categories.
Adjusted return on average equity in UK Retail and Business Banking at 15%, and in Barclaycard at 17%, exceeded the Barclays target of 13%, with Africa RBB improving to 10% and Europe RBB returns reflecting the repositioning of the business.
Adjusted profit before tax in Retail and Business Banking increased 48% in 2011.
I am confident that we are making good progress on our customer agenda and that through this we are delivering significant value to all our stakeholders.
For more detailed information, please see Analysis of results by business at www.
com annualreport 27 Divisional review Corporate and Investment Banking Against a backdrop of challenging economic and market conditions, results for Barclays Capital were resilient compared with the industry, and the business held or gained market share.
The year also saw Barclays Corporate return to profitability driven by a strong underlying performance in the UK business.
Our Corporate and Investment Banking business provides clients with loans, financing, risk management, strategic advice and transactional payments support.
It supports corporate clients to achieve growth and job creation in the real economy, governments to deliver their stability and growth plans, and institutions to meet the long-term investment needs of their clients.
Against a backdrop of challenging economic and market conditions, results for Barclays Capital were resilient compared with the industry.
Profit before tax fell 32%, driven by a 22% reduction in income.
However we held or gained market share, and continued to win recognition for our client focus including Euromoneys Best Global Investment Bank and IFRs Bank of the Year.
The strength of our client-focused model means that we are bringing clients integrated solutions that draw expertise from across the organisation.
We continued to see real client benefits in 2011 from managing the business in a more integrated way, to bring clients the best of Barclays.
Revenues generated from delivering Barclays Capital products to Barclays Through continued uncertainty Corporate clients increased 28% year on year, and 73% over the past three years, while revenues from delivering Barclays Corporate products in the markets, and in the global economy, to Barclays Capital clients are up 20%.
we will continue to focus relentlessly The substantial improvements we have seen in the results for Barclays on the need of our clients.
Corporate reflect the significant progress weve made across every aspect of the business in 2011, delivering on a clear growth strategy and turning Jerry del Missier and Rich Ricci an adjusted loss of 388m in 2010 into an adjusted profit of 126m in 2011.
Co-Chief Executives, Corporate and Investment Banking We have continued to take a disciplined approach to investment across Corporate and Investment Banking.
Our focus remains on building our platform in those areas where we see real opportunity to deliver an advantage for our clients.
Barclays Capital continues to strengthen its Equities and Investment Banking franchises in EMEA and Asia Pacific, and Barclays Corporate has expanded its hubs in Frankfurt, Hong Kong, Singapore and New York.
Our success in securing 16 Corporate Broking mandates in the UK last year is a good example of the strength and reputation we are building in our newer businesses.
We remain committed to our targets for returns, income growth and cost management.
Through continued uncertainty in the markets, and in the global economy, we will continue to focus relentlessly on the needs of our clients.
com annualreport 28 Barclays PLC Annual Review 2011 www.
com annualreport Divisional review Barclays Wealth In 2011, Barclays Wealth demonstrated its third successive year of double digit income growth.
Now in its third year of the five year Gamma Plan, Wealth is on track to position itself at the top tier of the industry.
In 2011, the second year of our five year strategy, we delivered a first rate performance and continued to meet all our financial and franchise targets.
We remain well on track against our 2014 commitments.
Unprecedented market turmoil and a challenging business environment underpinned most of 2011.
Under these conditions we benefited as a part of Barclays, a global institution with a robust balance sheet, significant product capability and a clear strategy.
This provided us with a unique opportunity to serve our clients more comprehensively than before: positioned to bring the best of Barclays to them.
2011 also marked the second year of the five year Gamma program: a complex, challenging and ambitious plan to transform Barclays Wealth into a premier global wealth manager.
We are well on track to deliver against our promises - a step change improvement in client experience and a significant increase in the productive capacity of the firm.
The execution of this strategy delivered differentiating performance.
Our financial results were strong with income growth of 12% to 1.7bn and 27% growth in profit before tax to 207m.
The productivity of our We continue to transform Barclays Wealth relationship managers improved: with the top 25 generating 21% higher revenue than last year.
Our clients have begun to benefit from better into a premier global wealth manager.
on-boarding processes: faster turn around of credit decisions: improved reporting and a broader set of products.
Thomas L. Kalaris Chief Executive, Barclays Wealth 2012 will undoubtedly be a challenging year as we deliver the third year of our Gamma plan while still meeting ambitious financial targets.
But we are strongly positioned: we have proven the concept and shown that we can deliver.
I remain confident that we can meet our commitments to our clients, thereby meeting our commitments to our shareholders.
com annualreport 29 Divisional review Case studies Delivering Barclays Barclays Retail and Capital for HP Business Banking Pingit When Hewlett-Packard announced its $11.7bn US-UK Europes first person-to-person cross-border acquisition of service for sending and receiving Autonomy, Barclays Capital money using mobile phone played a crucial role in every numbers is launched in 2012. aspect of the transaction.
Underscoring the firms ability to coordinate globally across regions Barclays has a track record of leading the transformation of banking and product areas to deliver seamless solutions for clients, teams and financial services through the use of technology.
In addition to spanning Technology client coverage, M&A, Corporate Broking, Debt investing in improving our current services, we are also seeking to Capital Markets, Loan Capital Markets, Global Finance Structuring & meet needs which customers have not yet identified themselves.
Advisory, Risk Solutions and Syndicate partnered to support HP on the transaction the largest cross-border software M&A deal in history.
Recognising the strength of consumers attachment to their In addition to providing strategic M&A advice on the transaction as smartphones and the opportunity that smartphone apps present well as delivering a fairness opinion to the HP board of directors, for rapid and cost-effective innovation, we launched Barclays Pingit Barclays Capital acted as sole arranger and sole underwriter for a simultaneously for Apple, Android and Blackberry users.
On the fully-committed $8.3bn 5bn bridge facility to support the day of Pingits launch, it was the second most popular app transaction, which was successfully syndicated to a select group of downloaded from Apple in the UK.
core relationship banks upon announcement.
Barclays Capital also led, and was billing and delivery agent for $4.6bn of senior notes.
Barclays Pingit allows users to receive and send money, for free, to anyone with a UK current account and a UK mobile phone number, The ability to provide a commitment of this size on a sole-basis was simply by using that mobile number.
It removes the need to share widely hailed in the media as a validation of Barclays Capitals fullbank details.
Further releases of the app will add new features and service offering.
The New York Times wrote: Unlike boutiques, the extend its use internationally and to other customer groups allowing full-service banks can provide a fuller picture of how the capital markets Barclays to maintain the innovation lead created by its launch.
may react to a potential deal as well as the necessary financing for a transaction.
Barclays Capital, for instance, committed to providing 5bn to HP for its Autonomy deal, which a boutique advisor could not do.
Barclays Wealth Barclays Corporate backing Wyke Farms Offering clients the benefits from our international reach and Wyke Farms is a 125 year old expertise in private wealth independent family owned management, investment business and one of the leading management, financial planning, manufacturers and suppliers of brokerage and private banking.
branded cheddar cheese, butter and whey protein in the UK.
Since the establishment of our private banking business in India three Towards the end of 2009, the business started experiencing significant years ago, Barclays Wealth has grown significantly.
trading challenges in volatile market conditions and as a result saw losses start to build monthly.
Since that time the Barclays Business In India, private banking clients are typically entrepreneurs who have Support team has worked closely with Wyke Farms management to established multi-generational family businesses with complex develop and implement a structured Fit for the Future turnaround financing needs.
This provided us with a unique opportunity to serve plan.
The results have been outstanding in 2011 Wyke Farms our clients more comprehensively through our private investment returned to profitability and is now on a sustainable financial footing, banking model, unique investment philosophy and our wealth generating good returns for its shareholders, providing stability of advisory expertise.
employment locally and maintaining its position as the largest premium branded family owned cheddar producer in Britain.
Indeed Client assets have reached the 1bn mark since inception.
We have the highly effective working relationship between Barclays and Wyke built a solid reputation and a strong franchise this was clearly Farms which resulted in this success was formally recognised by the demonstrated by winning the Best Private Bank in India in The Asset Institute for Turnaround in December 2011 when Wyke Farms won Triple A Investment Awards.
the IFT Private Company Turnaround of the Year award.
The relationship between Wyke Farms and Barclays has been strengthened even further through this experience.
Barclays continues to provide tailored borrowing facilities to the business to enable investment in new staff and machinery and our relationship management team is there to give additional advice and support as the company enters its next phase of growth.
30 Barclays PLC Annual Review 2011 www.
com annualreport Summary Remuneration Report The Board Remuneration Committee provides governance and strategic oversight of remuneration.
We recognise that executive remuneration generally, and bank remuneration in particular, is an important issue.
Barclays needs to work with the acceptance of the communities in which we operate and balance the competing demands of our many stakeholders.
This includes a close and continuous engagement with the Financial Services Authority and with our shareholders.
In 2011 Barclays delivered a solid set of results, achieved in challenging market and economic conditions.
The results were reflected in the remuneration decisions across Barclays including those for Bob Diamond and Chris Lucas.
2011 total incentive awards were down 26% across the Group compared with a 3% reduction in profit.
Bonuses for our executive Directors and our eight highest paid senior executive officers were down 48% versus 2010 on a like-for-like basis namely the reduction for individuals in service in both 2010 and 2011.
The Board and the Committee recognise that our return on equity has to improve.
In order to achieve this, our operating costs need to be reduced.
Remuneration has its part to play in that.
We fully recognise that higher capital requirements and the economic environment mean that remuneration levels in the industry have to adjust.
That journey will take The Committee will continue time and we have taken important steps in the right direction in 2011.
Total incentive awards for Barclays Capital were down 35% on 2010 with to focus on reaching a sustainable Barclays Capital profit before tax reducing 32%.
The Committee will balance between shareholder returns continue to focus on reaching a sustainable balance between shareholder returns and employee remuneration.
The full remuneration report provides an overview of executive Alison Carnwath remuneration for 2011, details of the total incentive awards for 2011 and Chairman, Board Remuneration Committee additional disclosures to comply with legal and regulatory requirements.
Additional information on Barclays approach to remuneration can be found at www.
I trust the remuneration report provides you with a clear picture of how the Committee has discharged its responsibilities in 2011.
On behalf of the Board Alison Carnwath Chairman, Board Remuneration Committee Barclays PLC Annual Review 2011 www.
com annualreport 31 Executive Directors total remuneration Bob Diamond Chris Lucas 2011 2010 2011 2010 000 000 000 000 Salary 1,350 250 800 763 Current year cash bonus 0 0 0 360 Current year share bonus 0 1,800 0 360 Deferred cash bonus 0 2,350 0 540 Deferred share bonus 2,700 2,350 1,800 540 Total of salary and bonus 4,050 6,750 2,600 2,563 Long term incentive award 2,250 2,250 1,333 1,333 Total remuneration 6,300 9,000 3,933 3,896 Non-executive Directors fees Board Corporate Governance Senior Board Board and Board Independent Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Citizenship Board Risk Total Total Chairman Director Member Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Benefits 2011 2010 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Fees at 31 December 2011 Full-year fee 750 30 80 Committee Chair 70 70 60 Committee Member 30 30 15 15 25 Fees to 31 December 2011 Group Chairman Marcus Agius Ch.
1 751 751 Non-executive Directors David Booth M. M. Ch.
M. 158 39 Fulvio Conti M. M. 105 95 Simon Fraser M. M. M. 130 110 Reuben Jeffery III M. M. 98 85 Sir Andrew Likierman M. M. M. 127 110 Dambisa Moyo M. M. M. 105 50 Sir Michael Rake SID.
M. M. 188 160 Sir John Sunderland M. M. M. M. 132 115 Sir Richard Broadbent 171 200 Alison Carnwath became Chairman of the Board Remuneration Committee and a member of the Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee on 1 July 2011.
Dambisa Moyo and Sir John Sunderland became members of the Board Citizenship Committee on 1 August 2011.
Sir Michael Rake became Senior Independent Director on 1 October 2011.
Sir Richard Broadbent resigned as a non-executive Director with effect from 30 September 2011.
Total incentive awards granted current year and deferred Barclays Group Barclays Capital Year Ended Year Ended Year Ended Year Ended 31.12.11 31.12.10 31.12.11 31.12.10 m m % Change m m % Change Total current year bonus 898 1,674 46 384 1,196 68 Total deferred bonus 1,252 1,177 6 1,152 1,065 8 Bonus pool 2,150 2,851 25 1,536 2,261 32 Sales commissions, commitments and other incentives 428 633 32 201 399 50 Total incentive awards granted 2,578 3,484 26 1,737 2,660 35 Bonus pool as % of profit before tax pre bonus 28% 33% 35% 36% Bonus pool as % of adjusted profit before tax pre bonus 29% 34% 35% 36% Proportion of bonus that is deferred 58% 41% 75% 47% Total employees full time equivalent 141,100 147,500 4 24,000 24,800 3 Bonus per employee 15,237 19,329 21 64,000 91,169 30 32 Barclays PLC Annual Review 2011 www.
com annualreport Summary Remuneration Report continued Executive Directors benefits More details on the Remuneration Policy including Barclays guiding principles can be found at www.
The 2011 2010 000 000 Committee reviews the Remuneration Policy to ensure that Barclays remuneration remains competitive and provides appropriate incentive for Bob Diamond 474 268 performance.
To ensure appropriate operation of the Remuneration Policy, Chris Lucas 28 25 the Committee has established remuneration governance frameworks for each major business and for the Group.
The frameworks are forward Directors emoluments and statutory disclosures looking and are based on financial metrics, including key remuneration 2011 2010 ratios, that assess the current and future affordability of remuneration.
m m The frameworks are designed to ensure that remuneration is managed in Aggregate emoluments 15.9 15.8 a way that is consistent with delivering the strategy and performance of Amounts paid under long-term incentive schemes 5.8 7.0 Barclays and each of the businesses, whilst maintaining capital strength.
21.7 22.8 The aggregate emoluments above include the cost of tax equalising Bob Diamond, For individual remuneration decisions made by the Committee, including consistent with his contract.
There were no pension contributions paid to defined contribution schemes on behalf of Directors 2010: 13,588.
There were no notional the decisions for executive Directors, the level of remuneration across pension contributions to defined contribution schemes 2010: nil.
As at 31 December Barclays and each of the businesses is taken into account.
The combined 2011, there were no Directors accruing benefits under a defined benefit scheme potential remuneration for the executive Directors and for senior 2010: one Director.
employees from bonuses and long term incentive awards outweighs the fixed component of remuneration, and is subject to individual and Total Shareholder Return business performance.
This means that the majority of remuneration Figure 1 shows the value, at 31 December 2011, of 100 invested in Barclays is risk-adjusted.
on 31 December 2006 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening Remuneration governance financial year ends.
The FTSE 100 Index is a widely recognised performance The Committee determines the bonus pool by reference to a number of comparison for large UK companies and this is why it has been chosen as a quantitative and qualitative measures.
In doing this the Committee is comparator to illustrate Barclays total shareholder return.
informed by the remuneration governance frameworks and associated financial metrics and remuneration ratios.
The Committee receives input Figure 1: Total Shareholder Return from the Group Finance Director and the Chief Risk Officer on key financial and risk matters.
The Committee works closely with the Board Audit Year ended 31 December Source: Datastream Committee and the Board Risk Committee, and receives input on internal audit, compliance and risk matters.
This includes the Committee receiving FTSE 100 Index a report from the Board Risk Committee on the risk performance of the Barclays PLC businesses in order to ensure that the bonus pool properly reflects this 107 110108 100 performance.
98 100 77 The Committee reviews individual remuneration recommendations for executive Directors, Code Staff and employees with total remuneration 72 of 1m or more.
Remuneration decisions are directly linked to individual performance, both financial and non-financial.
Individual performance is reviewed by line management through a formal assessment process, 44 29 43 which includes a review against objectives set at the start of the year.
25 The assessment includes reviewing individual behaviour against Barclays 06 07 08 09 10 11 guiding principles and applicable risk and control policies.
Bonuses above a threshold level set annually by the Committee include Barclays Remuneration Policy awards in the form of deferred bonuses.
The vesting of deferred bonuses The Remuneration Policy provides a framework for the Committee is dependent on future service and subject to clawback provisions.
The in carrying out its work.
The aims of the Remuneration Policy are to: Committee reviews the operation of clawback provisions and may reduce the vesting level of an unvested deferred bonus including to nil.
Attract and retain those people with the ability, experience and skill to deliver the strategy: The risk and compliance functions play a key role in remuneration 2.
Cr eate a direct and recognisable alignment between the rewards governance.
The risk function provides regular updates to the Committee and risk exposure of shareholders and employees: on risk-adjusted business performance and it also provides input on the remuneration governance frameworks, bonus pool proposals and new 3.
Incen tivise employees to deliver sustained performance consistent incentive plan designs including risk-adjusted metrics for use in long term with strategic goals and appropriate risk management, and to reward incentive plans from a risk management perspective.
The input of the success in this: compliance function focuses on the assessment of individual employee 4.
Deliv er remuneration that is affordable and appropriate in terms behaviour based on the operation of compliance controls.
of value allocated to shareholders and employees: and 5.
Enc ourage behaviour consistent with Barclays guiding principles.
For more detailed information, please see the Remuneration Report at www.
com annualreport Bar Barcla clay ys PL s PLC Annual R C Annual Re evie view 20 w 201 11 1 www.
com annualreport 33 Share capital and other information As at 31 December 2011, the Companys issued ordinary share capital Other Information totalled 12,199,474,154, which represented 100% of the total issued share The Companys Articles of Association specify that Directors may capital.
The Companys Articles of Association provide for Sterling, Dollar, be appointed by the existing Directors or by the shareholders in a Euro and Yen preference shares preference shares.
No preference shares general meeting.
The rights attaching to shares, including any restrictions on transfer and any limitations on the holding of securities and The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a requirements to obtain approvals for a transfer of securities, are set out in Special Resolution at a general meeting.
the Companys Articles of Association.
The Directors may, if authorised by the shareholders in general meeting, On a show of hands and on a poll at a general meeting, every holder of allot Barclays shares and may buy back Barclays shares.
As at 2 March ordinary shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one 2012, the Company had an unexpired authority to repurchase shares up vote for every ordinary share held.
Deadlines for voting, and any restrictions to a maximum of 1,218,343,534 ordinary shares.
on voting, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
If there is a change of control of Barclays PLC following a takeover bid, Employee Benefit Trusts EBTs operate in connection with certain of the Barclays PLC must so far as legally possible use all reasonable endeavours Groups Employee Share Plans Plans.
The trustees of the EBTs may to cause the corporation which then controls Barclays PLC to execute a exercise all rights attached to the shares in accordance with their fiduciary deed poll providing that the holders of the warrants shall have the right duties other than as specifically restricted in the relevant Plan governing during the period in which the warrants are exercisable to exercise the documents.
The trustees of the EBTs have informed the Company that warrants into the class and amount of shares and other securities and their normal policy is to abstain from voting in respect of the Barclays property receivable upon such a takeover by the holders of the number shares held in trust.
The trustees of the Global and UK Sharepurchase EBTs of ordinary shares as would have been issued on exercise of the warrants may vote in respect of Barclays shares held in the Sharepurchase EBT, but had such warrants been exercised immediately prior to the completion of only as instructed in those Plans in respect of their Partnership shares and such takeover.
when vested Matching and Dividend shares.
The trustees will not otherwise vote in respect of shares held in the Sharepurchase EBT.
Substantial shareholders do not have different voting rights from those of other shareholders.
As at 31 December 2011, in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, Barclays had been notified of the following holdings of voting rights in its issued ordinary share capital: BlackRock, Inc. 7.06% Qatar Holding LLC 8.41% Nexus Capital Investing Ltd 6.98% Legal & General Group Plc 3.99% On 31 October 2008, Barclays PLC issued, in conjunction with a simultaneous issue of Reserve Capital Instruments issued by Barclays Bank PLC, warrants to subscribe for up to 1,516.9 million new ordinary shares at a price of 1.97775.
As at 31 December 2011, there were unexercised warrants to subscribe for 379.2 million ordinary shares.
These warrants may be exercised at any time up to close of business on 31 October 2013.
This Report is printed on Revive 100 White Offset made from 100% FSC certified recycled fibre sourced from fide-inked post-consumer waste.
The printer and manufacturing mill are both credited with ISO14001 Environmental Management Systems Standard and both are FSC certified.
Registered office: 1 Churchill Place, London E14 5HP Registered in England.
Registered No: 48839 Barclays Bank PLC 2012 9912301 Designed by Further furthercreative.
co. uk 34 Barclays PLC Annual Review 2011 www www.
c s. com annualr om annualreport eport Shareholder information Your Barclays shareholding Key dates Contact information Barclays goes to great lengths to keep to the dates published here but The Registrar to Barclays please note that all future dates are provisional and subject to change.
If you have any questions about your Barclays shares, please contact The Registrar to Barclays.
16 March 2012 2011 Final dividend payment date Phone 27 April 2012 Barclays 2012 Annual General Meeting Barclays Shareholder Helpline 8 June 2012 2012 First interim dividend payment date 0871 384 2055 from the UK 7 September 2012 2012 Second interim dividend payment date 44 121 415 7004 outside the UK 7 December 2012 2012 Third interim dividend payment date Email questions@share-registers.
co. uk Barclays e-view You do not have to receive paper shareholder documentation from Barclays e-view FAQs us.
An increasing number of shareholders receive their Barclays www.
co. uk communications electronically and are discovering the convenience of using the internet and email to find out about their shareholding Post and Barclays.
The Registrar to Barclays Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Barclays e-view is an easy and convenient way to: access your Barclays shareholding details and check share sales, ABC Textphone purchases or transfers: 0871 384 2255 in the UK receive important shareholder information directly to your inbox: 44 121 415 7028 outside the UK view dividend information, including electronic tax vouchers: change your address and bank details online: Give us your feedback see shareholder documents such as the Annual Review, If you have any feedback on the format of our Annual Review, please Annual Report or Results Announcements online: and let us know by emailing us at @barclays.
com register your voting instructions for General Meetings.
or alternatively write to: Shareholder Relations Barclays PLC, 1 Churchill Place, London E14 5HP Why not log on to Barclays e-view and see the benefits for yourself in 3 easy steps?
Share price 3 step guide to Barclays e-view Information on the Barclays share price is available at www.
com investorrelations Step 1 Go to www.
co. uk Step 2 Register for electronic communications Buying and selling shares by following the instructions onscreen If you hold your shares in Barclays Sharestore, you are only able to deal Step 3 You will be sent a secure access number through Barclays Stockbrokers.
co. uk in the post the next working day or contact Barclays Stockbrokers by phone on: 0845 604 0077 in the UK 44 141 352 3909 outside the UK Your dividends It is our policy to pay cash dividends on a quarterly basis.
There will ShareGift your shares be three equal quarterly payments in June, September and December ShareGift, the charity donation scheme, is a free service for shareholders and a final variable payment in March each year.
wanting to give shares to charitable causes.
Further information can be obtained at www.
org or by telephoning ShareGift on Receiving your dividends 44 0 20 7930 3737.
A majority of shareholders mandate their dividends to their bank or building society account.
It is safer, quicker and easier for your dividends to be paid directly to you.
You may be charged if you lose your dividend Alternative formats cheque and we have to reissue it to you.
If you have not already arranged to mandate your dividend and you hold 2,500 shares or less, phone the Barclays Shareholder Helpline.
For your security, if you hold more than Shareholder documentation can be provided 2,500 shares, you will need to write to The Registrar or you can download in large print, audio or Braille free of charge a form online at www.
com investorrelations by calling the Barclays Shareholder Helpline.
How Barclays shareholders receive their dividends 0871 384 2055 in the UK 54% Bank mandate 32% Cheque 44 121 415 7004 from overseas 14% Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP Audio versions of the Annual Review will also be available at the AGM.
Notes Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute if using a BT landline.
Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday.
Calls to 0845 numbers from a BT residential line will cost no more than 4p per minute, plus 10.9p call set-up fee correct as at October 2010.
The price on non-BT phones may be different: please check with your service provider.
Calls may be recorded to monitor the quality of our service, to check instructions and for security purposes.
