Business review Operational update Strength and efficiency of operations have never been so important.
Ian Fantozzi Chief operating officer My aim is to ensure we have an efficient and cost effective operating platform that also provides readiness and scalability to support business growth.
With this in mind, we continue to invest in our employee talent, technology, processing and physical infrastructure.
We do this while keeping a close watch on our operational expense budget and routinely measuring the value that each support service or project brings.
As our business grows into new product lines and geographies, we place great emphasis on operating with consistency across the group.
We promote core employee values, uphold groupwide standards in underwriting and claims processing, and leverage value from a core set of technology platforms.
Not only does this consistency lead to increased efficiency and service levels, it helps to maintain visibility and control of operating risk.
Creating the technology to support growth Philippe Mazas, chief information officer, and the IT team have delivered a number of important projects in 2011 that provide technology platforms to support our growth initiatives.
For our Lloyds operation, we have successfully consolidated and upgraded legacy policy systems into one technology platform, called Synergy, and integrated to a group document management system.
This has improved back-office efficiency by eliminating data rekeying, providing automation to support group underwriting standards and delivering management information into our strategic data analytics suite, named Beazley Intelligence.
As well as providing management information on all Beazley Lloyds policy transaction data, the Beazley Intelligence programme, led by Paolo Cuomo, now provides reports on our claims activity and on delegated underwriting.
Having this single source of management information provides us with a competitive advantage by highlighting trends in underwriting performance, and identifying higher margin products where we should focus our growth.
Beazley Intelligence has also played a vital role in supporting our Solvency II programme, with the implementation of a robust data quality governance framework.
Our new exposure management system is another source of competitive advantage, enabling us to report aggregated insurance exposures quickly and accurately, which is key to effective underwriting and claims management.
The new system enables rapid identification of exposure to specific environmental, economic or political events to a higher level of precision.
In the US, we continue to support growth with our BeazleyPro system.
During 2011, we delivered automated end-to-end quote and policy fulfilment to several product lines.
Not only does this provide efficiency savings, it also enhances our ability to provide a highly responsive service to brokers as our business grows.
Similarly, we are now supporting our growth in Europe with a new international underwriting platform which has already been deployed to our UK regional and Paris offices.
Maintaining processing efficiency A key focus is to ensure that our back-office processing harnesses the economies that can be achieved through our increasing scale and geographical footprint.
By this we mean making sure that processing is done by appropriately skilled people, at the most cost effective location, whilst providing the best service levels.
To do this we make use of both outsource service providers and through centralised service centres.
Over the last three years we have built a highly efficient transaction processing centre in Connecticut.
Headed by Bryan Falchuk, this team continues to take on and refine the processing tasks to service both our US and London businesses.
Providing high quality work space and facilities As we expand globally, it is important to provide a high quality working environment that is conducive to team working.
Our offices are open plan, bright and airy with a style and consistency that supports our global brand.
We want to make our work space somewhere that our people want to be, and to provide meeting space in which brokers want to do business.
Meeting this requirement is Beazleys commercial management team, which, under the leadership of Munira Hirji, strives to get the best quality offices at the best lease and facility cost.
In support of our growth in Lloyds, we recently signed the lease for an additional floor in our London office at Plantation Place.
com Beazley Annual report 2011 41 Business review Operational update continued Moving forward In 2012, we will continue to invest in developing our talent, technology and infrastructure.
We will also be reviewing the back-office processes that underpin our underwriting and claims management and seeking new ways to refine our service delivery and responsiveness to growth opportunities.
Each year, a core driver behind our planning for operational investment is the close review of the annual underwriting business plans.
We believe this is vital to ensure tight alignment to the business direction for providing effective and responsive operational support.
With the platform we have developed and the plans for further investment, I feel confident that we have the strength and efficiency to support our ongoing profitability into 2012.
com Business review Risk management Challenging years, such as 2011, demonstrate the importance of having embedded an effective risk management culture throughout the business.
Andrew Pryde Chief risk officer Year in review The past year saw the continuing evolution of both the risk management framework and the risk management function, with Andrew Pryde being appointed chief risk officer from 1 January 2011 as Nicholas Furlonge moved from director of risk to a nonexecutive director role in Beazley Furlonge Limited.
The risk management function was appropriately resourced throughout 2011 with additional personnel recruited to ensure there is the appropriate combination of skills and experience for Beazley to operate in a Solvency II regulatory environment.
To reflect the increasing size and importance of the US operations to the group, we now have two US based risk managers to ensure good risk management practices are embedded in all US operations.
A risk and regulatory committee was introduced at the beginning of 2011, meeting on a monthly basis throughout the year with immediate oversight of the risk management framework at Beazley.
The members of this committee include the risk owners from across the business and are joined on a quarterly basis by three non-executive directors to provide independent challenge.
For much of 2011, the risk management team focused on refining the risk management framework which we established in 2010.
This included working closely with all risk owners and control owners and developing a partnership model with our colleagues in the various business departments.
Risk management and Solvency II training has been provided to all staff by way of a bespoke e-learning module.
This training has been supplemented for personnel with specific risk management responsibilities.
Challenging years, such as 2011, demonstrate the importance of having embedded an effective risk management culture throughout the business.
Important elements for 2011 were our diversified portfolio of insurance risks, executing on our cycle management expertise, employing a conservative investment strategy and operating a robust underwriting and claims control environment.
The risk management function has developed and implemented risk management software tailored specifically to meet our needs.
This has accelerated and built resilience into the reporting timetable and has enabled the team to provide a consolidated assurance report to executive management on a monthly basis and our boards on a quarterly basis.
A key theme for the risk management function in 2011 was to implement timely and trusted risk management reports.
In addition to the monthly consolidated assurance report, the risk management function provided an emerging and strategic risk report for the board strategy day in May, developed risk profiles throughout 2011 on emerging risks and presented a full years cycle of quarterly Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA reports, which have been used by our boards to assist with their oversight and decision making responsibilities.
The ORSA is a key requirement of Solvency II and uses output from both the risk management framework, which provides the qualitative aspects, and the internal model, which provides the quantitative aspects.
It demonstrates the link between these two elements, showing they are of consistent design, with feedback loops between the two processes.
An important feature of the internal model that is used to establish capital is the objective and transparent link between actions taken by underwriters and the capital estimated and allocated to the underwriting teams.
This means that the business is more comfortable using the internal model as part of its decision making.
In 2011, this concept has been extended to operational risk.
Therefore, as the control environment strengthens there is an objective link to reduce the capital estimated.
Similarly, if the control environment weakens, the capital estimated increases, which reinforces the strong risk management culture.
Looking forward The top three risks to the group remain relatively static, and are common to many of our peers.
These are underwriting and reserving risks specifically, systematically mispricing across a number of years, catastrophe risk and asset risk.
At a high level, the continued soft insurance market caused in part by the availability of capacity, the number of catastrophe losses reported in the year and the continued uncertainty surrounding the global economy and financial markets are the factors that underlie these risks.
We remain on track to meet the regulators timetable for the implementation of Solvency II.
Despite the expected postponement of the implementation of this regulation until at least January 2014, we are pursuing the initial timetable.
This will ensure that we are compliant with the regulations by January 2013, at the latest.
The resourcing of the risk management function will also remain under review in 2012, to ensure the right balance of skills and experience is in place to manage our risk environment.
com Beazley Annual report 2011 43 Business review Risk management continued The risk management framework at Beazley The risk management framework describes how risk is managed at Beazley as illustrated by the diagram below.
The framework includes a risk register that captures the risk universe using eight risk categories and 53 risk events, the risk appetite set by the Beazley plc board and controls that are operated by the business to remain within this risk appetite.
Our risk management framework operates under the principle of the three lines of defence: namely business risk management, the risk management function and the internal audit function.
Within business risk management, there are three defined roles: namely risk owner, control owner and control reporter.
Each risk event is owned by the risk owner who is a member of the executive committee.
Risk owners, supported by the risk management team, formally perform a risk assessment twice a year, including an assessment of emerging risk.
A software tool is used to manage the operation of the control environment and the control performance is recorded in this risk register by the control reporter.
The risk management function uses the data in the risk register to provide a suite of risk management reports to the boards and committees that will assist the senior and executive management to discharge its decision making responsibilities.
The internal audit function uses the risk management framework to develop its annual risk-based audit plan.
The plan is based on, among other factors, the inherent and residual risk scores as captured in the risk register.
Finally, a feedback loop operates with recommendations from the internal audit reviews being assessed by the risk management function for inclusion in the risk register as appropriate.
Risk management framework Identify risks Identify risk appetite Control environment Design controls Operate risk register software platform Risk ownership Assurance function How the business identify, assess, mitigate and monitor risk Provide assurance through challenge against the defined risk appetite Report to appropriate board Capture controls in risk register Specialty LAH Marine PCG Property Treaty lines Risk Internal Compliance management audit function function function General management BSS Finance 44 Beazley Annual report 2011 www.
com Business review Risk appetite The Beazley plc board has developed high-level risk appetite statements for each of the eight risk categories.
From these qualitative statements, a quantitative risk appetite has been developed for each of the 53 risk events to manage short term risk, which is expressed as acceptable earnings volatility at a 1:10 likelihood.
Defining risk appetite at this level of detail allows a natural cascade across the group to help the business understand what is required to operate within the boards risk appetite.
The board has approved the risk appetite for 2012 which, for the large part, remains unchanged from 2011.
For the insurance category, the Beazley plc board has also established a risk appetite to manage risk at more extreme durations, for example, at the 1:250 likelihood for catastrophe risk as described on pages 94 and 95.
Eight categories of risk We track risk in the following eight risk categories, across which a total of 53 risk events have been identified.
Each risk event is reported to a specific oversight committee to assist them perform their first line of defence obligations.
All risk events are reported to the risk and regulatory committee, the audit committees and the boards.
Risk category Risk definition Committee Insurance risk The risk arising from the inherent uncertainties about Underwriting committee the occurrence, amount and timing of insurance premium and claim liabilities.
Asset risk The risk arising from adverse financial market Investment committee movements of values of investments, interest rates, exchange rates, or external market forces.
Operational risk The risk arising from inadequate or failed internal or Underwriting, Investment, Beazley shared external processes, people and systems.
services and Executive committees Credit risk The risk of failure of another party to perform its Underwriting committee financial or contractual obligations to the group in a timely manner.
Group risk The contagion risk that an action or inaction of one part Executive committee of the group will adversely affect another part or parts.
In addition, the risk of dilution of culture and negative impact on brand.
Regulatory and legal risk The risk arising from not complying with regulatory and Executive committee legal requirements.
Liquidity risk The risk from not having available or access to the Investment committee correct level of financial resources to meet obligations.
Strategic risk The risk of ineffective strategic direction.
