Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 1 Statement of accounting policies Beazley plc is a company incorporated in Jersey and domiciled in Ireland.
The group financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 comprise the parent company and its subsidiaries and the groups interest in associates.
Both the financial statements of the parent company, Beazley plc, and the group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these group financial statements.
All new standards and interpretations released by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB have been considered and of these the following new and amended standards have been adopted by the group during the period: IFRS 7 amended, Financial instruments: Disclosures.
The amendments require an explicit statement that the interaction between qualitative and quantitative disclosures better enables users to evaluate an entitys exposure to risks arising from financial instruments.
IAS 1 amended, Presentation of financial statements.
IAS 1 is amended to clarify that reconciliation from opening to closing balances is required to be presented in the statement of changes in equity for each component of equity.
IAS 1 is also amended to allow the analysis of the individual other comprehensive income line items by component of equity to be presented in the notes.
IAS 32 amended, Financial instruments: Presentation.
The amendment requires that rights, options or warrants to acquire a fixed number of the entitys own equity instruments for a fixed amount of any currency are equity instruments if the entity offers the rights, options or warrants pro rata to all of its existing owners of the same class of its own non-derivative equity instruments.
IFRIC 19, Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments.
IFRIC 19 deals with measurement of equity instruments issued in a debt for equity swap.
It addresses the accounting for such a transaction by the debtor only.
IFRIC 14 amended, Prepayment of a minimum funding requirement.
The amendment to IFRIC 14 removes unintended consequences arising from the treatment of prepayments when there is a minimum funding requirement MFR.
The amendment results in prepayments of contributions in certain circumstances being recognised as an asset rather than an expense.
In addition, the following is a list of standards that are in issue but are not effective in 2011, and have not yet been adopted in the EU, together with the effective date of application to the group: IAS 12 Amendment: Deferred tax: Recovery of underlying assets effective 1 January 2012 IAS 1 Amendment: Presentation of items of other comprehensive income effective 1 July 2012 IFRS 9: Financial Instruments effective 1 January 2015 IFRS 10: Consolidated financial statements effective 1 January 2013 IFRS 11: Joint arrangements effective 1 January 2013 IFRS 12: Disclosure of interests in other entities effective 1 January 2013 IFRS 13: Fair Value Measurement effective 1 January 2013 IAS 19 Amendment: Defined benefit plans effective 1 January 2013 IAS 32 Amendment: Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities effective 1 January 2014 IFRS 7: Amendment: Offsetting financial assets and liabilities effective 1 January 2013.
The implications of these standards and interpretations are under review.
Basis of presentation The consolidated financial statements are prepared using the historical cost convention except that financial investments and derivative financial instruments are stated at their fair value.
All amounts presented are stated in US dollars and millions, unless stated otherwise.
The financial statements of Beazley plc have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The directors of the company have a reasonable expectation that the group and the company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Reclassifications of short-term investments have been made between cash and cash equivalents and financial investments resulting in a restatement of balances in the statement of financial position and statement of cash flows for the comparative period.
Full details are set out in note 20. www.
com Beazley Annual report 2011 85 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued Use of estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
In particular, information about significant areas of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements in applying accounting policies that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are described in this statement of accounting policies and specifically in note 24 on insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets.
The most critical estimate included within the groups financial position is the estimate for losses incurred but not reported.
The total estimate as at 31 December 2011 is $1,697m 2010: $1,783m and is included within total insurance liabilities in the statement of financial position.
Consolidation a Subsidiary undertakings Subsidiary undertakings, which are those entities in which the group, directly or indirectly, has the power to exercise control over financial and operating policies so as to obtain benefits from their activities, have been consolidated.
They are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control ends.
The group has used the acquisition method of accounting for the purchase of subsidiaries.
Under purchase accounting, the cost of acquisition is measured as the fair value of assets given, shares issued or liabilities undertaken at the date of acquisition directly attributable to the acquisition.
The excess of the cost of an acquisition over the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the subsidiary acquired is recorded as goodwill.
The accounting treatment of acquisition expenses per IFRS 3 revised has changed: however as the group applies the revised standard prospectively to all business combinations from 1 January 2010 there is no impact on accounting for the acquisition of subsidiaries made in previous periods.
For all business combinations from 1 January 2010: i Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the group incurs in connection with a business combination are expensed as incurred.
ii In addition, any consideration transferred does not include amounts related to the settlement of pre-existing relationships.
Such amounts are recognised in profit or loss.
iii Any contingent consideration is measured at fair value at the acquisition date.
Financial investments made by the parent company in subsidiary undertakings and associates are stated at cost in its separate financial statements and are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may be impaired.
Certain group subsidiaries underwrite as corporate members of Lloyds on syndicates managed by Beazley Furlonge Limited.
In view of the several liability of underwriting members at Lloyds for the transactions of syndicates in which they participate, only attributable shares of transactions, assets and liabilities of those syndicates are included in the group financial statements.
b Associates Associates are those entities in which the group has power to exert significant influence but which it does not control.
Significant influence is generally presumed if the group has between 20% and 50% of voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Under this method the investments are initially measured at cost and the groups share of post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement.
Therefore the cumulative post-acquisition movements in the associates net assets are adjusted against the cost of the investment.
When the groups share of losses equals or exceeds the carrying amount of the associate, the carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition for the losses is discontinued except to the extent that the group has incurred obligations in respect of the associate.
Equity accounting is discontinued when the group no longer has significant influence over the investment.
com Financial statements c Intercompany balances and transactions All intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains or losses on transactions between group companies are eliminated in the consolidated group accounts.
Transactions and balances between the group and associates are not eliminated.
Foreign currency translation a Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of the parent and the subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the relevant entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars, being the functional currency of the parent and its main trading subsidiaries.
Following the change in functional currency of Beazley plc and its main trading subsidiaries to US dollars on 1 April 2010 and the change in presentation currency to US dollars on 1 January 2010, all comparative information is stated in US dollars in accordance with the guidance defined in IAS 21.
For further information on this change please refer to the 2010 annual report which gives a detailed explanation of the main factors that led to this change.
b Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using average exchange rates applicable to the period in which the transactions take place and where the group considers these to be a reasonable approximation of the transaction rate.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from translation at the period end of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary items recorded at historical cost in foreign currencies are translated using the exchange rate on the date of the initial transaction.
c Group companies The results and financial position of the group companies that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate ruling at the statement of financial position date: income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates for the reporting period where this is determined to be a reasonable approximation of the actual transaction rates: and all resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income as a separate component of equity.
On disposal of foreign operations cumulative exchange differences previously recognised in other comprehensive income are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
Insurance contracts Insurance contracts including inwards reinsurance contracts are defined as those containing significant insurance risk.
Insurance risk is considered significant if, and only if, an insured event could cause Beazley to pay significant additional benefits in any scenario, excluding scenarios that lack commercial substance.
Such contracts remain insurance contracts until all rights and obligations are extinguished or expire.
Net earned premiums a Premiums Gross premiums written represent premiums on business commencing in the financial year together with adjustments to premiums written in previous accounting periods and estimates for premiums from contracts entered into during the course of the year.
Gross premiums written are stated before deduction of brokerage, taxes, duties levied on premiums and other deductions.
b Unearned premiums A provision for unearned premiums gross of reinsurance represents that part of the gross premiums written that is estimated will be earned in the following financial periods.
It is calculated using the daily pro-rata method where the premium is apportioned over the period of risk.
Deferred acquisition costs DAC Acquisition costs comprise brokerage, premium levy and staff-related costs of the underwriters acquiring new business and renewing existing contracts.
The proportion of acquisition costs in respect of unearned premiums is deferred at the reporting date and recognised in later periods when the related premiums are earned.
com Beazley Annual report 2011 87 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued Claims These include the cost of claims and claims handling expenses paid during the period, together with the movements in provisions for outstanding claims, claims incurred but not reported IBNR and claims handling provisions.
The provision for claims comprises amounts set aside for claims advised and IBNR, including claims handling expenses.
The IBNR amount is based on estimates calculated using widely accepted actuarial techniques which are reviewed quarterly by the group actuary and annually by Beazleys independent syndicate reporting actuary.
The techniques generally use projections, based on past experience of the development of claims over time, to form a view on the likely ultimate claims to be experienced.
For more recent underwriting years, regard is given to the variations in the business portfolio accepted and the underlying terms and conditions.
Thus, the critical assumptions used when estimating provisions are that past experience is a reasonable predictor of likely future claims development and that the rating and business portfolio assumptions are a fair reflection of the likely level of ultimate claims to be incurred for the more recent years.
Liability adequacy testing At each reporting date, liability adequacy tests are performed to ensure the adequacy of the claims liabilities net of DAC and unearned premium reserves.
In performing these tests, current best estimates of future contractual cash flows, claims handling and administration expenses as well as investment income from the assets backing such liabilities are used.
Any deficiency is immediately charged to the income statement initially by writing off DAC and by subsequently establishing a provision for losses arising from liability adequacy tests unexpired risk provision.
Ceded reinsurance These are contracts entered into by the group with reinsurers under which the group is compensated for losses on contracts issued by the group and that meet the definition of an insurance contract.
Insurance contracts entered into by the group under which the contract holder is another insurer inwards reinsurance are included with insurance contracts.
Any benefits to which the group is entitled under its reinsurance contracts held are recognised as reinsurance assets.
These assets consist of balances due from reinsurers and include reinsurers share of provisions for claims.
These balances are based on calculated amounts of outstanding claims and projections for IBNR, net of estimated irrecoverable amounts having regard to the reinsurance programme in place for the class of business, the claims experience for the period and the current security rating of the reinsurer involved.
Reinsurance liabilities are primarily premiums payable for reinsurance contracts and are recognised as an expense when due.
The group assesses its reinsurance assets for impairment.
If there is objective evidence of impairment, then the carrying amount is reduced to its recoverable amount and the impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
Revenue Revenue consists of net earned premium, net investment income, profit commissions earned and managing agents fees.
Managing agents fees are recognised as the services are provided.
Profit commissions are recognised as profit is earned.
Dividends paid Dividend distribution to the shareholders of the group is recognised in the period in which the dividends are paid as a first interim dividend or as a second interim dividend approved by the groups shareholders at the groups annual general meeting.
Plant and equipment All plant and equipment is recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost of the assets to their residual values over their estimated useful lives as follows: Fixtures and fittings Three to ten years Computer equipment Three years These assets residual value and useful lives are reviewed at each reporting date and adjusted if appropriate.
The carrying values of plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
If any such condition exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of impairment and the difference is charged to the income statement.
com Financial statements Intangible assets a Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the groups share of the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
The determination of the amount to be treated as goodwill per IFRS 3 revised 2008 has changed: however the group decided to apply the revised standard prospectively to all business combinations from 1 January 2010 and therefore there is no impact on accounting for the acquisition of subsidiaries made in prior periods.
Goodwill has an indefinite life and is annually tested for impairment.
Goodwill is allocated to each cash-generating unit being the groups operating segments for the purpose of impairment testing.
Goodwill is impaired when the net carrying amount of the relevant cash-generating unit CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, being the higher of its value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
Value in use is defined as the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the CGU.
On transition to IFRS at 1 January 2004, any goodwill previously amortised or written off was not reinstated.
In respect of equity accounted associates, the carrying amount of any goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the associate, and any impairment is allocated to the carrying amount of the associate as a whole.
b Syndicate capacity The syndicate capacity represents the cost of purchasing the groups participation in the combined syndicates.
The capacity is capitalised at cost in the statement of financial position.
It has an indefinite useful life and is carried at cost less accumulated impairment.
It is annually tested for impairment by reference to the expected future profit streams to be earned by those syndicates in which the group participates, namely 2623, 3622 and 3623, and provision is made for any impairment.
c Licences Licences have an indefinite useful life and are initially recorded at fair value.
Licences are annually tested for impairment and provision is made for any impairment when the recoverable amount, being the higher of its value in use and fair value, is less than the carrying value.
d IT development costs Costs that are directly associated with the development of identifiable and unique software products and that are anticipated to generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Costs include external consultants fees, certain qualifying internal staff costs and other costs incurred to develop software programs.
These costs are amortised over their estimated useful life three years on a straight-line basis subject to impairment.
Other non-qualifying costs are expensed as incurred.
e Renewal rights Renewal rights comprise future profits relating to insurance contracts acquired and the expected renewal of those contracts.
The costs directly attributable to acquire the renewal rights are recognised as intangible assets where they can be measured reliably and it is probable that they will be recovered by directly related future profits.
These costs are subject to impairment and are amortised on a straight-line basis, based on the estimated useful life of the assets which is estimated to be between five and ten years.
Financial instruments Financial instruments are recognised in the statement of financial position at such time that the group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the financial instrument.
A financial asset is derecognised when the contractual rights to receive cash flows from the financial assets expire, or where the financial assets have been transferred, together with substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
Financial liabilities are derecognised if the groups obligations specified in the contract expire, are discharged or cancelled.
Purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade date, which is the date the group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
a Financial assets On acquisition of a financial asset, the group is required to classify the asset into one of the following categories: financial assets at fair value through the income statement, loans and receivables, held to maturity and available for sale.
The group does not make use of the held to maturity and available for sale classifications.
b Financial assets at fair value through income statement Except for derivative financial instruments, all financial assets are designated as fair value through the income statement upon initial recognition because they are managed and their performance is evaluated on a fair value basis.
Information about these financial assets is provided internally on a fair value basis to the groups key management.
The groups investment strategy is to invest and evaluate their performance with reference to their fair values.
com Beazley Annual report 2011 89 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued c Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost less any impairment losses.
d Fair value measurement Fair value is the amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or a liability settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms length transaction on the measurement date.
When available, the group measures the fair value of an instrument using quoted prices in an active market for that instrument.
A market is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available and represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length basis.
If a market for a financial instrument is not active, the group establishes fair value using a valuation technique.
Valuation techniques include using recent arms length transactions between knowledgeable, willing parties if available, reference to the current fair value of other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow analyses and option pricing models.
The chosen valuation technique makes maximum use of market inputs, relies as little as possible on estimates specific to the group, incorporates all factors that market participants would consider in setting a price, and is consistent with accepted economic methodologies for pricing financial instruments.
Inputs to valuation techniques reasonably represent market expectations and measures of the risk-return factors inherent in the financial instrument.
The group calibrates valuation techniques and tests them for validity using prices from observable current market transactions in the same instrument or based on other available observable market data.
The best evidence of the fair value of a financial instrument at initial recognition is the transaction price, ie the fair value of the consideration given or received, unless the fair value of that instrument is evidenced by comparison with other observable current market transactions in the same instrument ie without modification or repackaging or based on a valuation technique whose variables include only data from observable markets.
When transaction price provides the best evidence of fair value at initial recognition, the financial instrument is initially measured at the transaction price and any difference between this price and the value initially obtained from a valuation model is subsequently recognised in profit or loss depending on the individual facts and circumstances of the transaction but not later than when the valuation is supported wholly by observable market data or the transaction is closed out.
Assets and long positions are measured at a bid price: liabilities and short positions are measured at an asking price.
Where the group has positions with offsetting risks, mid-market prices are used to measure the offsetting risk positions and a bid or asking price adjustment is applied only to the net open position as appropriate.
Fair values reflect the credit risk of the instrument and include adjustments to take account of the credit risk of the group entity and counterparty where appropriate.
Fair value estimates obtained from models are adjusted for any other factors, such as liquidity risk or model uncertainties, to the extent that the group believes a third-party market participant would take them into account in pricing a transaction.
Upon initial recognition, attributable transaction costs relating to financial instruments at fair value through the income statement are recognised in the income statement when incurred.
Financial assets at fair value through the income statement are measured at fair value, and changes therein are recognised in the income statement.
Net changes in the fair value of financial assets at fair value through the income statement exclude interest and dividend income, as these items are accounted for separately as set out below.
e Hedge funds The group participates in a number of hedge funds and related financial instruments for which there are no available quoted market prices.
The valuation of these hedge funds is based on fair value techniques as described above.
The fair value of our hedge fund portfolio is calculated by reference to the underlying net asset values NAVs of each of the individual funds.
Consideration is also given in valuing these funds to any restriction applied to distributions, the existence of side pocket provisions, and the timing of the latest available valuations.
f Insurance receivables and payables Insurance receivables and payables are recognised when due.
These include amounts due to and from agents, brokers and insurance contract holders.
Insurance receivables are classified as loans and receivables as they are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted on an active market.
Insurance receivables are measured at amortised cost less any provision for impairments.
Insurance payables are stated at amortised cost.
com Financial statements g Other receivables Other receivables principally consist of prepayments, accrued income and sundry debtors and are carried at amortised cost less any impairment losses.
h Investment income Investment income consists of dividends, interest, realised and unrealised gains and losses and foreign exchange gains and losses on financial assets at fair value through the income statement.
Dividends on equity securities are recorded as revenue on the ex-dividend date.
Interest is recognised on an amortised cost basis using the effective interest rate method for financial assets at fair value through the income statement.
The realised gains or losses on disposal of an investment are the difference between the proceeds and the original cost of the investment.
Unrealised investment gains and losses represent the difference between the carrying value at the reporting date, and the carrying value at the previous period end or purchase value during the period.
i Borrowings Borrowings are initially recorded at fair value less transaction costs incurred.
Subsequently borrowings are stated at amortised cost and interest is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Finance costs comprise interest, fees paid for the arrangement of debt and letter of credit facilities and commissions charged for the utilisation of letters of credit.
These costs are recognised in the income statements using the effective interest method.
j Other payables Other payables are stated at amortised cost determined on the effective interest rate method.
Hedge accounting and derivative financial instruments Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting fair value gains or losses depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Fair values are obtained from quoted market prices in active markets, recent market transactions, and valuation techniques which include discounted cash flow models.
All derivatives are carried as assets when fair value is positive and as liabilities when fair value is negative.
The best evidence of fair value of a derivative at initial recognition is the transaction price.
The group designates certain derivatives as fair value hedges or net investment hedges.
The group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
The group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are being used in hedging transactions are expected to be and have been highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
a Fair value hedges When a derivative is designated as a hedge of the change in fair value of a recognised asset or liability or a firm commitment, changes in the fair value of the derivative are recognised immediately in the income statement together with the changes in the fair value of the hedged item that are attributable to the hedged risk.
If the derivative expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer meets the criteria for fair value hedge accounting, or the designation is revoked, hedge accounting is discontinued.
Any adjustment up to that point, to a hedged item for which the effective interest method is used, is amortised to profit or loss as part of the recalculated effective interest rate of the item over its remaining life.
No fair value hedges are utilised in 2011. www.
com Beazley Annual report 2011 91 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued b Net investment hedges Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income and presented within equity in other reserves: the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement within net fair value gains losses on financial investments through the income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in other comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal of the foreign operation.
No net investment hedges are utilised in 2011.
Impairment of financial assets The group assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets measured at amortised cost is impaired.
A financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired and impairment losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that have occurred after the initial recognition of the assets and that event has an impact on the estimated cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
If there is objective evidence that impairment exists, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and in hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less from the date of acquisition.
Operating leases Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made for operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Employee benefits a Pension obligations The group operates a defined benefit pension plan that is now closed to future service accruals.
The scheme is generally funded by payments from the group taking account of the recommendations of an independent qualified actuary.
All employees now participate in a defined contribution pension funded by the group.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors like age, years of service and compensation.
The pension costs are assessed using the projected unit credit method.
Under this method the costs of providing pensions are charged to the income statement so as to spread the regular costs over the service lives of employees in accordance with the advice of the qualified actuary, who values the plans annually.
The pension obligation is measured at the present value of the estimated future net cash flows and is stated net of plan assets.
Actuarial gains or losses arising subsequent to 1 January 2004 are accounted for using the corridor method.
Actuarial gains or losses at the end of the previous accounting periods that exceed 10% of the greater of the fair value of the plan assets or the present value of the gross defined benefit obligations in the scheme at that date are recognised in the income statement over the average remaining working lives of employees participating in the scheme.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in income, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
For the defined contribution plan, the group pays contributions to a privately administered pension plan.
Once the contributions have been paid, the group has no further obligations.
The groups contributions are charged to the income statement in the period to which they relate.
com Financial statements b Share-based compensation The group offers option plans over Beazley plcs ordinary shares to certain employees, including the SAYE scheme, details of which are included in the directors remuneration report.
The group accounts for share compensation plans that were granted after 7 November 2002.
The cost of providing share-based compensation is based on the fair value of the share options at grant date, which is recognised in the income statement over the vesting period of the share options and a corresponding entry is recognised in reserves.
The fair value of the share options is determined using the Black Scholes method.
When the options are exercised, the proceeds received, net of any transaction costs, are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium.
Income taxes Income tax on the profit or loss for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case it is recognised respectively in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the year end reporting date and any adjustments to tax payable in respect of prior periods.
Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of the assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised in the statement of financial position to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing profit after tax available to shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares such as share options granted to employees.
The shares held in the employee share options plan ESOP and treasury shares are excluded from both the calculations, until such time as they vest unconditionally with the employees.
Provisions and contingencies Provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the obligation can be made.
Where the group expects a provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
Contingent liabilities are present obligations that are not recognised because it is not probable that an outflow of resources will be required to meet the liabilities or because the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with sufficient reliability.
com Beazley Annual report 2011 93 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Risk management The group has identified the risks arising from its activities and has established policies and procedures to manage these items in accordance with its risk appetite.
The group categorises its risks into eight areas: insurance, asset, credit, liquidity, operational, group, regulatory and legal, and strategic risk.
The first four relate to financial risks, and are detailed below.
The sections below outline the groups risk appetite and explain how it defines and manages each category of risk.
2.1 Insurance risk The groups insurance business assumes the risk of loss from persons or organisations that are directly exposed to an underlying loss.
Insurance risk arises from this risk transfer due to inherent uncertainties about the occurrence, amount and timing of insurance liabilities.
The four key components of insurance risk are underwriting, reinsurance, claims management and reserving.
Each element is considered below.
a Underwriting risk Underwriting risk comprises four elements that apply to all insurance products offered by the group: Cycle risk the risk that business is written without full knowledge as to the in adequacy of rates, terms and conditions: Event risk the risk that individual risk losses or catastrophes lead to claims that are higher than anticipated in plans and pricing: Pricing risk the risk that the level of expected loss is understated in the pricing process: and Expense risk the risk that the allowance for expenses and inflation in pricing is inadequate.
We manage and model these four elements in the following three categories: attritional claims, large claims and catastrophe events.
The groups underwriting strategy is to seek a diverse and balanced portfolio of risks in order to limit the variability of outcomes.
This is achieved by accepting a spread of business over time, segmented between different products, geography and size.
The annual business plans for each underwriting team reflect the groups underwriting strategy, and set out the classes of business, the territories and the industry sectors in which business is to be written.
These plans are approved by the board and monitored by the monthly underwriting committee.
Our underwriters calculate premiums for risks written based on a range of criteria tailored specifically to each individual risk.
These factors include but are not limited to the financial exposure, loss history, risk characteristics, limits, deductibles, terms and conditions and acquisition expenses.
The group also recognises that insurance events are, by their nature, random, and the actual number and size of events during any one year may vary from those estimated using established statistical techniques.
To address this, the group sets out the exposure that it is prepared to accept in certain territories to a range of events such as natural catastrophes and specific scenarios which may result in large industry losses.
This is monitored through regular calculation of realistic disaster scenarios RDS.
The aggregate position is monitored at the time of underwriting a risk, and reports are regularly produced to highlight the key aggregations to which the group is exposed.
The group uses a number of modelling tools to monitor its exposures against the agreed risk appetite set and to simulate catastrophe losses in order to measure the effectiveness of its reinsurance programmes.
Stress and scenario tests are also run using these models.
The range of scenarios considered include natural catastrophes, marine, liability, political, terrorism and war events.
One of the largest types of event exposure relates to natural catastrophe events such as windstorm or earthquake.
Where possible the group measures geographic accumulations and uses its knowledge of the business, historical loss behaviour and commercial catastrophe modelling software to assess the expected range of losses at different return periods.
Upon application of the reinsurance coverage purchased, the key gross and net exposures are calculated on the basis of extreme events at a range of return periods.
The groups high-level catastrophe risk appetite is set by the board and the business plans of each team are determined within these parameters.
The board may adjust these limits over time as conditions change.
Currently, the group operates to a catastrophe risk appetite for a probabilistic 1-in-250 year US event of $510m net of reinsurance.
com Financial statements Lloyds has also defined its own specific set of realistic disaster scenario RDS events for which all syndicates with relevant exposures must report.
Of these the three largest events which impact Beazley are: Unaudited 2011 2010 Modelled Modelled Modelled Modelled PML before PML after PML before PML after reinsurance reinsurance reinsurance reinsurance Lloyds prescribed natural catastrophe event $m $m $m $m San Francisco quake $78bn, 2010:$78bn 600.3 224.2 712.0 265.7 Gulf of Mexico windstorm $112bn, 2010:$113bn 457.9 250.6 557.3 303.8 Florida Pinellas windstorm $125bn, 2010:$125bn 438.6 237.6 532.2 277.0 The exposures during 2011 have reduced across property and reinsurance in anticipation of the increase in risk appetite utilisation following the adoption of RMS v. 11.
The reduction in exposure in these regions have resulted in lower modelled losses for these specific events.
With the adoption of RMS v. 11, the RDS events for the Gulf of Mexico and Florida Pinellas scenarios have changed and are therefore different events to those used in 2010.
The net exposure of the group to each of these modelled events at a given point in time is a function of assumptions made about how, where and the magnitude of the event that occurs, the amount of business written that is exposed to each event and the reinsurance arrangements in place.
To manage underwriting exposures, the group has developed limits of authority and business plans which are binding upon all staff authorised to underwrite and are specific to underwriters, classes of business and industry.
In 2011, the normal maximum gross probable maximum loss PML line that any one underwriter could commit the managed syndicates to was $100m.
In most cases, maximum lines for classes of business were much lower than this.
These authority limits are enforced through a comprehensive sign-off process for underwriting transactions including dual sign-off for all line underwriters and peer review for all risks exceeding individual underwriters authority limits.
Exception reports are also run regularly to monitor compliance.
All underwriters also have a right to refuse renewal or change the terms and conditions of insurance contracts upon renewal.
Rate monitoring details, including limits, deductibles, exposures, terms and conditions and risk characteristics are also captured and the results are combined to monitor the rating environment for each class of business.
Binding authority contracts A proportion of the groups insurance risks are transacted by third parties under delegated underwriting authorities.
Each third party is thoroughly vetted by our coverholder approval group before it can bind risks, and is subject to rigorous monitoring to maintain underwriting quality and confirm ongoing compliance with contractual guidelines.
Operating divisions In 2011, the groups business consisted of six operating divisions.
The following table provides a breakdown of gross written premiums by division, and also provides a geographical split based on placement of risk.
UK US 2011 Lloyds Non-Lloyds Total Life, accident and health 5% 5% Marine 16% 16% Political risks and contingency 6% 6% Property 20% 1% 21% Reinsurance 10% 10% Specialty lines 34% 8% 42% Total 91% 9% 100% UK US 2010 Lloyds Non-Lloyds Total Life, accident and health 4% 4% Marine 15% 15% Political risks and contingency 6% 6% Property 20% 1% 21% Reinsurance 10% 10% Specialty lines 35% 9% 44% Total 90% 10% 100% www.
com Beazley Annual report 2011 95 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued b Reinsurance risk Reinsurance risk to the group arises where reinsurance contracts put in place to reduce gross insurance risk do not perform as anticipated, result in coverage disputes or prove inadequate in terms of the vertical or horizontal limits purchased.
Failure of a reinsurer to pay a valid claim is considered a credit risk which is detailed separately below.
The groups reinsurance programmes complement the underwriting team business plans and seek to protect group capital from an adverse volume or volatility of claims on both a per risk and per event basis.
In some cases the group deems it more economic to hold capital than purchase reinsurance.
These decisions are regularly reviewed as an integral part of the business planning and performance monitoring process.
The reinsurance security committee RSC examines and approves all reinsurers to ensure that they possess suitable security.
The groups ceded reinsurance team ensures that these guidelines are followed, undertakes the administration of reinsurance contracts and monitors and instigates our responses to any erosion of the reinsurance programmes.
c Claims management risk Claims management risk may arise within the group in the event of inaccurate or incomplete case reserves and claims settlements, poor service quality or excessive claims handling costs.
These risks may damage the group brand and undermine its ability to win and retain business, or incur punitive damages.
These risks can occur at any stage of the claims life cycle.
The groups claims teams are focused on delivering quality, reliability and speed of service to both internal and external clients.
Their aim is to adjust and process claims in a fair, efficient and timely manner, in accordance with the policys terms and conditions, the regulatory environment, and the business broader interests.
Prompt and accurate case reserves are set for all known claims liabilities, including provisions for expenses.
d Reserving and ultimate reserves risk Reserving and ultimate reserves risk occurs within the group where established insurance liabilities are insufficient through inaccurate forecasting, or where there is inadequate allowance for expenses and reinsurance bad debts in provisions.
To manage reserving and ultimate reserves risk, our actuarial team uses a range of recognised techniques to project gross premiums written, monitor claims development patterns and stress-test ultimate insurance liability balances.
An external independent actuary also performs an annual review to produce a statement of actuarial opinion for reporting entities within the group.
The objective of the groups reserving policy is to produce accurate and reliable estimates that are consistent over time and across classes of business.
The estimates of gross premiums written and claims prepared by the actuarial department are used through a formal quarterly peer review process to independently test the integrity of the estimates produced by the underwriting teams for each class of business.
These meetings are attended by senior management, senior underwriters, actuarial, claims, and finance representatives.
2.2 Asset risk Asset risk arises where the value of assets and liabilities changes as a result of movements in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and market prices.
a Foreign exchange risk The functional currency of Beazley plc and its main trading entities is the US dollar and the presentation currency in which the group reports its consolidated results is the US dollar.
The effect of this on foreign exchange risk is that the group is exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates for non-dollar denominated transactions and net assets.
The group deals in four main currencies: US dollars, UK sterling, Canadian dollars and euros.
Transactions in all currencies are converted to US dollars on initial recognition and revalued at the reporting date.
Remaining foreign exchange risk is still actively managed as described on the next page.
In 2011, the group managed its foreign exchange risk by periodically assessing its non-dollar exposures and hedging these to a tolerable level while targeting net assets to be entirely US dollar denominated.
As part of this hedging strategy, exchange rate derivatives were used to rebalance currency exposure across the group.
In particular we hedged our potentially significant exposure to the Japanese yen following the Tohoku earthquake in Japan.
Details of all foreign currency derivative contracts entered into with external parties are disclosed in note 17.
On a forward looking basis an assessment is made of expected future exposure development and appropriate currency trades put in place to reduce risk.
com Financial statements With effect from January 2010 Beazley took the decision to match the groups underwriting capital by currency to the principal underlying currencies of its written premiums.
This helps to mitigate the risk that the groups capital required to underwrite business is not materially affected by any future movements in exchange rates.
To achieve this, the group has increased the US dollar component of its capital base Funds at Lloyds by $492.7m since the start of 2010 with an equivalent decrease in the sterling component.
The group also has subsidiaries with functional currencies that are different from the presentation currency.
The effect of this on foreign exchange risk is that the group is exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates for US dollar denominated transactions and net assets arising in those foreign currency subsidiaries.
It also gives rise to a currency translation exposure to UK sterling, Hong Kong dollars, Singapore dollars and Australian dollars on translation to the groups presentational currency, although these exposures are minimal.
The following table summarises the carrying value of total assets and total liabilities categorised by currency: UK CAD $ EUR Subtotal US $ Total 31 December 2011 $m $m $m $m $m $m Total assets 910.0 131.4 237.2 1,278.6 4,840.1 6,118.7 Total liabilities 803.7 105.7 288.0 1,197.4 3,850.3 5,047.7 Net assets 106.3 25.7 50.8 81.2 989.8 1,071.0 UK CAD $ EUR Subtotal US $ Total 31 December 2010 $m $m $m $m $m $m Total assets 976.4 168.8 293.1 1,438.3 4,336.0 5,774.3 Total liabilities 1,000.4 109.4 258.6 1,368.4 3,323.0 4,691.4 Net assets 24.0 59.4 34.5 69.9 1,013.0 1,082.9 Sensitivity analysis Fluctuations in the groups trading currencies against the US dollar would result in a change to profit after tax and net asset value.
The table below gives an indication of the impact on profit after tax and net assets of a percentage change in relative strength of US dollar against the value of sterling, canadian dollar and euro, simultaneously.
The analysis is based on the current information available and our assumptions in performing this analysis for 2010 include an estimate of the impact on our cross currency swaps.
Impact on profit after tax for the year ended Impact on net assets 2011 2010 2011 2010 Change in exchange rate of UK sterling, Canadian dollar and euro relative to US dollar $m $m $m $m Dollar weakens 30% against other currencies 11.6 21.0 11.6 21.0 Dollar weakens 20% against other currencies 7.8 14.0 7.8 14.0 Dollar weakens 10% against other currencies 3.9 7.0 3.9 7.0 Dollar strengthens 10% against other currencies 3.9 7.0 3.9 7.0 Dollar strengthens 20% against other currencies 7.8 14.0 7.8 14.0 Dollar strengthens 30% against other currencies 11.6 21.0 11.6 21.0 b Interest rate risk Some of the groups financial instruments, including financial assets, cash and cash equivalents and borrowings, are exposed to movements in market interest rates.
The group manages interest rate risk by primarily investing in short-duration financial assets and cash and cash equivalents.
The investment committee monitors the duration of these assets on a regular basis.
The group also entered into interest rate futures contracts to manage the interest rate risk on bond portfolios.
com Beazley Annual report 2011 97 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued The following table shows the average duration at the reporting date of the financial instruments.
Duration is a commonly used measure of volatility and we believe gives a better indication than maturity of the likely sensitivity of our portfolio to changes in interest rates.
If the debt is settled when due in October 2026 the duration of the debt falls within the 10 yrs category.
If the debt is called in October 2016, the duration of the debt falls within the 4-5 yrs category.
Also included in borrowings is $18m of a subordinated debt facility raised in 2004 which is unsecured.
The subordinated notes are due in 2034 and have been callable at the groups option since 2009.
Sensitivity analysis The group holds financial assets and liabilities that are exposed to interest rate risk.
Changes in interest yields, with all other variables constant, would result in changes in the capital value of debt securities and a change in the value of borrowings and derivative financial instruments.
This would affect reported profits and net assets as indicated in the below table: Impact on profit after income tax for the year Impact on net assets 2011 2010 2011 2010 $m $m $m $m Shift in yield basis points 150 basis point increase 44.6 23.7 44.6 23.7 100 basis point increase 29.7 15.7 29.7 15.7 50 basis point increase 15.0 8.0 15.0 8.0 50 basis point decrease 15.0 8.0 15.0 8.0 100 basis point decrease 27.0 15.7 27.0 15.7 c Price risk Financial assets and derivatives that are recognised in the statement of financial position at their fair value are susceptible to losses due to adverse changes in prices.
This is referred to as price risk.
Financial assets include fixed and floating securities and hedge funds depending on the groups appetite for risk.
The fixed income securities are well diversified across high quality, liquid securities.
The price risk associated with these securities is predominantly interest, foreign exchange and credit risk related.
The sensitivity to price risk that relates to the groups hedge fund investments is presented below.
The investment committee has established comprehensive guidelines with investment managers setting out maximum investment limits, diversification across industries and concentrations in any one industry or company.
com Financial statements Listed investments are recognised in the statement of financial position at quoted bid price.
If the market for the investment is not considered to be active, then the group establishes fair value using valuation techniques.
This includes using recent arms length market transactions, reference to current fair value of other investments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow models and other valuation techniques that are commonly used by market participants.
Impact on profit after income tax for the year Impact on net assets 2011 2010 2011 2010 $m $m $m $m Change in fair value of hedge fund portfolios 30% increase in fair value 101.1 106.1 101.1 106.1 20% increase in fair value 67.4 70.7 67.4 70.7 10% increase in fair value 33.7 35.4 33.7 35.4 10% decrease in fair value 33.7 35.4 33.7 35.4 20% decrease in fair value 67.4 70.7 67.4 70.7 30% decrease in fair value 101.1 106.1 101.1 106.1 2.3 Credit risk Credit risk arises where counterparties fail to meet their financial obligations in full as they fall due.
The primary sources of credit risk for the group are: Reinsurers whereby reinsurers may fail to pay valid claims against a reinsurance contract held by the group: Brokers and coverholders whereby counterparties fail to pass on premiums or claims collected or paid on behalf of the group: Investments whereby issuer default results in the group losing all or part of the value of a financial instrument and derivative financial instrument: and Cash and cash equivalents.
The groups core business is to accept significant insurance risk and the appetite for other risks is low.
This protects the groups capital from erosion so that it can meet its insurance liabilities.
An approval system also exists for all new brokers, and broker performance is carefully monitored.
Regular exception reports highlight trading with non-approved brokers, and the groups credit control function frequently assesses the ageing and collectability of debtor balances.
Any large, aged items are prioritised and where collection is outsourced, incentives are in place to support these priorities.
The investments committee has established comprehensive guidelines for the groups investment managers regarding the type, duration and quality of investments acceptable to the group.
The performance of investment managers is regularly reviewed to confirm adherence to these guidelines.
The group has developed processes to formally examine all reinsurers before entering into new business arrangements.
New reinsurers are approved by the reinsurance security committee RSC, which also reviews arrangements with all existing reinsurers at least annually.
Vulnerable or slow-paying reinsurers are examined more frequently.
To assist in the understanding of credit risks, A. M. Best, Moodys and Standard & Poors S&P ratings are used.
These ratings have been categorised below as used for Lloyds reporting: A. M. Best Moodys S&P Tier 1 A to AAaa to A3 AAA to ATier 2 B to BBaa1 to Ba3 BBB to BBTier 3 C to CB1 to Caa B to CCC Tier 4 D, E, F, S Ca to C R, U, S 3 www.
com Beazley Annual report 2011 99 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued The following tables summarise the groups concentrations of credit risk: Tier 1 Tier 2 Tier 3 Tier 4 Unrated Total 31 December 2011 $m $m $m $m $m $m Financial assets financial investments 2,855.9 85.2 411.0 3,352.1 derivative financial instruments 4.7 4.7 Insurance receivables 558.7 558.7 Reinsurance assets 1,197.9 1,197.9 Other receivables 21.9 21.9 Cash and cash equivalents 650.1 650.1 Total 4,725.8 85.2 974.4 5,785.4 The following tables summarise the groups concentrations of credit risk: Tier 1 Tier 2 Tier 3 Tier 4 Unrated Total 31 December 2010 $m $m $m $m $m $m Financial assets financial investments 2,649.2 15.0 433.1 3,097.3 derivative financial instruments Insurance receivables 527.1 527.1 Reinsurance assets 1,034.9 1,034.9 Other receivables 33.9 33.9 Cash and cash equivalents 745.0 745.0 Total 4,463.0 15.0 960.2 5,438.2 Insurance receivables and other receivables balances held by the group have not been impaired, based on all evidence available, and no impairment provision has been recognised in respect of these assets.
An analysis of the overall credit risk exposure indicates that the group has reinsurance assets that are impaired at the reporting date.
The total impairment provision made in respect of these assets at 31 December 2011 totals $15.7m 2010: $17.3m.
Insurance receivables in respect of coverholder business are credit controlled by third-party managers.
We monitor third party coverholders performance and their financial processes through the groups coverholder management team.
These assets have been individually impaired after considering information such as the occurrence of significant changes in the counterparties financial position, pattern of historical payment information and disputes with counterparties.
Financial investments falling within the unrated category comprise hedge funds for which there is no readily available market data to allow classification within the respective tiers.
Additionally, insurance receivables are classified as unrated in accordance with Lloyds guidelines.
The group has insurance receivables and reinsurance assets that are past due but not impaired at the reporting date.
An aged analysis of these is presented below: Greater than Up to 30 days 30-60 days 60-90 days 90 days past due past due past due past due Total 31 December 2011 $m $m $m $m $m Insurance receivables 12.6 3.6 1.6 3.6 21.4 Reinsurance assets 2.9 1.5 0.5 9.8 14.7 Greater than Up to 30 days 30-60 days 60-90 days 90 days past due past due past due past due Total 31 December 2010 $m $m $m $m $m Insurance receivables 10.9 1.9 1.9 2.8 17.5 Reinsurance assets 2.2 3.7 2.9 11.1 19.9 100 Beazley Annual report 2011 www.
com Financial statements 2.4 Liquidity risk Liquidity risk arises where cash may not be available to pay obligations when due at a reasonable cost.
The group is exposed to daily calls on its available cash resources, principally from claims arising from its insurance business.
In the majority of the cases, these claims are settled from the premiums received.
The groups approach is to manage its liquidity position so that it can reasonably survive a significant individual or market loss event details of the groups exposure to realistic disaster scenarios RDS are provided on page 95.
This means that the group maintains sufficient liquid assets, or assets that can be translated into liquid assets at short notice and without any significant capital loss, to meet expected cash flow requirements.
These liquid funds are regularly monitored using cash flow forecasting to ensure that surplus funds are invested to achieve a higher rate of return.
The group also makes use of loan facilities and borrowings, details of which can be found in note 25.
Further information on the groups capital resources is contained on pages 38 and 39.
The sources and uses of funds table on page 38 shows the level of surplus capital that the group currently holds.
This is the surplus over expected working capital and regulatory capital requirements and represents a buffer that could be used to meet unforeseen costs or take advantage of new opportunities.
The following is an analysis by business segment of the estimated timing of the net cash flows based on the net claims liabilities balance held at 31 December: Weighted average term Within Greater than to settlement 31 December 2011 1 year 2-3 years 4-5 years 5 years Total years Life, accident and health 20.8 10.0 1.6 0.4 32.8 1.1 Marine 91.8 86.7 26.1 2.1 206.7 1.5 Political risks and contingency 42.1 51.1 18.1 2.4 113.7 1.8 Property 144.3 100.0 19.7 8.1 272.1 1.4 Reinsurance 119.6 104.1 29.4 3.5 256.6 1.5 Specialty lines 394.3 681.5 403.7 169.1 1,648.6 2.5 Net insurance liabilities 812.9 1,033.4 498.6 185.6 2,530.5 For a breakdown of net claims liabilities refer to note 24.
Weighted average term Within Greater than to settlement 31 December 2010 1 year 2-3 years 4-5 years 5 years Total years Life, accident and health 18.4 8.6 1.4 0.3 28.7 1.1 Marine 91.6 87.9 26.9 2.1 208.5 1.6 Political risks and contingency 34.9 44.2 20.1 1.8 101.0 1.9 Property 125.6 87.0 16.8 6.8 236.2 1.4 Reinsurance 88.2 80.1 23.3 3.0 194.6 1.5 Specialty lines 376.7 676.7 406.0 170.4 1,629.8 2.5 Net insurance liabilities 735.4 984.5 494.5 184.4 2,398.8 The following table is an analysis of the net contractual cash flows based on all the liabilities held at 31 December: Within Greater than 31 December 2011 1 year 2-3 years 4-5 years 5 years Total Net insurance liabilities 812.9 1,033.4 498.6 185.6 2,530.5 Borrowings 246.8 18.0 264.8 Other payables 366.0 366.0 Deferred tax liability 80.2 80.2 Greater Within than 31 December 2010 1 year 2-3 years 4-5 years 5 years Total Net insurance liabilities 735.4 984.5 494.5 184.4 2,398.8 Borrowings 268.2 268.2 Other payables 285.4 285.4 Deferred tax liability 91.0 91.0 www.
com Beazley Annual report 2011 101 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued The next two tables summarise the carrying amount at reporting date of financial instruments analysed by maturity date.
If the debt is settled when due in October 2026 the maturity date of the debt falls within the 10 yrs category.
If the debt is called in October 2016, the maturity date of the debt falls within the 4-5 yrs category.
The group makes additional interest payments for borrowings.
Further details are provided in notes 8 and 25.. 2.5 Operational risk Operational risk arises from the risk of losses due to inadequate or failed internal processes, people, systems, service providers or from external events.
There are a number of business activities for which the group uses the services of a third-party company, such as investment management, data entry and credit control.
These service providers are selected against rigorous criteria and formal service level agreements are in place, and regularly monitored and reviewed.
The group also recognises that it is necessary for people, systems and infrastructure to be available to support our operations.
Therefore we have taken significant steps to mitigate the impact of business interruption which could follow a variety of events, including the loss of key individuals and facilities.
We operate a formal disaster recovery plan which, in the event of an incident, allows the group to move critical operations to an alternative location within 24 hours.
The group actively manages operational risks and minimises them where appropriate.
This is achieved by implementing and communicating guidelines to staff and other third parties.
The group also regularly monitors the performance of its controls and adherence to these guidelines through the risk management reporting process.
Key components of the groups operational control environment include: ICA modelling of operational risk exposure and scenario testing: Management review of activities: Documentation of policies and procedures: Preventative and detective controls within key processes: Contingency planning: and Other systems controls.
com Financial statements Capital management The group follows a risk-based approach to determine the amount of capital required to support its activities.
Recognised stochastic modelling techniques are used to measure risk exposures, and capital to support business activities is allocated according to risk profile.
Stress and scenario analysis is regularly performed and the results are documented and reconciled to the boards risk appetite where necessary.
The group has several requirements for capital, including: To support underwriting at Lloyds through the syndicates in which it participates, being 2623, 3623 and 3622.
This is based on the groups own individual capital assessment.
This may be provided in the form of either the groups cash and investments or debt facilities: To support underwriting in Beazley Insurance Company, Inc. in the US: and To make acquisitions of insurance companies or MGAs whose strategic goals are aligned with our own.
The capital structure section of the financial review on pages 38 to 39 provide further background to the groups management of capital.
2.6 Group risk Group risk occurs where business units fail to consider the impact of their activities on other parts of the group, as well as the risks arising from these activities.
There are two main components of group risk which are explained below.
a Contagion Contagion risk is the risk arising from the actions of one part of the group which adversely affect any other part of the group.
As the two largest components of the group, this is of particular relevance for actions in any of the US operations adversely affecting the UK operations and vice versa.
The group has limited appetite for contagion risk and minimises the impact of this occurring by operating with clear lines of communication across the group to ensure all group entities are well informed and working to common goals.
b Reputation Reputation risk is the risk of negative publicity as a result of the groups contractual arrangements, customers, products, services and other activities.
Key sources of reputation risk include operation of a Lloyds franchise, interaction with capital markets since the groups IPO during 2002, and reliance upon the Beazley brand in the US, Europe, Asia and Australasia.
The groups preference is to minimise reputation risks but where it is not possible or beneficial to avoid them, we seek to minimise their frequency and severity by management through public relations and communication channels.
2.7 Regulatory and legal risk Regulatory and legal risk is the risk arising from not complying with regulatory and legal requirements.
The operations of the group are subject to legal and regulatory requirements within the jurisdictions in which it operates and the groups compliance function is responsible for ensuring that these requirements are adhered to.
2.8 Strategic risk This is the risk that the groups strategy is inappropriate or that the group is unable to implement its strategy.
There is limited appetite for any breach of guidance issued by the board, and where events supersede the groups strategic plan this is escalated at the earliest opportunity through the groups monitoring tools and governance structure.
Senior management performance Management stretch is the risk that business growth might result in an insufficient or overly complicated management team structure, thereby undermining accountability and control within the group.
As the group expands its worldwide business in the UK, US, Europe and Asia, management stretch may make the identification, analysis and control of group risks more complex.
On a day-to-day basis, the groups management structure encourages organisational flexibility and adaptability, while ensuring that activities are appropriately co-ordinated and controlled.
By focusing on the needs of their customers and demonstrating both progressive and responsive abilities, staff, management and outsourced service providers are expected to excel in service and quality.
Individuals and teams are also expected to transact their activities in an open and transparent way.
These behavioural expectations reaffirm low group risk tolerance by aligning interests to ensure that routine activities, projects and other initiatives are implemented to benefit and protect resources of both local business segments and the group as a whole.
com Beazley Annual report 2011 103 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 3 Segmental analysis a Reporting segments Segment information is presented in respect of reportable segments.
These are based on the groups management and internal reporting structures and represent the level at which financial information is reported to the Board, being the chief operating decision-maker as defined in IFRS 8.
Previously we reported the IFRS non-monetary items adjustment in respect of unearned premium and deferred acquisition costs in the unallocated column of the segmental analysis as we believed this adjustment was subject to significant volatility and could distort our reported segmental results.
This volatility was driven by the majority of our business being US dollar denominated when our functional currency was sterling.
Since we changed the functional currency of the groups principal operating entities to the US dollar on 1 April 2010 the volatility and materiality of this adjustment has significantly reduced and as such we now allocate the IFRS non-monetary items adjustment between our business segments.
The 2010 segmental analyses have been restated on this basis.
The remaining item disclosed in the unallocated column is in respect of a $33.7m non-recurring foreign exchange gain the details of which are disclosed in our 31 December 2010 report and accounts.
Accordingly, all subsequent segmental analyses will not contain an unallocated column.
The operating segments are based upon the different types of insurance risk underwritten by the group as described below: Life, accident and health This segment underwrites life, personal accident and sports risks.
Marine This segment underwrites a broad spectrum of marine classes including hull, energy, cargo and specie and war risks.
Political risks and contingency This segment underwrites terrorism, political violence, expropriation and credit risks as well as contingency and risks associated with contract frustration.
Property The property segment underwrites commercial, high-value homeowners and engineering property insurance on a worldwide basis.
Reinsurance This division specialises in writing property catastrophe, property per risk, aggregate excess of loss and pro-rata business.
Specialty lines This segment mainly underwrites professional lines, employment practices liability, specialty liability, directors and officers liability and healthcare.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
The reporting segments do not cross-sell business between each other.
There are no individual policyholders who comprise greater than 10% of the groups total gross premiums written.
com Financial statements c Information about geographical areas The groups operating segments are also managed geographically by placement of risk.
UK earned premium in the analysis below represents all risks placed at Lloyds and US earned premium represents all risks placed at the groups US insurance company, Beazley Insurance Company Inc. An analysis of earned premium split geographically by placement of risk and by reportable segment is provided in note 2 on page 95.
2011 2010 $m $m Capital expenditure UK Lloyds 12.7 8.1 US Non-Lloyds 0.8 2.0 13.5 10.1 4 Net investment income 2011 2010 $m $m Interest and dividends on financial investments at fair value through income statement 64.8 60.2 Realised losses on financial investments at fair value through income statement 22.0 19.3 Net unrealised fair value gains on financial investments at fair value through the income statement 10.0 6.2 Investment income from financial investments 52.8 47.1 Fair value loss on derivative financial instruments 3.7 Investment income 49.1 47.1 Investment management expenses 9.8 9.6 39.3 37.5 www.
com Beazley Annual report 2011 107 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 5 Other income 2011 2010 $m $m Commissions received 19.2 15.4 Profit commissions 5.0 10.5 Agency fees 2.1 1.8 Other income 1.8 0.4 28.1 28.1 6 Operating expenses 2011 2010 $m $m Fees payable to the companys auditor for the audit of the groups annual accounts 0.5 0.4 Fees payable to the companys auditor and its associates for other services: Audit of the companys subsidiaries 0.6 0.6 Tax services 0.1 Actuarial services 0.2 0.2 Other services 0.3 Operating leases 7.5 9.4 7 Employee benefit expenses 2011 2010 $m $m Wages and salaries 93.8 83.9 Short-term incentive payments 28.7 34.0 Social security 9.3 8.5 Share-based remuneration 10.6 9.3 Pension costs 6.1 6.1 148.5 141.8 Recharged to syndicate 623 16.1 14.4 132.4 127.4 Pension costs refer to the contributions made under the defined contribution scheme.
Further information on the defined benefit pension scheme can be found in note 27.
8 Finance costs 2011 2010 $m $m Interest expense 15.8 13.0 Other finance costs 1.0 1.9 16.8 14.9 108 Beazley Annual report 2011 www.
com Financial statements 9 Income tax expense 2011 2010 $m $m Current tax expense Current year 8.4 23.4 Prior year adjustments 0.5 44.9 7.9 21.5 Deferred tax expense Origination and reversal of temporary differences 1.3 11.5 Prior year adjustments 9.7 43.8 11.0 55.3 Income tax expense 3.1 33.8 Profit before tax 62.7 250.8 Tax calculated at Irish rate 7.8 31.4 Rates applied 12.5% 12.5% Effects of: Tax rates in foreign jurisdictions 0.7 7.8 Non-deductible expenses 0.1 0.7 Tax relief on share based payments current and future years 0.3 0.7 Under over provided in prior years 2.8 1.2 Change in UK tax rates 7.5 3.4 Foreign exchange on tax 0.9 2.2 Tax charge for the period 3.1 33.8 The weighted average applicable tax rate was 13.0% 2010: 12.5%.
The emergency budget on 22 June 2010 announced that the UK corporation tax rate will reduce from 28% to 24% over a period of four years from 2011.
It is now expected that the UK corporation tax rate will be reduced to 23% by the end of this four year period.
The rate was reduced to 26% with effect from 1 April 2011 and has been further reduced to 25% with effect from 1 April 2012.
Accordingly, this rate reduction to 25% has been reflected in the deferred tax liability which forms part of the statement of financial position.
10 Earnings per share 2011 2010 Basic cents 13.0c 42.1c Diluted cents 12.4c 40.2c Basic pence 8.1p 27.4p Diluted pence 7.7p 26.1p Basic Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing profit after tax of $65.8m 2010: $217.0m by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year of 505.4m 2010: 515.1m.
The shares held in the Employee Share Options Plan ESOP of 12.6m 2010: 11.3m have been excluded from the calculation, until such time as they vest unconditionally with the employees.
The weighted average number of treasury shares of 17.4m 2010: 8.2m have been excluded from the calculation.
Diluted Diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing profit after tax of $65.8m 2010: $217.0m by the adjusted weighted average number of shares of 530.4m 2010: 540.2m.
The adjusted weighted average number of shares assumes conversion of dilutive potential ordinary shares, being shares from the SAYE, retention and deferred share schemes.
The shares held in the ESOP of 12.6m 2010: 11.3m have been excluded from the calculation, until such time as they vest unconditionally with the employees.
com Beazley Annual report 2011 109 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 11 Dividends per share A second interim dividend of 5.4p per ordinary share 2010: 7.6p, including a special dividend of 2.5p will be payable on 30 March 2012 to shareholders registered at 5.00pm on 2 March 2012 in respect of the six months ended 31 December 2011.
These financial statements do not provide for the second interim dividend as a liability.
Together with the interim dividend of 2.5p 2010: 2.4p this gives a total dividend for the year of 7.9p 2010: 10.0p, including a special dividend of 2.5p.
The second interim dividend will be payable on 30 March 2012 to shareholders registered at 5.00pm on 2 March 2012 save to the extent that shareholders on the register of members on 2 March 2012 are to be paid a dividend by a subsidiary of the company being Beazley DAS Limited resident for tax purposes in the United Kingdom pursuant to elections made or deemed to have been made and such shareholders shall have no right to this second interim dividend.
12 Intangible assets IT Syndicate development Renewal Goodwill capacity Licences costs rights Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Cost Balance at 1 January 2010 77.1 9.7 9.3 29.3 125.4 Other additions 0.2 7.9 8.1 Foreign exchange loss 0.5 1.1 1.6 Balance at 31 December 2010 77.1 9.4 9.3 36.1 131.9 Balance at 1 January 2011 77.1 9.4 9.3 36.1 131.9 Acquired through business combinations 10.3 10.3 20.6 Other additions 1.4 11.1 12.5 Disposals 8.6 8.6 Transfers 6.7 6.7 Foreign exchange gain loss 0.2 0.3 0.1 Balance at 31 December 2011 72.3 10.8 9.3 46.9 17.0 156.3 Amortisation Balance at 1 January 2010 11.9 11.9 Amortisation for the year 3.5 3.5 Foreign exchange gain 0.5 0.5 Balance at 31 December 2010 14.9 14.9 Balance at 1 January 2011 14.9 14.9 Amortisation for the year 10.4 0.7 11.1 Foreign exchange gain 0.4 0.4 Balance at 31 December 2011 24.9 0.7 25.6 Carrying amount 31 December 2011 72.3 10.8 9.3 22.0 16.3 130.7 31 December 2010 77.1 9.4 9.3 21.2 117.0 During 2011 we disposed of a business unit for $8.6m.
As part of this sale agreement we secured the renewal rights for this business for five years.
com Financial statements Impairment tests Goodwill, syndicate capacity and US insurance authorisation licences are deemed to have indefinite life as they are expected to have value in use that does not erode or become obsolete over the course of time.
Consequently, they are not amortised but annually tested for impairment.
They are allocated to the groups cash-generating units CGUs as follows: Life, Political accident risks and Specialty and health Marine contingency Property Reinsurance lines Total 2011 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Goodwill 39.5 2.3 1.0 24.3 0.8 4.4 72.3 Capacity 0.3 1.7 0.8 2.5 0.7 4.8 10.8 Licences 1.9 7.4 9.3 Total 39.8 4.0 1.8 28.7 1.5 16.6 92.4 Life, Political accident risks and Specialty and health Marine contingency Property Reinsurance lines Total 2010 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Goodwill 29.1 2.3 1.0 24.2 0.8 19.7 77.1 Capacity 0.2 1.5 0.7 2.2 0.6 4.2 9.4 Licences 1.9 7.4 9.3 Total 29.3 3.8 1.7 28.3 1.4 31.3 95.8 When testing for impairment, the recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on value in use.
Value in use is calculated using projected cash flows based on financial budgets approved by management covering a five-year period taking into account historic growth rates and expected future market conditions.
A discount rate of 9% 2010: 10% has been used to discount the projected cash flows.
The same discount rate has been applied to all operating segments as these segments all undertake underwriting activities supported by the same capital base.
The discount rate of 9% 2010: 10% is the groups weighted average cost of capital.
It has been calculated using independent measures of the risk-free rate of return and the groups risk profile relative to the risk-free and market rates of return and as such is considered representative of the rate appropriate to the risk specific to the CGU.
The impairment tests have been performed assuming the groups operating segments are the cash-generating units to which the intangible assets have been allocated.
The tests indicate that there is significant headroom in respect of the value in use of all the groups intangible assets and it is not expected that any realistic change in market conditions would give rise to an impairment.
com Beazley Annual report 2011 111 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 13 Plant and equipment Company Group Fixtures & Fixtures & Computer fittings fittings equipment Total $m $m $m $m Cost Balance at 1 January 2010 0.5 18.4 7.7 26.1 Additions 1.5 0.5 2.0 Disposals 1.0 0.1 1.1 Transfer of assets from group companies 1.6 Foreign exchange loss 0.6 0.2 0.8 Balance at 31 December 2010 2.1 18.3 7.9 26.2 Balance at 1 January 2011 2.1 18.3 7.9 26.2 Additions 0.7 0.3 1.0 Additions from business combinations 0.5 0.5 Disposals 0.3 0.3 Foreign exchange loss Balance at 31 December 2011 2.1 19.5 7.9 27.4 Accumulated depreciation Balance at 1 January 2010 8.5 5.2 13.7 Depreciation charge for the year 0.4 2.6 1.6 4.2 Disposals 0.7 0.1 0.8 Foreign exchange gain 0.2 0.3 0.5 Balance at 31 December 2010 0.4 10.2 6.4 16.6 Balance at 1 January 2011 0.4 10.2 6.4 16.6 Depreciation charge for the year 0.3 2.6 1.2 3.8 Additions from business combinations 0.2 0.2 Disposals 0.3 0.3 Foreign exchange gain Balance at 31 December 2011 0.7 13.0 7.3 20.3 Carrying amounts 31 December 2011 1.4 6.5 0.6 7.1 31 December 2010 1.7 8.1 1.5 9.6 14 Investment in associates 2011 2010 $m $m As at 1 January 6.5 1.4 Acquisition of associate 6.0 Additional investment in Capson Corp. Inc. 3.4 Share of loss after tax 1.0 0.9 As at 31 December 8.9 6.5 The groups investment in associates consists of: Country of % interest Carrying value incorporation held $m 2011 Falcon Money Management Holdings Limited and subsidiaries Malta 25 1.4 Capson Corp. Inc. and subsidiary USA 31 7.5 8.9 112 Beazley Annual report 2011 www.
com Financial statements The aggregate financial information for all associates 100% is as follows: 2011 2010 $m $m Assets 22.4 16.3 Liabilities 5.9 5.7 Equity 16.5 10.6 Revenue 7.8 6.2 Loss after tax 3.4 3.4 All of the investments in associates are unlisted and are equity accounted using financial information as at 31 December 2011.
15 Deferred acquisition costs 2011 2010 $m $m Balance at 1 January 164.0 155.5 Additions 386.4 389.9 Amortisation charge 390.7 381.4 Balance at 31 December 159.7 164.0 16 Financial assets and liabilities 2011 2010 $m $m Financial assets at fair value Hedge funds 411.0 433.1 Debt securities Fixed rate 2,444.5 2,208.4 Floating rate 496.6 455.8 Total financial investments at fair value through income statement 3,352.1 3,097.3 Derivative financial instruments 4.7 Total financial assets at fair value 3,356.8 3,097.3 Current 1,886.0 1,993.7 Non-current 1,470.8 1,103.6 3,356.8 3,097.3 Financial liabilities Subordinated debt 18.0 18.0 Tier 2 subordinated debt 246.8 250.2 Derivative financial instruments 2.1 Total financial liabilities 266.9 268.2 Current 4.4 2.4 Non-current 262.5 265.8 266.9 268.2 A breakdown of the groups investment portfolio is provided on page 35.
A breakdown of derivative financial instruments is disclosed in note 17.
As noted on page 90 consideration is also given when valuing the hedge funds to any restriction applied to distributions, the existence of side pocket provisions and the timing of the latest valuations.
The adjustment to the underlying net asset value of the funds as a result of these considerations was $nil at 31 December 2011 2010: $nil.
The group has given a fixed and floating charge over certain of its investments and other assets to secure obligations to Lloyds in respect of its corporate member subsidiary.
Further details are provided in note 32. www.
com Beazley Annual report 2011 113 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued Fair value measurement The table below summarises financial assets carried at fair value using a valuation hierarchy that reflects the significance of the inputs used in making the measurements.
The fair value hierarchy has the following levels: Level 1 Valuations based on quoted prices in active markets for identical instruments.
An active market is a market in which transactions for the instrument occur with sufficient frequency and volume on an ongoing basis such that quoted prices reflect prices at which an orderly transaction would take place between market participants at the measurement date.
Included within Level 1 are bonds and treasury bills of major G8 government and government agencies.
Level 2 Valuations based on quoted prices in markets that are not active, or based on pricing models for which significant inputs can be corroborated by observable market data eg interest rates, exchange rates.
Included within Level 2 are non-G8 government bonds and treasury bills, corporate bonds, asset backed securities and mortgage-backed securities.
Level 3 Valuations based on inputs that are unobservable or for which there is limited market activity on which to measure fair value.
The availability of financial data can vary for different financial assets and is affected by a wide variety of factors, including the type of financial instrument, whether it is new and not yet established in the marketplace, and other characteristics specific to each transaction.
To the extent that valuation is based on models or inputs that are unobservable in the market, the determination of fair value requires more judgement.
Accordingly the degree of judgement exercised by management in determining fair value is greatest for instruments classified in Level 3.
The group uses prices and inputs that are current as of the measurement date for valuation of these instruments.
Included within Level 3 are investments in capital growth assets such as hedge funds.
The majority of the groups investments are valued based on quoted market information or other observable market data.
Hedge funds that comprise 12.2% of financial assets and are recorded at fair value are based on estimates and recorded as Level 3 investments.
Where estimates are used, these are based on a combination of independent third-party evidence and internally developed models, calibrated to market observable data where possible.
While such valuations are sensitive to estimates, it is believed that changing one or more of the assumptions to reasonably possible alternative assumptions would not change the fair value significantly.
The table below analyses financial instruments measured at fair value at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010, based on the level in the fair value hierarchy at which the financial instrument is categorised: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 2011 $m $m $m $m Financial assets Fixed rate securities 1,334.2 1,110.3 2,444.5 Floating rate securities 35.5 461.1 496.6 Hedge funds 411.0 411.0 Derivative financial instruments 0.1 4.6 4.7 Total financial assets at fair value 1,369.8 1,576.0 411.0 3,356.8 Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments 0.3 1.8 2.1 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 2010 $m $m $m $m Financial assets Fixed rate securities 1,208.7 999.7 2,208.4 Floating rate securities 54.0 401.8 455.8 Hedge funds 433.1 433.1 Derivative financial instruments Total financial assets at fair value 1,262.7 1,401.5 433.1 3,097.3 Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments 114 Beazley Annual report 2011 www.
com Financial statements The table below shows the movement in Level 3 assets during 2011 and 2010: 2011 2010 $m $m Level 3 balance at 1 January 433.1 268.8 Purchases 84.6 213.8 Settlements 100.9 70.0 Fair value loss gain reflected in the income statement 5.8 20.5 Level 3 balance at 31 December 411.0 433.1 There were no transfers from fair value hierarchies one and two to three and vice-versa during the year.
Refer to price sensitivity note 2 for the impact of changes in value of these assets on reported profits and net assets.
The value of the investments in the Level 3 category are sensitive to changes in fair value of assets within the underlying hedge funds.
This relationship is such that, for example, a 10% reduction in the fair value of hedge fund investments will result in a 10% fall in value of the Level 3 balance.
The above qualitative and quantitative disclosure along with the risk management discussions in note 2 enables more accurate evaluation of Beazleys exposure to risks arising from financial instruments.
17 Derivative financial instruments In 2011 the group entered into both exchange-traded and over-the-counter derivative contracts.
The group had the right and the intention to settle each contract on a net basis.
The assets and liabilities of these contracts at 31 December 2011 are detailed below: Gross contract Fair value 2011 amount of assets Derivative financial instrument assets $m $m Short-term interest rate future contracts 35.4 0.1 Foreign exchange swaps 80.1 4.3 Foreign exchange forward contracts 69.0 0.3 184.5 4.7 Gross contract Fair value 2011 amount of liabilities Derivative financial instrument liabilities $m $m Foreign exchange swaps 16.3 1.2 Bond future contracts 24.4 0.3 Foreign exchange forward contracts 95.0 0.6 135.7 2.1 Short-term interest rate future contracts During the year the group entered into short-term interest rate futures trades to manage the investment portfolio duration.
The trades were executed in order to economically hedge the interest rate duration exposure of certain fixed income securities or resulted from cash flows expected to be paid or received in the near future.
Foreign exchange swaps During the year the group entered into over-the-counter FX swaps agreements in order to hedge the foreign currency exposure resulting from investment portfolio holdings denominated in non-base currency.
Foreign exchange forward contracts During the year the group entered into over-the-counter FX forward agreements in order to hedge the foreign currency exposure resulting from investment portfolio holdings denominated in non-base currency.
Bond future contracts During the year the group entered in bond futures trades to manage the investment portfolio duration.
The vast majority of the trades were executed in order to partially hedge the duration of fixed income securities held at the same time.
Occasionally, bond futures contracts were traded in order to gain interest rate duration exposure to certain areas of the yield curve.
com Beazley Annual report 2011 115 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued In 2010 the group entered into a number of long and short exchange-traded interest rate futures contracts denominated in a range of currencies to manage the interest rate duration of the investment portfolio.
The gross notional amount entered into was $375.6m and the fair value was settled daily in cash by way of margin accounts.
18 Insurance receivables 2011 2010 $m $m Insurance receivables 558.7 527.1 558.7 527.1 These are receivable within one year and relate to business transacted with brokers and intermediaries.
All insurance receivables are designated as loans and receivables and their carrying values approximate fair value at the reporting date.
19 Reinsurance assets 2011 2010 $m $m Reinsurers share of claims 1,011.4 841.1 Impairment provision 15.7 17.3 995.7 823.8 Reinsurers share of unearned premium reserve 202.2 211.1 1,197.9 1,034.9 Further analysis of the reinsurance assets is provided in note 24.
20 Cash and cash equivalents 2011 2010 Group $m $m Cash at bank and in hand 212.4 272.1 Short-term deposits and highly liquid investments 206.8 278.4 Overseas deposits 230.9 194.5 650.1 745.0 2011 2010 Company $m $m Cash in bank and in hand 2.5 4.0 2.5 4.0 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2010 has been reduced from $1,264.7m to $745.0m due to the reclassification of $519.7m of short-term investments into financial assets.
While the reclassified investments are all highly liquid instruments and have a maturity date of three months or less from the 31 December 2010 reporting date, they were purchased at various dates during that financial year.
This reclassification has been made so as to better reflect the requirements of IAS 7 and our accounting policy as described on page 92.
The reclassification increases financial assets as at 31 December 2010 to $3,097.3m.
All notes relating to these captions in the statement of financial position at 31 December 2010 have been updated.
In the statement of cash flows, the 2010 comparatives have been revised to reduce the closing cash and cash equivalents balance and increase the purchase of investments by $519.7m.
This decreases the net cash used in investing activities from $321.0m to $198.7m.
Cash and cash equivalents and financial assets as at 31 December 2009 were appropriately stated.
The reclassification has no impact on the consolidated assets, net assets or profits as previously reported.
com Financial statements 21 Share capital 2011 2010 No.
of shares m $m shares m $m Ordinary shares of 5p each Authorised 700.0 55.8 700.0 55.8 Issued and fully paid 535.9 42.8 534.9 42.7 Balance at 1 January 534.9 42.7 533.8 42.6 Issue of shares 1.0 0.1 1.1 0.1 Balance at 31 December 535.9 42.8 534.9 42.7 22 Other reserves Employee share Employee Merger Treasury options share trust reserve shares reserve reserve Total Group Balance at 1 January 2010 1.7 4.9 32.5 25.9 Share based payments 9.1 9.1 Acquisition of own shares held in trust 6.5 6.5 Purchase of treasury shares 28.9 28.9 Transfer of shares to employees 8.0 8.0 Balance at 31 December 2010 1.7 28.9 6.0 31.0 52.2 Share based payments 9.3 9.3 Acquisition of own shares held in trust 6.0 6.0 Purchase of treasury shares 1.2 1.2 Transfer of shares to employees 8.1 8.1 Balance at 31 December 2011 1.7 30.1 7.2 28.9 50.1 Employee Treasury share Employee Merger shares options share trust reserve reserve reserve reserve Total Company Balance at 1 January 2010 35.4 1.8 2.1 35.1 Share based payments 9.1 9.1 Acquisition of own shares held in trust 6.5 6.5 Purchase of treasury shares 28.9 28.9 Transfer of shares to employees 8.0 8.0 Balance at 31 December 2010 35.4 28.9 0.7 3.6 61.4 Share based payments 9.3 9.3 Acquisition of own shares held in trust 6.0 6.0 Purchase of treasury shares 1.2 1.2 Transfer of shares to employees 8.1 8.1 Balance at 31 December 2011 35.4 30.1 0.5 5.7 59.3 www.
com Beazley Annual report 2011 117 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 23 Equity compensation plans 23.1 Employee share trust 2011 2010 Number m $m Number m $m Costs debited to employee share trust reserve Balance at 1 January 13.5 31.0 14.2 32.5 Additions 3.2 6.0 3.6 6.5 Transfer of shares to employees 4.2 8.1 4.3 8.0 Balance at 31 December 12.5 28.9 13.5 31.0 The shares are owned by the employee share trust to satisfy awards under the groups deferred share plan and retention plan.
These shares are purchased on the market and carried at cost.
On the third anniversary of an award the shares under the deferred share plan are transferred from the trust to the employees.
Under the retention plan, on the third anniversary, and each year after that, 25.0% of the shares awarded are transferred to the employees.
The deferred share plan is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over a period of three years, while the retention share plan is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over a period of six years.
23.2 Employee share option plans The group has a long-term incentive plan LTIP, approved share option plan and SAYE that entitle employees to purchase shares in the group.
In accordance with these plans, options are exercisable at the market price of the shares at the date of the grant.
The terms and conditions of the grants are as follows: No.
of options Contractual life Share option plan Grant date m Vesting conditions of options LTIP 14 02 2011 2.6 Five years service NAV 10 years 18 02 2010 2.9 minimum shareholding requirement LTIP 14 02 2011 2.6 Three years service NAV 10 years 18 02 2010 2.9 minimum shareholding requirement LTIP 21 03 2005 0.1 Three years service NAV 10 years 21 03 2006 0.1 TSR comparator 16 02 2009 1.0 27 04 2009 0.1 Approved share option plan 29 03 2004 0.1 Three years service NAV 10 years SAYE UK 01 07 2009 1.3 Three years service N A 12 04 2010 0.4 11 04 2011 0.4 SAYE US 15 05 2010 0.1 Two years service N A 11 04 2011 0.2 Total share options outstanding 14.8 Vesting conditions In summary the vesting conditions are defined as: Two years service An employee has to remain in employment until the second anniversary from the grant date.
Three years service An employee has to remain in employment until the third anniversary from the grant date.
NAV The NAV growth, after adjusting for the effect of dividends, is greater than the risk-free rate of return plus a premium per year.
TSR comparator The groups TSR growth is compared with that of members of the comparator group over a three-year period starting with the year in which the award is made.
com Financial statements Further details of equity compensation plans can be found in the directors remuneration report on pages 57 to 72.
The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options are as follows: 2011 2010 Weighted Weighted average average exercise No.
of price pence options price pence options per share m per share m Outstanding at 1 January 17.1 12.5 37.6 6.4 Forfeited during the year 10.4 3.2 32.3 0.8 Exercised during the year 28.6 1.0 33.3 1.1 Granted during the year 8.8 6.5 7.5 8.0 Outstanding at 31 December 14.0 14.8 17.1 12.5 Exercisable at 31 December 0.3 0.4 The share option programme allows group employees to acquire shares of the company.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in the employee share options reserve.
The fair value of the options granted is measured at grant date and spread over the period in which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options granted is measured using the Black Scholes model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest, except where forfeiture is due to the share option achieving the vesting conditions.
The following is a summary of the assumptions used to calculate the fair value: 2011 2010 $m $m Share options charge to income statement 9.3 9.1 Weighted average share price pence per option 116.0 102.5 Weighted average exercise price pence per option 14.0 12.4 Weighted average expected life of options 5.7yrs 5.4yrs Expected volatility 25.0% 25.0% Expected dividend yield 4.0% 4.0% Average risk-free interest rate 4.0% 4.1% The expected volatility is based on historic volatility over a period of at least two years.
24 Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets 2011 2010 $m $m Gross Claims reported and loss adjustment expenses 1,085.6 818.5 Claims incurred but not reported 2,440.6 2,404.1 Gross claims liabilities 3,526.2 3,222.6 Unearned premiums 808.4 824.2 Total insurance liabilities, gross 4,334.6 4,046.8 Recoverable from reinsurers Claims reported and loss adjustment expenses 252.4 202.4 Claims incurred but not reported 743.3 621.4 Reinsurers share of claims liabilities 995.7 823.8 Unearned premiums 202.2 211.1 Total reinsurers share of insurance liabilities 1,197.9 1,034.9 www.
com Beazley Annual report 2011 119 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 2011 2010 $m $m Net Claims reported and loss adjustment expenses 833.2 616.1 Claims incurred but not reported 1,697.3 1,782.7 Net claims liabilities 2,530.5 2,398.8 Unearned premiums 606.2 613.1 Total insurance liabilities, net 3,136.7 3,011.9 The gross claims reported, the loss adjustment liabilities and the liabilities for claims incurred but not reported are net of recoveries from salvage and subrogation.
com Financial statements 24.2 Assumptions, changes in assumptions and sensitivity analysis a Process used to decide on assumptions The peer review reserving process Beazley uses a quarterly dual track process to set its reserves: The actuarial team uses several actuarial and statistical methods to estimate the ultimate premium and claims costs.
The most appropriate methods are selected depending on the nature of each class of business: and The underwriting teams concurrently review the development of the incurred loss ratio over time, work with our claims managers to set reserve estimates for identified claims and utilise their detailed understanding of both risks underwritten and the nature of the claims to establish an alternative estimate of ultimate claims cost which is compared to the actuarially established figures.
A formal internal peer review process is then undertaken to determine the reserves held for accounting purposes which, in totality, are not lower than the actuarially established figure.
The group also commissions an annual independent review to ensure that the reserves established are reasonable.
The group has a consistent reserving philosophy with initial reserves being set to include risk margins which may be released over time as uncertainty reduces.
Actuarial assumptions Chain-ladder techniques are applied to premiums, paid claims and incurred claims ie paid claims plus case estimates.
The basic technique involves the analysis of historical claims development factors and the selection of estimated development factors based on historical patterns.
The selected development factors are then applied to cumulative claims data for each underwriting year that is not yet fully developed to produce an estimated ultimate claims cost for each underwriting year.
Chain-ladder techniques are most appropriate for classes of business that have a relatively stable development pattern.
Chain-ladder techniques are less suitable in cases in which the insurer does not have a developed claims history for a particular class of business or for underwriting years that are still at immature stages of development where there is a higher level of assumption volatility.
The Bornhuetter-Ferguson method uses a combination of a benchmark market-based estimate and an estimate based on claims experience.
The former is based on a measure of exposure such as premiums: the latter is based on the paid or incurred claims observed to date.
The two estimates are combined using a formula that gives more weight to the experience-based estimate as time passes.
This technique has been used in situations where developed claims experience was not available for the projection ie recent underwriting years or new classes of business.
The expected loss ratio method uses a benchmark market-based estimate applied to the expected premium and is used for classes with little or no relevant historical data.
The choice of selected results for each underwriting year of each class of business depends on an assessment of the technique that has been most appropriate to observed historical developments.
In certain instances, this has meant that different techniques or combinations of techniques have been selected for individual underwriting years or groups of underwriting years within the same class of business.
As such, there are many assumptions used to estimate general insurance liabilities.
We also review triangulations of the paid outstanding claim ratios as a way of monitoring any changes in the strength of the outstanding claim estimates between underwriting years so that adjustments can be made to mitigate any subsequent over under reserving.
To date, this analysis indicates no systematic change to the outstanding claim strength across underwriting years.
Where significant large losses impact an underwriting year eg the events of 11 September 2001, the hurricanes in 2004, 2005 and 2008, or the earthquakes in 2010 and 2011, the development is usually very different from the attritional losses.
In these situations, the large loss total is extracted from the remainder of the data and analysed separately by the respective claims managers using exposure analysis of the policies in force in the areas affected.
Further assumptions are required to convert gross of reinsurance estimates of ultimate claims cost to a net of reinsurance level and to establish reserves for unallocated claims handling expenses and reinsurance bad debt.
com Beazley Annual report 2011 121 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued b Major assumptions The main assumption underlying these techniques is that the groups past claims development experience with appropriate adjustments for known changes can be used to project future claims development and hence ultimate claims costs.
As such these methods extrapolate the development of premiums, paid and incurred losses, average costs per claim and claim numbers for each underwriting year based on the observed development of earlier years.
Throughout, judgement is used to assess the extent to which past trends may not apply in the future: for example, to reflect changes in external or market factors such as economic conditions, public attitudes to claiming, levels of claims inflation, premium rate changes, judicial decisions and legislation, as well as internal factors such as portfolio mix, policy conditions and claims handling procedures.
c Changes in assumptions As already discussed, general insurance business requires many different assumptions.
The diagram below illustrates the main categories of assumptions used for each underwriting year and class combinations.
Life, accident and health Premium rate change Classes Marine Claims inflation Political risks and contingency Mix of business Property Reporting patterns Underwriting years Reinsurance Settlement patterns Specialty lines Judicial decisions Professional judgment 1993 1994... 2010 2011 Given the range of assumptions used, the groups profit or loss is relatively insensitive to changes to a particular assumption used for an underwriting year class combination.
However, the groups profit or loss is potentially more sensitive to a systematic change in assumptions that affect many classes, such as judicial changes or when catastrophes produce more claims than expected.
The group uses a range of risk mitigation strategies to reduce the volatility including the purchase of reinsurance.
In addition, the group holds capital to absorb volatility.
d Sensitivity analysis The estimation of IBNR reserves for future claim notifications is subject to a greater degree of uncertainty than the estimation of the outstanding claims already notified.
This is particularly true for the specialty lines business, which will typically display greater variations between initial estimates and final outcomes as a result of the greater degree of difficulty in estimating these reserves.
The estimation of IBNR reserves for other business written is generally subject to less variability as claims are generally reported and settled relatively quickly.
As such, our reserving assumptions contain a reasonable margin for prudence given the uncertainties inherent in the insurance business underwritten, particularly on the longer tailed specialty lines classes.
Since year end 2004, we have identified a range of possible outcomes for each class and underwriting year combination directly from our individual capital assessment ICA process.
Comparing these with our pricing assumptions and reserving estimates gives our management team increased clarity into our perceived reserving strength and the relative uncertainties of the business written.
To illustrate the robustness of our reserves, the loss development tables below provide information about historical claims development by the six segments life, accident and health, marine, political risks and contingency, property, reinsurance and specialty lines.
The tables are by underwriting year which in our view provides the most transparent reserving basis.
We have supplied tables for both ultimate gross claims and ultimate net claims.
The top part of the table illustrates how the groups estimate of the claims ratio for each underwriting year has changed at successive year-ends.
The bottom half of the table reconciles the gross and net claims to the amount appearing in the statement of financial position.
While the information in the table provides a historical perspective on the adequacy of the claims liabilities established in previous years, users of these financial statements are cautioned against extrapolating past redundancies or deficiencies on current claims liabilities.
The group believes that the estimate of total claims liabilities as at 31 December 2011 is adequate.
However, due to inherent uncertainties in the reserving process, it cannot be assured that such balances will ultimately prove to be adequate.
com Financial statements Analysis of movements in loss development tables We have updated our loss development tables to show the ultimate loss ratios as at 31 December 2011 for each underwriting year.
Generally, the claims experience has been in line with expectation.
We are cautiously reserved for natural catastrophes and the claims frequency on our specialty lines classes has been stable to reducing.
Life, accident and health The 2009 underwriting year has continued to develop favourably and the claims development to date has been in line with or better than that experienced historically by the team.
Marine With the exception of 2007 where there was a late developing shipbuilding claim, all other years have continued to exhibit a reducing net ultimate loss ratio trend.
The gross development on the 2008 underwriting year arose on a liability account claim, which benefited heavily from inuring reinsurance.
This team continues to report profitable loss ratios on all underwriting years despite the impact of increased piracy, the 2005 and 2008 hurricanes and the Deepwater Horizon disaster.
Political risks and contingency In 2009 we reported that the ultimate claims on the 2006, 2007 and 2008 underwriting years had increased as a result of the deterioration in the claims environment of our political class, particularly from financial crisis exposed contracts.
During 2011, those claim estimates have remained robust and we have continued to see improvement.
This has been somewhat masked by setting claim reserves earlier this year in respect of exposure to the uprising in Libya.
The 2009 and 2010 underwriting years show a reversion to more benign claims experience.
We continue to monitor claim frequency on a calendar month basis as an early indicator for future development.
Property Ultimate claims increased on the 2010 underwriting year as a result of the catastrophe events of 2011.
The development on the 2007 underwriting year arose from our engineering class and relates to the construction of a power generation plant.
All other underwriting years showed downward movement in claim estimates.
Reinsurance The reserves for the 2005 hurricanes and the 2010 Chilean earthquake have been reduced during the year as more certainty has been gained.
This has benefited the 2004, 2005, 2009 and 2010 underwriting years.
The 2010 and 2011 underwriting year ultimate loss ratios have been set higher to reflect the claims experience on the 2011 catastrophes.
Specialty lines The trend of consistent releases across underwriting years has continued, particularly on the 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006 underwriting years.
The incurred claims development remains favourable on these years.
During 2011 the team maintained its vigilance regarding the potential impact of the recession on claims experience in the 2007, 2008 and 2009 underwriting years.
The conclusion remains that the ultimate loss ratios are robust.
Our 2010 and 2011 underwriting year loss ratios have opened slightly higher than in previous years.
This reflects the rating and claims environment and allows consistency to be maintained in our reserving philosophy.
com Beazley Annual report 2011 127 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued Claim releases The table below analyses our net claims between current year claims and adjustments to prior year net claims reserves.
These have been broken down by department and period.
The Tohoku earthquake in Japan, the Christchurch earthquake in New Zealand, the political unrest in Libya, the tornados in the US, and the floods in Australia and Thailand are all current year events.
The claims arising in respect of these events have been classified as current year losses and the related claims have been disclosed as such in the table below.
Beazleys reserving policy is to maintain catastrophe margins either until the end of the exposure period or until catastrophe events occur.
Therefore margins have been released on those classes affected by the 2011 catastrophe events which has resulted in a higher than average prior year reserve release.
The net of reinsurance estimates of ultimate claims costs on the 2010 and prior underwriting years has improved by $186.5m during 2011 2010: $144.6m.
This movement has arisen from a combination of better than expected claims experience coupled with small changes to the many assumptions reacting to the observed experience and anticipating any changes as a result of the new business written.
com Financial statements The fair value of the Tier 2 subordinated debt is based on quoted market prices.
For the subordinated debt that is not quoted, a discounted cash flow model is used based on a current yield curve appropriate for the remaining term to maturity.
In November 2004, the group issued subordinated debt of US $18m to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. JPMorgan.
The loan is unsecured and interest is payable at the US London interbank offered rate LIBOR plus a margin of 3.65% per annum.
The subordinated notes are due in November 2034 and have been callable at the groups option since 2009.
In October 2006, the group issued 150m of unsecured fixed floating rate subordinated notes that are due in October 2026 with a first callable at the groups option in October 2016.
Interest of 7.25% per annum is paid annually in arrears for the period up to October 2016.
From October 2016, the notes will bear annual interest at the rate of 3.28% above LIBOR.
The notes were assigned a credit rating of BBBby S&Ps rating services.
In April 2010 the group traded out of the interest rate swap and cross currency swap transactions.
We traded out of the currency component of the original derivative transaction since this was originally intended to act as a hedge against the groups investment in its US subsidiaries.
Following the change in functional and presentation currency to US dollars this hedge was no longer required.
In addition to these borrowings we operate a syndicated short-term banking facility, managed through Lloyds Banking Group plc.
In June 2011 we renewed our existing syndicated short-term banking facility led by Lloyds Banking Group plc.
The facility provides potential borrowings up to $225m.
The new agreement is based on a commitment fee of 0.7% per annum and any amounts drawn are charged at a margin of 1.75% per annum.
The cash element of the facility will last for three years, expiring on 31 December 2014, whilst letters of credit issued under the facility can be used to provide support for the 2011, 2012 and 2013 underwriting years.
The facility is currently unutilised.
26 Other payables 2011 2010 Group $m $m Reinsurance premiums payable 251.7 179.3 Accrued expenses including staff bonuses 66.9 70.8 Other payables 5.3 13.9 Deferred consideration payable on acquisition of MGAs 27.7 13.6 Due to syndicate 6107 11.4 7.8 Due to syndicate 623 3.0 366.0 285.4 2011 2010 Company $m $m Other payables 28.5 26.8 28.5 26.8 All other payables are payable within one year of the reporting date other than deferred consideration which is payable after one year.
The carrying value approximates fair values.
27 Retirement benefit obligations 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 $m $m $m $m $m Retirement benefit obligations 1.8 Present value of funded obligations 27.4 26.0 24.8 14.8 34.8 Fair value of plan assets 26.6 24.2 20.8 14.4 30.8 Experience losses gains on scheme liabilities 0.3 0.2 0.5 1.6 0.2 Beazley Furlonge Limited operates a defined benefit pension scheme the Beazley Furlonge Limited Pension Scheme providing benefits based on final pensionable pay, with contributions being charged to the income statement so as to spread the cost of pensions over employees working lives with the company.
The contributions are determined by a qualified actuary using the projected unit method and the most recent valuation was at 31 December 2011.
com Beazley Annual report 2011 129 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued Amount recognised in the statement of financial position 2011 2010 $m $m Present value of funded obligations 27.4 26.0 Fair value of plan assets 26.6 24.2 0.8 1.8 Unrecognised actuarial losses 5.4 4.9 Asset in the statement of financial position 4.6 3.1 The asset in the pension scheme arose due to a prepayment of $4.6m 2010: $3.1m.
Amounts recognised in the income statement Current service cost Interest cost 1.4 1.4 Expected return on plan assets 1.4 1.2 0.0 0.2 Movement in present value of funded obligations recognised in the statement of financial position Balance at 1 January 26.0 24.8 Current service cost Interest cost 1.4 1.4 Actuarial losses 0.5 0.9 Benefits paid 0.4 Foreign exchange loss 0.1 1.1 Balance at 31 December 27.4 26.0 Movement in fair value of plan assets recognised in the statement of financial position Balance at 1 January 24.2 20.8 Expected return on plan assets 1.4 1.2 Actuarial gains 0.2 1.6 Employer contributions 1.6 1.6 Benefits paid 0.4 Foreign exchange loss - 1.0 Balance at 31 December 26.6 24.2 2011 2010 $m $m Plan assets are comprised as follows: Equities 13.8 16.5 Bonds 12.7 7.7 Cash 0.1 Total 26.6 24.2 The actual gain on plan assets was $1.2m 2010: $2.8m.
2011 2010 $m $m Principal actuarial assumptions Discount rate 4.7% 5.4% Inflation rate 2.7% 3.4% Expected return on plan assets 3.7% 5.5% Future salary increases 5.5% 6.2% Future pensions increases 2.3% 3.0% Life expectancy 88 years 88 years 130 Beazley Annual report 2011 www.
com Financial statements 28 Deferred tax 2011 2010 $m $m Deferred tax asset 12.5 9.5 Deferred tax liability 80.2 91.0 67.7 81.5 The movement in the net deferred income tax is as follows: Balance at 1 January 81.5 26.2 Income tax credit charge 11.0 55.3 Foreign exchange translation differences 2.8 Balance at 31 December 67.7 81.5 Balance Recognised FX translation Balance 1 Jan 11 in income differences 31 Dec 11 $m $m $m $m Plant and equipment 0.7 0.7 Intangible assets 0.5 0.2 0.7 Other receivables Trade and other payables 2.7 0.5 3.2 Underwriting profits 348.8 52.9 11.8 389.9 Tax losses 264.4 63.6 9.0 319.0 Net deferred income tax account 81.5 11.0 2.8 67.7 Balance Recognised FX translation Balance 1 Jan 10 in income differences 31 Dec 10 $m $m $m $m Plant and equipment 0.2 0.5 0.7 Intangible assets 0.8 0.3 0.5 Other receivables 0.1 0.1 Trade and other payables 2.9 0.2 2.7 Underwriting profits 37.5 311.3 348.8 Tax losses 8.9 255.5 264.4 Net deferred income tax account 26.2 55.3 81.5 The group has recognised deferred tax assets on unused tax losses to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which unused tax losses can be utilised, as supported by financial projections.
29 Operating lease commitments The group leases land and buildings under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The future minimum lease payments under the non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2011 2010 $m $m No later than one year 6.8 6.0 Later than one year and no later than five years 20.1 18.0 Later than five years 8.8 4.7 35.7 28.7 www.
com Beazley Annual report 2011 131 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 30 Related party transactions The group and company have related party relationships with syndicates 623 and 6107, its subsidiaries, associates and its directors.
30.1 Syndicates 623 and 6107 The group received management fees and profit commissions for providing a range of management services to syndicates 623 and 6107, which are managed by the group.
In addition, the group ceded portions or all of a group of insurance policies to syndicate 6107.
Details of transactions entered and the balances with these syndicates are as follows: 2011 2010 $m $m Written premium ceded to syndicates 13.8 13.3 Other income received from syndicates 25.3 25.8 Services provided 26.3 23.6 Balances due: Due to from syndicate 623 3.0 12.2 Due to syndicate 6107 11.4 7.8 30.2 Key management compensation 2011 2010 $m $m Salaries and other short-term benefits 10.7 15.4 Post-employment benefits 0.7 0.6 Share-based remuneration 4.8 4.4 16.3 20.4 Key management include executives and non-executive directors and other senior management.
Further details of directors shareholdings and remuneration can be found in the directors remuneration report on pages 57 to 72.
30.3 Other related party transactions At 31 December 2011, the group had a balance receivable from the associate Falcon Money Management Limited of $1.0m 2010: $nil and purchased services from the associate of $7.0m 2010: $6.2m throughout the year.
All transactions with the associate and subsidiaries are priced on an arms length basis.
com Financial statements 31 Parent company and subsidiary undertakings Beazley plc is the ultimate parent and the ultimate controlling party within the group.
The following is a list of all the subsidiaries in the group: Beazley plc direct Country of Ownership Functional investment in subsidiary incorporation interest Nature of business currency m Beazley Group Limited England 100% Intermediate holding company USD Beazley Furlonge Holdings Limited England 100% Intermediate holding company USD Beazley Furlonge Limited England 100% Lloyds underwriting agents GBP Beazley Investments Limited England 100% Investment company USD Beazley Underwriting Limited England 100% Underwriting at Lloyds USD Beazley Management Limited England 100% Intermediate management company GBP Beazley Staff Underwriting Limited England 100% Underwriting at Lloyds USD Beazley Solutions Limited England 100% Insurance services GBP Beazley Finance Ltd England 100% Intermediate holding company GBP Beazley Capital Management Ltd England 100% Investment services GBP Beazley Underwriting Services Ltd England 100% Insurance services GBP Beazley DAS Limited England 100% Dividend access scheme GBP Tasman Corporate Limited England 100% Underwriting at Lloyds GBP Beazley Re Limited Ireland 100% Underwriting at Lloyds USD 747.2 Beazley Underwriting Pty Ltd Australia 100% Insurance services AUD Beyond Group Holdings Pty Ltd Australia 100% Intermediate holding company AUD Blue-GUM Special Risks Pty Ltd Australia 100% Insurance services AUD Australian Income Protection Pty Ltd Australia 100% Insurance services AUD Beazley USA Services, Inc. USA 100% Insurance services USD Beazley Holdings, Inc. USA 100% Holding company USD Beazley Group USA General Partnership USA 100% General partnership USD Beazley Insurance Company, Inc. USA 100% Underwrite admitted lines USD Beazley Limited Hong Kong 100% Insurance services HKD Beazley Pte.
Limited Singapore 100% Underwriting at Lloyds SGD 747.2 Beazley plc holds direct investment in Beazley Group Limited of $1.
32 Contingencies 32.1 Funds at Lloyds The following amounts are subject to a deed of charge in favour of Lloyds to secure underwriting commitments.
Underwriting Underwriting Underwriting year year year 2012 2011 2010 m m m Debt securities and other fixed income securities 482.9 505.0 492.2 32.2 Financial guarantee The parent company has provided a financial guarantee in favour of its subsidiary Beazley Insurance Company, Inc. which unconditionally guarantees the payment of amounts due to third-party reinsurers in the event of the inability of the subsidiary company to meet its obligations.
com Beazley Annual report 2011 133 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 33 Foreign exchange rates The group used the following exchange rates to translate foreign currency assets, liabilities, income and expenses into US dollars, being the groups presentation currency: 2011 2010 Average Year end spot Average Year end spot Pound sterling 0.62 0.65 0.65 0.65 Canadian dollar 0.99 1.02 1.03 1.00 Euro 0.72 0.77 0.77 0.75 34 Business combination On 19 April 2011 Beazley plc through its 100% subsidiary Beazley Underwriting Pty Limited purchased the entire share capital of two managing general agencies MGAs, Australian Income Protection AIP and Blue-GUM Special Risks Blue-GUM, along with the holding company of Blue-GUM, Beyond Group Holdings Pty Ltd, for a an initial cash consideration of $11.7m and a deferred cash consideration of $13.7m, bringing the total expected consideration to $25.4m.
The deferred cash consideration is contingent on the business acquiring specific targets linked to premium growth and profitability over a four year period ending on 31 December 2014.
The combined purchases have been accounted for as an acquisition.
The fair value of the tangible net assets acquired was $4.9m, and the fair value of intangible assets acquired was $10.3m, resulting in goodwill on acquisition of $10.3m.
The intangible assets acquired relate to the existing customer relationships of the business.
This acquisition had no material impact on the revenue or loss of the group for the period.
In accordance with IFRS 3 Business combinations the assets and liabilities as at the acquisition date are stated at their initial fair values and may be remeasured as and when further evidence of the appropriate fair values emerges within a period of 12 months from the date of acquisition.
35 Subsequent events There are no events that are material to the operations of the group that have been announced since the reporting date.
com Financial statements Glossary Combined ratio Aggregates aggregations Accumulations of insurance loss exposures which result from Ratio, in percentage terms, of the sum of net insurance claims, expenses for acquisition of insurance contracts underwriting multiple risks that are exposed to common causes of loss.
and administrative expenses to net earned premiums.
This is also the sum of the expense ratio and the claims Aggregate excess of loss ratio.
The calculation is performed excluding the impact of foreign exchange on non-monetary items.
The reinsurer indemnifies an insurance company the reinsured for an aggregate or cumulative amount of losses in excess of a Coverholder managing general agent specified aggregate amount.
A firm either in the United Kingdom or overseas authorised by a managing agent under the terms of a binding authority to A. M. Best A. M. Best is a worldwide insurance-rating and information enter into contracts of insurance in the name of the members agency whose ratings are recognised as an ideal benchmark of the syndicate concerned, subject to certain written terms for assessing the financial strength of insurance related and conditions.
A Lloyds broker can act as a coverholder.
organisations, following a rigorous quantitative and qualitative analysis of a companys balance sheet strength, operating Deferred acquisition costs DAC performance and business profile.
Beazley plc obtained Costs incurred for the acquisition or the renewal of insurance an A rating as did Beazley Insurance Company, Inc. policies eg brokerage, premium levy and staff related costs which are capitalised and amortised over the term of the Binding authority contracts.
A contracted agreement between a managing agent and a coverholder under which the coverholder is authorised to enter Earnings per share EPS basic diluted into contracts of insurance for the account of the members of Ratio, in pence and cents, calculated by dividing the the syndicate concerned, subject to specified terms and consolidated profit after tax by the weighted average number conditions.
of ordinary shares issued, excluding shares owned by the group.
For calculating diluted earnings per share the number of shares Capacity and profit or loss for the year is adjusted for all dilutive potential This is the maximum amount of premiums that can be accepted ordinary shares such as share options granted to employees.
Capacity also refers to the amount of insurance coverage allocated to a particular policyholder or in the Excess per risk reinsurance marketplace in general.
A form of excess of loss reinsurance which, subject to a specified limit, indemnifies the reinsured company against the amount of Capital growth assets loss in excess of a specified retention with respect to each risk These are assets that do not pay a regular income and target involved in each loss.
an increase in value over the long-term.
They will typically have a higher risk and volatility than that of the core portfolio.
Expense ratio Currently these are the hedge fund assets.
Ratio, in percentage terms, of the sum of expenses for acquisition of insurance contracts and administrative expenses Catastrophe reinsurance to net earned premiums.
The calculation is performed excluding A form of excess of loss reinsurance which, subject to a the impact of foreign exchange on non-monetary items.
specified limit, indemnifies the reinsured company for the amount of loss in excess of a specified retention with respect Facultative reinsurance to an accumulation of losses resulting from a catastrophic A reinsurance risk that is placed by means of a separately event or series of events.
negotiated contract as opposed to one that is ceded under a reinsurance treaty.
Claims Demand by an insured for indemnity under an insurance Gross premiums written contract.
Amounts payable by the insured, excluding any taxes or duties levied on the premium, including any brokerage and commission Claims ratio deducted by intermediaries.
Ratio, in percentage terms, of net insurance claims to net earned premiums.
The calculation is performed excluding Hard market the impact of foreign exchange on non-monetary items.
An insurance market where prevalent prices are high, with restrictive terms and conditions offered by insurers.
Horizontal limits Reinsurance coverage limits for multiple events.
Incurred but not reported IBNR These are anticipated or likely claims that may result from an insured event although no claims have been reported so far.
com Beazley Annual report 2011 135 Financial statements Glossary continued International accounting standards board IASB Reinsurance to close RITC An international panel of accounting experts responsible for A reinsurance which closes a year of account by transferring the developing IAS IFRS.
responsibility for discharging all the liabilities that attach to that year of account and any year of account closed into that year International accounting standards IAS International financial plus the right to buy any income due to the closing year of reporting standards IFRS account into an open year of account in return for a premium.
Standards formulated by the IASB with the intention of achieving internationally comparable financial statements.
Since 2002, Retention limits the standards adopted by the IASB have been referred to as Limits imposed upon underwriters for retention of exposures International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
Until existing by the group after the application of reinsurance programmes.
standards are renamed, they continue to be referred to as International Accounting Standards IAS.
Return on equity ROE Ratio, in percentage terms calculated by dividing the Lead underwriter consolidated profit after tax by the average daily total equity.
The underwriter of a syndicate who is responsible for setting the terms of an insurance or reinsurance contract that is Retrocessional reinsurance subscribed by more than one syndicate and who generally The reinsurance of the reinsurance account.
It serves to lay-off has primary responsibility for handling any claims arising risk.
Risk Line This term may variously refer to: The proportion of an insurance or reinsurance risk that is a the possibility of some event occurring which causes injury accepted by an underwriter or which an underwriter is willing or loss: to accept.
b the subject matter of an insurance or reinsurance contract: or c an insured peril.
Managing agent A company that is permitted by Lloyds to manage the Sidecar special purpose syndicate underwriting of a syndicate.
Specialty reinsurance company designed to provide additional capacity to a specific insurance company.
They operate by Managing general agent MGA purchasing a portion or all of a group of insurance policies, An insurance intermediary acting as an agent on behalf typically cat exposures.
They have become quite prominent in of an insurer.
the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina as a vehicle to add riskbearing capacity, and for investors to participate in the potential Medium-tail profits resulting from sharp price increases.
A type of insurance where the claims may be made a few years after the period of insurance has expired.
Short-tail A type of insurance where claims are usually made during Net assets per share the term of the policy or shortly after the policy has expired.
Ratio, in pence and cents, calculated by dividing the net assets Property insurance is an example of short-tail business.
total equity by the number of shares issued.
Soft market Net premiums written An insurance market where prevalent prices are low, and terms Net premiums written is equal to gross premiums written less and conditions offered by insurers are less restrictive.
Surplus lines insurer Provision for outstanding claims An insurer that underwrites surplus lines insurance in the USA.
Provision for claims that have already been incurred at the Lloyds underwriters are surplus lines insurers in all jurisdictions reporting date but have either not yet been reported or not of the USA except Kentucky and the US Virgin Islands.
Total shareholder return TSR Rate The increase in the share price plus the value of any first and The premium expressed as a percentage of the sum insured second dividends paid and proposed during the year.
Treaty reinsurance Reinsurance special purpose syndicate A reinsurance contract under which the reinsurer agrees to offer A special purpose syndicate SPS created to operate as a and to accept all risks of certain size within a defined class.
reinsurance sidecar to Beazleys treaty account, capitalising on Beazleys position in the treaty reinsurance market.
Unearned premiums reserve The portion of premium income in the business year that is attributable to periods after the balance date is accounted for as unearned premiums in the underwriting provisions.
com If you have finished reading this report and no longer wish to keep it, please pass it on to other interested readers, return it to Beazley or recycle it.
Design and produced by: The College www.
com Beazley online Annual report and accounts 2011 www.
com 2011 Beazley plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 Beazley plc 2 Northwood Avenue Northwood Park Santry Demesne Santry Dublin 9 | Ireland Phone: 353 0 1 854 4700 Fax: 353 0 1 842 8481 Registered number: 102680 www.
