Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the The financial statements are published on financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom www.
co. uk brwm, which is the website maintained by the law and those International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as Investment Manager, BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited.
adopted by the European Union.
The work undertaken by the auditor does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of the website and, accordingly, the Under company law the Directors must not approve the Group auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that have occurred financial statements unless they are satisfied that they present fairly to the accounts since they were initially presented on the website.
The the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the Directors have delegated responsibility to the Investment Manager for Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the the maintenance and integrity of the website.
Visitors to the website Directors are required to: need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, and then apply them consistently: Each of the Directors, whose names are listed on page 18, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as information: adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and net return of the Company state that the Group has complied with IFRS, subject to any and the Group: and material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: the annual report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand uncertainties that it faces.
the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Groups financial position and financial performance: and For and on behalf of the Board A W Lea make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
Chairman 23 February 2012 The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the Groups financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Directors are also responsible for ensuring that the Report of the Directors is prepared in accordance with Company law in the United Kingdom and that the Annual Report includes information required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 December 2011 33
