Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
Principal activity The principal activity of the Company is that of an investment trust company within the meaning of section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
The principal activity of the subsidiary, BlackRock World Mining Investment Company Limited, is investment dealing.
Accounting policies The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group and Company are set out below.
a Basis of preparation The Group and Parent Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption provided under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to publish its individual income statement and related notes.
The Groups financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
All values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 except where otherwise indicated.
A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning after 1 January 2013, and have not been applied in preparing these financial statements.
None of these are expected to have a significant effect on the measurement of the amounts recognised in the financial statements of the Company.
However, IFRS 9 Financial Instruments issued in November 2009 will change the classification of financial assets, but is not expected to have an impact on the measurement basis of the financial assets since the majority of the Companys financial assets are measured at fair value through profit or loss.
IFRS 9 2009 deals with classification and measurement of financial assets and its requirements represent a significant change from the existing requirements in IAS 39 in respect of financial assets.
The standard contains two primary measurement categories for financial assets: at amortised cost and fair value.
A financial asset would be measured at amortised cost if it is held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets in order to collect contractual cash flows, and the assets contractual terms give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal outstanding.
All other financial assets would be measured at fair value.
The standard eliminates the existing IAS 39 categories of held to maturity, available for sale and loans and receivables.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 but is not yet approved by the EU.
The Company does not plan to adopt this standard early.
Insofar as the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP for investment trusts and venture capital trusts issued by the Association of Investment Companies AIC, revised in January 2009 is compatible with IFRS, the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the guidance set out in the SORP.
b Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiary, BlackRock World Mining Investment Company Limited, which are registered and operate in England and Wales.
c Presentation of the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income In order to better reflect the activities of an investment trust company and in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC, supplementary information which analyses the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income between items of a revenue and a capital nature has been presented alongside the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
In accordance with the Companys status as a UK investment company under section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010, net capital returns may not be distributed by way of dividend.
d Segmental reporting The Directors are of the opinion that the Group is engaged in a single segment of business being investment business.
e Income Dividends receivable on equity shares are recognised on an ex-dividend basis.
Where no ex-dividend date is available, dividends receivable on or before the year end are treated as revenue for the year.
Provision is made for any dividends not expected to be received.
Interest income is accounted for on an accruals basis.
40 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
