Notes to the Financial Statements continued 18.
Risk Management policies and procedures continued v Liquidity and credit risk continued Management of the risk The risk is managed as follows: where the Investment Manager makes an investment in a bond, corporate or otherwise, the credit rating of the issuer is taken into account so as to determine the risk to the Group of default: transactions involving derivatives are either exchange traded where the relevant exchange guarantees settlement or on an over the counter basis.
Transactions are entered into only with those counterparties approved by the credit department of the Investment Manager.
Counterparties are selected on the basis of a number of risk migration criteria designed to reduce the risk to the Group of default: investment transactions are carried out with a large number of brokers, whose credit-standard is reviewed periodically by the Investment Manager, and limits are set on the amount that may be due from any one broker: the credit worthiness of financial institutions with whom cash is held is reviewed regularly by the Investment Manager: the credit worthiness of counterparties to stock lending is assessed by the Investment Manager prior to trading and on a regular ongoing basis.
All transactions are secured with collateral to 105% of the value of the stock on loan.
In summary, the maximum exposure to credit risk at 31 December, was as follows: 2011 2010 000 000 Other receivables amounts due from brokers, dividends and interest receivable 3,451 1,299 Includes income from fixed interest securities.
None of the Companys financial liabilities are past due or impaired.
vi Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities Financial assets and financial liabilities are either carried in the Statements of Financial Position at their fair values investments and derivatives or at an amount which is a reasonable approximation of fair value due from brokers, dividends and interest receivable, due to brokers, accruals, cash at bank, bank overdrafts and amounts due under the multi-currency loan facility.
vii Capital management policies and procedures The Companys capital management objectives are: to ensure it will be able to continue as a going concern: and to achieve a balanced return of dividends and capital growth over the longer term, by investing primarily in securities of companies in the mining and metals sectors.
This is to be achieved through an appropriate balance of equity capital and gearing.
The Group operates a flexible gearing policy which depends on prevailing conditions.
The policy is that debt should not be more than 15% of the Groups net assets.
56 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
