Additional Shareholder Information Financial calendar Share price The timing of the announcement and publication of the Companys The Companys mid-market ordinary share price is quoted daily in The results may normally be expected in the months shown below: Financial Times and the Times under Investment Companies and in The Daily Telegraph under Investment Trusts.
The share price is also February available on the BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited Annual results and final dividend for year announced.
March ISIN SEDOL numbers Annual report and financial statements published.
The ISIN SEDOL numbers and mnemonic codes for the Companys shares are: April Ordinary Shares Annual General Meeting.
L August Bloomberg code BRWM LN Half yearly figures announced and half yearly financial report published.
Share dealing Dividend 2011 Investors wishing to purchase more shares in the Company or sell all The proposed final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December or part of their existing holding may do so through a stockbroker.
banks also offer this service.
Ex-dividend date For existing shareholders the Companys registrar, Computershare shares transferred without the dividend 7 March 2012 Investor Services PLC, has both internet and telephone share dealing services.
To access the internet share dealing log on to Record date www.
The telephone share dealing last date for registering transfers service is available on 0870 703 0084.
To use these services, you will to receive the dividend 9 March 2012 need your shareholder reference number, which is detailed on your Last date for registering DRIP instructions 3 April 2012 share certificate.
Dividend payment date 26 April 2012 Internet dealing The fee for this service is 1% of the value of each sale or purchase of shares subject to a minimum of 30.
Stamp duty Payment of dividends of 0.5% is payable on purchases.
Cash dividends will be sent by cheque to the first-named shareholder at their registered address.
Dividends may also be paid direct into a Telephone dealing The fee for this service will be 1% of the value shareholders bank account via BACSTEL-IP Bankers Automated of the transaction plus 35.
Stamp duty of 0.5% is payable on Clearing Service Telecom Internet Protocol.
This may be arranged purchases.
by contacting the Companys registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, through their secure website www.
co. uk, CREST or by telephone on 0870 707 1187, or by completing the Mandate The Companys shares may be held in CREST, an electronic system for Instructions section on the reverse of your dividend counterfoil and uncertificated securities trading.
sending this to the Companys registrar, Computershare.
Tax vouchers will be sent to shareholders at their registered address, unless other Private investors can continue to retain their share certificates and instructions have been given, to arrive on the payment date.
remain outside the CREST system.
Private investors are able to buy and sell their holdings in the same way as they did prior to the Dividend reinvestment scheme DRIP introduction of CREST, although there may be differences in dealing Shareholders may request that their dividends be used to purchase charges.
further shares in the Company.
Dividend reinvestment forms may be obtained from Computershare Investor Services PLC through their secure website www.
Shareholders who have already opted to have their dividends reinvested do not need to reapply.
The last date for registering for this service for the forthcoming dividend is 3 April 2012.
60 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc Electronic communications Any investment in the Company will involve an above average risk We encourage you to play your part in reducing our impact on the and is suitable only for financially sophisticated investors.
environment and elect to be notified by email when your shareholder communications become available online.
This means you will receive Past performance is not necessarily a guide to future timely, cost-effective and greener online annual reports, half yearly performance.
The value of your investment in the Company and financial reports and other relevant documentation.
the income from it can fluctuate as the value of the underlying investments fluctuate.
Shareholders who opt for this service would receive a Notice of Availability via e-mail from Computershare with a link to the relevant Duration of the Company section of the BlackRock website where the documents can be viewed Shareholders are given an opportunity at each Annual General Meeting and downloaded.
Please submit your email address by visiting to vote on an ordinary resolution to continue the life of the Company www.
You will require your shareholder for a further twelve months.
reference number which you will find on your share certificate or tax voucher.
Nominee code Where shares are held in a nominee company name, the Company You will continue to receive a printed copy of these reports if you have undertakes: elected to do so.
Alternatively, if you have not submitted your email address nor have elected to receive printed reports, we will write and to provide the nominee company with multiple copies of let you know where you can view these reports online.
shareholder communications, so long as an indication of quantities has been provided in advance: Electronic proxy voting Shareholders are able to submit their proxy votes electronically via to allow investors holding shares through a nominee company to Computershares internet site at www.
com using attend general meetings, provided the correct authority from the their shareholder reference number, control number and a unique nominee company is available: and identification PIN which will be provided with voting instructions and the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
that investors in the BlackRock Investment Trusts Savings Plan and ISA are automatically sent shareholder communications, including CREST members who wish to appoint one or more proxies or give an details of general meetings, together with a Form of Direction to instruction through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service facilitate voting and to seek authority to attend.
may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST manual.
More details are set out in the notes on the form of proxy and the Nominee companies are encouraged to provide the necessary Notice of Annual General Meeting.
authority to underlying shareholders to attend the Companys general meetings.
Risk factors As the Company invests worldwide, the value of its shares is also Publication of net asset value portfolio analysis affected by changes in rates of exchange.
The net asset value NAV per share of the Company is calculated daily, with details of the Companys investments and performance The price at which the Companys shares trade on the London being published monthly.
Stock Exchange is not the same as their net asset value although they are related and therefore you may realise returns which are The daily NAV per share and monthly information are released through lower or higher than NAV performance.
the London Stock Exchanges Regulatory News Service and are available on the BlackRock website at www.
co. uk brwm and A lack of growth in world industrial production may adversely through the Reuters News Service under the code BLRKINDEX, on affect metal prices.
page 8800 on Topic 3 ICV terminals and under BLRK on Bloomberg monthly information only.
Deteriorating economic conditions in certain countries may lead to aggressive exporting of their metal and mineral production Online access potentially leading to price reductions.
Other details about the Company are also available on the BlackRock website at www.
The financial statements and There may be exposure to significant currency, political and other literature are published on the website.
Visitors to the website nationalisation risks due to the location of the operation of need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the companies in which the Company may invest.
preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in their jurisdiction.
Shares of companies in the mining sector can prove volatile and this may be reflected in the Companys share price.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 December 2011 61 Additional Shareholder Information continued Shareholders can also manage their shareholding online by using Shareholder enquiries Investor Centre, Computershares secure website at The Companys registrar is Computershare Investor Services PLC.
Certain details relating to your holding can be checked through the Computershare Investor Centre website.
As a security check, specific To access Computershares website you will need your shareholder information needs to be input accurately to gain access to an reference number SRN which can be found on paper or electronic individuals account.
This includes your shareholder reference number, communications you have previously received from Computershare.
available from your share certificate, tax voucher or other electronic Listed below are the most frequently used features of the website.
communications you have previously received from Computershare.
The address of the Computershare website is Holding enquiry view balances, values, history, payments and www.
Alternatively, please contact the registrar reinvestments.
Payments enquiry view your dividends and other payment types.
Changes of name or address must be notified in writing either through Computershares website, or to the registrar at: Address change change your registered address.
Computershare Investor Services PLC Bank details update choose to receive your dividend payment The Pavilions directly into your bank account instead of by cheque.
Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 6ZZ e-Comms sign-up choose to receive email notification when your shareholder communications become available instead of paper General enquiries communications.
Enquiries about the Company should be directed to: Outstanding payments reissue payments using the online The Secretary replacement service.
BlackRock World Mining Trust plc 12 Throgmorton Avenue Downloadable forms including dividend mandates, stock transfer, London EC2N 2DL dividend reinvestment and change of address forms.
Telephone: 020 7743 3000 Savings Plan Enquiries about the Savings Plan or ISA should be directed to: The Company participates in the BlackRock Investment Trust Savings Plan, which facilitates both regular monthly investments and Freepost RLTZ-KHUH-KZSB occasional lump sum investments in the Companys ordinary shares.
BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited Shareholders who would like information on the Savings Plan should PO Box 9036 call BlackRock free on 0800 44 55 22.
Chelmsford CM99 2XD Telephone: 0800 44 55 22 Stocks and shares Individual Savings Accounts ISA ISAs are a tax-efficient method of investment and the Companys shares are eligible investments within the BlackRock Investment Trust stocks and shares Individual Savings Account.
Investors currently have an annual ISA allowance of 10,680.
Details are available from BlackRock by calling free on 0800 44 55 22.
62 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
