Corporate Governance continued The Investment Manager prepares revenue forecasts and management Communication with shareholders accounts which allow the Board to assess the Companys activities All shareholders have the opportunity to attend and vote at the Annual and review its performance.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting sets out the business of the Meeting and any item not of an entirely routine The Board and the Investment Manager have agreed clearly defined nature is explained in the Directors Report on pages 24 and 25.
The investment criteria, specified levels of authority and exposure limits.
Notice of Annual General Meeting and related papers are sent to Reports on these issues, including performance statistics and shareholders at least 20 working days before the Meeting.
Separate investment valuations, are submitted to the Board at each meeting.
resolutions are proposed for substantive issues.
The Company does not have its own internal audit function, as all the In addition, regular updates on performance are sent to shareholders administration is delegated to the Investment Manager.
The Board and the Investment Manager reviews the Companys activities at the monitors the controls in place through the Investment Managers Annual General Meeting, where the Chairman of the Board and the internal audit department and feels that there is currently no need for Chairman of the Audit & Management Engagement Committee and the Company to have its own internal audit function although this representatives of the Investment Manager are available to answer matter is kept under review.
Proxy voting figures will be announced to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and will be made available Financial reporting on the Investment Managers website shortly after the Meeting.
The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and Financial Statements is set out on page 33, the Report of The Companys willingness to enter into discussions with institutional the Independent Auditor on pages 34 and 35 and the Statement of shareholders is also demonstrated by the programmes of institutional Going Concern on page 22. presentations by the Investment Manager.
The Board discusses with the Investment Manager at each Board meeting any feedback from Socially Responsible Investment meetings with shareholders, and it also receives reports from its The Company invests in mining companies around the world.
Investment Managers evaluation procedure and financial analysis of the companies within the portfolio includes research and appraisal, There is a section within this report entitled Additional Shareholder and also takes into account environmental policies and other business Information, on pages 60 to 62, which provides an overview of useful issues.
The Company invests primarily on financial grounds to meet its information available to shareholders.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules The Investment Manager is supportive of the UK Stewardship Code, Other information required to be disclosed pursuant to the Disclosure which sets out the responsibilities of institutional shareholders in and Transparency Rules has been placed in the Directors Report on respect of investee companies, and is voluntary and operates on a pages 19 to 25 because it is information which refers to events that comply or explain basis.
have taken place during the course of the year.
The Investment Managers approach to the UK Stewardship Code, and The following is a list of that information: policies on Socially Responsible Investment, are detailed on the website www.
co. uk its, in the Investment Trust Literature Directors shareholdings: and Related Resources section.
Substantial share interests: Share capital: Bribery prevention policy Share issues: and The provision of bribes of any nature to third parties in order to gain a Share repurchases.
commercial advantage is prohibited and is a criminal offence.
The Board has a zero tolerance policy towards bribery and a commitment By order of the Board to carry out business fairly, honestly and openly.
The Board takes its A W Lea responsibility to prevent bribery by the Companys Investment Chairman Manager on its behalf very seriously and BlackRock has anti-bribery 23 February 2012 policies and procedures in place which are high level, proportionate and risk based.
The Companys service providers have been contacted in respect of their anti-bribery policies and, where necessary, contractual changes are made to existing agreements in respect of anti-bribery provisions.
32 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
