The Directors retire by rotation at every third Annual General Meeting Boards responsibilities and any Directors appointed to the Board since the previous Annual The Board meets at least five times a year and between these General Meeting also retire and stand for election.
The Director meetings there is regular contact with the Investment Manager.
The retiring by rotation in accordance with the Companys Articles of Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall management of Association is Mr Lea.
In addition, any Director who has served on the the Company.
It reserves to itself decisions relating to the Board for more than nine years will be subject to annual re-election.
determination of investment policy, any change in investment strategy, Mr Buchan and Mr Sage, who have served on the Board for more than strategic gearing policy, policy on the buy back and issue of shares, nine years, will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and whether to hold shares in treasury, and entering into any material seek re-election.
The Board has considered the positions of Messrs contracts.
The Board also sets investment parameters, such as the Lea, Buchan and Sage as part of the evaluation process and believes acquisition or disposal of substantial interests and the maximum that it would be in the Companys best interests to propose them for amount that can be invested in unquoted investments.
In addition, re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, given their changes relating to the Groups capital structure, approval of circulars valuable level of contribution.
The Directors support a planned and to shareholders and listing particulars, relevant press releases and any progressive renewing of the Board.
significant change in accounting policies or practices must also be approved by the Board.
A formal schedule of matters specifically The Board has considered provision B.
7.2 in the UK Code published in reserved for decision by the Board has been defined.
June 2010 recommending that all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual re-election.
The Board believes that the The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form current election system, with each Director being re-elected to the and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
Board at least every three years or re-elected annually if they have Strategic issues and all operational matters of a material nature are served more than nine years, is sufficient, as there could be risks determined by the Board.
in respect of continuity and stability on the Board with annual re-elections.
The Directors also have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Directors training and induction Board procedures are followed and that it complies with applicable When a new Director is appointed to the Board, he or she is provided rules and regulations.
Where necessary, in the furtherance of their with all relevant information regarding the Company and his duties and duties, the Directors may seek independent professional advice at the responsibilities as a Director.
In addition, a new Director will also expense of the Company.
spend some time with representatives of the Investment Manager whereby he or she will become familiar with the various processes The Board has responsibility for ensuring that the Company keeps which the Manager considers necessary for the performance of its proper accounting records which are sufficient to show and explain duties and responsibilities to the Company.
The Companys policy is to the Companys transactions and which disclose with reasonable encourage Directors to keep up to date and attend training courses on accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and which matters which are directly relevant to their involvement with the enable it to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Company.
The Directors also receive regular briefings from, amongst Companies Act.
It is the Boards responsibility to present a balanced others, the auditor and Company Secretary regarding any proposed and understandable assessment, which extends to interim and other developments or changes in laws or regulations that could affect the price-sensitive public reports.
Company and or the Directors.
The Board is also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group Directors liability insurance and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of The Company has maintained appropriate Directors Liability Insurance fraud and other irregularities.
cover throughout the year, in respect of legal action against its Directors.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 December 2011 29
