BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 December 2011 15 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES continued b Credit Risk continued The assets of underlying funds may be pledged as margin with prime brokers or other counterparties or held with prime brokers or banks, whereas the assets of AllBlue, to the extent not invested in the underlying funds are held with banks.
In the event of the default of any of these prime brokers, banks or counterparties, AllBlue or the underlying funds may not receive back all or any of the assets pledged or held with the defaulting party.
The maximum credit risk to which the Company was exposed at the year end was 935,364,758 2010: 913,776,639.
The main concentration of risk for the Company relates to the investments in AllBlue, as these are the only investments the Company has.
c Liquidity Risk In some circumstances, investments held by underlying funds of AllBlue may be relatively illiquid making it difficult to acquire or dispose of them at the prices quoted on the various exchanges.
Accordingly, an underlying funds ability to respond to market movements may be impaired and, consequently, the underlying fund may experience adverse price movements upon liquidation of its investments which may in turn affect the value of AllBlue and hence the Companys investment in AllBlue.
Settlement of transactions may be subject to delay and administrative formalities.
There can be no assurance that the liquidity of the investments of AllBlue and the underlying funds will always be sufficient to meet redemption requests as, and when, made.
Any such lack of liquidity may affect the ability of the Company to realise its shares in AllBlue and the value of Shares in the Company.
For such reasons AllBlues treatment of redemption requests may be deferred in exceptional circumstances including if a lack of liquidity may result in difficulties in determining the net asset value and the net asset value per share in AllBlue.
This in turn would limit the ability of the directors to realise the Companys investments in AllBlue should they consider it appropriate to do so and may result in difficulties in determining the net asset value of a Share in the Company.
There was no gating or suspension of AllBlue during the year under review or in the previous year.
78 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 December 2011 15 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES continued c Liquidity Risk continued The market prices, if any, for such illiquid investments tend to be volatile and may not be readily ascertainable and the relevant underlying fund may not be able to sell them when it desires to do so or to realise what it perceives to be their fair value in the event of a sale.
The size of the underlying funds positions may magnify the effect of a decrease in market liquidity for such instruments.
Changes in overall market leverage, deleveraging as a consequence of a decision by the counterparties with which the underlying funds enter into repurchase reverse repurchase agreements or derivative transactions, to reduce the level of leveraging, or the liquidation by other market participants of the same or similar positions, may also adversely affect the underlying funds portfolios.
The sale of restricted and illiquid securities often requires more time and results in higher brokerage charges or dealer discounts and other selling expenses than does the sale of securities eligible for trading on national securities exchanges or in the over-the-counter markets.
The underlying funds may not be able readily to dispose of such illiquid investments and, in some cases, may be contractually prohibited from disposing of such investments for a specified period of time.
Restricted securities may sell at a price lower than similar securities that are not subject to restrictions on resale.
The Companys shares in issue are traded on the London Stock Exchanges Main Market for Listed Securities the LSE.
However, in certain circumstances there may be a limited market for the Shares and it may not be possible for investors to achieve a liquidation of their holding within a short time period or for the investor to realise the full anticipated value of the Shares.
The table below details the residual contractual maturities of financial liabilities: As at 31 December 2011 1-3 months Over 1 year Total Bank overdraft 293,496 293,496 Accrued expenses 91,184 91,184 Total 384,680 384,680 As at 31 December 2010 1-3 months Over 1 year Total Bank overdraft 61,120 61,120 Accrued expenses 112,756 112,756 Total 173,876 173,876 79
