BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 December 2011 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued a Basis of preparation continued IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures amendments enhancing disclosures about offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 and interim periods within those periods.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures amendments requiring disclosures about the initial application of IFRS 9 effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015 or otherwise when IFRS 9 is first applied.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments classification and measurement of financial assets effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments accounting for financial liabilities and derecognition effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements amendments to revise the way other comprehensive income is presented effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012.
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation amendments to application guidance on the offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
The directors have considered the above and are of the opinion that the above Standards and Interpretations are not expected to have a material impact on the Companys financial statement except for the presentation of additional disclosures and changes to the presentation components of the financial statements.
These items will be applied in the first financial period for which they are required.
b Going concern As described in Note 10, should the average 12 month discount at which the Shares of any class trade to their net asset value exceed 5% of net asset value per Share, the Company is obliged to offer a continuation vote to class shareholders.
