BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTICE OF GENERAL MEETING continued Explanatory notes to the Notice of General Meeting At the General Meeting there are nine Resolutions which shareholders will be asked to consider and, if thought fit, approve.
An explanation of each of these Resolutions is given below.
Resolutions 1 to 8 inclusive are proposed as ordinary resolutions.
An ordinary resolution requires more than 50 per cent.
of votes cast at the General Meeting relating to that resolution to be cast in favour of it for the resolution to be passed.
Resolution 9 is proposed as a special resolution.
A special resolution requires at least 75 per cent.
of votes cast at the General Meeting relating to that resolution to be cast in favour of the resolution for it to be passed.
Ordinary resolutions Resolution 1: Annual Report and Accounts For each financial year the directors are required to present the directors report, the audited accounts and the auditors reports to shareholders at a general meeting.
Shareholders are asked to receive the annual report and accounts of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2011.
The Law requires that the accounts and reports are laid before the General Meeting.
Resolution 2: Appointment and remuneration of the Auditors Following the previous general meeting of the Company the appointment of the Auditor to continue until the conclusion of the next general meeting to be held in 2013, under section 199 of the Law.
Ernst & Young LLP have indicated that they are willing to continue to be the Companys Auditor for the next year.
You are asked to approve their re-appointment and to authorise the directors of the Company to determine their remuneration.
Resolutions 3 to 7 inclusive : Re-election of Directors The directors have resolved that they will all retire annually and that those wishing to continue to serve will submit themselves for re-election by the shareholders at the General Meeting.
Having considered the performance and contribution made by each of the directors, the Board believes that each of them continues to perform effectively and with commitment to their roles and, as such, recommends their reelection.
Brief biographical details of the directors seeking re-election can be found in the Annual Financial Report.
Resolution 8: Authority to make Market Purchases The Company has previously been granted authority to make market acquisitions of its Ordinary Shares to address, among other things, any imbalance in the supply of, and demand for, Ordinary Shares.
The current authority expires at the end of the General Meeting.
93 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTICE OF GENERAL MEETING continued This Resolution proposes to renew the authority of the Company to make market acquisitions of up to a maximum of 14.99 per cent.
of each class of shares in issue as at the date of this resolution being passed.
The directors wish to have the ability to make market purchases of the Companys shares should such be considered desirable and this authority provides the flexibility to allow them to do so in the future.
The directors will only exercise this authority when to do so would be in the best interests of the Company, and of its shareholders generally, and could be expected to result in an increase in the earnings per share of the Company.
In accordance with the Law, the Company may only make market purchases of its Ordinary Shares provided it satisfies the solvency test as detailed in the Law immediately after the shares are acquired.
A company satisfies the solvency test if: i it is able to pay its debts as they become due: and ii the value of its assets is greater than the value of its liabilities.
In connection with any purchase of the Companys Ordinary Shares, the directors will therefore need to confirm that the solvency test will be satisfied immediately following such purchase being made.
The minimum price which may be paid for each class of Ordinary Share is 1 pence, 1 Euro cent or 1 US Dollar cent as the case may be.
The maximum price, exclusive of expenses, which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is the higher of: i an amount equal to 105 per cent.
of the average of the middle market quotation for a Share of the relevant class on the relevant market on for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Shares are purchased: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange when the purchase is carried out.
Any shares purchased under the renewed authority will either be cancelled or held in treasury.
Such decision will be made by the directors at the time of the purchases.
As at the date of publication of this notice 450,000 Ordinary Sterling Shares are held by the Company in treasury.
The authority sought under this Resolution will expire at the end of the general meeting of the Company held in 2013 under section 199 of the Law, unless previously varied, revoked or renewed.
