BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 December 2011 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued i Segment information For management purposes, the Company is organised into one business unit, and hence no separate segment information has been presented.
The Company determines that this operating segment is the investment in three share classes of a fund of hedge funds incorporated in the Cayman Islands.
j Shares Sterling, Euro and US Dollar Ordinary Shares have been classified as liabilities in accordance with IAS 32 because of the provisions contained in the Companys Articles of Association as described in Note 10.
The directors have been advised that this treatment does not result in the Shares being treated as a liability for the purpose of applying the solvency test set out in Section 527 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, as amended.
2 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY In the application of the Companys accounting policies, which are described in Note 1, the directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Critical judgements in applying the Companys accounting policies The following are the critical judgements and estimates that the directors have made in the process of applying the Companys accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Valuation of investments The directors consider that the confirmed NAV of AllBlue Limited as produced by AllBlues administrator represents the fair value of the investments in the Company.
Different assumptions regarding the valuation techniques of AllBlue Limited could lead to different valuations of the investments produced by different parties.
