BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTICE OF GENERAL MEETING Incorporated and registered in Guernsey with company number 44704 Notice is hereby given that a General Meeting the General Meeting of the voting members of BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company will be held at Anson Place, Mill Court, La Charroterie, St Peter Port, Guernsey GY1 1EJ, Channel Islands on Friday 3 August 2012 at 10.00 a. m. to consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions of the Company.
Resolutions 1 to 8 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and resolution 9 will be proposed as a special resolution.
Ordinary Business: to be proposed as ordinary resolutions 1.
TO receive the Annual Financial Report for the year ended 31 December 2011.
TO re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as Auditor to the Company, to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting to be held in 2013, under section 199 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, as amended the Law and to authorise the directors to determine its remuneration.
TO re-elect as a director Mr Richard Crowder.
TO re-elect as a director Mr Paul Meader.
TO re-elect as a director Mr Jonathan Hooley.
TO re-elect as a director Mr John Le Prevost.
TO re-elect as a director Mr Andrew Dodd.
Special Business: to be proposed as an ordinary resolution 8.
THAT the Company be authorised, in accordance with section 315 1 a of the Law, to make market purchases within the meaning of section 316 of the Law of Ordinary Shares of no par value each, whether denominated in Sterling, Euros or US Dollars Shares, and to cancel such Shares or hold such Shares as treasury shares, provided that: i the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 14.99 per cent.
of each class of Shares in issue on the date on which this resolution is passed: ii the maximum price which may be paid for a Share shall be the higher of a an amount equal to 105 per cent.
of the average of the middle market quotation for a Share of the relevant class on the relevant market for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Shares are purchased and b the higher of the price of the last independent trade and highest current bid on the London Stock Exchange when the purchase is carried out: iii the minimum price which may be paid for a Share shall be 1 pence, 1 Euro cent or 1 US Dollar cent as the case may be: and iv unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the general meeting of the Company to be held in 2013, under section 199 of the Law, save that the Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase Shares under such authority and may make a purchase of Shares pursuant to any such contract.
