BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company BLUECREST CAPITAL MANAGEMENT UK LLP DISCLAIMER BlueCrest Disclaimer The report by the Investment Manager of AllBlue Limited contained in this document at pages 14 to 26 is issued: i for all purposes, except for issue into the United States or issue to US persons, by BlueCrest Capital Management UK LLP BCM UK LLP : and ii only for the purposes of issue into the United States or issue to US persons, by BlueCrest Capital Management LLP BCMLLP.
BCM UK LLP is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority of the United Kingdom the FSA.
BCMLLP is registered with the U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission SEC as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.
BCMLLP is licensed and regulated by the Guernsey Financial Services Commission under the Protection of Investors Bailiwick of Guernsey Law, 1987 as amended the POI Law to carry on controlled investment business in or from within the Bailiwick of Guernsey.
To the extent that this document is issued by BCM UK LLP, the following applies.
None of the fund s described herein each, a Fund is a recognised collective investment scheme for the purposes of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 of the United Kingdom the Act.
The promotion of the Fund s and the distribution of this document in the United Kingdom is accordingly restricted by law.
This document is being issued inside and outside the United Kingdom by BCM UK LLP only to and or is directed only at persons who are professional clients or eligible counterparties for the purposes of the FSAs Conduct of Business Sourcebook.
This document is exempt from the scheme promotion restriction in Section 238 of the Act on the communication of invitations or inducements to participate in unrecognised collective investment schemes on the grounds that it is being issued only to and or directed only at such persons.
To the extent that this document is issued by BCM UK LLP, interests in the Fund are only available to such persons and this document must not be relied or acted upon by any other persons.
BCM UK LLP neither provides investment advice to, nor receives and transmits orders from, investors in the Funds nor does it carry on any other activities with or for such investors that constitute MiFID or equivalent third country business for the purposes of the FSA Rules.
To the extent that this document is issued by BCMLLP, this document constitutes promotion of controlled investments for the purposes of the POI Law and the rules and guidance issued from time to time by the Guernsey Financial Services Commission the GFSC Rules.
The information contained herein is directed by BCMLLP exclusively at persons who are professional clients or eligible counterparties for the purposes of the GFSC Rules, or to Qualified Purchasers, as defined in the U. S. Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
Any of the Funds and other investments and investment services to which this document relates are only available to the persons referred to above and other persons should not act or rely on the information contained herein.
85 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company BLUECREST CAPITAL MANAGEMENT UK LLP DISCLAIMER continued The information contained herein is intended only for the person or entity to which it is addressed and may contain confidential and or privileged material.
Any dissemination or other unauthorised use of this information by any person or entity is strictly prohibited.
The distribution of this document may be further restricted by law.
No action has been or will be taken by any of BCM UK LLP, BCM LLP, or the Funds, to permit the possession or distribution of this document in any jurisdiction other than as expressly described herein where action for that purpose may be required.
Accordingly, this document may not be used in any jurisdiction except under circumstances that will result in compliance with any applicable laws and regulations.
Persons to whom this document is communicated should inform themselves about and observe any such restrictions.
This document is not intended to constitute, and should not be construed as, investment advice.
Potential investors in the Funds should seek their own independent financial advice.
This document has been provided to you for informational purposes only and may not be relied upon by you in evaluating the merits of investing in any securities or interests referred to herein.
This document is not intended as and is not to be taken as an offer or solicitation with respect to the purchase or sale of any security or interest, nor does it constitute an offer or solicitation in any jurisdiction, including those in which such an offer or solicitation is not authorised or to any person to whom it is unlawful to make such a solicitation or offer.
Any decision to purchase securities or interests with respect to any of the Funds described herein must be based solely upon the information contained in the Prospectus or Private Placement Memorandum for that Fund, including any supplements thereto, which must be received and reviewed prior to any investment decision.
Any person subscribing for an investment must be able to bear the risks involved and must meet the suitability requirements relating to such investments.
Some or all alternative investment programs may not be suitable for certain investors.
Certain of the performance results provided herein were not achieved from the actual management of the Fund, but are instead simulated results achieved by means of the retroactive application of the advisers investment methodology, or the real-time application of a hypothetical capital allocation to such strategy.
This approach has inherent limitations, including that results may not reflect the impact that material economic and market factors might have had on the advisers decision-making if the adviser actually had been managing client money.
Although the information in this document is believed to be materially correct, no representation or warranty is given as to the accuracy of any of the information provided.
Certain information included in this document is based on information obtained from sources considered to be reliable.
However, any projections or analysis provided to assist the recipient of this document in evaluating the matters described herein may be based on subjective assessments and assumptions and may use one among alternative methodologies that produce different results.
Accordingly, any projections or analysis should not be viewed as factual and should not be relied upon as an accurate prediction of future results.
Furthermore, to the extent permitted by law, neither the Funds nor any of their agents, 86 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company BLUECREST CAPITAL MANAGEMENT UK LLP DISCLAIMER continued service providers or professional advisers assumes any liability or responsibility nor owes any duty of care for any consequences of any person acting or refraining to act in reliance on the information contained in this document or for any decision based on it.
Past performance is not necessarily indicative of future results.
The actual performance realised by any given investor will depend on, amongst other things, the Fund invested into, the class of shares interests subscribed for the period during which such shares interests are held and in what currency such shares interests are held.
This document may include returns for various indices.
These indices are not intended to be direct benchmarks for a particular Fund, nor are they intended to be indicative of the type of assets in which a particular Fund may invest.
The assets invested in by the Funds will likely be materially different from the assets underlying these indices, and will likely have a significantly different risk profile.
Target returns, volatility and Sharpe ratio figures quoted are targets only and are based over the long term on the performance projections of the investment strategy and market interest rates at time of modelling and therefore may change.
Among the risks we wish to call to the particular attention of prospective investors are the following: 1 each Funds investment programme is speculative in nature and entails substantial risks: 2 the investments of each Fund may be subject to sudden and large falls in price or value and there could be a large loss upon realisation of a holders investment, which could equal the total amount invested: 3 as there is no recognised market for many of the investments of the Funds, it may be difficult or impossible for a Fund to obtain complete and or reliable information about the value of such investments or the extent of the risks to which such investments are exposed: 4 the use of a single adviser could mean a lack of diversification and, consequently, higher risk, and may depend upon the services of key personnel, and if certain or all of them become unavailable, the Funds may prematurely terminate: 5 an investment in a Fund is illiquid and there is no secondary market for the sale of interests in a Fund and none is expected to develop: 6 there are restrictions on transferring interests in a Fund: 7 the investment manager will receive performance-based compensation, which may result in riskier investments, and the Funds fees may offset trading profits: 8 the Funds are subject to certain conflicts of interest: 9 certain securities and instruments in which Funds may invest can be highly volatile: 10 the Funds may be leveraged: 11 a substantial portion of the trades executed for the Funds take place on non-U.
S. exchanges: and 12 changes in rates of exchange may also have an adverse effect on the value, price or income of the investments of each Fund.
