BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTICE OF GENERAL MEETING continued Special Business: to be proposed as a special resolution 9.
THAT the pre-emption rights granted to Shareholders pursuant to article 12 2 of the Articles of Association of the Company the Articles be disapplied in respect of up to 500,000,000 Shares for a period concluding on 31 December 2013, unless such resolution is previously revoked by the Companys shareholders in general meeting.
For the purpose of this resolution, capitalised terms shall have the same meaning as set out in the Articles.
By order of the Board Registered Office: BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited Anson Place Registered in Guernsey with registered number 44704.
Mill Court La Charroterie St Peter Port Guernsey GY1 1EJ Date: 27 April 2012 90 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTICE OF GENERAL MEETING continued Notes: 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the General Meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to speak and vote instead of them.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not preclude members from attending or voting at the General Meeting if they so wish.
More than one proxy may be appointed provided each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to different shares.
In accordance with the provisions of E. 2.1 of the UK Code of Corporate Governance it should be noted that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes for and against each resolution.
A Form of Proxy is enclosed for use at the General Meeting.
The Form of Proxy should be completed in accordance with the instructions set out therein and sent, together with the power of attorney or other authority, if any, under which it is signed, or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority, so as to reach the Companys agent, for this purpose being, Anson Registrars Limited, Anson Place, Mill Court, La Charroterie, St Peter Port, Guernsey GY1 1EJ not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the General Meeting.
All persons recorded on the register of shareholders as holding shares in the Company as at 10.00 a. m. on 1 August 2012 or, if the General Meeting is adjourned, as at 48 hours before the time of any adjourned General Meeting, shall be entitled to attend and vote either in person or by proxy at the General Meeting and shall be entitled to one vote per share held.
If the General Meeting falls to be adjourned because it is not quorate, it will be adjourned to the same time and place five business days later or to such other day and or time and or place as the directors of the Company may determine, whereupon those shareholders then present in person, by their representative or by proxy, shall form the quorum.
In the event of any such adjournment the Company will announce the adjournment via a regulatory information service but no notification will be sent directly to shareholders.
Where there are joint registered holders of any shares such persons shall not have the right of voting individually in respect of such shares but shall elect one of their number to represent them and to vote whether in person or by proxy in their name.
In default of such election the person whose name stands first on the register of shareholders shall alone be entitled to vote.
91 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTICE OF GENERAL MEETING continued 8.
On a poll votes may be given either personally or by proxy and a shareholder entitled to more than one vote need not use all his votes or cast all the votes he uses in the same way.
Any corporation which is a shareholder may by resolution of its board of directors or other governing body authorise such person as it thinks fit to act as its representative at the General Meeting.
Any person so authorised shall be entitled to exercise on behalf of the corporation which he represents the same powers other than to appoint a proxy as that corporation could exercise if it were an individual shareholder.
As at 20 April 2012 the latest practicable date prior to the printing of this notice the Companys issued share capital consisted of 589,629,683 Ordinary Shares of no par value, all carrying one vote each per share.
450,000 Ordinary Sterling shares are held in treasury and therefore are not able to vote.
Copies of the following documents are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during usual business hours on any weekday weekends and public holidays excluded and will be available for inspection at the place of the General Meeting for 15 minutes before and during the General Meeting itself: a a copy of the Companys Annual Financial Report for the year ended 31 December 2011: b copies of the non-executive directors appointment letters: and c the Articles of Incorporation.
