BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Specific matters reserved exclusively for the decision of the Board include all matters concerning the acquisition and realisation of shares in underlying investments, the authorisation of conversions between share classes, the variation of terms on which an overdraft facility is used to finance operating costs and the invocation of any premium or discount mechanisms.
Internal Audit There is no internal audit function.
As all of the directors are non-executive and all of the Companys administration functions have been delegated to independent third parties, the Audit Committee considers that there is no need for the Company to have an internal audit function.
However, this matter is reviewed periodically.
Dialogue with Shareholders All holders of Shares in the Company have the right to receive notice of, and attend, all general meetings of the Company, during which the directors are available to discuss issues affecting the Company, and the directors also meet periodically with major shareholders.
The directors are always available to enter into dialogue with shareholders and make themselves available for such purpose whenever required.
The Senior Independent Director can also be contacted by shareholders if they have any concerns through the Secretary.
The Company believes such communications to be important.
The Investment Manager of AllBlue and Jefferies Hoare Govett and Dexion Capital Plc, the Companys Corporate Brokers, meet regularly with the Companys major shareholders and reports are provided at least quarterly to the Board of directors on those shareholders views about the Company and any issues or concerns they might have.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
Auditor Ernst & Young LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as Auditor.
A resolution proposing its reappointment will be submitted at the Companys forthcoming general meeting.
During the year under review the Auditor provided taxation compliance services to the Company and received fees amounting to 5,824.
