BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 December 2011 15 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES continued d Interest Rate Risk The prices of securities tend to be sensitive to interest rate fluctuations.
Unexpected fluctuations in interest rates could cause the corresponding prices of long positions and short positions adopted to move in directions which were not originally anticipated.
In addition, interest rate increases generally increase the interest or carrying costs of investments.
However, the Companys investments designated as at fair value through profit or loss are non interest bearing, and therefore are not exposed to interest rate risk.
The Companys own cash balances are not materially exposed to interest rate risk as cash and cash equivalents are held on floating interest rate deposits with banks and the Company does not rely on income from bank interest to meet day to day expenses.
e Leverage by underlying funds Certain underlying funds in which the Company may have an economic interest operate with a substantial degree of leverage and are not limited in the extent to which they either may borrow or engage in margin transactions.
The positions maintained by such underlying funds may in aggregate value be in excess of the net asset value of AllBlue.
This leverage presents the potential for a higher rate of total return but will also increase the volatility of AllBlue and, as a consequence, the Company, including the risk of a total loss of the amount invested.
f Capital management The investment objective of the Company is to provide shareholders with consistent long-term capital growth through an investment policy of investing substantially all of its assets in AllBlue or any successor vehicle to AllBlue.
As the Companys Ordinary Shares are traded on the LSE, the Ordinary Shares may trade at a discount to their Net Asset Value per Share.
However, in structuring the Company, the directors have given detailed consideration to the discount risk and how this may be managed.
At the last general meeting held pursuant to section 199 of the 2008 Law, the directors were granted authority to buy back up to 14.99 per cent.
of the Ordinary Shares in issue.
The Companys authority to make purchases of its own issued Ordinary Shares will expire at the conclusion of the next general meeting of the Company to be held pursuant to section 199 of the 2008 Law and renewal of such authority will be sought at that next general meeting.
The timing of any purchases will be decided by the Board.
80 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 December 2011 15 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES continued f Capital management continued The directors intend that purchases will only be made pursuant to this authority through the market, for cash, at prices below the prevailing net asset value per Share where the directors reasonably believe such purchases will be of material benefit to the Company.
Following approval of the Court in Guernsey, the Company resolved to cancel the amount standing to the credit of its share premium account following Admission.
The amount released on cancellation has been credited as a distributable reserve in the books of account and may be used by the Company for the purpose of funding purchases of its Ordinary Shares as described above and the payment of dividends.
On 1 July 2008 the 1994 Law was replaced by the 2008 Law.
The 2008 Law does not require share premium to be held in a separate account and any premium at which shares are issued can be used for all purposes, including the buy back of Shares and the payment of dividends, provided that the Company would after any distribution still meet the statutory Solvency Test as such is defined in the 2008 Law.
Accordingly, upon the issue of C Shares in August 2008, December 2009 and June 2010 the entire amount of share premium received on the issue of such C Shares was immediately transferred to distributable reserves.
The Companys authorised share capital is such that further issues of new Ordinary Shares could be made.
Subject to prevailing market conditions, the Board may decide to make one or more further such issues or reissues of Ordinary Shares for cash from time to time.
Any further issues of new Ordinary Shares or reissues of Ordinary Shares held in treasury will rank pari passu with Ordinary Shares in issue.
There are no provisions of the Companies Laws 1998 which confer rights of pre-emption in respect of the allotment of Shares.
There are, however, pre-emption rights contained in the Articles, but the directors have been granted the power to issue further Shares on a non-pre-emptive basis for a period concluding on 31 December 2012, unless such power is previously revoked by the Companys shareholders in general meeting pursuant to section 199 of the 2008 Law by a special resolution of shareholders passed on 14 July 2011.
The directors intend to request that the authority to allot Shares on a non-pre-emptive basis is renewed at each subsequent general meeting of the Company.
