BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTICE OF GENERAL MEETING continued Explanatory notes to the Notice of General Meeting At the General Meeting there are nine Resolutions which shareholders will be asked to consider and, if thought fit, approve.
An explanation of each of these Resolutions is given below.
Resolutions 1 to 8 inclusive are proposed as ordinary resolutions.
An ordinary resolution requires more than 50 per cent.
of votes cast at the General Meeting relating to that resolution to be cast in favour of it for the resolution to be passed.
Resolution 9 is proposed as a special resolution.
A special resolution requires at least 75 per cent.
of votes cast at the General Meeting relating to that resolution to be cast in favour of the resolution for it to be passed.
Ordinary resolutions Resolution 1: Annual Report and Accounts For each financial year the directors are required to present the directors report, the audited accounts and the auditors reports to shareholders at a general meeting.
Shareholders are asked to receive the annual report and accounts of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2011.
The Law requires that the accounts and reports are laid before the General Meeting.
Resolution 2: Appointment and remuneration of the Auditors Following the previous general meeting of the Company the appointment of the Auditor to continue until the conclusion of the next general meeting to be held in 2013, under section 199 of the Law.
Ernst & Young LLP have indicated that they are willing to continue to be the Companys Auditor for the next year.
You are asked to approve their re-appointment and to authorise the directors of the Company to determine their remuneration.
Resolutions 3 to 7 inclusive : Re-election of Directors The directors have resolved that they will all retire annually and that those wishing to continue to serve will submit themselves for re-election by the shareholders at the General Meeting.
Having considered the performance and contribution made by each of the directors, the Board believes that each of them continues to perform effectively and with commitment to their roles and, as such, recommends their reelection.
Brief biographical details of the directors seeking re-election can be found in the Annual Financial Report.
Resolution 8: Authority to make Market Purchases The Company has previously been granted authority to make market acquisitions of its Ordinary Shares to address, among other things, any imbalance in the supply of, and demand for, Ordinary Shares.
The current authority expires at the end of the General Meeting.
