BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 December 2011 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued g Investments All investments are designated upon initial recognition as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
Investments are initially recognised on the date of purchase on trade date basis at cost, being the fair value of the consideration given, excluding transaction costs associated with the investment, with unrealised gains and losses on investments arising from change in fair value from prior years recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Realised gains or losses are determined on the disposal of investments.
These are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
In order to assess the fair value of unquoted investments the net asset value of the underlying investment in AllBlue Limited is taken into consideration.
Share conversions arise when the Company converts one class of AllBlue shares for another class of AllBlue shares.
Upon conversion realised gains or losses are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income as Net gains on financial assets through profit or loss.
The Companys net asset value is based on valuations of unquoted investments.
In calculating the net asset value and the net asset value per Share of the Company, the Administrator relies on the net asset values of the shares in AllBlue Limited supplied by the administrator of AllBlue Limited.
Those net asset values are based on the market value of the various investments held by AllBlue Limited.
h Foreign currency translation The financial statements are presented in Sterling, which is the Companys functional and presentation currency.
Operating expenses in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the functional currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the reporting date.
Investments in US Dollar and Euro share classes are initially recorded in their respective currencies and translated into the Companys functional currency at the reporting date.
All differences on these foreign currency translations are taken to the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
