BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Statement of Directors Responsibilities The directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss for that year.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Law.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Corporate Governance Statement of Compliance with the AIC Code of Corporate Governance In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
7 the Company is required to comply with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
A copy of the UK Corporate Governance Code is available for download from the Financial Reporting Councils website www.
The Board of the Company has considered the principles and recommendations of the Association of Investment Companies the AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies the AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide addresses all the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to an investment company.
With effect from 1 January 2012 the Company is also required to comply with the Guernsey Financial Services Commission Financial Sector Code of Corporate Governance the Guernsey Code.
As the Company reports under the AIC Code it is deemed to meet the Guernsey Code.
The Board has undertaken to evaluate its corporate governance compliance on an on-going basis.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance Code, will provide better information to shareholders.
