Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the One Hundred and any security into shares in the Company Fourteenth Annual General Meeting of British Assets Securities provided that such authority shall Trust Public Limited Company will be held at be limited to the allotment of shares and the 80 George Street, Edinburgh EH2 3BU on grant of rights in respect of shares with an Wednesday, 14 December 2011 at 12 noon for the aggregate nominal value of up to 7,277,807, following purposes: such authority to expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company Ordinary Business after the passing of this resolution or on the expiry of 15 months from the passing of this To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following as resolution, whichever is the later, unless Ordinary Resolutions: previously revoked, varied or extended by the 1.
That the Report and Accounts for the year Company in a general meeting, save that the ended 30 September 2011 be received.
Company may at any time prior to the expiry of this authority make an offer or enter into an 2.
That the Directors Remuneration Report for the agreement which would or might require year ended 30 September 2011 be approved.
Securities to be allotted or granted after the expiry of such authority and the Directors shall 3.
That a final dividend of 1.786 pence per be entitled to allot or grant Securities in Ordinary Share be declared.
pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if 4.
That Ian Russell, who retires annually, be resuch authority had not expired.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following as 5.
That James Long, who retires annually, be Special Resolutions: re-elected as a Director.
That, subject to the passing of resolution 6.
That James MacLeod, who retires annually, be number 11 above, and in substitution for any re-elected as a Director.
existing power but without prejudice to the exercise of any such power prior to the date 7.
That Jimmy West, who retires annually, be hereof, the Directors of the Company be and re-elected as a Director.
they are hereby generally empowered, pursuant to Section 570 of the Companies Act 2006 the 8.
That Lynn Ruddick, who retires annually, be reAct, to allot equity securities as defined in elected as a Director.
Section 560 of the Act, including the grant of 9.
That Ernst & Young LLP be re-appointed as rights to subscribe for, or to convert securities Auditor.
into ordinary shares held by the Company as treasury shares as defined in Section 724 of 10.
That the Directors be authorised to determine the Act for cash pursuant to the authority given the Auditors remuneration.
by resolution number 11 above as if Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such 11.
That, in substitution for any existing authority, allotment of equity securities, provided that this but without prejudice to the exercise of any power: such authority prior to the date hereof, the Directors of the Company be and are hereby a expires at the conclusion of the next annual generally and unconditionally authorised in general meeting of the Company after the accordance with Section 551 of the Companies passing of this resolution or on the expiry Act 2006 to exercise all the powers of the of 15 months from the passing of this Company to allot shares in the Company and resolution, whichever is the later, save that to grant rights to subscribe for or to convert the Company may, before such expiry, 54 British Assets Trust plc make an offer or agreement which would or c the maximum price excluding expenses might require equity securities to be allotted which may be paid for each ordinary share after such expiry and the Directors may allot shall not be more than the higher of: equity securities in pursuance of any such i 5 per cent above the average closing offer or agreement as if the power conferred price on the London Stock Exchange of hereby had not expired: and an ordinary share over the five business b shall be limited to the allotment of equity days immediately preceding the date of securities up to an aggregate nominal value purchase: and 3,638,903 being approximately 5 per cent ii the higher of the last independent trade of the nominal value of the issued share and the highest current independent bid capital of the Company, as at 14 November on the London Stock Exchange: and 2011. d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed 13.
That, in substitution for any existing authority but without prejudice to the exercise of any by the Company in a general meeting, the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the such authority prior to the date hereof, the conclusion of the Companys next annual Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised, pursuant to and in general meeting or on 14 June 2013 whichever is the later, save that the accordance with section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make market purchases Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase ordinary shares within the meaning of section 693 4 of the Act of fully paid ordinary shares of 25 pence each in under such authority which will or might be completed or executed wholly or partly after the capital of the Company ordinary shares either for retention as treasury shares for future the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary shares reissue, resale, transfer or cancellation, pursuant to any such contract.
provided that: a the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 43,637,731, representing approximately By order of the Board 14.99 per cent of the Companys issued G R Hay Smith share capital at the date of the posting of Secretary this resolution: 80 George Street b the minimum price excluding expenses Edinburgh EH2 3BU which may be paid for each ordinary share is 25 pence: 14 November 2011 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 55 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued a answering the question would interfere unduly with the Notes preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of 1.
A member entitled to attend, speak and vote at the above confidential information: meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and vote instead of him provided that, if more than one b the answer has already been given on a website in the proxy is appointed, each proxy is appointed to exercise rights form of an answer to a question: or attached to different shares.
A proxy need not be a member of c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the the Company.
good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose 9.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies shares are held on their behalf by another person and who through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may have been nominated to receive communications from the do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Company in accordance with Section 146 of the Companies Manual and by logging on to www.
Nominated persons may CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored have a right under an agreement with the member who holds members, and those CREST members who have appointed a the shares on their behalf to be appointed or to have voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if nominated or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the persons do not have such a right, or do not wish to exercise it, appropriate action on their behalf.
they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the person holding the shares as to the exercise 10.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the of voting rights.
CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in 3.
A form of proxy is enclosed for use at the above meeting.
accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds Completion and return of the form of proxy will not prevent a specifications, and must contain the information required for member from attending the meeting and voting in person.
To such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual.
The be effective, the form of proxy, duly executed, must be lodged message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment at the address shown on the form of proxy i by 12 noon on of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a 12 December 2011 or, ii in respect of an adjourned meeting, previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be no later than 48 hours excluding non-working days before the transmitted so as to be received by the Companys registrar holding of that adjourned meeting or, in the case of a poll ID RA19 no later than 48 hours excluding non-working days taken subsequent to the date of the meeting or an adjourned before the time of the meeting or any adjournment.
For this meeting, not less than 24 hours before the time appointed for purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as the taking of the poll.
determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the Companys registrar 4.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the Regulations 2001, the Company specifies that only those manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of holders of Ordinary Shares entered on the Register of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be Members of the Company as at 6.00 pm on 12 December communicated to the appointee by other means.
2011 or, in the event that the meeting is adjourned, on the Register of Members as at 6.00 pm two days excluding non- 11.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST working days before any adjourned meeting, shall be entitled sponsors, or voting service providers should note that to attend, speak or vote at the meeting in respect of the Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special number of Ordinary Shares registered in their names at that procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Changes to the entries on the Register of Members after system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation 6.00 pm on 12 December 2011 or, in the event that the to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility meeting is adjourned, on the Register of Members as at of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST 6.00 pm two days excluding non-working days before the member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, time of any adjourned meeting, shall be disregarded in or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that determining the rights of any person to attend, speak or vote his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such at the meeting, notwithstanding any provisions in any action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is enactment, the Articles of Association of the Company or other transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular instrument to the contrary.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers 5.
Any person holding 3 per cent of the total voting rights in the are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Company who appoints a person other than the Chairman as Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system his proxy will need to ensure that both he and such third party and timings.
complies with their respective disclosure obligations under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the 6.
The members of the Company may require the Company to Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. publish, on its website without payment, a statement which is also passed to the Companys auditors setting out any 13.
No Director has a contract of service with the Company.
The matter relating to the audit of the Companys accounts, Directors letters of appointment will be available for 15 including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit.
The minutes prior to, and during the Annual General Meeting.
Company will be required to do so once it has received such requests from members representing at least 5 per cent of the 14.
As at 5.00 pm on 14 November 2011 being the latest total voting rights of the Company or at least 100 members applicable date prior to the publication of this notice, the who have a relevant right to vote and hold shares in the Companys issued share capital comprised 291,112,282 Company on which there has been paid up an average sum Ordinary Shares of 25p each.
Every Member holding Ordinary per member of at least 100.
Such requests must be made in Shares shall have one vote for every Ordinary Share held by writing and must state the members full name and address them and therefore the total number of voting rights in the and be sent to 80 George Street, Edinburgh EH2 3BU.
Information regarding the Annual General Meeting, including 15.
Members who have general queries about the Annual General information required by section 311A of the Companies Act Meeting should not use any electronic address to communicate with the Company but should call the 2006, is available from www.
Calls to this number cost 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Under section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company must answer any question relating to the business being dealt providers costs may vary.
Lines open 8.30 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday.
The Companys registrars overseas helpline with at the meeting and put by a member attending the number is 44 121 415 7047. meeting unless: 56 British Assets Trust plc Corporate Information Directors Brokers Lynn C Ruddick, Chairman Cenkos Securities Limited James M Long, TD 6.7.
8 Tokenhouse Yard ` James S MacLeod London EC2R 7AS Ian S M Russell Jimmy G West Solicitors Dickson Minto WS Company Secretary 16 Charlotte Square Gordon R Hay Smith, CA Edinburgh EH2 4DF Investment Managers Bankers F&C Investment Business Limited JPMorgan Chase Bank 80 George Street 125 London Wall Edinburgh EH2 3BU London EC2Y 5AJ Auditor Company Number Ernst & Young LLP SC 3721 1 More London Place London SE1 2AF Chairman of the Management Engagement and Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee ` Chairman of the Audit Committee Senior Independent Director MLG Edinburgh 10685 Registered Office 80 George Street Edinburgh EH2 3BU Tel: 0207 628 8000 Fax: 0131 225 2375 Registrars Equiniti Limited Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Registrars Shareholder Helpline: 0871 384 2462 Registrars Broker Helpline: 0906 559 6025 Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Other telephone providers costs may vary.
Calls to this number are charged at 1 per minute from a BT landline.
