Capital Structure The Companys capital structure consists solely of Ordinary Shares.
provide the Company with information concerning Ordinary Shares interests in those shares required to be provided At 30 September 2011 there were 291,112,282 under the Companies Acts.
Ordinary Shares of 25p each in issue 2010: 291,112,282 Ordinary Shares.
The Ordinary Shares are designed to provide income Income Entitlement and capital growth and their value will be dependent The revenue profits of the Company including on, inter alia, the underlying income and capital accumulated revenue reserves are available for growth of the Companys investment portfolio.
distribution by way of interim and final dividends to the holders of the Ordinary Shares.
Capital Entitlement Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, In the event of a winding up, after meeting the the Company may by ordinary resolution from time liabilities of the Company, the surplus assets would to time declare dividends in accordance with the be paid to the holders of Ordinary Shares and respective rights of the members, but no dividend distributed among such holders pro-rata.
can exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Voting Entitlement Acts, the Board may pay such interim dividends as Each Ordinary Shareholder is entitled to one vote on appear to the Board to be justified by the financial a show of hands, and on a poll to one vote for every position of the Company.
The Board may withhold Ordinary Share held.
payment of all or any part of any dividends or other Unless the Board otherwise decides, no member is monies payable in respect of the Companys entitled in respect of any share held by him to vote shares from a person with a 0.25 per cent interest either personally or by proxy or by a corporate as defined in the Articles of Association if such a representative at any general meeting of the person has been served with a restriction notice as Company if he is a person with a 0.25 per cent defined in the Articles of Association after failure to interest as defined in the Articles of Association and provide the Company with information concerning he has been served with a restriction notice as interests in those shares required to be provided defined in the Articles of Association after failure to under the Companies Acts.
#Excludes special dividend of 0.5p per Ordinary Share.
Restated for changes in accounting standards.
