Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors Annual Report and the financial statements in are also responsible for preparing a Directors accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Report including a Business Review, a Directors Remuneration Report and a Corporate Governance Company law requires the Directors to prepare Statement.
financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they have elected to prepare the financial The Directors are responsible for the maintenance statements in accordance with UK Accounting and integrity of the corporate and financial Standards.
The financial statements are required by information included on the Companys website.
law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and of the Company and of the profit or loss of the dissemination of financial statements may differ from Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then the financial statements, prepared in accordance apply them consistently: with the applicable set of accounting standards, make judgments and estimates that are give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, reasonable and prudent: and financial position, loss and cash flows of the Company: and state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any the Report of the Directors includes a fair review material departures disclosed and explained in of the development and performance of the the financial statements.
business and the position of the Company The Directors are responsible for keeping proper together with a description of the principal risks accounting records that disclose with reasonable and uncertainties that it faces.
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking On behalf of the Board Lynn Ruddick such steps as are reasonably open to them to Chairman safeguard the assets of the Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
14 November 2011 48 British Assets Trust plc
