How to Invest As well as investing in British Assets Trust plc directly through a stockbroker, there are some additional benefits of investing through one of the savings plans run by F&C Management Limited F&C.
You can enjoy the convenience of making regular savings by Direct Debit, take advantage of our tax-efficient ISA wrapper, receive a simple statement every six months and let us automatically reinvest your dividends for you.
Potential investors are reminded that the value of F&C Private Investor Plan investments and the income from them may go A flexible, low cost way to invest with a lump down as well as up and you may not receive back sum from 500 or regular savings from 50 a the full amount originally invested.
You can also make additional lump reliefs depend on the circumstances of the sum top-ups at anytime from 250. individual.
Low Charges F&C lnvestment Trust ISA All the plans are low cost and flexible.
When you buy or sell shares in these plans the dealing fee is Use your ISA allowance to invest up to only 0.2 per cent.
Government stamp duty of 10,680 tax efficiently each year with a lump 0.5 per cent also applies on purchases where sum from 500 or regular savings from 50 a applicable.
There are no initial or exit charges.
You can also make additional lump only annual management fee is on the ISA, which is sum top-ups at anytime from 250 and 60 VAT no matter how many ISAs you take out transfer any existing ISAs to us whilst annually with F&C, or how many lSAs you transfer.
maintaining all the tax benefits.
The CTF has no initial charges, dealing charges or annual management fee.
F&C Child Trust Fund CTF How to Invest F&C is a leading provider of CTFs which can You can invest in all our savings plans online, be opened for all children born between except for the CTF.
Its simple to register and invest using your debit card.
Alternatively, please 1 September 2002 and 31 December 2010 contact us for application forms.
using the governments CTF voucher.
The maximum that can be invested annually is New Customers: 3,600 and, depending on the type of CTF Contact our Investor Services Team: opened, investments can start from as little Call: 0800 136 420 as 10 a month.
com F&C Childrens lnvestment Plan Existing Plan Holders: Aimed at older children ineligible for a CTF, or Contact our Investor Services Team: if you need access to the funds before the child is 18.
This flexible plan can easily be Call: 0845 600 3030 written under trust to help reduce inheritance Email: investor.
Investments can be made from a By post: F&C Plan Administration Centre 250 lump sum or 25 a month.
You can Block C, Western House Lynch Wood Business Park also make additional lump sum top-ups at Peterborough, PE2 6BP anytime from 100.
If you have trouble reading small print, please let us know.
We can provide literature in alternative formats, for example large print or on audiotape.
The above has been approved by F&C Management Limited which is a member of the F&C Asset Management Group and is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
