qxp:BT PLC 02 19 5 11 17:39 Page 2 Bleed: 0 mm Scale: 100% REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW OUR BUSINESS AND STRATEGY contact increase by 15 per cent in BT Consumer and 9 per cent in BT Who we are Business.
Within BT Global Services right first time programme, we British Telecommunications plc BT is a wholly-owned subsidiary of reduced customer faults by 11 per cent.
BT Group plc and encompasses virtually all business and assets of the We believe the changes we have made, and will make in the next BT Group.
Our strategy and policies follow the strategy and policies of financial year, will deliver signicantly improved service levels for our BT Group plc which are described in this Business Review.
BT is one of the worlds leading communications services companies, serving the needs of customers in the UK and in more Cost transformation than 170 countries worldwide.
Cost transformation goes hand in hand with getting it right first time for customer service we have continued with our drive to improve What we do operational efficiency across the business, from using IT systems more Our main activities are the provision of xed telephony lines and calls, effectively and driving savings from suppliers, to streamlining internal broadband, mobile and TV products and services as well as networked processes and ways of working.
In 2011 we made good progress with our cost transformation In the UK we are a leading communications services provider.
activities, which have contributed to our operating costs savings of We sell products and services to consumers, small and medium-sized 1.1bn, representing a 7 per cent decline in our operating cost base.
enterprises SMEs and the public sector.
We also sell wholesale This represents a cumulative reduction in our cost base of almost products and services to communications providers CPs in the UK 2bn over the last two years.
All of our lines of business and internal and around the world.
Globally, we supply managed networked IT service units have made a contribution to the delivery of these services to multinational corporations, domestic businesses and savings.
See Transforming our cost base on page 20 of the Financial national and local government departments.
Savings have been delivered from targeted cost reduction programmes which focus on: Our aimeliminating the cost of failure across the group Our aim is to drive shareholder value by making BT a better businessan overhead value analysis programme, which provides a structured with a better future.
Last year we set out a three-year plan to achieve approach to reducing costs this aim.
Our strategy focuses on three key areas customer serviceprocess re-engineering, which reviews processes end-to-end delivery, cost transformation and investing for the future.
These three across the group to remove unnecessary steps.
areas are the building blocks for making BT a better business.
The These actions have allowed us to operate more efficiently and better we serve our customers, the less time and money we spend on consequently reduce our costs while at the same time reducing failure xing faults and by transforming our costs we create new opportunities in our processes which assist customer service.
for investment in our future.
By investing in our strategic priorities we We have also continued to review procurement arrangements with expect to deliver growth in 2013. our major suppliers on a group-wide basis and have improved supply terms and service delivery.
Customer service delivery As a result of increased efficiency across our operations we have Our strategy starts with customer service and we continually work to continued to reduce net labour costs, which were down 7 per cent.
As improve the level of customer experience.
In practice this means far as possible, we try to retain our permanent workforce through keeping our promises, being easy to contact and straightforward to redeployment, retraining and in-sourcing work which has been deal with: it means keeping our customers informed and taking previously performed by third parties.
Around 4,000 people have prompt action to put things right if they have cause to complain: been re-skilled and redeployed into roles within BT in 2011. above all it means trying to do things right first time.
Right first time is our key measure for customer service.
It Investing for the future measures how often we get things right the first time for our By being more efficient in customer service and transforming our cost customers: this is important as failure increases our costs.
In 2011 we base we can provide services to our customers on a more competitive achieved a 3 per cent improvement in this measure which compares basis and improve our cash generation.
This is critical as it creates the with a 10.5 per cent improvement in 2010.
This shows that we made opportunity for us to invest in our strategic priorities as well as pay further progress this year but the scale was less than in previous years dividends to shareholders, support the pension fund and reduce our due to a number of issues, particularly a large increase in provision overall level of debt.
These were up over 25 per cent in In 2010 we set out five strategic priorities which are underpinned the year.
In addition, the very poor winter weather both increased by our views of the markets we operate in.
By focusing investment repair demand and reduced our ability to deploy engineers effectively.
around these strategic priorities we believe we will build a better In order to meet these challenges we recruited additional engineers future for all our stakeholders.
and have now brought repair work in hand to the equivalent of a In 2011 we added a new strategic priority which reects our work day and a halfs work.
Provision lead times improved to an average of to embed sustainability and corporate responsibility at the core of our 10 days at the end of March 2011.
We will learn from what went business.
wrong and will work more closely with our CP customers to ensure that together we provide better volume forecasts and we have a more Our strategic priorities exible resource that can meet peaks of demand more effectively.
Driving broadband-based consumer services We did make progress in a number of other areas.
Call handling Competition in the UK consumer market is intense and customers times for consumer sales improved by 19 seconds due to the demands are evolving.
Around 99 per cent of UK premises now have introduction of Agent.
com, a new system that allows our sales agents access to broadband and customers are increasingly buying their line to process orders faster and more effectively.
With the rollout of a and calls service together with broadband and TV.
We already provide desktop help system, broadband consumer customers can now solve a comprehensive broadband service offering many features and offer many problems without the need to call our service centres.
Within attractively priced bundles of services.
BT Retail, our one contact resolution aims to deal with customer queries in one call.
We saw the number of queries dealt with in one 2 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 Report of the Directors Business review 02 U10648 Report of the Directors.
qxp:BT PLC 02 19 5 11 17:39 Page 3 Bleed: 0 mm Scale: 100% During 2011 we made the following progress: Banking & Financial Markets: Commerce: Consumer Packaged Goods: we grew our retail broadband customer base to 5.7m, up and Government & Health.
We also invested in growth areas such as 11 per cent multi-protocol label switching MPLS, Ethernet, unied 144,000 customers now take our super-fast bre-based communications, security, customer relationship management, broadband service, BT Innity mobility and cloud services.
Last year we identied the Asia Pacic 79 per cent of the total UK broadband market, including cable, is region as a target for investment and we are strengthening our ability now delivered over the BT network, with our retail share at 29 per to support new and existing customers in this growing market.
cent During 2011 we made the following progress: our retail share of Digital Subscriber Line DSL and Local Loopwe delivered operating cash ow of 119m, a year ahead of Unbundling LLU net additions in the fourth quarter of 2011 was target 64 per cent, the highest share of quarterly additions in eight yearsorder intake was 7.3bn BT Visions customer base grew to 575,000. we invested to grow our presence in the Asia Pacic region Looking ahead, we are aiming to grow the number of services wewe have been recognised as a leader, winning the award for Best provide customers by building on our position as the market leader in Global Operator at the World Communication Awards 2010. broadband.
TV is a growth area for us and one that will benefit from Our future plans include: the roll-out of super-fast broadband.
On-demand TV is becomingbuilding on our strong market position in managed networked more popular and TV services will become increasingly personalised IT services and interactive.
It is for those reasons that we are investing in contentexpanding further to serve our customers in fast-growing and delivery, improving the user-interface for BT Vision and economies participating in the YouView joint venture.
developing our relationships with our target customers, and In addition, over the coming years we expect to see the improving their customer experience emergence of a range of broadband-based consumer services, building and enhancing industry based solutions in key sectors building on new and existing services.
There will also be new making our operations more efficient opportunities in the entertainment and networked home space, generating around 200m of operating cash ow in 2012. such as energy usage management and home automation.
Our future plans for driving broadband-based consumer services The wholesaler of choice include: BT is committed to supplying CPs in the UK and overseas with vital continuing to offer attractive bundled voice, broadband and communications infrastructure and services.
While we are already the TV services largest wholesaler in Europe, there are significant opportunities for us enhancing our entertainment offering with services such as online to win new business.
We aim to be the wholesaler of choice in the gaming UK, where we already have more than 1,000 CP customers, provide seeking new opportunities to differentiate our services, for xed-line services to the five key mobile operators and are the example by using our winetwork.
We also operate an international wholesale business, where we serve customers in over 170 countries.
Being the Brand for Business for UK SMEs During 2011 we made the following progress: We are the leading provider of xed-line communications services forour managed network services MNS revenue grew by 8 per cent SMEs in the UK, and we are well-placed to grow our revenue from IT40 per cent of BT Wholesales external revenue is now and mobility services.
The market remains highly fragmented and we underpinned by long-term contracts believe this provides us with further opportunities to become theour second generation copper broadband service is available to main brand SMEs trust by providing a one-stop shop for all their over 65 per cent of UK premises communications needs, and will help us to increase our market share.
we received the Best Wholesale Carrier award in the World During 2011 we made the following progress: Communication Awards 2010. improved trends in BT Business compared with prior years, with Our future plans for becoming the wholesaler of choice include: revenue only marginally down in 2011increasing the proportion of revenue under long-term contract by IT services and mobility revenue grew by 17 per cent and 14 per selling new MNS contracts cent, respectively.
making investments in Wholesale Broadband Connect, our second Our opportunities for growth include selling new services to our generation broadband, which we plan to extend to cover around existing customer base and helping customers migrate to cloud- 80 per cent of UK premises by December 2011 based services, which allow customers to connect to broadband andlaunching IP services that enable our CP customers to enter and IT services on a more exible basis.
exploit new and emerging markets Our future plans for becoming the Brand for Business for UKincreasing capacity on our IP platforms to meet growing customer SMEs include: demand increasing the number of SME customers buying our servicescontinuing to evolve our next generation product portfolio for the selling more IT services and mobility to our existing SME customers global wholesale market.
offering bundles which combine xed and mobile communication and IT services.
The best network provider BT is the largest provider of xed-lines in the UK and through BT Global Services a global leader Openreach we manage the last mile of the UK access network.
We BT Global Services is already a global leader in the provision of offer access to this network to other CPs on an open and equal basis.
Over the past year we have focused It is our aim to improve network reliability, extend our Ethernet on improving the performance of the business by simplifying the footprint, continue our super-fast broadband roll-out and put in portfolio, rationalising systems and networks, industrialising the place systems improvements and transformation programmes to process of bid management and exploiting standardisation and enhance our proposition, reduce our cost base and make it easier for automation.
During the year we adopted an industry sector-based CPs to do business with us.
structure to help focus on customer needs in four global sectors: Report of the Directors Business review British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 3 02 U10648 Report of the Directors.
qxp:BT PLC 02 19 5 11 17:39 Page 4 Bleed: 0 mm Scale: 100% During 2011, we made the following progress: Our future plans for becoming the best network provider include: we rolled out our super-fast bre-based broadband network tocontinuing with our super-fast broadband roll-out reach over 4m UK premisesproviding new access products such as duct and pole access we contributed to the growth of the broadband market in the UKimproving our overall efficiency while improving the resilience and by the provision of 7.6m external unbundled lines, up 15 per cent reliability of our networks we extended our footprint to over 1,000 Ethernet bre nodes, increasing our potential FTTC speeds to up to 80Mbps.
providing the largest Ethernet network in the UK we commenced testing a 1Gbps service over bre-to-the-premises.
A responsible and sustainable business leader Our 2.5bn investment in super-fast bre-based broadband will We believe that long-term profitable growth can be aided by make the UK one of the best connected countries in the world.
supporting the communities in which we operate and through Our super-fast bre roll-out plans are ambitious and we are sustainable business practices.
We are committed to contributing working to pass two thirds of UK premises by the end of 2015.
To positively to society, the economy and the environment through our deliver this we are installing 30,000 cabinets, connecting 200,000 operations, our employees and our products and services.
We aim to distribution points, enabling over 1,000 exchanges and laying over provide products and services which enable our customers to be more 50,000km of bre.
We have developed and rened our systems and sustainable by making use of innovative communication and processes to enable us to deliver bre faster and we are upgrading managed networked IT services.
more than 250 cabinets and enabling around 80,000 premises each Even though this is a new strategic priority, we are already week to access bre.
recognised as a responsible and sustainable business leader.
For We also aim to bring bre to homes and businesses in the final example we have: third of the UK, given the right investment and regulatory conditionscut our absolute carbon footprint by 53 per cent since 1997 and and access to Government funds.
reduced energy consumption by 2.5 per cent in 2011 We are planning to roll out two solutions as part of our super-fastinvested money and in-kind contributions worth 27.6m broadband deployment: supporting responsible and sustainable business activities, bre-to-the-cabinet FTTC where new bre-optic cables link exceeding our commitment to invest at least 1 per cent of group telephone exchanges to road-side cabinets and our copper lines pre-tax profits are used to deliver super-fast broadband to premiseslaunched a new online fundraising service for UK charities called bre-to-the-premises FTTP where new bre-optic cables are MyDonate, the first online fundraising service not to charge a deployed the whole way from the exchange to the premises.
subscription fee or commission We have deployed FTTC first and are on track to pass around 5mmaintained gold sector status in the Dow Jones Sustainability premises during 2011.
Currently, we are conducting FTTP trials at a Index and Platinum Plus level in the Business in the Community number of sites with speeds of up to 1Gbps and full commercial FTTP Corporate Responsibility Index.
We also won awards such as the is expected to be launched in 2011.
World Communication Awards Green Award.
We see the Governments creation of Broadband Delivery UK More details of our corporate responsibility activities can be found at BDUK as a positive step in providing services to the final third of Our corporate responsibility on page 15. premises in rural areas of the country where it is not currently An increasing number of customers are seeking to source from economic to provide super-fast broadband services.
We are suppliers that can demonstrate a strong track record in improving the committed to exploring ways to extend the footprint of super-fast sustainability of their own businesses.
Our credentials as a responsible broadband, and our deployments in Cornwall and Northern Ireland and sustainable business leader support our ability to win and retain demonstrate that commitment.
We also plan to contribute in many other ways through All parts of the business play a role in the delivery of super-fast the responsible use of resources: through our employment: and broadband: through our community involvement.
Our drive for BT to be a better Openreach is building the bre access infrastructure which will business with a better future is therefore linked to our commitment to offer super-fast broadband to all CPs on an open and equal basis be a leader in corporate responsibility and sustainability.
BT Wholesale is developing products and services which use the Our future plans for maintaining and enhancing our position as a Openreach network so it can offer managed super-fast broadband responsible and sustainable business leader include: to its CP customersbuilding stronger communities through the power of our BT Retail and BT Global Services will purchase the BT Wholesale technology and people offer and design their own propositions and services for end users, reducing carbon emissions and our impact on the environment for instance BT Innity through our operations and products BT Innovate & Design and BT Operate both play a key role inbehaving responsibly towards our customers, people and our leading the design, development and end-to-end testing of the suppliers platforms, systems and products that will underpin ourpromoting MyDonate for the benefit of charities and fundraising.
Through Openreach we have continued to invest in our marketHow we measure our progress leading UK Ethernet footprint.
Ethernet is a data service primarily We measure our overall progress by two key performance indicators: used by businesses to create their own private networks and can run reported free cash ow and customer service improvement.
Being the best network provider is not just about expanding Reported free cash ow coverage.
Openreach has made substantial progress in improving the Reported free cash ow in 2011 was 2,015m, compared with copper access network in recent years.
Network resilience has been 1,935m in 2010 see Financial review page 21. improved through an extensive programme of work, accompanied by efficiency gains with regard to provision and repair times.
As a result Customer service of these efforts, customers now experience a copper line fault once in In 2011 we achieved a 3 per cent increase in the internal scores every 14 years compared with once in every nine years as we use to measure customer service.
This compares with a 10.5 per experienced four years ago.
4 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 Report of the Directors Business review 02 U10648 Report of the Directors.
See customer service delivery on page 2 The UK consumer broadband market has grown to reach more than for more information.
BT has contributed to this growth by supplying LLU over which suppliers can deliver broadband services.
The UK is Outlook now the sixth largest broadband market in the world by number of We are focusing on long-term profitable revenue growth.
revenue excludes the impact of foreign exchange movements, Broadband penetration has increased year-on-year and the xed acquisitions and disposals and specic items.
As transit trafc is lowbroadband penetration rate now exceeds 65 per cent.
This has been margin and signicantly impacted by regulatory reductions in mobile driven by the increasing use of the internet by consumers.
The termination rates, with no impact on the groups profitability, we number of adults accessing the internet every day has increased have excluded transit revenue from our key measure of underlying 42 per cent over the past three years.
revenue performance of the group.
Underlying revenue excluding We believe that xed broadband will remain most popular with transit was down 3% in 2011 and we expect it to be in the range customers and mobile broadband will be largely complementary.
The down 2 per cent to at in 2012 and to grow by up to 2 per cent in increasing importance of broadband-enabled services in our daily 2013. lives and initiatives such as the Government sponsored Race Online 2012 have contributed to continued growth in the broadband market.
OUR MARKETS AND CUSTOMERS Pay TV services remain popular with customers and this sector We compete in a number of markets including the consumer and SME continues to grow in size.
The UK pay TV market is estimated at markets in the UK and delivering managed networked IT services around 5.7bn and has increased by over 30 per cent in the past globally.
We also offer a range of wholesale and access products and three years.
Customers value the convenience of internet-based TV services to CPs, both in the UK and internationally.
Ofcom data shows that 31 per cent of internet-enabled In the UK, regulation and the open, commercial marketplace have households watched catch-up TV online, up from 23 per cent a year created one of the most competitive telecoms markets in the world.
Some of the products and services we offer in the UK are regulated There are a number of companies in the UK market supplying pay because of our significant market power in some sectors.
See TV, video-on demand, and catch-up TV services.
YouView, the joint Regulation on page 6 for more information.
We also offer access venture between the BBC, ITV, Channel 4, BT and others is expected services on an open and equal basis to all CPs.
to be launched in calendar year 2012 and will make a significant contribution to the UK TV market.
UK consumers The consumer xed-line telecoms market in the UK is highly UK SMEs competitive, with more than 160 companies offering broadband The overall SME market in the UK is estimated as having 4.8m and or voice services.
Although total UK residential xed-line call customers with spend on IT, broadband and network services estimated minutes have declined 18 per cent over the past three years, the at about 29bn.
Competition to supply services to SME customers number of residential lines is up 2 per cent over this period according remains fragmented, with many of our competitors typically focusing to Ofcom data.
The decline in xed-line call minutes can be on specic segments of the market depending on customer size, focus attributed to factors such as consumers increasingly using mobile and geography.
Our competitors include companies focused on phones rather than xed-line phones, while the continued growth in providing services to SMEs such as Daisy and Opal, larger companies xed-line broadband has helped slow the decline in the number of such as Virgin Media and Cable & Wireless Worldwide, and mobile residential lines.
operators and IT services companies such as Phoenix IT and BT is the leading provider of xed-line voice and broadband Computacenter.
services in the UK consumer market.
We provide consumers with a We are the leading provider of xed-line communications services range of services including xed-line voice, broadband and TV for SMEs in the UK market.
Our share of the xed-line market is 52 per products and services.
We also provide directory services both in cent and we have around 1m SME customers, characterised by their print and via directory enquiries and sell telephones and computer diversity.
They range from start-ups and microbusinesses with fewer equipment through our online retail presences.
than 10 employees to medium-sized business with up to 1,000 BTs share of the xed-line market has declined from 69 per cent employees.
to 51 per cent over the past three years, reecting the competitive The recession has had an impact on SMEs spending levels with the nature of the market and continued growth in LLU.
The share of the markets for xed-line voice and data, mobile services and IT services xed-line market provided by cable has remained at at 18 per cent all declining since 2008.
IT services spend is expected to resume over the same period.
growth in calendar year 2011, while we expect the xed-line voice An important change in the consumer market occurred when and data market to continue to decline, driven in part by the regulation was modied to allow us to sell our products and services significant fall in xed-line business call minutes.
A positive trend in in bundles to customers for one price.
This has allowed us to compete the market is SME customers increasing preference to buy bundled with other providers in offering attractive bundles: 40 per cent of UK services, comprising xed lines, mobile and broadband.
consumers currently buy triple-play services of broadband, pay TV Calendar year 2011 saw a modest recovery in the economy with and xed-line telephony.
GDP growth becoming positive after shrinking 3.5 per cent the We sell our services to consumers online directly and via selected previous year, but conditions for SMEs remain challenging.
We have afliates and through our call centres.
We also advertise across a seen a 14 per cent reduction year-on-year in the number of range of media including TV and social media, such as Facebook.
companies going into liquidation, but levels remain above historical More information about our products and services for UK consumers trends.
can be found in BT Retail on page 11.
The UK broadband market is highly competitive.
Following a period of industry consolidation, our main competitors are Virgin Media, TalkTalk Group and Sky.
Between us we account for 87 per cent of the broadband market.
Report of the Directors Business review British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 5 02 U10648 Report of the Directors.
qxp:BT PLC 02 19 5 11 17:39 Page 6 Bleed: 0 mm Scale: 100% Global networked IT services continued bandwidth growth with capacity more than trebling on our The global market for networked IT services is fragmented with a network over the past five years.
To support the rapid growth of high wide range of products and services and with many different bandwidth services like video over xed and mobile networks, a competitors, from large IT corporations and network-based vendors, number of service providers are buying wholesale managed services such as BT, through to niche technology suppliers.
to meet this demand quickly rather than building their own Estimates of industry size and growth trends vary.
services market is estimated to have a value of US$584bn.
Source: We expect the sale of wholesale managed network services to IDC Global IT services market size.
Source Worldwide Black Book Q1, continue to grow in line with developments in services like xed and 2011.
After several years of relatively at spend on IT services due to mobile broadband and internet-based TV.
economic conditions, many industry analysts are forecasting higher In the UK, Ofcom regulates some of our wholesale broadband rates of growth for 2012. products based on geographic markets: in Market Three, which Demand for network based IT services continues to evolve with contains the most competitive exchanges mainly urban areas our customers increasingly seeking to unify their communications where wholesale broadband products are not regulated: in Market Two an organisations infrastructure, mobility, desktop and applications where there is some competition mainly suburban areas, and in work together more effectively.
They are also looking to virtualise Market One where there is very little or no competition mainly rural their infrastructure virtualisation or cloud services where customers areas, our products are regulated.
business applications can be provided across BTs network rather than from their own premises, for example virtual data or contact centre Access solutions.
They continue to want their networked IT services In the UK, we manage the last mile of the access network the delivered securely, efficiently and globally.
copper wires and bre connecting homes and businesses to their local Increasingly, our customers are asking us to help them capture the telephone exchange through Openreach.
We offer wholesale access opportunities in a recovering economy, as well as reducing costs and products and services on an open and equal basis to CPs so that they improving efficiency in their businesses.
As well as helping customers can offer voice and broadband services to their own end customers.
reduce their capital expenditure, virtualised services, such as virtual The competitive challenge we face in the UK access market varies data centres also provide energy savings.
We face direct competition in urban and We are a global leader in the networked IT services market with metropolitan areas with some competition in rural areas.
We also face around 7,000 corporate and public sector customers.
competition from cable and mobile across our footprint.
We supply networked IT services to national and local government We supply a range of access products directly to large and small organisations and other public sector bodies around the world.
This includes products such as LLU which enables CPs to lease are one of the largest suppliers of networked IT services for the UK the local loop infrastructure from Openreach to offer voice and Government.
The UK Government, collectively, is BTs largest broadband to their own customers, Wholesale Line Rental WLR and customer, but the provision of services to any one of its departments Ethernet products.
Under new obligations, we will also be offering or agencies does not comprise a material proportion of our revenue.
products which give greater access to our underlying network Except as described in Our relationship with HM Government on infrastructure such as access to ducts and poles.
page 7, the commercial relationship between BT as a supplier and the In the traditional xed-line access market, we continue to see a UK Government as a customer is on a normal customer and supplier steady rise in the number of households in unbundled exchange basis.
areas, which over the last three years has risen by around 5 per cent.
We are also seeing customers maintaining a focus on energy In the UK local access market, the roll-out of BTs super-fast efficiency, ethical supply chain and other components of responsible broadband network will improve the services available to customers.
Through BT Conferencing we are a Other companies have also embarked on rolling out high-bandwidth leading supplier of videoconferencing services globally and we have broadband networks, making this a competitive sector.
Demand for seen growing demand for videoconferencing, a service which helps high bandwidth Ethernet access services also continued to grow.
both to drive business efficiency and limit emissions by reducing travel.
We also provide backhaul services for mobile voice and data.
We expect to see more demand for these services with the increasing use Wholesale of smartphones and tablet devices.
We believe that this market will BT operates in wholesale markets in the UK through BT Wholesale and continue to develop in the coming years with the roll-out of next Openreach, and outside of the UK primarily through the wholesale generation access networks and high bandwidth applications.
arm of BT Global Services.
BTs wholesale customers are xed and mobile operators, internet service providers ISPs, broadcasters and Regulation other CPs.
We have over 1,000 such customers in the UK many more Regulation in the UK around the world.
Electronic communications regulation in the UK is conducted within a The landscape for wholesale communications remains competitive framework set out in various EU directives, regulations and following the significant market consolidation of recent years.
The framework was recently reviewed Competition continues to increase as a result of wholesale carriers and amended directives are expected to be implemented by late May rolling out their own IP network infrastructure and the switch from 2011 in the UK and other EU member states.
legacy to next generation products.
Our competitors in the UK include Cable & Wireless Worldwide, TalkTalk Group, Virgin Media and Ofcom COLT, as well as a range of equipment vendors.
Many of these Ofcom was set up under the Ofce of Communications Act 2002 to competitors are also customers.
Internationally, we compete with the provide a single, seamless approach to regulating the entire UK wholesale divisions of local incumbents and alternative network communications market.
Its principal duties are to further the operators as well as global wholesale players.
interests of citizens in relation to communications matters, and to The wholesale market is beginning to adopt next generation further the interests of consumers in relevant markets, where communications services like IP voice, higher speed broadband over appropriate by promoting competition.
Ofcom regulation takes the copper and bre and Ethernet for data connectivity.
We have seen form of sets of conditions laid down under the Communications Act 6 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 Report of the Directors Business review 02 U10648 Report of the Directors.
qxp:BT PLC 02 19 5 11 17:39 Page 7 Bleed: 0 mm Scale: 100% 2003 Communications Act, and directions under these conditions.
Ofcom is currently consulting on charge controls for WBA Market Some conditions apply to all providers of electronic communications One, LLU, WLR and ISDN30 Wholesale products.
networks and services: others apply to individual providers, which Ofcom has imposed SMP charge control regulation on the mobile Ofcom has designated as universal service providers or having call termination market with effect from April 2011.
Termination rates significant market power SMP in a particular market.
charged by mobile network operators will fall to 0.69 pence per minute by April 2014.
This will enable us to cut the cost of calling Conditions applying to all providers mobiles from xed lines.
Although these general conditions are concerned mainly with Regulatory decisions by Ofcom are subject to appeal.
consumer protection, they also include requirements relating to general access and interconnection: standards: emergency planning: BTs Undertakings the payment of administrative charges: the provision of information In response to Ofcoms 2005 strategic review of telecommunications, to Ofcom: and numbering.
A separate condition regulates the we proposed a number of legally-binding Undertakings under the provision of premium rate services.
The Electronic Communications Enterprise Act 2002 Enterprise Act.
These Undertakings, which Code applies to all CPs authorised to carry out streetworks and similar included the creation of Openreach, were accepted by Ofcom and activities for network provision.
came into force in September 2005.
The Undertakings are intended to deliver clarity and certainty to the UK telecommunications industry Conditions applying to BT about the way BT will provide upstream regulated products to support Universal service obligations USO are dened in an order issued by effective and fair competition in related downstream markets.
Ofcom the Secretary of State.
BT is the designated supplier of universal acknowledges that BTs delivery of the Undertakings has enabled service for the UK, excluding the Hull area where KCOM Group is the deregulation in more competitive downstream markets.
Our primary obligation is to ensure that basic majority of the commitments in the Undertakings have been delivered.
xed-line services are available at an affordable price to all citizens and consumers in the UK.
Other conditions relate to payphones and Business Rates social needs schemes.
The UK Governments plans for the digital The European Commission formally investigated the way the UK economy have created a fund of up to 830m that is available via Government set the rates payable on BTs infrastructure and those competitive tender to bidders in order to deliver the Governments paid by KCOM, and whether or not the UK Government complied ambition for rural next generation access.
This is not part of BTs USO, with EU rules on state aid.
The Commission decisions in October 2006 but BT is likely to be one of the providers eligible to bid for such that no state aid had been granted was appealed.
the appeal was rejected as inadmissable.
significant market power designations Our relationship with HM Government Ofcom is also required by EU directives to review relevant markets We can be required by law to do certain things and provide certain regularly, and determine whether any CP has SMP in those markets.
services for the UK Government.
For example, under the Where Ofcom nds that a provider has SMP, it must impose Communications Act, we and others can be required to make and appropriate remedies that may include price controls.
In 2011 Ofcom implement plans for the provision or restoration of services in completed market reviews of the Wholesale Local Access WLA, connection with disasters.
Additionally, under the Civil Contingencies Wholesale Broadband Access WBA, WLR and ISDN30 markets, Act 2004, the UK Government can impose obligations on us and covering products such as LLU and IPstream.
Ofcoms WLA review others at times of emergency and in connection with civil conclusions include new obligations on BT to provide a bre-based contingency planning.
Also, the Secretary of State can require us to Virtual Unbundled Local Access VULA product and an obligation to take certain actions in the interest of national security and share our ducts and poles for bre-based broadband purposes.
In the WBA market, Ofcom increased the size of the mainly urban deregulated geographic market Market Three, and introduced a Regulation outside the UK price regulation obligation in the rural areas Market One subject to BT must comply with the regulatory regimes in the countries in which further consultation on appropriate charge controls see SMP charge we operate and this can have a material impact on our business.
Ofcom has deregulated the ISDN30 market at the retail level and proposed charge controls at wholesale level subject to European Union further consultation see SMP charge controls below.
Later in the Communications regulation in each EU country is conducted within 2011 calendar year, Ofcom is expected to begin a market review of the regulatory framework determined by EU directives, regulations the business connectivity markets covering products such as retail and recommendations.
The manner and speed with which the and wholesale leased lines.
existing directives have been implemented vary from country to country.
National regulators are working together in the Body of SMP charge controls European Regulators for Electronic Communications to introduce As a result of SMP designations, the charges we can make for a greater harmonisation in their approach to the assessment of SMP number of wholesale services are subject to regulatory controls which and the imposition of appropriate remedies.
are designed to ensure that our charges are reasonably derived from costs, plus an appropriate return on capital employed.
These include: The rest of the world network charge controls NCC on wholesale interconnect services The vast majority of the communications markets in which we we operate under interconnection agreements with most other operate around the world are subject to regulation.
The degree to CPs which these markets are liberalised varies widely, and our ability to partial private circuits PPC charge controls applying to certain compete is severely constrained, to a greater or lesser degree, in wholesale leased lines that BT provides to other network operators many countries.
We continue to press incumbent operators and their certain wholesale Ethernet access and backhaul services national regulatory authorities around the world including in the EU LLU and WLR.
for cost-related non discriminatory wholesale access to their networks, where appropriate, and for advance notice of any changes Report of the Directors Business review British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 7 02 U10648 Report of the Directors.
qxp:BT PLC 02 19 5 11 17:39 Page 8 Bleed: 0 mm Scale: 100% to their network design or technology which would have an impact new skills and nd jobs within BTs growth areas or while seconded to on our ability to serve our customers.
We have people on different types of working arrangements Competition law including part-time, term-time and job share.
Our resources at In addition to communications industry-specic regulation, BT is 31 March 2011 were equivalent to 75,660 full-time employees in subject to the Competition Act 1998 in the UK and to EU competition the UK, and around 16,940 outside the UK.
We continue to support an inclusive working environment where people can develop their careers and expect to be treated fairly, OUR RESOURCES regardless of their race, sex, religion beliefs, disability, marital or civil BTs resources include our people, physical networks and property partnership status, age, sexual orientation, gender or caring estate: our expertise and intellectual property: our brand and responsibilities.
We also work with specialist recruitment agencies to reputation: and close relationships with people and organisations, enable the recruitment of people with disabilities and we run a including major customers and suppliers.
We seek to steward these retention service to ensure that people can stay with us even if their assets and relationships in a responsible and sustainable manner.
strive to recruit and retain talented people, so that the company can We look to improve customers experiences of BT by giving our best serve its customers, build relationships, remain innovative and people up-to-date skills, tools and experience needed to do their reduce its impact on the physical environment.
This starts with our  apprentice schemes, enhance our resources in the long-term interests of the company and which recruited nearly 500 engineers during 2011 and continues all its stakeholders.
For example, as described elsewhere in this with opportunities to learn and develop throughout an employees report, we are committing 2.5bn to build a super-fast broadband career.
In BT Retail, we ran two programmes to provide apprentice network in the UK, while expanding activities outside the UK, with a qualications in job-related skills: customer service and business particular focus on the Asia Pacic region.
We continue the administration for our advisors and leadership for our managers.
innovation which is vital to any company in our sector we led 62 During the year 8,100 people successfully completed these patent applications over the past year.
In order to help deliver super-fast broadband, Openreach has Brand and reputation recruited 200 ex-armed forces personnel, who will become part of a When we develop our relationships with customers, when we make mobile engineering workforce.
They will be bringing their experience innovative and useful products, we build our reputation.
BT is proud of complex engineering tasks, their skills and technical expertise to to be one of the UKs most trusted brands our latest research shows bear on one of the UKs largest infrastructure projects.
that customers engagement with our brand has gone up 4.5 per cent BT people are also encouraged to participate in their local over the past year.
Being a responsible and sustainable business communities.
We run a formal volunteering programme to help them leader contributes to this.
In 2011 BT people volunteered over 49,000 days, the value Our brand values underpin how we like to get things done at BT.
The community benets from this They outline the behaviour our employees can expect from each involvement and the business gains from the opportunity given to other and what our customers can expect from us.
our people to enhance their existing skills or acquire new ones.
trustworthy: we do what we say we will helpful: we work as one team People engagement and communication inspiring: we create new possibilities Keeping our people informed of what is happening in BT is straightforward: we make things clear important.
We use a range of communications channels including a heart: we believe in what we do.
daily online news service, a quarterly magazine, podcasts and web As the ofcial communications partner to the London 2012 Olympic chats.
We have a record of stable industrial relations and constructive Games and Paralympic Games, we are providing the critical relationships with the recognised unions in the UK and works councils communications infrastructure to power the Games.
The partnership elsewhere in Europe.
In the UK we recognise two main trade unions is already delivering real benets and it is also helping us to engage the Communication Workers Union CWU, which represents the with local communities.
Six out of 10 BT people who were surveyed engineering, administrative and clerical population and Prospect, as part of our annual employee survey say the partnership makes which represents managerial and professional employees.
We also them feel proud to work here.
operate a pan-European works council, the BT European Consultation As well as the Games themselves, the BT Paralympic World Cup in Committee.
Manchester in May 2011 is in its second successful year.
Our Road to We measure how engaged BT people are through a quarterly 2012 project with the National Portrait Gallery celebrates those who survey and we ask 50,000 people each time to tell us how they feel are collectively making the Games happen.
about their job, their team, their manager, senior leaders and BT.
Last year, despite challenging economic conditions we held engagement People steady and this year we have seen improvements in how motivated Our people are a key resource and we are proud of what they achieve people feel to do their best work.
We use this regular and extensive for our business.
We continually work on improving the engagement feedback to let line managers know more about their teams, how and motivation of our people as this leads to better business engaged they feel and what makes BT people feel proud about what performance and higher levels of customer service.
We recognise the quality of our leadership is vital to the success of BT.
We ensure leaders at all levels understand what is expected of Reward and recognition them in leading and developing their teams.
Because we value our people, we ensure that the reward they receive Part of valuing our people is to recognise our responsibility when is fair for the job done against external market comparisons.
We the requirement for various skills changes over time.
We have a conduct a market review of salaries every year.
In 2010 we agreed successful track record of redeploying people by helping them learn with the CWU a three-year pay deal which provides considerable stability for both employees and the business.
Discussions with 8 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 Report of the Directors Business review 02 U10648 Report of the Directors.
qxp:BT PLC 02 19 5 11 17:39 Page 9 Bleed: 0 mm Scale: 100% Prospect reached an agreement for 2011 and more recent discussions copper local loop is used to deliver super-fast broadband to customer have concluded a further two-year pay deal, also providing stability premises.
FTTP involves installing bre into homes or premises, through to 2013.
The same principles of fair pay for the work done superseding the copper local loop.
Our bre services are competition are similarly applied in all other countries in which we operate.
ready from the day they are installed other CPs can buy access to Our managers are rewarded with bonuses linked to the success of the bre on wholesale terms and then sell to customers in the business and their personal contribution to it.
Our most senior competition with BT Retail.
managers are also eligible for long-term incentives, but again, BTs deployment of FTTC and FTTP will underpin the payment is related to business success measured by BTs corporate communications infrastructure for the future UK economy.
In so performance over a three-year period.
Different arrangements apply doing, the enhanced internet speeds made possible by super-fast to the most senior managers in Openreach but remain entirely related bre-based broadband increases the ability of our customers to work to business performance.
from home and to access services without travel, yielding We also provide savings-related share option plans in 25 environmental benets.
In addition to facilitating lower carbon countries.
Under the BT employee share investment plan we enable alternatives for customers, we continue to look for ways to reduce the employees in the UK to participate in a tax and national insuranceenergy consumption associated with delivering super-fast efficient share purchase scheme.
We are pleased that more than broadband.
50 per cent of BT people participate in one or more of these share For business customers, we have also continued to extend our plans.
bre Ethernet footprint, from 600 nodes in 2009 to 1,000 nodes in 2011.
Ethernet is a next generation data connectivity service offering Pensions high-speed, lower cost connectivity for large volumes of data Key parts of the reward package are the pension and retirement between sites.
In addition to statutory retirement For non-domestic customers requiring international services, our arrangements, BT provides retirement plans for staff in over 50 international MPLS network provides coverage and support around countries.
The largest of these plans is the BT Pension Scheme BTPS, the world.
It provides the performance, reliability, and security of a a dened benefit plan in the UK.
The BTPS has around 51,000 leased-line network with the scalability and exibilities of an internet contributing members, 188,000 pensioners and 88,500 deferred protocol IP network.
The BT MPLS service allows customers to members.
The BTPS was closed to new members on 31 March 2001. prioritise trafc based on application, ensuring essential data Benets are based on pensionable salary and service.
applications are served irrespective of the growth of competing, We also offer the BT Retirement Saving Scheme BTRSS, a dened lower priority trafc.
contribution plan for eligible UK employees, which has around 17,500 active members.
It is a contract based, dened contribution Global research capability arrangement provided by Standard Life, a leading UK insurance Creating attractive and competitive propositions for customers is company.
The scheme members receive benets at retirement linked critical to the future of BT.
We operate an open innovation model, to contributions paid, the performance of each individuals chosen whereby our research and development team works with customers, investments and the annuity rates at retirement.
partners and universities around the world.
They do so in partnership with our dedicated innovation scanning teams in the US, Asia, Europe Health and safety and the Middle East, which identied more than 400 new The health and safety of our people remains of paramount technologies, business propositions and market trends over the year.
importance and we continue to seek improvements by focusing on BT also seeks to drive agility and efficiency in the development behavioural and or lifestyle changes to reduce risk and improve process through our global development centres, which are located in health.
In 2011 there was a rise in lost time injuries which is largely the UK, US, Europe and India.
In so doing, we bring our innovation attributable to accidents associated with the extended period of ice scanning and research teams closer to our customers, designers and and snow in the UK winter and some contribution from an increased product development teams, so that we can quickly capitalise on the overtime requirement in the eld engineering workforce.
In 2011 we invested 684m 2010: 789m in global research and development to support our drive for Networks and platforms innovation.
This investment comprised capitalised software One of our most valuable resources is our xed-line communications development costs of 295m 2010: 345m and research and network, which is the most comprehensive in the UK with around development operating costs of 389m 2010: 444m.
5,600 exchange areas, 670 local and 120 trunk processor units.
This year, we have applied our research and innovation capability We own and maintain the last mile of the UKs local access to a number of strategic areas for the business in particular network the copper wires and bre connecting homes and enhancing BT Vision and the delivery of other information and businesses to the core network, operating approximately 120m entertainment to customers.
We have also supported BTs wikilometres of copper.
In addition, our plans for deploying superfast service with the development of BTs first smartphone application.
broadband in the UK will result in the installation of over In 2011 we led patent applications for 62 inventions 2010: 63.
We routinely seek patent protection in different countries including BT continues to invest in broadband in the UK, offering a range of the US and China, and we currently maintain a total worldwide services delivered over copper and bre.
Our copper wire broadband portfolio of around 5,600 patents and applications.
service offers speeds of up to 8Mbps ADSL and up to 20Mbps where we have upgraded service to ADSL2.
Already, around 99 per Suppliers cent of UK premises can receive ADSL service.
We aim to make BT works with around 16,700 suppliers across the world, spending ADSL2 services available to around 80 per cent of properties by approximately 11.3bn per annum with them, with the top 100 December 2011. suppliers accounting for more than 65 per cent of this spend.
Our super-fast bre-based broadband offers speeds of up to We source products and services from across the world and have 40Mbps FTTC and 100Mbps FTTP.
We aim to deploy super-fast procurement professionals located in 25 countries.
broadband to two thirds of UK premises by the end of 2015.
Our FTTC We operate a strategic sourcing process for the vast majority of product links roadside cabinets to telephone exchanges and our spend to derive maximum value and to meet BTs cost transformation Report of the Directors Business review British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 9 02 U10648 Report of the Directors.
We ensure that appropriate suppliers are engaged, underpinned Government and local councils, as well as public sector organisations by a set of purchasing principles which ensure we act in an ethically in countries outside the UK.
and commercially responsible way in our business dealings with our We operate domestic businesses in key markets in Europe such as global supply base.
Italy, Germany, and Spain, where we serve both multinational We work with our suppliers to ensure the goods and services we corporations and SME customers, and have local network procure are made, delivered and disposed of in a socially and infrastructure including high-speed bre networks in key cities.
Sustainability factors such as have operations across the Americas, and a strong business in Latin energy usage, environmental impact, and labour standards are America based on an extensive satellite network.
In 2010 we embedded in our sourcing and adjudication process, and inuence announced, and started to deliver on, a strategic investment plan to supplier and product selection.
strengthen our business in the Asia Pacic region.
Our customers benefit from BTs global scale and operating model.
Payment of suppliers Products are sold globally, and customers are served locally by our In normal circumstances, BTs payment terms for contracted suppliers teams in their own countries and sectors who understand their will be to pay each due, valid and undisputed invoice between 60 specic business challenges and create locally relevant solutions.
We and 73 days from date of receipt from the supplier.
There are call this operating globally and delivering locally.
For example interconnect payments to other We make this possible through our assets and skills.
These include telecommunications operators, low value spend, various customerour global IP network, data centres, solution design and integration specified requirements and rates are paid in shorter timescales.
In professionals and IT security experts.
By combining network, IT and 2011 the average number of days between the invoice date and the professional services we create managed solutions that help our date of the payment run for the invoice was 64. customers to operate more efficiently.
In the UK, BT provides access to a supplier nancing scheme which offers contracted suppliers the opportunity to obtain payments in Products and services advance of the agreed terms of between 60 and 73 days from receipt Networked IT services of a valid and undisputed invoice.
In addition, BT subscribes to the We connect our customers to their customers through our Virtual Better Payment Practice Code, details of which can be found at Private Network VPN, connectivity and value added services.
provide a range of products and services to do this such as BT MPLS, BT Etherow and BT Application Assured Infrastructure services to Property portfolio optimise application performance over networks.
At 31 March 2011 we occupied around 6,500 properties in the UK, and around 1,850 properties in the rest of the world.
The majority of Unied communications the UK properties are owned by and leased from Telereal Trillium, We provide a range of communication services to enable which is part of the William Pears Group.
organisations to collaborate and communicate better.
This spans from Approximately 89 per cent of the UK portfolio consists of the provision of PSTN and ISDN services, to our global managed operational telephone exchanges which contain exchange equipment services for IP telephony, and collaboration tools, either hosted on and are needed as part of our continuing activities.
Other general the customer site or as a cloud-based service.
purpose properties consist chiey of ofces, depots and computer centres.
Approximately 87 per cent of the properties in the rest of the Customer relationship management CRM world are operational sites.
Through the combination of our professional services, cloud In recent years, our strategic focus on cost transformation has led platforms and global inbound voice services, we offer a suite of CRM to significant reductions in our total labour resource.
This has resulted tools that give our customers the exibility and value they require in vacant space and under-utilisation of buildings within our UK when dealing with their end customers.
Accordingly, in 2010 we initiated a property rationalisation programme to consolidate ofce space within the Security estate which has continued in 2011.
See page 26 of the Financial We provide a range of security and risk management products from review for further details.
professional services to assess risk and vulnerability, through to a Our group property team has instigated a number of initiatives to suite of proactive managed security services.
reduce waste to landll, including changing contracts on its general waste to a recycling-led company and implementing new recycling Data centre services schemes at many sites.
With our global estate of data centres across the world, we provide a range of hosting and managed services.
With the launch of our virtual OUR LINES OF BUSINESS data centre offering, BT Virtual Data Centre VDC, we have a new Customer-facing line of business financial performance generation of cloud-based services, giving our customers exibility BT has four customer-facing lines of business: BT Global Services, and agility that comes from a cloud computing environment.
BT Retail, BT Wholesale and Openreach.
These are supported by two internal service units, BT Innovate & Design and BT Operate.
Mobility We provide a range of value-added services to help customers exploit BT Global Services the benets of mobile computing, from exible working solutions Business overview through to services to enable customers to improve the efficiency of BT Global Services is a global leader in the provision of managed both their supply chains and workforces.
networked IT services for large corporate and public sector customers.
We provide services to around 7,000 corporate and public sector customers with operations across the world in a wide range of sectors such as banking and financial services, consumer packaged goods, logistics, pharmaceuticals and manufacturing.
We serve customers in the public sector in the UK, including central 10 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 Report of the Directors Business review 02 U10648 Report of the Directors.
qxp:BT PLC 02 19 5 11 17:39 Page 11 Bleed: 0 mm Scale: 100% Financial performance BT Retail 2011 2010 Business overview m m BT Retail serves UK and Republic of Ireland consumers and SMEs Revenue 8,047 8,513 through four customer-facing divisions: BT Consumer, BT Business, Net operating costs 7,454 8,056 BT Enterprises and BT Ireland.
BT Enterprises also serves global EBITDA 593 457 customers.
Depreciation and amortisation 734 815 BT Consumer Operating loss 141 358 BT Consumer is the leading provider of xed-line broadband services Capital expenditure 498 599 in the UK market.
We offer our customers a range of innovative and Operating cash ow 119 482 value-for-money calls, lines, broadband and TV packages.
Excluding the negative impacts Products and services of foreign exchange movements and the reduction in low-margin Calls and lines we provide call services to over 10m of our xed-line transit revenue, underlying revenue excluding transit decreased by customers, offering value-added services like call minder, and value- 4%, reecting reduced UK calls and lines revenue.
In addition, last for-money unlimited call plans which include free access to 0800 and year included revenue of around 100m from the early delivery of 0845 numbers.
2011 2010 Broadband we serve the consumer broadband market with the BT m m and Plusnet brands.
BT Total Broadband provides value-added Products and services services such as online storage, security and free access to the largest ICT and managed networks 5,310 5,281 network of wihotspots in the UK, while Plusnet focuses on simple Calls and lines 822 956 broadband packages for price-conscious customers.
BT Innity is our Transit 623 782 super-fast broadband product, delivering download speeds of up to Broadband and convergence 318 334 40Mbps using FTTC technology.
Other global carrier 206 229 Other products and services 768 931 TV BT Vision our television service has over 8,000 items of video on-demand content available and offers BBC iPlayer plus TV replay Total 8,047 8,513 services from ITV and Channel 4.
BT Vision also now offers Sky Sports Revenue from networked IT services remained broadly at.
Excluding channels on exible contract terms and HD and 3D movies available the impact of around 100m in the prior year from the early delivery for download.
of contract milestones, revenue increased by 2%.
YouView, the TV joint venture between the BBC, ITV, Channel 4, BT Calls and lines revenue decreased by 14%, reecting the impact of and others, will transform the UK TV market, combining free digital the continuing trend of customers migrating to alternative IP based channels with free on-demand content from public service services.
The full commercial launch of Transit revenue decreased by 20% due to the impact of mobile YouView is planned for early in the 2012 calendar year.
termination rate reductions in Continental Europe and the continuing trend of lower wholesale call volumes.
Other global carrier revenue BT Business decreased by 10% due to lower volumes.
We supply and support business calls and lines, broadband, internet, Broadband and convergence revenue decreased by 5%.
Other mobiles and mobile applications, domains and web hosting, data and revenue, principally comprising global product revenues, decreased voice networks and IT services for SMEs.
We sell to SME customers by 18% partially due to foreign exchange movements and lower through our call centres, online, or via our desk and eld-based global demand.
We also serve the market via a network of 43 BT Local Net operating costs decreased by 7% or 6% excluding transit.
This Businesses regional franchises with their own sales staff and improvement reects further progress with our cost efficiency account management teams.
Specialist business units within BT initiatives during 2011. Business include: Our progress in addressing the cost base is demonstrated by theBT iNet: a Cisco centre of excellence specialising in infrastructure, 30% increase in EBITDA to 593m.
security and unied communications Depreciation and amortisation decreased by 10% reecting theBT Engage IT: a leading provider of business-to-business IT reduction in capital expenditure over the last year.
solutions and services The operating loss was 141m, a significant improvementBT Business Direct: an online store providing IT, computing and compared with the loss of 358m in 2010. networking equipment plus associated installation and support Capital expenditure reduced by 17% due to the timing of capital services for SMEs.
expenditure across certain of our large customer contracts, the application of more stringent investment return criteria and improved BT Enterprises procurement and programme delivery.
BT Enterprises consists of a portfolio of five separate businesses: Operating cash was an inow of 119m, a signicantBT Conferencing: Global provider of audio, video and internet improvement from an outow of 482m in 2010.
The improvement conferencing and collaboration services was achieved through higher EBITDA, improved working capital andBT Directories: Directory Enquiries 118 500, operator and lower capital expenditure.
We expect to generate around 200m of emergency services.
The Phone Book and online web reviews of operating cash ow in 2012. businesses BT Expedite: Software and IT services for medium-sized retailers Report of the Directors Business review British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 11 02 U10648 Report of the Directors.
qxp:BT PLC 02 19 5 11 17:39 Page 12 Bleed: 0 mm Scale: 100% BT Redcare & Payphones: Residential and business alarm Calls and lines revenue decreased by 9% in 2011 in what continues to monitoring and tracking facilities.
Managed, prison, card and be a competitive market environment.
private payphones, as well as meeting our obligations to provide a Broadband and convergence revenue increased by 4% reecting public payphone service the success of our broadband strategy, together with increased BT Openzone: Provision of premium wihotspots offering revenue from services such as mobility.
broadband on the move to retail customers and to wholesale ICT and managed networks revenue decreased by 5% in 2011. customers such as mobile network operators.
Net operating costs decreased by 6%.
The prior year included a Each of these businesses operates as a standalone business, with the favourable one-off internal rebate of 15m relating to prior periods.
support of BTs brand and customer relationships.
BT Enterprises also The decrease reects the reduction in revenue but also our cost serves larger organisations in the UK and worldwide through BT efficiency initiatives.
Labour productivity efficiencies resulted in a 7% Conferencing.
reduction in total labour costs.
These savings were offset by the planned investment in subscriber acquisition costs, marketing and BT Ireland product development to drive future revenue growth.
BT Ireland operates in Northern Ireland and in the Republic of Ireland.
The above factors contributed to a small increase in EBITDA to In Northern Ireland we are the leading provider of communication 1,784m in 2011.
However, excluding the one-off benets of 55m services to consumers, SMEs and the government sector.
We are also in 2010, the increase in 2011 was 4%.
responsible for providing regulated wholesale access via Openreach.
Depreciation and amortisation decreased by 3% due to the lower In the Republic of Ireland, we are one of the largest providers of level of capital expenditure in recent years.
wholesale network services to CPs.
Operating profit increased by 2% in 2011.
Excluding the one-off benets of 55m in 2010, the growth in 2011 was 6%.
Financial performance Capital expenditure increased by 4% in 2011 as a result of the a 2011 2010 continued investment in higher speed broadband services and the m m investment in the bre-based broadband roll-out in Northern Revenue 7,748 8,124 Ireland.
Net operating costs 5,964 6,347 Operating cash ow decreased by 12% in 2011.
This reects the EBITDA 1,784 1,777 impact of some strong working capital receipts in 2010.
Depreciation and amortisation 443 459 BT Wholesale Operating profit 1,341 1,318 Business overview Capital expenditure 434 417 BT Wholesale provides a broad range of voice, broadband and data Operating cash ow 1,382 1,566 communications services, including managed network services MNS a Restated.
See page 48. for xed and mobile network operators MNOs, ISPs and telecoms resellers in the UK.
Excluding a one-off benefit of Through our Media and Broadcast and agilemedia business units 40m in 2010 relating to prior periods, the decrease was 4%.
we also support the network needs of global broadcasting Revenue in the second half of 2011 was down 3%, an improvement organisations, from connectivity and digital media management to on the 5% decline in the first half after excluding the one-off benefit production, post-production and interactive audience participation.
Through close collaboration with Global Telecoms Markets the BT Consumer revenue decreased by 6% as the reduction in calls wholesale arm of BT Global Services the business also supports the and lines revenue more than offset growth in broadband revenue.
needs of communications provider customers worldwide.
BT Business revenue decreased by 1% as declines in calls and lines Over the last three years, we have built a successful MNS business revenue were largely offset by growth in IT services and mobility for xed and mobile CPs with differing requirements, from fully revenue.
managed network outsourcing for operators with significant network BT Enterprises revenue decreased by 2% principally due to lower assets to white label managed services designed to help brand revenue in BT Redcare & Payphones.
extenders with limited or no infrastructure.
BT Ireland revenue decreased by 6%.
Excluding the negative We manage and support the network and services requirements of impact of foreign exchange movements and the reduction in lowa number of national operators including KCOM Group, Virgin Media, margin transit revenue, revenue decreased by 3%, in a difficult Orange UK, Vodafone, O2 and MBNL.
By making our networks and economic climate.
services available to other CPs, we provide them with an alternative a 2011 2010 to building their own network infrastructure.
m m We have long-term MNS contracts in place with all of the UKs Products and services mobile network operators to help them manage the growth in mobile Calls and lines 4,491 4,953 data and video content generated by 3G services with high speed Broadband and convergence 1,311 1,258 data connections that link mobile base stations to their and BTs core ICT and managed networks 551 578 networks.
Other products and services 949 962 External revenue 7,302 7,751 Products and services Internal revenue 446 373 Wholesale broadband We are the UKs largest wholesale provider of broadband, nationally Total 7,748 8,124 measured by reach and revenue.
This includes sales to CP customers a Restated.
See page 49. with their own broadband infrastructure but which choose our services outside their own network footprints, as well as other parts of the BT Group.
12 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 Report of the Directors Business review 02 U10648 Report of the Directors.
qxp:BT PLC 02 19 5 11 17:39 Page 13 Bleed: 0 mm Scale: 100% a 2011 2010 We offer a range of broadband services, delivered over copper and m m bre with speeds of up to 8Mbps ADSL, up to 20Mbps ADSL2 Products and services and up to 40Mbps over bre.
At 31 March 2011 our up to 20Mbps Transit 895 976 service was available from exchanges serving over 65% of UK Conveyance and interconnect 609 578 premises 2010: 55%.
At the end of March 2011 more than 35 CPs ICT and managed networks 771 715 were either selling or trialling our bre-based broadband service.
Broadband and convergence 335 488 Calls and lines 282 316 Content distribution network Other products and services 338 293 During the year we developed a content distribution network to help External revenue 3,230 3,366 our CP customers manage the rapidly rising volume of video content Internal revenue 980 1,226 which is being downloaded over xed and mobile broadband networks.
Our network will make this trafc more cost-efficient for Total 4,210 4,592 CPs to manage and, through the provision of quality of service, will a Restated.
See page 49. enable assured quality and a range of new business models for digital content.
Transit revenue decreased by 8% as a result of transit volume reductions and the price impact of regulatory mobile termination rate Wholesale Ethernet reductions.
We offer IP-based Ethernet services giving customers high-speed Conveyance and interconnect revenue increased by 5% driven by data connectivity at a range of speeds up to 1Gbps.
2011 Wholesale Ethernet over bre was available from over 1,000 Broadband and convergence revenue decreased by 31% due to nodes throughout the UK 2010: 800 nodes.
securing volumes under long-term MNS contracts and, to a lesser extent, the continuing trend of CPs switching to LLU provided by Private and partial private circuits Openreach.
BT Wholesale is a major provider of traditional data circuits in the UK The declines have been partly offset by an increase of 8% in MNS which help our customers to extend the reach of their services and revenue.
The rate of growth has slowed compared with 2010 as the act as inll solutions for their own networks.
focus on contracts has switched to delivery and achieving key milestones.
Capacity and call-based products Calls and lines revenue decreased by 11% reecting lower circuit We continue to sell a wide range of capacity and call-based products volumes as customers seek alternative products and services such as and services, both regulated and non-regulated, using both Ethernet.
As we refresh our core portfolio with Other products and services revenue increased by 15% driven next generation replacements, we are migrating these services to our partly by growth in IP-based Ethernet services and our digital media IP network platform.
One of these new products is IP Exchange, BT business.
Wholesales global IP interoperability platform that allows CPs to Net operating costs decreased by 11%, or 5% after reecting the manage traditional and IP voice calls on a single gateway, regardless impact of changes in the internal trading model.
Excluding transit, of whether the calls are from mobile or xed handsets.
The decrease was partly due to the decline in revenue, but also due to the impact of our cost efficiency White label managed services programmes principally through reductions in our total labour Our white label managed services business enables customers with resource.
limited or no infrastructure to offer telecoms services such as The above factors contributed to a 3% decrease in EBITDA.
telephony and broadband without the need to invest capital.
We Depreciation and amortisation decreased by 9% to 619m.
provide a complete service from accepting and processing new orders Operating profit increased by 4% due to the decline in EBITDA through to customer service and end user billing.
being offset by lower depreciation and amortisation.
Capital expenditure increased by 1%, reecting the increased Financial performance investment in our Ethernet and Wholesale Broadband Connect a 2011 2010 m m footprints.
Operating cash ow decreased by 1% in 2011.
After adjusting Revenue 4,210 4,592 2010 for the intra group VAT settlement with Openreach, operating Internal revenue 980 1,226 cash ow decreased by 7% primarily due to the timing of working External revenue 3,230 3,366 capital payments and the increase in capital expenditure.
Net operating costs 2,894 3,239 EBITDA 1,316 1,353 Openreach Depreciation and amortisation 619 680 Business overview Operating profit 697 673 Openreach is responsible for the last mile of the UK access network the copper wires and bre connecting homes and businesses to their Capital expenditure 329 325 local telephone exchange via xed-line local and backhaul Operating cash ow 911 917 connections.
Openreach connects 5,600 exchange areas through a Restated.
See page 48. approximately 120m kilometres of copper wire.
All Openreach customers currently approximately 490 CPs, including other BT In 2011 revenue declined by 8%.
After reecting the impact of lines of business are offered fair, equal and open access to its changes in the internal trading model in 2011, which impacted networks.
We have nearly 19,000 eld engineers who work on behalf internal revenue by 204m in 2010, revenue declined by 4%.
of all CPs, enabling them to provide their customers with a range of Excluding low-margin transit revenue in 2011, underlying revenue services from analogue telephone lines to complex networked IT declined by 3%.
Report of the Directors Business review British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 13 02 U10648 Report of the Directors.
qxp:BT PLC 02 19 5 11 17:39 Page 14 Bleed: 0 mm Scale: 100% Products and services Depreciation and amortisation increased by 2% reecting our onWholesale line rental going investment in our next generation broadband, Ethernet and Wholesale line rental WLR enables CPs to offer telephony services bre services.
with their own brand and pricing structure over BTs network.
Operating profit increased by 14% in 2011.
Capital expenditure increased by 20% due to the investment in Local loop unbundling our super-fast bre-based broadband network and the increase in LLU enables CPs to use the lines connecting BT exchanges to end CPs infrastructure build and provision activities.
users premises, and to install their own equipment in those Operating cash ow decreased by 8%.
the intra group VAT settlement with BT Wholesale, operating cash ow decreased by 2% in 2011 as the higher capital expenditure was Ethernet largely offset by the increased EBITDA.
Openreachs Ethernet products offer CPs a wide choice of high bandwidth circuits to build or extend their customers data networks.
BT Innovate & Design BT Innovate & Design is responsible for the innovation, design, Fibre-based broadband development and delivery of the processes, networks and platforms Openreach plans to make bre-based services available to 10m UK on behalf of the customer-facing lines of business.
These are run by premises by 2012 and to two thirds of premises by the end of 2015, BT Operate.
offering speeds of up to 100Mbps.
Super-fast bre access is provided BT Innovate & Design has an operating model focused on delivery, by our Generic Ethernet Access product which comes in two types: with strong cost and quality management, which includes the whole FTTC offering download speeds of up to 40Mbps and upload speeds lifecycle of both the network and associated software.
In addition, by of up to 15Mbps: and FTTP offering download speeds of up to having the innovation, design and development skills within one 100Mbps and upload speeds of up to 30Mbps.
There are a number of team we are able to bring innovation closer to the customer, bringing CPs currently offering or trialling FTTP.
new ideas, products and services to market faster, cheaper and more At 31 March 2011 Openreach had identied 12 trial sites for its effectively for our customers.
This is supported through the use of FTTP product and already passed over 12,000 UK premises.
global development centres in the UK, US, Europe and India which improve collaboration, agility and efficiency in network and software Financial performance development by bringing together the development teams and a 2011 2010 customers.
m m We continue to reduce our cost base through a combination of External revenue 1,459 1,241 cost controls and efficiency measures.
In 2011 we reduced our unit Revenue from other BT lines of business 3,471 3,923 costs by 12% through a quality delivery process, which focuses on reRevenue 4,930 5,164 use, consolidation and standardisation, by developing software which Net operating costs 2,798 3,204 can be used to guide decisions about development, and supplier management.
EBITDA 2,132 1,960 Depreciation and amortisation 877 856 BT Operate Operating profit 1,255 1,104 BT Operate manages BTs IT and network infrastructure platforms as a Capital expenditure 1,087 907 single converged operation, providing a seamless IT infrastructure.
BT Operating cash ow 1,078 1,167 Operate also runs parts of other CPs networks on behalf of the a Restated.
See page 48. customer-facing lines of business, and is responsible for delivery of the products and services BT sells to its customers.
After reecting changes in the We monitor the reliability of BTs networks and systems, and internal trading model in 2011, which impacted internal revenue by during 2011 we had challenges but in the fourth quarter we saw an 204m in 2010, revenue was 1% lower.
Higher LLU and Ethernet improvement in performance.
A key driver to the improvement is due volumes and provisions activity were largely offset by price to uplifts on our core network platforms and systems infrastructure.
reductions and the continued migration from WLR to lower priced We establish and manage security policy and processes Metallic Path Facility MPF.
throughout BT, enabling us to meet the requirements of our External revenue was 1,459m in 2011, an increase of 18% and customers, both in the UK and globally.
reects the continuing migration of end customers to other CPs WLR BT Operate manages the groups energy strategy which aims to and LLU products.
External revenue represented 30% of our revenue reduce consumption, establish security of supply and reduce carbon in 2011 2010: 24%.
Networks and data centres managed by BT Operate Revenue from other BT lines of business decreased by 12% to account for a significant amount of BTs energy consumption in the 3,471m in 2011.
After reecting changes in the internal trading UK.
model, revenue from other BT lines of business decreased by 7% This year, BT has reduced global energy consumption by 2.5% reecting the shift of WLR and LLU volumes from other BT lines of compared with 2010.
This is the second consecutive year that BT has business to external CPs and the effect of lower Ethernet prices, reduced overall energy consumption, despite additional energy partly offset by volume increases.
required for business growth and expansion of networks.
In the UK, Net operating costs reduced by 13%.
After reecting the impact energy consumption has reduced by 2.6% compared to 2010. of changes in the internal trading model and excluding leaver costs, Our energy consumption reductions have been achieved by net operating costs reduced by 5% in 2011 achieved through process driving key initiatives including Smart Energy Control by delivering efficiencies in volume engineering activities.
building energy management systems to many sites with further sites EBITDA increased by 9% as the cost efficiencies have offset the planned for 2012.
They have also been achieved by replacing reduction in revenue.
energy-inefficient equipment, and decommissioning and rationalising our estate.
14 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 Report of the Directors Business review 02 U10648 Report of the Directors.
qxp:BT PLC 02 19 5 11 17:39 Page 15 Bleed: 0 mm Scale: 100% OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY service units, group functions, contracts, projects and programmes Introduction and are aggregated at group level.
The approach is dened in our We have a long track record of acting responsibly and supporting the group-wide risk management policies.
communities to whom we deliver services.
Our support for Children in Management is responsible for identifying, evaluating, mitigating Need telethons dates back to 1980, and that for Comic Relief to and monitoring risks.
Those risks which are significant to the group 1988.
Our environmental management system dates back to 1991. are reported and monitored through the Group Risk Register GRR We have long-standing ethical supply chain management processes which is formally updated quarterly.
The GRR includes those risks and policies on equal opportunities, fair pay and anti-bullying.
identied from across the group, which are significant as assessed on One way in which businesses strive to do better in terms of acting a quantitative and qualitative basis.
Each risk, including those in the responsibly is to compete with others for various awards.
We enter GRR, is assigned a management owner who is responsible for the these awards to help benchmark ourselves against the efforts of ongoing monitoring of the risk including changes to the risk prole other like-minded organisations.
In 2011 we were proud that we and progress of the mitigations.
maintained gold sector status in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index The BT Group plc Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that and Platinum Plus level in the Business in the Community Corporate our risks are managed appropriately and, either directly or through its Responsibility Index, as well as attaining a place in the FTSE4Good sub-committees, the Operating Committee and the Audit & Risk Index.
We were in joint first place in the Carbon Disclosure Projects Committee, undertakes regular reviews of the management of the Leadership Index, won the World Communication Award Green risks at group-wide, LoB, internal service unit and group function Award and won the Edie Award for Environmental Excellence levels.
The BT Group plc Board and the Operating Committee are We are focused on a number of strategic priorities and in 2011 we supported in their oversight of risk management by the Group Risk added a new strategic priority to be a responsible and sustainable Panel who review the GRR quarterly, consider new or emerging risks, business leader to leave no doubt about the importance we place make recommendations on the strength of mitigations and monitor on acting ethically and in the interests of the environment.
This the work of the Group Risk Management function.
Our reporting is reects an ongoing commitment to integrate the principles of structured so that emerging key issues are escalated through sustainability into the way we do business.
management to the Board as appropriate.
We are focusing our activity areas to deliver our new strategic priority: Principal risks and uncertainties building stronger communities through the power of our In common with all businesses, BT is affected by a number of risks technology and people and uncertainties, some of which are not within our control.
Many of reducing carbon emissions and our impact on the environment our risks are similar to those of comparable companies in terms of through our operations and products scale and operation.
Economic uncertainty remains a major challenge behaving responsibly towards our customers, people and our to businesses globally and we remain conscious of those risks in all suppliers.
Compliance in a global environment and The importance of CR is emphasised by the existence of a BT Group supply chain are now recognised as principal risks along with those plc Board Committee dedicated to CR and chaired by the BT plc Group risks reported on last year which were: security and resilience: major Chairman.
We also receive advice from an external leadership panel of contracts: pensions: growth in a competitive market: and independent experts.
This section highlights some of those particular risks and Our corporate responsibility risks uncertainties affecting our business but it is not intended to be an We quantify the most significant social, environmental and ethical extensive analysis of all risk and uncertainty affecting our business.
risks to BT in our corporate responsibility risk register.
This is updated These risks have the potential to impact our business, revenues, twice a year and reviewed annually.
profits, assets, liquidity and capital resources adversely.
Our processes The current corporate responsibility risks which we monitor and are designed to give reasonable, but cannot give absolute, assurance report on: that the risks significant to the group are identied and addressed.
health and safety risks to employees and the public exposed to BT There may be risks which are unknown or which are presently judged operations not to be significant but later prove to be significant.
breach of integrity or unintended release of private customer data We have included comment on mitigations that we apply to help leading to a loss of trust in BT us manage the risks: however it is possible that not all of these mitigating climate change impacts such as increased costs mitigations will be successful.
The principal risks and uncertainties associated with changing legislation should be considered in conjunction with the risk management adapting our business to reduce our exposure to the direct process, the forward-looking statements for this document and the impacts of climate change, such as severe weather Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements on ensuring that our activities and their outcomes meet legal or page 109. ethical standards for a diverse workforce unacceptable supply chain working conditions.
Our risks Where appropriate, references are made within the Our risks section Security and resilience to the aspects referred to above.
BT is dependent on the secure operation and resilience of its information systems, networks and data.
The scale of our business OUR RISKS and global nature of our operations means we are required to Our approach to managing risk manage significant volumes of personal and commercially sensitive BT Group plc has in place group-wide risk management processes for information.
the identication, evaluation, treatment and subsequent monitoring BT stores and transmits data for its own purposes and on behalf of of risks which may signicantly threaten the accomplishment of our customers, all of which needs to be safeguarded from potential objectives and long-term strategic aims.
Our risk management exposure, loss or corruption, and therefore receives a high level of processes are operated within BT lines of business LoB, internal management attention and security measures.
Report of the Directors Business review British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 15 02 U10648 Report of the Directors.
qxp:BT PLC 02 19 5 11 17:39 Page 16 Bleed: 0 mm Scale: 100% Certain of our customers require specic, highly sophisticated Risk mitigation security provisioning which we are contractually obliged to meet and We have developed business processes in support of each stage of through our continuing success in meeting those requirements we are the major contract life cycle: bid, in life, renewal and termination.
Our able to differentiate our offerings from those of our competitors.
programme of in-life reviews has been enhanced over the past two years and is designed to validate financial and non-financial controls Impact over delivery of the contracts and incorporates tiered levels of Failure or interruption of data transfer could have a significant dened review according to the scale and complexity of the contract.
adverse effect on the business.
A breach of our security and or All our contracts are subject to regular management review and many resilience affecting BTs own operations or those of our customers are subject to independent review both internal and external as part could lead to an extended interruption to network services and even of that governance.
Independent review helps us identify lessons national infrastructure.
Such failure may lead to a loss of customer learned and to promulgate best practice through the business.
confidence, termination of contracts, loss of revenue and reduced cash resources.
Additional reputational damage and financial loss Pensions may arise from a breach involving a legal failing such as breaching We have a significant funding obligation to a dened benefit pension data protection requirements.
Declining investment returns, longer life expectancy and regulatory changes may result in the cost of funding BTs main Risk mitigation dened benefit pension scheme BTPS becoming a significant We operate well established policies addressing the security and burden on our financial resources.
The triennial funding valuation of resilience requirements of our operations, our systems and systems the BTPS at 31 December 2008 and associated recovery plan was operated by us for our customers.
We have a corporate resilience agreed with the Trustee in February 2010.
Under this prudent strategy and business continuity plans in place designed to deal with funding valuation basis the deficit was 9bn and a 17-year recovery catastrophic events including, for example, major terrorist action, plan was agreed.
Details of the valuation assumptions and recovery industrial action, cyber-attacks or natural disasters.
plan are set out in note 23 to the financial statements.
Our mitigations for this diverse risk are continuously reviewed and The valuation and the recovery plan are under review by the updated which, in 2011, led to more stringent application of data Pensions Regulator whose initial view was that they had substantial encryption and segregation measures, the deployment of concerns with certain features of the agreement.
Their review is now increasingly sophisticated anomaly and intrusion detection systems, on hold and is not expected to recommence until the outcome of the and migration to distributed and virtual data centre designs that final Court decision, including any potential appeals, is known on the provide much greater inherent resilience.
Accordingly, as matters stand, it is uncertain as to when they will conclude their review.
This uncertainty is outside of Major contracts our control.
However, we do not expect this to be before the We have a number of complex and high value contracts with certain completion of the next triennial funding valuation as at 31 December customers.
The profitability of, and revenue arising from, these 2011.
As is usual, BT and the Trustee will engage with the Pensions contracts is subject to a number of factors including: variation in cost Regulator regarding the 2011 valuation.
and achievement of cost reductions anticipated in the contract pricing, both in terms of scale and time: delays in delivery or Impact achieving agreed milestones owing to factors either within or outside An increase in the pension deficit and associated funding of our control: changes in customers requirements, budgets, requirements would have a direct adverse impact on the future cash strategies or businesses: the performance of our suppliers: and other resources of the group.
Indirectly it may also have an adverse impact factors.
Any of these factors could make a contract less profitable or on the groups share price and credit rating.
A deterioration in the even loss making.
credit rating would increase the groups cost of borrowing and may The degree of risk varies generally in proportion to the scope and limit the availability or exibility of future funding thereby affecting life of the contract and is typically higher in the early transitional and the ability of the business to invest, pay dividends or repay debt as it transformational stages of the contract.
require significant investment in the early stages, which is expected to be recovered over the life of the contract.
Major contracts often Risk mitigation involve the implementation of new systems and communications Since the funding valuation at 31 December 2008 there have been a networks, transformation of legacy networks and the development of number of significant developments.
With effect from 1 April 2009 a new technologies.
The recoverability of these upfront costs may be number of benefit changes were implemented which reduce the cost adversely impacted by delays or failure to meet milestones.
of future benefit accruals and the associated risks.
During 2011 the Substantial performance risk exists in these contracts, and some or all UK Government decision to change the indexation of pension elements of performance depend upon successful completion of the benets from the Retail Prices Index to the Consumer Prices Index has transition, development, transformation and deployment phases.
affected some sections of the BTPS and resulted in a significant reduction in the liabilities and associated risks.
Impact The returns generated on the assets since 31 December 2008 have Failure to manage and meet our commitments under these contracts, also been signicantly greater than assumed in the funding valuation.
as well as changes in customers requirements, budgets, strategies or As a result the Trustees initial estimate is that the funding valuation businesses may lead to a reduction in our expected future revenue, had reduced to 3.2bn at 31 December 2010 after the deficit profitability and cash generation.
We may lose significant revenues payment of 0.5bn in March 2011.
We took the opportunity to due to the merger or acquisition of customers, changes to customer accelerate the deficit payment due in December 2011 to March 2011 strategy, business failure or contract termination.
Failure to replace as it was economically advantageous to do so.
the revenue and earnings thereby lost from such customers will lead The investment performance and liability experience as well as the to reduction in revenue, profitability and cash ow.
associated risk exposures are regularly reviewed and monitored by both the company and the Trustee of the scheme.
16 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 Report of the Directors Business review 02 U10648 Report of the Directors.
qxp:BT PLC 02 19 5 11 17:39 Page 17 Bleed: 0 mm Scale: 100% Growth in a competitive market 2011.
This regulatory action will have a significant impact on future We operate in markets which are characterised by high levels of transit revenues in the UK and Europe.
competition including: regulatory intervention on promoting We may be required to provide new services to wholesale competition: declining prices: technology substitution: market and customers on a non-discriminatory basis, increasing our costs and service convergence: customer churn: declining rates of market increasing retail competition.
Disputes may result either in reduced growth: and emerging competitors with non replicable sources of revenue or increased costs going forward.
We may also be required to competitive advantage.
make retrospective payments to CPs if it is ruled that past charging A significant proportion of our revenue and profit are generated in mechanisms we have applied have overcharged CPs.
Appeals may the UK telecommunications markets which are experiencing limited change Ofcoms decisions, which had originally been concluded in growth in revenue terms and in many cases are highly competitive.
Revenue from our xed line calls and lines services to consumers and businesses have historically been in decline.
Our ability to deliver Risk mitigation profitable revenue growth depends on delivering on our strategic We continuously monitor and review potential regulatory changes priorities see page 2. and disputes, and maintain a strategic dialogue with regulators and other key inuencers on critical issues.
Impact Failure to achieve profitable revenue growth through our strategic Compliance in a global environment priorities see Our business and strategy on pages 2 to 5 for further Some of the countries where we operate have increased their details may lead to a continued decline in revenue, erosion of our enforcement of local laws and therefore the potential impact of competitive position and might also lead to a reduction in future failing to comply with local and international legislative requirements profitability, cash ow and to a diminution in shareholder value.
Legislation is increasingly multi jurisdictional and the potential penalties, including fines, that have Risk mitigation been levied against a number of organisations, have grown in We have a clearly dened strategy aimed at delivering growth, as set frequency and value.
out on pages 2 to 5, the successful delivery of which will address the Legal compliance obligations include antitrust and antineed for growth in revenue.
corruption legislation, competition law, data privacy, trade sanctions, Our strategic priorities are underpinned by our view of the markets import and export controls, taxation and telecommunications in which we operate.
Performance against our business plans is regulatory requirements.
The UK Bribery Act which comes into effect closely monitored by management allowing interventions where in July 2011 with increased penalties for non-compliant businesses appropriate.
introduces the offence of failing to prevent bribery.
With the breadth The group has a well developed cost transformation programme in of BTs operations and complex commercial relationships we must place which has achieved significant savings and which has from a ensure that we and our business partners are compliant as a profitability perspective mitigated the revenue declines and helped continuing priority.
Impact Communications industry regulation Failure to comply with legal requirements can have a significant Some of our activities continue to be subjected to significant price impact and lead to a loss of reputation and damage to our brand with and other regulatory controls which may affect our market share, investors, regulators and customers.
Non-compliance with competitive position, future profitability and cash resources.
Many of legislation, including requirements to maintain adequate systems and our wholesale xed network activities in the UK are subject to controls, may also lead to prosecution, penalties and in some cases significant regulatory controls.
The controls regulate, among other could lead to litigation and loss of revenues and loss of profits.
things, the prices we can charge for many of our services and the Failure by our employees, suppliers or agents to comply with antiextent to which we have to provide services to other CPs.
In recent bribery and corruption legislation including the US Foreign Corrupt years the effect of these controls has required us to reduce our prices, Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act, or any failure in our policies although in some recent cases, prices have been allowed to increase and procedures to monitor and prevent non-compliance, anywhere in real terms.
in the world, could result in substantial penalties, criminal Regulatory authorities may increase the severity of the price prosecution and significant damage to our reputation.
controls, extend the services to which controls apply or extend the services which we provide to other CPs.
These controls may adversely Risk mitigation affect our market share, our ability to compete and our future We have in place a number of established controls to address this risk profitability and cash resources.
Wholesale customers may also raise including: a clear and comprehensive code of conduct, The Way We disputes with Ofcom, seeking lower prices on wholesale services Work, which is part of the mandatory training of all employees: which are not subject to direct price control.
compliance policies: global training programmes promoting adherence to applicable laws: a BT Ethics programme introduced to Impact increase the due diligence of our suppliers, contractors, agents and In recent years, changes in price controls have required us to reduce business consultants: and a programme of assurance within the our prices and in some instances to make payments in respect of business.
On a regular basis, we also review our anti-corruption and retrospective price adjustments.
Additional or more substantial bribery measures and are implementing additional procedures.
regulatory price reductions could constrain our revenue growth.
Regulatory actions may also indirectly affect us.
For example, Ofcom Supply chain has reduced the mobile termination rates that mobile network We are dependent upon our supply chain for the delivery of goods operators can charge to terminate calls on their network.
There will and services on time, to cost and specication.
A number of factors, be a stepped reduction in prices over four years starting from April including the continuing economic uncertainty have contributed to a heightening of the risk of this reliance.
Failure of any of our critical Report of the Directors Business review British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 17 02 U10648 Report of the Directors.
qxp:BT PLC 02 19 5 11 17:39 Page 18 Bleed: 0 mm Scale: 100% suppliers to meet agreed deliverables could adversely impact our customer service, product launch, business critical systems updates, revenues or cost efficiency.
BT is committed to ensuring that all dealings with suppliers, from selection and consultation, to contracting and payment are conducted in accordance with our trading and ethical policies.
Our supply chain is truly global and we aim to harness the capability, diversity and innovation of our supply market to add value to our business and customers.
Many suppliers are being impacted by the economic downturn and the challenges of globalisation.
This is introducing further risk in our supply chain which includes, but is not limited to: increase in supplier insolvency: lack of supplier resilience following a disaster: corporate social responsibility risks in our extended supply chain: and security risks relating to data protection.
Impact Our suppliers could be adversely affected by economic conditions which in turn could impact their ability to meet their obligations to us or, in the extreme, cause them to fail.
If we are unable to contract with an alternative supplier our customer commitments could also be compromised leading to contractual breach, loss of revenue, penalties or increased costs.
A failure in our supply chain to meet legal obligations or ethical expectations could adversely impact our reputation or possibly lead to censure, legal action and financial loss.
Risk mitigation We continue to mitigate this risk through a number of measures including: globally coordinated vendor management programmes: rigorous bid controls: supplier risk assessments including focus on our most critical suppliers: our Procurement Academy Programme, an internal training initiative: anti-corruption and bribery awareness training: and CR and Compliance Health Checks.
We work with our suppliers to ensure that the goods and services that we buy are made, delivered and disposed of in a socially and environmentally responsible manner.
18 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 Report of the Directors Business review
