qxp:BT PLC 05 19 5 11 17:39 Page 33 Bleed: 0 mm Scale: 100% CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICIES i Basis of preparation and presentation of the financial statements Composition of the group The groups principal operating subsidiaries and associate are detailed Compliance with applicable law and IFRS on page 108.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, Article 4 of the IAS ii Basis of consolidation Regulation and International Accounting Standards IAS and The group financial statements consolidate the financial statements International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and related of British Telecommunications plc the company and its interpretations, as adopted by the European Union.
The consolidated subsidiaries, and they incorporate its share of the results of associated financial statements are also in compliance with IFRS as issued by the and joint ventures using the equity method of accounting.
Accounting for subsidiaries Accounting convention A subsidiary is an entity that is controlled by another entity, known as The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the historical the parent.
Control is the power to govern the financial and operating cost basis, except for certain financial and equity instruments that policies of an entity so as to obtain benets from its activities have been measured at fair value.
generally accompanied by a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
Presentation of specic items Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated The groups income statement and segmental analysis separately subsidiaries are identied separately from the groups equity.
Nonidentify trading results before specic items.
Specic items are those controlling interests consist of the amounts of those interests at the that in managements judgment need to be disclosed by virtue of date of the original business combination and non-controlling share their size, nature or incidence.
In determining whether an event or of changes in equity since the date of the combination.
transaction is specic, management considers quantitative as well as The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year qualitative factors such as the frequency or predictability of are consolidated from and up to the date of change of control.
This is consistent with the way that financial performance necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of is measured by management and reported to the Board and the subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures to bring the accounting Operating Committee of BT Group plc and assists in providing a policies used in line with those used by the group.
All intra group meaningful analysis of the trading results of the group.
The directors transactions including any gains or losses, balances, income or believe that presentation of the groups results in this way is relevant expenses are eliminated in full on consolidation.
to an understanding of the groups financial performance as specic Changes in the groups ownership interests in subsidiaries that do items are identied by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
not result in the group losing control over the subsidiaries are Furthermore, the group considers a columnar presentation to be accounted for as equity transactions.
The carrying amounts of the appropriate, as it improves the clarity of the presentation and is group's interests and the non-controlling interests are adjusted to consistent with the way that financial performance is measured by reect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiaries.
Any management and reported to the Board and the Operating difference between the amount by which the non-controlling Committee of BT Group plc.
Specic items may not be comparable to interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or similarly titled measures used by other companies.
received is recognised directly in equity.
Items which have been considered to be specic items by virtue of When the group loses control of a subsidiary, the profit or loss on their size, nature or incidence include disposals of businesses and disposal is calculated as the difference between i the aggregate of investments, business restructuring programmes, asset impairment the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any charges, property rationalisation programmes and the settlement of retained interest and ii the previous carrying amount of the assets multiple tax years in a single payment.
In 2011 net interest on including goodwill, and liabilities of the subsidiary and any nonpensions has been included in specic items because of its volatile controlling interests.
nature, and also BT Global Services contract and financial review charges in 2009, by virtue of their size and nature.
Accordingly, Interests in associates and joint ventures specic items for comparative periods have been re-presented to An associate is an entity over which another entity has significant reect this reclassication.
The impact of subsequent changes to the inuence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint contract and financial review charges from revisions in estimates and venture.
significant inuence is the power to participate in the assumptions are included within trading results before specic items, financial and operating policy decisions of an entity but is not control and are separately disclosed if considered significant.
Specic items or joint control over those policies.
for the current and prior years are disclosed in note 9.
A joint venture is an entity that is jointly controlled by two or more entities.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control Critical accounting estimates and key judgements over an economic activity, and exists only when the strategic financial The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally and operating decisions relating to the activity require the unanimous accepted accounting principles requires management to make consent of the parties sharing control.
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets Investments in associates and joint ventures are initially and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the recognised at cost.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of groups share of the net fair value of the identiable assets, liabilities revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results and contingent liabilities of an associate or joint venture at the date could differ from those estimates.
The areas involving a higher degree of acquisition is recognised as goodwill, which is included within the of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and carrying amount of the investment.
estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying value of the groups disclosed on pages 39 and 40 in Critical accounting estimates and investment in associates and joint ventures includes the groups share key judgements.
of post acquisition reserves, less any impairment in the value of individual assets.
The income statement reects the groups share of the results of operations after tax of the associate or joint venture.
Consolidated financial statements Accounting policies British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 33 05 U10648 Consolidated Financial Statements.
qxp:BT PLC 05 19 5 11 17:39 Page 34 Bleed: 0 mm Scale: 100% When a group entity transacts with its associate or a joint venture, over the period to which the charges relate.
Revenue from calls is profits and losses resulting from the transactions with the associate or recognised at the time the call is made over the groups network.
joint venture are recognised in the consolidated financial statements Subscription fees, consisting primarily of monthly charges for access only to the extent of interests in the associate that are not related to to broadband and other internet access or voice services, are the group.
recognised as revenue as the service is provided.
Revenue arising from the interconnection of voice and data trafc between other iii Business combinations telecommunications operators is recognised at the time of transit Acquisitions of businesses are accounted for using the acquisition across the groups network.
The consideration transferred is measured at fair value, which is the aggregate of the fair values of the assets Equipment sales transferred, liabilities incurred or assumed and the equity instruments Revenue from the sale of peripheral and other equipment is recognised issued in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition related when all the significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred costs are generally expensed as incurred.
The acquirees identiable to the buyer, which is normally the date the equipment is delivered and assets and liabilities are recognised at their fair value at the accepted by the customer.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and Long-term contractual arrangements measured at cost representing the excess of the aggregate of the Revenue from long-term contractual arrangements is recognised consideration, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the based on the percentage of completion method.
The stage of acquiree, and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity completion is estimated using an appropriate measure according to interest in the acquiree if any over the net of the fair values of the the nature of the contract.
For long-term services contracts, revenue identiable assets and liabilities at the date of acquisition.
is recognised on a straight line basis over the term of the contract.
Non-controlling interests that entitle their holders to a However, if the performance pattern is other than straight line, proportionate share of the entitys net assets in the event of revenue is recognised as services are provided, usually on an output or liquidation may be initially measured either at fair value or at the consumption basis.
For xed price contracts, including contracts to non-controlling interests proportionate share of the recognised design and build software solutions, revenue is recognised by amounts of the acquirees identiable net assets.
The choice of reference to the stage of completion, as determined by the proportion measurement basis is made on a transaction by transaction basis.
of costs incurred relative to the estimated total contract costs, or other When the consideration in a business combination includes measures of completion such as the achievement of contract contingent consideration, it is measured at its acquisition date fair milestones and customer acceptance.
In the case of time and materials value.
Changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration that contracts, revenue is recognised as the service is rendered.
qualify as measurement period adjustments are adjusted Costs related to delivering services under long-term contractual retrospectively, with corresponding adjustments against goodwill.
arrangements are expensed as incurred.
An element of costs incurred Measurement period adjustments are adjustments that arise from in the initial set up, transition or transformation phase of the contract additional information obtained during the measurement period, is deferred and recorded within non-current assets.
These costs are which cannot exceed one year from the acquisition date, about facts then recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date.
the remaining contractual term, unless the pattern of service delivery The subsequent accounting for changes in the fair value of the indicates a different prole is appropriate.
These costs are directly contingent consideration that do not qualify as measurement period attributable to specic contracts, relate to future activity, will adjustments depends on how the contingent consideration is generate future economic benets and are assessed for recoverability classied.
Contingent consideration that is classied as equity is not on a regular basis.
remeasured and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within The percentage of completion method relies on estimates of total equity.
Contingent consideration that is classied as an asset or a expected contract revenues and costs, as well as reliable liability is remeasured with the corresponding gain or loss being measurement of the progress made towards completion.
Unless the recognised in profit or loss.
financial outcome of a contract can be estimated with reasonable When a business combination is achieved in stages, the groups certainty, no attributable profit is recognised.
In such circumstances, previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair revenue is recognised equal to the costs incurred to date, to the value at the acquisition date and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is extent that such revenue is expected to be recoverable.
Recognised recognised in profit or loss.
revenue and profits are subject to revisions during the contract if the Business combinations that took place prior to 1 April 2010 were assumptions regarding the overall contract outcome are changed.
accounted for in accordance with the previous version of IFRS 3.
The cumulative impact of a revision in estimates is recorded in the period in which such revisions become likely and can be estimated.
iv Revenue Where the actual and estimated costs to completion exceed the Revenue represents the fair value of the consideration received or estimated revenue for a contract, the full contract life loss is receivable for communication services and equipment sales, net of recognised immediately.
Revenue from the rendering of services and Where a contractual arrangement consists of two or more separate sale of equipment is recognised when it is probable that the elements that have value to a customer on a standalone basis, economic benets associated with a transaction will ow to the group revenue is recognised for each element as if it were an individual and the amount of revenue and associated costs can be measured contract.
The total contract consideration is allocated between the reliably.
Where the group acts as an agent in a transaction, it separate elements on the basis of relative fair value and the recognises revenue net of directly attributable costs.
appropriate revenue recognition criteria are applied to each element as described above.
Services Revenue arising from separable installation and connection services is v Other operating income recognised when it is earned, upon activation.
Revenue from the rental Other operating income is income generated by the group that arises of analogue and digital lines and private circuits is recognised evenly from activities outside of the provision of communication services and 34 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 Consolidated financial statements Accounting policies 05 U10648 Consolidated Financial Statements.
Items reported as other operating income include exchange for the year unless this average is not a reasonable income from repayment works, proceeds from scrap and cable approximation of the cumulative effects of the rates prevailing on the recovery, income generated by our eet operations, income from transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated government grants, profits and losses on the disposal of business at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising operations and property, plant and equipment and income generated on retranslation are recognised directly in a separate component of from the exploitation of our intellectual property.
In the event of the disposal of an undertaking with assets and vi Government grants liabilities denominated in a foreign currency, the cumulative Government grants are recognised initially as deferred income at their translation difference associated with the undertaking in the fair value where there is a reasonable assurance that the grant will be translation reserve is charged or credited to the gain or loss on received and the group will comply with the conditions associated with disposal recognised in the income statement.
Grants that compensate the group for expenses incurred are recognised in the income statement within other operating income in ix Intangible assets the same periods in which the associated expenditure is recognised.
Identiable intangible assets are recognised when the group controls Grants that compensate the group for the cost of an asset are the asset, it is probable that future economic benets attributable to recognised in the income statement in other operating income on a the asset will ow to the group and the cost of the asset can be straight line basis over the useful life of the asset.
All intangible assets, other than goodwill and indefinite lived assets, are amortised over their useful economic life.
vii Leases The method of amortisation reects the pattern in which the assets The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease are expected to be consumed.
If the pattern cannot be determined is based on the substance of the arrangement and requires an reliably, the straight line method is used.
assessment of whether the fullment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specic asset or assets and whether the Goodwill arrangement conveys the right to use the asset.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the Leases of property, plant and equipment where the group holds fair value of the groups share of the identiable net assets including substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classied as intangible assets of the acquired subsidiary.
Goodwill is reviewed finance leases.
annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated Finance lease assets are capitalised at the commencement of the impairment losses.
lease term at the lower of the present value of the minimum lease payments or the fair value of the leased asset.
The obligations Computer software relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of future Computer software comprises computer software purchased from periods, are recognised as liabilities.
Leases are subsequently third parties, and also the cost of internally developed software.
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
If a Computer software purchased from third parties and internally sale and leaseback transaction results in a finance lease, any excess of developed software is initially recorded at cost.
sale proceeds over the carrying amount is deferred and recognised in the income statement over the lease term.
Telecommunication licences Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards are Licence fees paid to governments, which permit telecommunication held by the lessor are classied as operating leases.
Rentals are activities to be operated for dened periods, are initially recorded at charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the cost and amortised from the time the network is available for use to period of the lease.
If a sale and leaseback transaction results in an the end of the licence period.
operating lease, any profit or loss is recognised in the income statement immediately, except where a proportion of the profit or Brands, customer lists and customer relationships loss is deferred or amortised because the sale price was not equal to Intangible assets acquired through business combinations are fair value.
recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Assumptions are used in estimating the fair values of acquired intangible assets and include viii Foreign currencies managements estimates of revenue and profits to be generated by Items included in the financial statements of each of the groups the acquired businesses.
subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
Subscriber acquisition costs The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, the Subscriber acquisition costs are expensed as incurred, unless they meet presentation currency of the group.
the criteria for capitalisation, in which case they are capitalised and Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional amortised over the shorter of the expected customer life or contractual currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the period.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of monetary Estimated useful economic lives assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at period end The estimated useful economic lives assigned to the principal exchange rates are recognised in the income statement in the line categories of intangible assets are as follows: which most appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
Where monetary items form part of the net investment Computer software 2 to 10 years in a foreign operation and are designated as hedges of a net Telecommunication licences 1 to 5 years investment or as cash ow hedges, such exchange differences are Brands, customer lists and customer relationships 3 to 15 years recognised in equity.
On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign undertakings are x Research and development translated into Sterling at year end exchange rates.
The results of Research expenditure is recognised in the income statement in the foreign undertakings are translated into Sterling at average rates of period in which it is incurred.
Consolidated financial statements Accounting policies British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 35 05 U10648 Consolidated Financial Statements.
qxp:BT PLC 05 19 5 11 17:39 Page 36 Bleed: 0 mm Scale: 100% Development expenditure, including the cost of internally developed Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are software, is recognised in the income statement in the period in which it reviewed for impairment at least annually.
is incurred unless it is probable that economic benets will ow to the Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
group from the asset being developed, the cost of the asset can be If a cash generating unit is impaired, provision is made to reduce reliably measured and technical feasibility can be demonstrated.
the carrying amount of the related assets to their estimated Capitalisation ceases when the asset being developed is ready for use.
recoverable amount, normally as a specic item.
Impairment losses Research and development costs include direct and indirect are allocated rstly against goodwill, and secondly on a pro rata basis labour, materials and directly attributable overheads.
against intangible and other assets.
Where an impairment loss has been recognised against an asset, it xi Property, plant and equipment may be reversed in future periods where there has been a change in Property, plant and equipment is included in the balance sheet at the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount since the historical cost, less accumulated depreciation and any impairment last impairment loss was recognised, but only to the extent that the losses.
On disposal of property, plant and equipment, the difference assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that between the sale proceeds and the net book value at the date of would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if disposal is recorded in the income statement.
no impairment loss had been recognised.
This does not apply for goodwill, for which an impairment loss may not be reversed in any Cost circumstances.
Included within the cost for network infrastructure and equipment are direct and indirect labour, contractors charges, materials and xiv Inventory directly attributable overheads.
Inventory mainly comprises items of equipment held for sale or rental and consumable items.
Depreciation Equipment held and consumable items are stated at the lower of Depreciation is provided on property, plant and equipment on a cost and estimated net realisable value, after provisions for straight line basis from the time the asset is available for use, so as to obsolescence.
Cost is calculated on a first-in-first-out basis.
write off the assets cost over the estimated useful life taking into account any expected residual value.
Freehold land is not subject to xv Termination benets depreciation.
The lives assigned to principal categories of assets are Termination benets leaver costs are payable when employment is as follows: terminated before the normal retirement date, or when an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benets.
The Land and buildings group recognises termination benets when it is demonstrably Freehold buildings 40 years committed to the affected employees leaving the group.
Leasehold land and buildings Unexpired portion of lease or 40 years, xvi Post retirement benets whichever is the shorter The group operates a funded dened benefit pension plan, which is Network infrastructure and equipment administered by an independent Trustee, for the majority of its Transmission equipment: employees.
Duct 40 years The groups obligation in respect of dened benefit pension plans Cable 3 to 25 years is calculated separately for each scheme by estimating the amount of Fibre 5 to 20 years future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service Exchange equipment 2 to 13 years to date.
That benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and Payphones and other network equipment 2 to 20 years the fair value of any plan assets is deducted to arrive at the net Other pension obligation or asset.
The discount rate used is the yield at the Motor vehicles 2 to 9 years balance sheet date on AA credit rated bonds that have maturity dates Computers and ofce equipment 3 to 6 years approximating the terms of the groups obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualied actuary using the projected unit credit Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of method.
The net obligation or asset recognised in the balance sheet is the lease term or their useful economic life.
Residual values and the present value of the dened benefit obligation less the fair value useful lives are reassessed annually and, if necessary, changes are of the plan assets.
The income statement charge is allocated between an operating charge and net finance expense or income.
The operating charge xii Borrowing costs reects the service cost which is spread systematically over the In respect of borrowing costs relating to qualifying assets for which working lives of the employees.
The net finance charge reects the take more than 12 months to complete, the group capitalises unwinding of the discount applied to the liabilities of the plan, offset borrowing costs during the construction phase as part of the cost of by the expected return on the assets of the plan, based on conditions that asset.
prevailing at the start of the year.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in xiii Asset impairment non financial assets which they occur and are presented in the statement of Intangible assets with nite useful lives and property, plant and comprehensive income.
During 2011 this includes the impact of the equipment are tested for impairment if events or changes in change from RPI to CPI as detailed in note 23 on page 71. circumstances assessed at each reporting date indicate that the Actuarial valuations of the main dened benefit plan are carried carrying amount may not be recoverable.
When an impairment test is out by an independent actuary as determined by the Trustee at performed, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the intervals of not more than three years, to determine the rates of higher of the net present value of the expected future cash ows contribution payable.
The pension cost is determined on the advice of value in use of the relevant cash generating unit and the fair value the groups actuary, having regard to the results of these Trustee less cost to sell.
36 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 Consolidated financial statements Accounting policies 05 U10648 Consolidated Financial Statements.
In any intervening years, the actuaries review the Current and deferred tax are recognised in the income statement, continuing appropriateness of the contribution rates.
except when the tax relates to items charged or credited directly in The group also operates dened contribution pension schemes equity, in which case the tax is also recognised in equity.
and the income statement is charged with the contributions payable.
xix Dividends xvii Share-based payment Final dividends are recognised as a liability in the year in which they are The ultimate parent of BT plc, BT Group plc, operates a number of declared and approved by the companys shareholders in the annual equity settled share-based payment arrangements, under which the general meeting.
Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid.
group receives services from employees as consideration for equity instruments share options and shares of BT Group plc.
Equity settled xx Provisions share-based payments are measured at fair value excluding the Provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or effect of non market-based vesting conditions at the date of grant, constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that but including any market-based performance criteria and the impact an outow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and of non-vesting conditions for example the requirement for the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are determined by employees to save.
The fair value determined at the grant date is discounting the expected future cash ows at a pre-tax rate that recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on reects current market assessments of the time value of money and the groups estimate of the options or shares that will eventually vest the risks specic to the liability.
Financial liabilities within provisions and adjusted for the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently carried at Fair value is measured using either the Binomial options pricing amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Onerous lease model or Monte Carlo simulations, whichever is most appropriate to provisions have been measured at the lower of the cost to full the the award.
contract or the cost to exit it.
Service and performance conditions are vesting conditions.
Any other conditions are non-vesting conditions which have to be taken xxi Financial instruments into account to determine the fair value of equity instruments granted.
In the case that an award or option does not vest as a result Recognition and derecognition of financial assets and financial of a failure to meet a non-vesting condition that is within the control liabilities of either counterparty, this is accounted for as a cancellation.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the Cancellations must be treated as accelerated vesting and all group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
remaining future charges are immediately recognised.
As the Financial assets are derecognised when the group no longer has requirement to save under an employee share save arrangement is a rights to cash ows, the risks and rewards of ownership or control of non-vesting condition, employee cancellations must be treated as an the asset.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the obligation accelerated vesting.
under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
In particular, for all regular way purchases and sales of financial assets, the group xviii Taxation recognises the financial assets on the settlement date, which is the Current income tax is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted date on which the asset is delivered to or by the group.
or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where the companys subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures Financial assets operate and generate taxable income.
The group periodically Financial assets at fair value through income statement evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in A financial asset is classied in this category if acquired principally for which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation, and the the purpose of selling in the short-term held for trading or if so group establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of the designated by management.
Financial assets held in this category are amounts expected to be paid to tax authorities.
initially recognised and subsequently measured at fair value, with Deferred tax is recognised, using the liability method, in respect of changes in value recognised in the income statement in the line which temporary differences between the carrying amount of the groups most appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
The assets and liabilities and their tax base, except to the extent that the direct transaction costs are recognised immediately in the income deferred tax asset or liability arises from the initial recognition of statement.
goodwill or from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a business combination and affects neither Loans and receivables accounting profit nor taxable profit.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed or Deferred tax liabilities are, where permitted, offset against determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market other deferred tax assets within the same taxable entity or qualifying local than those for which the group may not recover substantially all of its tax group.
Any remaining deferred tax asset is recognised only when, initial investment, other than because of credit deterioration, which on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as probable are classied as available-for-sale.
that there will be suitable taxable profits, within the same jurisdiction, Loans and receivables are initially recognised at fair value plus in the foreseeable future against which the deductible temporary transaction costs and subsequently carried at amortised cost using difference can be utilised.
the effective interest method, with changes in carrying value Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that are expected to recognised in the income statement in the line which most apply in the periods in which the asset is realised or liability settled, appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Available-for-sale financial assets Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on Non-derivative financial assets classied as available-for-sale are investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except either specically designated in this category or not classied in any where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be of the other categories.
Available-for-sale financial assets are initially controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not recognised at fair value plus direct transaction costs and then reverse in the foreseeable future.
re-measured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value, with Consolidated financial statements Accounting policies British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 37 05 U10648 Consolidated Financial Statements.
qxp:BT PLC 05 19 5 11 17:39 Page 38 Bleed: 0 mm Scale: 100% unrealised gains and losses except for changes in exchange rates for Loans and other borrowings monetary items, interest, dividends and impairment losses, which are Loans and other borrowings are initially recognised at fair value plus recognised in the income statement recognised in equity until the directly attributable transaction costs.
Where loans and other financial asset is derecognised, at which time the cumulative gain or borrowings contain a separable embedded derivative, the fair value loss previously recognised in equity is taken to the income statement, of the embedded derivative is the difference between the fair value in the line that most appropriately reects the nature of the item or of the hybrid instrument and the fair value of the loan or borrowing.
The fair value of the embedded derivative and the loan or borrowing is recorded separately on initial recognition.
Loans and other Trade and other receivables borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the Financial assets within trade and other receivables are initially effective interest method and, if included in a fair value hedge recognised at fair value, which is usually the original invoiced amount, relationship, are revalued to reect the fair value movements on the and are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective hedged risk associated with the loans and other borrowings.
The interest method less provisions made for doubtful receivables.
resultant amortisation of fair value movements, on fide-designation of Provisions are made specically where there is evidence of a risk of the hedge, are recognised in the income statement.
non payment, taking into account ageing, previous losses experienced and general economic conditions.
Financial guarantees Financial guarantees are recognised initially at fair value plus Cash and cash equivalents transaction costs and subsequently measured at the higher of the Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and current balances amount determined in accordance with the accounting policy relating with banks and similar institutions, which are readily convertible to to provisions and the amount initially determined less, when cash and which are subject to insignicant risk of changes in value and appropriate, cumulative amortisation.
have an original maturity of three months or less.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash ow statement, cash and Derivative financial instruments cash equivalents are as dened above net of outstanding bank The group uses derivative financial instruments mainly to reduce overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are included within loans and other exposure to foreign exchange risks and interest rate movements.
The borrowings, in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for financial trading purposes.
However, derivatives that do not qualify Impairment of financial assets for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
The group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial Derivative financial instruments are classied as held for trading and asset or group of financial assets are impaired.
are initially recognised and subsequently measured at fair value.
The Where there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately arisen on assets carried at amortised cost, the carrying amount is in the income statement in net finance expense.
However, where reduced with the loss being recognised in the income statement.
The derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant impairment loss is measured as the difference between that assets gain or loss depends on the nature of the hedge.
Derivative financial carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash ows instruments are classied as current assets or current liabilities where discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The they have a maturity period within 12 months.
Where derivative impairment loss is only reversed if it can be related objectively to an financial instruments have a maturity period greater than 12 months, event after the impairment was recognised and is reversed to the they are classied within either non-current assets or non-current extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its liabilities.
amortised cost at the date of reversal.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risk and the difference between its cost net of any principal payment and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract amortisation and its fair value is transferred from equity to the and the host contract is not carried at fair value.
Changes in the fair income statement.
Reversals of impairment losses on debt value of embedded derivatives are recognised in the income instruments are taken through the income statement if the increase statement in the line which most appropriately reects the nature of in fair value of the instrument can be objectively related to an event the item or transaction.
occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the income statement.
Reversals in respect of equity instruments classied as Hedge accounting available-for-sale are recognised directly in equity.
To qualify for hedge accounting, hedge documentation must be If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has been prepared at inception and the hedge must be expected to be highly incurred on an unquoted equity instrument that is not carried at fair effective both prospectively and retrospectively.
The hedge is tested value because its fair value cannot be objectively measured, or on a for effectiveness at inception and in subsequent periods in which the derivative asset that is linked to and must be settled by delivery of hedge remains in operation.
such an unquoted equity instrument, the amount of loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the Cash ow hedge present value of estimated future cash ows discounted at the When a financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the current market rate of return for a similar financial asset.
variability in cash ows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the Financial liabilities derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity.
Trade and other payables For cash ow hedges of recognised assets or liabilities, the Financial liabilities within trade and other payables are initially associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised at fair value, which is usually the original invoiced recognised in the same line in the income statement in the same amount, and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects the effective interest method.
38 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 Consolidated financial statements Accounting policies 05 U10648 Consolidated Financial Statements.
qxp:BT PLC 05 19 5 11 17:39 Page 39 Bleed: 0 mm Scale: 100% For highly probable transactions, when the transaction subsequently applying the groups accounting policies.
We continually evaluate our results in the recognition of a non financial asset or non financial estimates, assumptions and judgements based on available liability the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity information and experience.
As the use of estimates is inherent in and included in the initial cost or carrying amount of the non financial reporting, actual results could differ from these estimates.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity are If a hedge of a highly probable transaction subsequently results in the described below.
recognition of a financial asset or a financial liability, then the associated gains and losses that were recognised directly in equity are reclassied Long-term customer contracts into the income statement in the same period or periods during which Long-term customer contracts can extend over a number of financial the asset acquired or liability assumed affects the income statement.
During the contractual period recognition of costs and profits Any ineffectiveness arising on a cash ow hedge of a recognised may be impacted by estimates of the ultimate profitability of each asset or liability is recognised immediately in the same income contract.
If, at any time, these estimates indicate that any contract statement line as the hedged item.
Where ineffectiveness arises on will be unprofitable, the entire estimated loss for the contract is highly probable transactions, it is recognised in the line which most recognised immediately.
If these estimates indicate that any contract appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
will be less profitable than previously forecast, contract assets may have to be written down to the extent they are no longer considered Fair value hedge to be fully recoverable.
The group performs ongoing profitability When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of reviews of its contracts in order to determine whether the latest the variability in fair value of a recognised asset or liability, or estimates are appropriate.
Key factors reviewed include: unrecognised rm commitment, the change in fair value of the Transaction volumes or other inputs affecting future revenues derivatives that are designated as fair value hedges are recorded in which can vary depending on customer requirements, plans and the same line in the income statement, together with any changes in market position and other factors such as general economic fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the conditions: hedged risk.
Our ability to achieve key contract milestones connected with the transition, development, transformation and deployment phases Hedge of net investment in a foreign operation for customer contracts: Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of currency The status of commercial relations with customers and the instruments designated as hedges of net investments in a foreign implication for future revenue and cost projections: and operation are taken to shareholders equity on consolidation to the Our estimates of future staff and third party costs and the degree extent that the hedges are deemed effective.
to which cost savings and efficiencies are deliverable.
Any ineffectiveness arising on a hedge of a net investment in a The carrying value of assets comprising the costs of the initial set up, foreign operation is recognised in net finance expense.
transition or transformation phase of long-term networked IT services contracts are disclosed in note 19.
Discontinuance of hedge accounting Discontinuance of hedge accounting may occur when a hedging Interconnect income and payments to other telecommunications instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or when the operators hedge no longer qualies for hedge accounting or the group revokes In certain instances, BT relies on other operators to measure the designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged financial asset trafc ows interconnecting with our networks.
Estimates are used in or liability remains or a highly probable transaction is still expected to these cases to determine the amount of income receivable from, or occur.
Under a cash ow hedge, the cumulative gain or loss at that payments we need to make to, these other operators.
The prices at point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the which these services are charged are often regulated and may be above policy when the transaction occurs.
If the hedged transaction subject to retrospective adjustment by regulators, and estimates are is no longer expected to take place or the underlying hedged financial used in assessing the likely effect of these adjustments.
asset or liability no longer exists, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately in the income Pension obligations statement.
Under a hedge of a net investment, the cumulative gain BT has a commitment, mainly through the BTPS, to pay pension or loss remains in equity when the hedging instrument expires or is benets to approximately 327,500 people over approximately sold, terminated or exercised, or when the hedge no longer qualies 60 years.
The cost of these benets and the present value of our for hedge accounting or the group revokes designation of the hedge pension liabilities depend on such factors as the life expectancy of the relationship.
The cumulative gain or loss is recognised in the income members, the salary progression of our current employees, the return statement as part of the profit on disposal when the net investment that the pension fund assets will generate in the time before they are in the foreign operation is disposed.
Under a fair value hedge, the used to fund the pension payments, price ination and the discount cumulative gain or loss adjustment associated with the hedged risk is rate used to calculate the net present value of the future pension amortised to the income statement using the effective interest payments.
We use estimates for all of these factors in determining the method over the remaining term of the hedged item.
pension costs and liabilities incorporated in our financial statements.
The assumptions reect historical experience and our judgement Share capital regarding future expectations.
Ordinary shares are classied as equity.
Incremental costs directly The value of the net pension obligation at 31 March 2011 and the attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a key financial assumptions used to measure the obligation are deduction from the proceeds received.
Critical accounting estimates and key judgements Useful lives for property, plant and equipment and software The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs The plant and equipment in BTs networks is long lived with cables requires the use of accounting estimates and assumptions.
It also and switching equipment operating for over 10 years and requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of underground ducts being used for decades.
BT also develops Consolidated financial statements Accounting policies British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 39 05 U10648 Consolidated Financial Statements.
qxp:BT PLC 05 19 5 11 17:39 Page 40 Bleed: 0 mm Scale: 100% software for use in IT systems and platforms that supports the such factors as the current state of the economy and particular products and services provided to our customers and that is also industry issues.
The annual depreciation and amortisation The value of the provision for doubtful debts is disclosed in charge is sensitive to the estimated service lives allocated to each note 19. type of asset.
Asset lives are assessed annually and changed when necessary to reect current thinking on their remaining lives in light Provisions of technological change, network investment plans including the As disclosed in note 25, the groups provisions principally relate to groups bre roll-out programme, prospective economic utilisation obligations arising from property rationalisation programmes, and physical condition of the assets concerned.
Changes to the restructuring programmes, claims and litigation and regulatory risks.
service lives of assets implemented from 1 April 2010 had no Under our property rationalisation programmes we have identied significant impact in aggregate on the results for the year ended a number of surplus properties.
Although efforts are being made to 31 March 2011. sub-let this space, this is not always possible.
Estimates have been The carrying values of software, property, plant and equipment made of the cost of vacant possession and of any shortfall arising are disclosed in notes 13 and 14, respectively.
The useful lives applied from any sub-lease income being lower than the lease costs.
Any to the principal categories of assets are disclosed on pages 35 and 36. such shortfall is recognised as a provision.
In respect of claims, litigation and regulatory risks, the group Income tax provides for anticipated costs where an outow of resources is The actual tax we pay on our profits is determined according to considered probable and a reasonable estimate can be made of the complex tax laws and regulations.
Where the effect of these laws and likely outcome.
The ultimate liability may vary from the amounts regulations is unclear, we use estimates in determining the liability for provided and will be dependent upon the eventual outcome of any the tax to be paid on our past profits which we recognise in our settlement.
We believe the estimates, assumptions and judgements are reasonable but this can involve complex issues which Accounting standards, interpretations and amendments to may take a number of years to resolve.
The final determination of published standards adopted in the year ended 31 March 2011 prior year tax liabilities could be different from the estimates The following new, revised and amended standards and reected in the financial statements and may result in the recognition interpretations were adopted in 2011.
They have had no significant of an additional tax expense or tax credit in the income statement.
impact on the groups financial position or results of operations for The value of the groups income tax liability is disclosed on the the current or prior years but may impact the accounting for future balance sheet on page 46. transactions or arrangements.
IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations: Deferred tax IAS 27 Revised Consolidated and Separate Financial Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management judgement in Statements: determining the amounts to be recognised.
In particular, judgement IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners: is used when assessing the extent to which deferred tax assets should Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and be recognised with consideration given to the timing and level of Measurement: Eligible Hedged items: future taxable income.
Amendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation The carrying value of the groups deferred tax assets and liabilities Classication of Rights Issues: and are disclosed in note 24.
Goodwill Accounting standards, interpretations and amendments to The recoverable amount of cash generating units has been published standards not yet effective determined based on value in use calculations.
These calculations Certain new standards, interpretations and amendments to existing require the use of estimates, including managements expectations of standards have been published that are mandatory for the groups future revenue growth, operating costs and profit margins for each accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2011 or later cash generating unit.
Those which are considered to be relevant to the groups The carrying value of goodwill and the key assumptions used in operations are set out below.
performing the annual impairment assessment are disclosed in note 13.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective 1 April 2013 IFRS 9 represents the first phase of the IASBs project to replace IAS Determination of fair values 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
It sets out Certain financial instruments such as investments, derivative financial the classication and measurement criteria for financial assets and instruments and certain elements of loans and borrowings, are financial liabilities and requires all financial assets, including assets carried on the balance sheet at fair value, with changes in fair value currently classied under IAS 39 as available-for-sale, to be reected in the income statement.
Fair values are estimated by measured at fair value through profit and loss unless the assets can be reference in part to published price quotations and in part by using classied as held at amortised cost.
Qualifying equity investments valuation techniques.
held at fair value may have their fair value changes taken through The fair values of financial instruments are disclosed in note 29. other comprehensive income by election.
The group is currently assessing the impact of the standard on its results, financial position Providing for doubtful debts and cash ows.
BT provides services to consumer and business customers, mainly on Those standards, interpretations and amendments which are not credit terms.
We know that certain debts due to us will not be paid currently expected to have a significant impact on the groups through the default of a small number of our customers.
Estimates, financial statements, are as follows: based on our historical experience, are used in determining the level of debts that we believe will not be collected.
These estimates include 40 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 Consolidated financial statements Accounting policies 05 U10648 Consolidated Financial Statements.
qxp:BT PLC 05 19 5 11 17:39 Page 41 Bleed: 0 mm Scale: 100% Amendments to IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures effective 1 April 2011 These amendments clarify the denition of a related party and provides some exemptions for government-related entities.
Amendment to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement effective 1 April 2011 This amendment permits a voluntary prepayment of a minimum funding requirement to be recognised as an asset.
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments effective 1 April 2011 This interpretation claries the accounting when an entity renegotiates the terms of its debt with the result that the liability is settled in part or in full by the debtor issuing its own equity instrument to the creditor.
Improvements to IFRSs 2010 effective 1 April 2011 This is the third set of amendments published under the IASBs annual improvements process and incorporate minor amendments to seven standards and interpretations.
Amendments to IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards effective 1 July 2011 These amendments provide limited exemption from comparative IFRS 7 disclosures for IFRS first-time adopters.
Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures effective 1 April 2012 These amendments are intended to provide greater transparency around risk exposures when a financial asset is transferred but the transferor retains some level of continuing exposure in the asset.
The amendments also require disclosures where transfers of financial assets are not evenly distributed throughout the period.
Consolidated financial statements Accounting policies British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 41
