qxp:BT PLC 08 19 5 11 17:40 Page 90 Bleed: 0 mm Scale: 100% REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors Report to the members of British Telecommunications plc the company We have audited the parent company financial statements of British Telecommunications plc for the year ended 31 March 2011 which comprise the parent company balance sheet, the accounting policies and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 30, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non financial information in the British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F for the year ended 31 March 2011 to identify material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 March 2011: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the information given in the Report of the directors for the financial year for which the parent company financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Other matter We have reported separately on the consolidated financial statements of British Telecommunications plc for the year ended 31 March 2011.
Philip Rivett Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London, United Kingdom 17 May 2011 90 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 Report of the independent auditors Parent company financial statements 08 U10648 Report of Independent Auditors.
qxp:BT PLC 08 19 5 11 17:40 Page 91 Bleed: 0 mm Scale: 100% FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PLC BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PLC PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTING POLICIES i Accounting basis Long-term contractual arrangements As used in these financial statements and associated notes, the term Turnover from long-term contractual arrangements is recognised company refers to British Telecommunications plc BT plc.
These based on the percentage of completion method.
The stage of separate financial statements of the company are presented as completion is estimated using an appropriate measure according to required by the Companies Act 2006.
The separate financial the nature of the contract.
For long-term services contracts, turnover statements have been prepared in accordance with UK Generally is recognised on a straight line basis over the term of the contract.
Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
However, if the performance pattern is other than straight line, The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis turnover is recognised as services are provided, usually on an output and under the historical cost convention as modied by the or consumption basis.
For xed price contracts, including contracts to revaluation of certain financial instruments at fair value.
design and build software solutions, turnover is recognised by reference to the stage of completion, as determined by the Exemptions proportion of costs incurred relative to the estimated total contract As permitted by Section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006, the costs, or other measures of completion, such as the achievement of companys profit and loss account has not been presented.
contract milestones and customer acceptance.
In the case of time and The BT plc consolidated financial statements for the year ended materials contracts, turnover is recognised as the service is rendered.
31 March 2011 contain a consolidated cash ow statement.
Costs related to delivering services under long-term contractual Consequently, the company has taken advantage of the exemption in arrangements are expensed as incurred.
An element of costs incurred FRS 1, Cash Flow Statements, not to present its own cash ow in the initial set up, transition or transformation phase of the contract statement.
is deferred and recorded within debtors due after more than one year.
The BT plc consolidated financial statements for the year ended These costs are then recognised in the profit and loss account on a 31 March 2011 contain related party disclosures.
Consequently, the straight line basis over the remaining contractual term, unless the company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 8, Related pattern of service delivery indicates a different prole is appropriate.
Party Disclosures, not to disclose transactions with other members of These costs are directly attributable to specic contracts, relate to the BT Group.
future activity, will generate future economic benets and are The BT plc consolidated financial statements for the year ended assessed for recoverability on a regular basis.
31 March 2011 contain financial instruments disclosures which The percentage of completion method relies on estimates of total comply with FRS 29, Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
expected contract turnover and costs, as well as reliable Consequently, the company is exempted from the disclosure measurement of the progress made towards completion.
Unless the requirements of FRS 29 in respect of its financial instruments.
financial outcome of a contract can be estimated with reasonable certainty, no attributable profit is recognised.
In such circumstances, ii Turnover turnover is recognised equal to the costs incurred to date, to the Turnover represents the fair value of the consideration received or extent that such turnover is expected to be recoverable.
Recognised receivable for communication services and equipment sales, net of turnover and profits are subject to revisions during the contract if the discounts and sales taxes.
Turnover from the rendering of services and assumptions regarding the overall contract outcome are changed.
sale of equipment is recognised when it is probable that the The cumulative impact of a revision in estimates is recorded in the economic benets associated with a transaction will ow to the period in which such revisions become likely and can be estimated.
company, and the amount of turnover and associated costs can be Where the actual and estimated costs to completion exceed the measured reliably.
Where the company acts as an agent in a estimated turnover for a contract, the full contract life loss is transaction it recognises turnover net of directly attributable costs.
Where a contractual arrangement consists of two or more separate Services elements that have value to a customer on a standalone basis, Turnover arising from separable installation and connection services is turnover is recognised for each element as if it were an individual recognised when it is earned, upon activation.
Turnover from the rental contract.
The total contract consideration is allocated between the of analogue and digital lines and private circuits is recognised evenly separate elements on the basis of relative fair value and the over the period to which the charges relate.
Turnover from calls is appropriate turnover recognition criteria are applied to each element recognised at the time the call is made over the companys network.
Subscription fees, consisting primarily of monthly charges for access to broadband and other internet access or voice services, are iii Research and development recognised as turnover as the service is provided.
Turnover arising Research expenditure is recognised in the profit and loss account in from the interconnection of voice and data trafc between other the period in which it is incurred.
telecommunications operators is recognised at the time of transit Development expenditure, including the cost of internally across the companys network.
developed software, is recognised in the profit and loss account in the period in which it is incurred unless it is probable that economic Equipment sales benets will ow to the company from the asset being developed, Turnover from the sale of peripheral and other equipment is the cost of the asset can be reliably measured and technical feasibility recognised when all the significant risks and rewards of ownership are can be demonstrated.
Capitalisation ceases when the asset being transferred to the buyer, which is normally the date the equipment is developed is ready for use.
delivered and accepted by the customer.
Research and development costs include direct and indirect labour, materials and directly attributable overheads.
Parent company accounting policies British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 91 08 U10648 Report of Independent Auditors.
qxp:BT PLC 08 19 5 11 17:40 Page 92 Bleed: 0 mm Scale: 100% iv Leases Depreciation The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease Depreciation is provided on tangible xed assets on a straight line is based on the substance of the arrangement and requires an basis from the time the asset is available for use, so as to write off the assessment of whether the fullment of the arrangement is assets cost over the estimated useful life taking into account any dependent on the use of a specic asset or assets and whether the expected residual values.
Freehold land is not subject to depreciation.
arrangement conveys the right to use the asset.
The lives assigned to principal categories of tangible xed assets are: Leases of tangible xed assets where the company holds Land and buildings substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classied as Freehold buildings 40 years finance leases.
Leasehold land and buildings Unexpired portion of Finance lease assets are capitalised at the commencement of the lease or 40 years, lease term at the lower of the present value of the minimum lease whichever is the shorter payments or the fair value of the leased asset.
The obligations Network infrastructure and equipment relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of future Transmission equipment: periods, are recognised as liabilities.
Leases are subsequently Duct 40 years measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
If a Cable 3 to 25 years sale and leaseback transaction results in a finance lease, any excess of Fibre 5 to 20 years sale proceeds over the carrying amount is deferred and recognised in Exchange equipment 2 to 13 years the profit and loss account over the lease term.
Payphones and other network equipment 2 to 20 years Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards are held by the lessor are classied as operating leases.
Rentals are Other charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the Motor vehicles 2 to 9 years period of the lease.
If a sale and leaseback transaction results in an Computers and ofce equipment 3 to 6 years operating lease, any profit or loss is recognised in the profit and loss Software 2 to 10 years account immediately, except where a proportion of the profit or loss Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of is deferred or amortised because the sale price was not equal to fair the lease term or their useful economic life.
useful lives are reassessed annually, and if necessary, changes are v Foreign currencies recognised prospectively.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the viii Impairment of xed assets and goodwill transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the Fixed assets and goodwill are tested for impairment if events or settlement of such transactions, and from the translation of monetary changes in circumstances assessed at each reporting date indicate assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at period end that the carrying amount might not be recoverable.
Goodwill is also exchange rates are recognised in the profit and loss account except reviewed for impairment at the end of the first financial year after its when deferred in reserves as qualifying cash ow hedges.
When an impairment test is performed, the recoverable amount is vi Goodwill assessed by reference to the higher of the net present value of the Goodwill arising from the purchase of businesses represents the expected future cash ows value in use of the continued use of the excess of the fair value of the purchase consideration over the fair asset, and the fair value less cost to sell.
Impairment losses are value of the identiable net assets acquired.
recognised in the profit and loss account.
Goodwill is amortised on a straight line basis from the time of acquisition over its useful economic life.
The economic life is normally ix Investments in subsidiary undertakings presumed to be a maximum of 20 years.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost and If a business is subsequently sold, the appropriate unamortised reviewed for impairment if there are indicators that the carrying value goodwill is included in the profit and loss account in the period of may not be recoverable.
disposal as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
x Stocks vii Tangible xed assets Stocks mainly comprise items of equipment held for sale or rental and Tangible xed assets are stated at historical cost, less accumulated consumable items.
depreciation and any impairment losses.
On disposal of tangible xed Equipment and consumable items are stated at the lower of cost assets, the difference between the sale proceeds and the net book and estimated net realisable value, after provisions for obsolescence.
value at the date of disposal is recorded in the profit and loss account.
Cost is calculated on a first-in-first-out basis.
Cost xi Redundancy costs Cost in the case of network infrastructure and equipment includes Redundancy or leaver costs are payable when employment is direct and indirect labour, contractors charges, materials, and terminated before the normal retirement date, or when an employee directly attributable overheads.
accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benets.
Redundancy or leaver costs are charged against the profit and loss account in the year in which the company is demonstrably committed to the affected employees leaving the company.
92 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 Parent company accounting policies 08 U10648 Report of Independent Auditors.
qxp:BT PLC 08 19 5 11 17:40 Page 93 Bleed: 0 mm Scale: 100% xii Post retirement benets xiv Taxation including deferred tax The company operates a funded dened benefit pension plan, which Current income tax is calculated based on tax laws enacted or is administered by an independent Trustee, for the majority of its substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Full provision is made employees.
for deferred taxation on all timing differences which have arisen but not The companys obligation in respect of dened benefit pension reversed at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to plans is calculated separately for each scheme by estimating the the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that there will be amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for sufficient taxable profits from which the underlying timing differences their service to date.
That benefit is discounted to determine its can be deducted.
The deferred tax balances are not discounted.
present value, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted to arrive at the net pension obligation or asset.
The discount rate used is xv Dividends the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit rated bonds that have Dividend distributions are recognised as a liability in the year in which maturity dates approximating the terms of the companys the dividends are approved by the companys shareholders.
The calculation is performed by a qualied actuary using dividends are recognised when they are paid: final dividends when the projected unit credit method.
The net obligation or asset authorised in general meetings by shareholders.
recognised in the balance sheet is the present value of the dened benefit obligation less the fair value of the plan assets.
xvi Provisions The profit and loss account charge is split between an operating Provisions are recognised when the company has a present legal or charge and net finance expense or income.
The operating charge constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that reects the service costs which are spread systematically over the an outow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and working lives of the employees.
The net finance charge reects the the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are determined by unwinding of the discount applied to the liabilities of the plan, offset discounting the expected future cash ows at a pre-tax rate that by the expected return on the assets of the plan, based on conditions reects current market assessments of the time value of money and prevailing at the start of the year.
the risks specic to the liability.
Financial liabilities within provisions Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently carried at which they occur and are presented in the reconciliation of amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Onerous lease movement in equity shareholders funds.
provisions have been measured at the lower of the cost to full the Actuarial valuations of the main dened benefit plan are carried contract or the cost to exit it.
out by an independent actuary as determined by the Trustee at intervals of not more than three years, to determine the rates of xvii Financial instruments contribution payable.
The pension cost is determined on advice of the Recognition and derecognition of financial assets and companys actuary, having regard to the results of these Trustee financial liabilities valuations.
In any intervening years, the actuaries review the Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the continuing appropriateness of the contribution rates.
company becomes party to the contractual provisions of the The company also operates dened contribution pension schemes instrument.
Financial assets are derecognised when the company no and the profit and loss account is charged with the contributions longer has rights to cash ows, the risks and rewards of ownership or payable.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
In xiii Share-based payments particular, for all regular way purchases and sales of financial assets, The ultimate parent undertaking, BT Group plc, has a number of the company recognises the financial assets on the settlement date, employee share schemes and share option plans, as detailed in note 7 which is the date on which the asset is delivered to or by the company.
to the BT plc consolidated financial statements, under which it makes share-based payments settled in equity instruments shares and Financial assets options of BT Group plc to certain employees of the company.
Equity Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss settled share-based payments are measured at fair value excluding A financial asset is classied in this category if acquired principally for the effect of non market-based vesting conditions at the date of the purpose of selling in the short-term held for trading or if so grant, but including any market-based performance criteria and the designated by management.
Financial assets held in this category are impact of non-vesting conditions for example the requirement for initially recognised and subsequently measured at fair value, with employees to save.
The fair value determined at the grant date is changes in value recognised in the profit and loss account in the line recognised on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on which most appropriately reects the nature of the item or the companys estimate of the options or shares that will eventually transaction.
The direct transaction costs are recognised immediately vest and adjusted for the effect of non market-based vesting in the profit and loss account.
Fair value is measured using either the Binomial options pricing Loans and receivables model or Monte Carlo simulations, whichever is most appropriate to Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed or the award.
determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market other Service and performance conditions are vesting conditions.
Any than those for which the company may not recover substantially all of other conditions are non-vesting conditions which have to be taken its initial investment, other than because of credit deterioration, into account to determine the fair value of equity instruments which are classied as available-for-sale.
In the case that an award or option does not vest as a result Loans and receivables are initially recognised at fair value plus of a failure to meet a non-vesting condition that is within the control transaction costs and subsequently carried at amortised cost using of either counterparty, this is accounted for as a cancellation.
the effective interest method, with changes in carrying value Cancellations must be treated as accelerated vesting and all remaining recognised in the profit and loss account in the line which most future charges are immediately recognised.
As the requirement to save appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
under an employee sharesave arrangement is a non-vesting condition, employee cancellations must be treated as an accelerated vesting.
Parent company accounting policies British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 93 08 U10648 Report of Independent Auditors.
qxp:BT PLC 08 19 5 11 17:40 Page 94 Bleed: 0 mm Scale: 100% Fixed asset investments Financial liabilities Fixed asset investments are stated at cost net of permanent Creditors diminution in value.
Creditors are initially recognised at fair value, which is usually the original invoiced amount, and subsequently carried at amortised cost Available-for-sale financial assets using the effective interest method.
Non-derivative financial assets classied as available-for-sale are either specically designated in this category or not classied in any Loans and other borrowings of the other categories.
Available-for-sale financial assets are initially Loans and other borrowings are initially recognised at fair value plus recognised at fair value plus direct transaction costs and then directly attributable transaction costs.
Where loans and other re-measured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value, with borrowings contain a separable embedded derivative, the fair value unrealised gains and losses except for changes in exchange rates for of the embedded derivative is the difference between the fair value monetary items, interest, dividends and impairment losses, which are of the hybrid instrument and the fair value of the loan or other recognised in the profit and loss account recognised in equity until borrowing.
The fair value of the embedded derivative and the loan or the financial asset is derecognised, at which time the cumulative gain borrowing is recorded separately on initial recognition.
Loans and or loss previously recognised in equity is taken to the profit and loss other borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using account, in the line which most appropriately reects the nature of the effective interest method and, if included in a fair value hedge the item or transaction.
relationship, are revalued to reect the fair value movements on the hedged risk associated with the loans and other borrowings.
The Debtors resultant amortisation of fair value movements, on fide-designation of Trade debtors are initially recognised at fair value, which is usually the the hedge, are recognised in the profit and loss account.
original invoiced amount, and are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method less provisions made for doubtful Financial guarantees debts.
Financial guarantees are recognised initially at fair value plus Provisions are made specically where there is evidence of a risk of transaction costs and subsequently measured at the higher of the non payment, taking into account ageing, previous losses amount determined in accordance with the accounting policy relating experienced and general economic conditions.
to provisions and the amount initially determined less, when appropriate, cumulative amortisation.
Cash Cash includes cash in hand and bank deposits repayable on demand.
Derivative financial instruments The company uses derivative financial instruments mainly to reduce Impairment of financial assets exposure to foreign exchange risks and interest rate movements.
The The company assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for asset or group of financial assets are impaired.
However, derivatives that do not qualify Where there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
arisen on assets carried at amortised cost, the carrying amount is Derivative financial instruments are classied as held for trading and reduced with the loss being recognised in the profit and loss account.
are initially recognised and subsequently measured at fair value.
The The impairment loss is measured as the difference between that gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future immediately in the profit and loss account in net finance expense.
cash ows discounted at the financial assets original effective However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, interest rate.
The impairment loss is only reversed if it can be related recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the objectively to an event after the impairment was recognised and is hedge.
Derivative financial instruments are classied as current assets reversed to the extent the carrying value of the asset does not exceed or current liabilities where they have a maturity period within 12 its amortised cost at the date of reversal.
Where derivative financial instruments have a maturity If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising period greater than 12 months, they are classied within either xed the difference between its cost net of any principal payment and assets or creditors amounts falling due after more than one year.
amortisation and its fair value is transferred from equity to the profit Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host and loss account.
Reversals of impairment losses on debt instruments contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risk and are taken through the profit and loss account if the increase in fair characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts and value of the instrument can be objectively related to an event host contracts are not carried at fair value.
Changes in the fair value occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the profit and of embedded derivatives are recognised in the profit and loss account loss account.
Reversals in respect of equity instruments classied as in the line which most appropriately reects the nature of the item or available-for-sale are recognised directly in equity.
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has been incurred on an unquoted equity instrument that is not carried at fair Hedge accounting value because its fair value cannot be objectively measured, or on a To qualify for hedge accounting, hedge documentation must be derivative asset that is linked to and must be settled by delivery of prepared at inception and the hedge must be expected to be highly such an unquoted equity instrument, the amount of loss is measured effective both prospectively and retrospectively.
The hedge is tested as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the for effectiveness at inception and in subsequent periods in which the present value of estimated future cash ows discounted at the hedge remains in operation.
current market rate of return for a similar financial asset.
Cash ow hedge When a financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash ows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity.
94 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 Parent company accounting policies 08 U10648 Report of Independent Auditors.
qxp:BT PLC 08 19 5 11 17:40 Page 95 Bleed: 0 mm Scale: 100% For cash ow hedges of recognised assets or liabilities, the associated Accounting standards, interpretations and amendments to cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the published standards adopted in the year ended 31 March 2011 same line in the profit and loss account in the same period or periods The following new, revised and amended standards and during which the hedged transaction affects the profit and loss interpretations have been adopted in the current period and have account.
affected the amounts reported in these financial statements or have For highly probable transactions, when the transaction resulted in a change in presentation or disclosure.
subsequently results in the recognition of a non financial asset or non financial liability the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed UITF Abstract 48 Accounting implications of the replacement of from equity and included in the initial cost or carrying amount of the the Retail Prices Index with the Consumer Prices Index for non financial asset or liability.
retirement benets If a hedge of a highly probable transaction subsequently results in This Abstract was issued by the Urgent Issues Task Force of the UK the recognition of a financial asset or a financial liability, then the Accounting Standards Board in December 2010.
It states that, where associated gains and losses that were recognised directly in equity are the obligation is to pay pensions with increases based on a general reclassied into the profit and loss account in the same period or measure of ination rather than a measure linked specically to Retail periods during which the asset acquired or liability assumed affects Prices Index RPI, a change in the ination assumption represents an the profit and loss account.
actuarial gain or loss rather than a cost relating to past service of Any ineffectiveness arising on a cash ow hedge of a recognised employees.
Accordingly, the gain on re-measurement of the liabilities asset or liability is recognised immediately in the same profit and loss of the BTPS to reect Consumer Prices Index CPI as the ination account line as the hedged item.
Where ineffectiveness arises on measure is recorded as an actuarial gain in profit and loss account highly probable transactions, it is recognised in the line which most reserve in 2011. appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
Fair value hedge When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in fair value of a recognised asset or liability, or unrecognised rm commitments, the change in fair value of the derivatives that are designated as fair value hedges are recorded in the same line in the profit and loss account, together with any changes in fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk.
Hedge of net investment in a foreign operation Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of currency instruments designated as hedges of net investments in a foreign operation are taken to shareholders equity on consolidation to the extent that the hedges are deemed effective.
Any ineffectiveness arising on a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation is recognised in net finance expense.
Discontinuance of hedge accounting Discontinuance of hedge accounting may occur when a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or when the hedge no longer qualies for hedge accounting or the company revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged financial asset or liability remains or highly probable transaction is still expected to occur.
Under a cash ow hedge, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place or the underlying hedged financial asset or liability no longer exists, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Under a hedge of a net investment, the cumulative gain or loss remains in equity when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or when the hedge no longer qualies for hedge accounting or the company revokes designation of the hedge relationship.
The cumulative gain or loss is recognised in the profit and loss account as part of the profit on disposal when the net investment in the foreign operation is disposed.
Under a fair value hedge the cumulative gain or loss adjustment associated with the hedged risk is amortised to the profit and loss account using the effective interest method over the remaining term of the hedged item.
Parent company accounting policies British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 95 08 U10648 Report of Independent Auditors.
qxp:BT PLC 08 19 5 11 17:40 Page 96 Bleed: 0 mm Scale: 100% PARENT COMPANY BALANCE SHEET At 31 March British Telecommunications plc parent company balance sheet 2011 2010 Notes m m Fixed assets Intangible assets 1 336 359 Tangible assets 2 14,797 15,045 Derivative financial instruments 3 559 1,001 Investments in subsidiary undertakings, associates and joint ventures 4 48,006 47,027 Other investments 5 12,200 21,197 Total xed assets 75,898 84,629 Current assets Stocks 71 56 Debtors 6 4,530 3,814 Derivative financial instruments 3 174 699 Other investments 5 4,846 5,130 Total current assets 9,621 9,699 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year Loans and other borrowings 7 5,942 9,348 Derivative financial instruments 3 284 419 Other creditors 8 6,010 5,813 Total creditors: amounts falling due within one year 12,236 15,580 Net current liabilities 2,615 5,881 Total assets less current liabilities 73,283 78,748 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year Loans and other borrowings 7 49,923 58,377 Derivative financial instruments 3 285 280 Other creditors 9 818 767 Total creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 51,026 59,424 Provisions for liabilities and charges Deferred taxation 10 1,465 1,599 Other provisions 10 824 664 Total provisions for liabilities and charges 2,289 2,263 Net assets excluding pension obligation 19,968 17,061 Pension obligation 16 1,273 5,600 Net assets including pension obligation 18,695 11,461 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 11 2,172 2,172 Share premium account 12 8,000 8,000 Other reserves 13 856 839 profit and loss account 12 7,667 450 Equity shareholders funds 18,695 11,461 The financial statements of the company on pages 91 to 108 were approved by the board of directors on 17 May 2011 and were signed on its behalf by Tony Chanmugam Director 96 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 Parent company balance sheet
