64 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2011 Other information Information for investors Dividends, change of address and other shareholder services Caledonia Investments ISA UK registered shareholders The Caledonia Investments Individual Savings Account ISA is a tax Shareholders on the UK register who wish to have dividends efficient savings account that allows participants to invest up to an paid directly into a bank account, rather than by cheque to their annual amount of 10,680 for the tax year ending 5 April 2012. registered address, can complete a mandate form for this purpose.
Lump sum payments or regular monthly deposits can be made into Mandates may be obtained from Capita Registrars.
Details of the ISA are available on Caledonias website or by are paid directly into shareholders bank accounts, dividend tax request to the company.
vouchers are sent directly to shareholders registered addresses.
Caledonia Investments Share Savings Scheme Communications with shareholders are mailed to the address held The Caledonia Investments Share Savings Scheme is a plan that on the share register.
In the event of a change of address or other aims to provide a simple and flexible way for investors to purchase amendment, shareholders on the UK register should notify Capita shares in Caledonia.
Lump sum payments or regular monthly Registrars, under the signature of the registered holder, or where deposits can be made into the Share Savings Scheme.
Details of the there is more than one registered holder, under the signature of the Share Savings Scheme are available on Caledonias website or by first named holder.
Post and telephone contact details for Capita Registrars are shown on PEPs and ISAs the opposite page.
Capita Registrars also provide an online facility to Caledonias shares can be treated as qualifying investments for enable shareholders to manage securely their shareholdings via the the purposes of the PEP and ISA rules.
By registering to use the facility, shareholders can access a Share prices range of online services, including viewing shareholding details, The companys ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock transaction and dividend histories, change of address and bank Exchange under the SEDOL code of 0163992 or TIDM code of mandate and use of the online proxy voting service.
Prices are published daily in the Financial Times under the facility is available at www.
Investment Companies heading and in other leading newspapers and Capita Registrars also offer a share dealing service and dividend can also be viewed on the companys website at www.
reinvestment plan for existing shareholders.
The share dealing The companys ordinary shares are also listed on the New Zealand service is available online at www.
com or by telephone on Exchange under the security code of CDN.
Shareholders in 0871 664 0384 calls cost 10p per minute including VAT plus network New Zealand are able to trade their shares locally and receive extras, with lines open Monday to Friday 8.00am to 4.30pm.
dividends in New Zealand dollars.
The dividend reinvestment plan provides a convenient way The ISIN code for Caledonias ordinary shares is GB0001639920.
for shareholders to build up their shareholdings by using cash dividends to buy more shares in the company.
An application Monthly net asset value form for the dividend reinvestment plan is available online at The company releases a net asset value announcement and publishes www.
com or by telephone from Capita IRG a fact sheet shortly after each month end.
These can be found on the Trustees Ltd on 0871 664 0381 calls cost 10p per minute including companys website at www.
VAT, plus network extras, or 44 20 8639 3402 if calling from overseas.
In each case, lines are open from Monday to Friday 8.30am to 5.30pm.
Alternatively, an application form can be requested by email from shares@capitaregistrars.
New Zealand registered shareholders Shareholders on the New Zealand register may arrange to receive their dividends by direct credit to a specified New Zealand bank account.
New Zealand registered shareholders should contact Computershare Investor Services if they wish to set up such an arrangement.
Shareholders on the New Zealand register should also notify Computershare Investor Services if they have changed their address, but where there is more than one registered holder, all holders should sign the notification.
The contact details for Computershare Investor Services are shown on the opposite page.
New Zealand registered shareholders may also change their addresses, update payment instructions and view their shareholdings, including transactions, online at www.
General enquiries can be directed to enquiry@computershare.
It will assist Computershare Investor Services if the CSN or shareholder number is quoted in any communication with them.
