The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 51 Glossary of Terms AIC book values.
The market values of these, and in particular The Association of Investment Companies.
the debentures, are higher than the par values due to the high coupon or interest rates they pay relative to the current Benchmark interest rates in the market.
Using a higher value for these From 1 July 2009 the size weighted average net asset value liabilities reduces the NAV per share.
total return of the AIC UK Growth & Income sector.
From 1 July 2005 to 30 June 2009 it was the Total Return of the Performance Attribution Analysis FTSE All-Share Index adjusted for a maximum 4% cap for A performance attribution analyses how the Company any single stock.
Previously it was the FTSE All-Share Index achieved its recorded performance relative to its benchmark.
This is broken down to show the effect of stock selection, gearing, expenses and changes in share capital made during Gearing the year.
In a falling market, the gearing effect will have a The gearing percentage reflects the amount of borrowings ie negative contribution to performance, whereas in a rising bank loans and debentures the Company has used to invest market it will have a positive contribution.
This figure indicates the extra amount by which shareholders funds would move if the Companys investments Premium Discount were to rise or fall.
The amount by which the market price per share of an investment trust is either higher premium or lower discount There are several methods of calculating gearing and the than the NAV per share, expressed as a percentage of the following has been selected: NAV.
The difference between quoted investments including written call options and equity shareholders funds divided by equity Total Expense Ratio shareholders funds and multiplied by 100.
This is the total expenses excluding VAT write-back incurred by the Company, including those charged to capital, expressed Investment Trusts as a percentage of the average shareholders funds over the Investment trusts are public limited companies, quoted on the year calculated on a quarterly basis.
Before 2010 it was London Stock Exchange, which provide shareholders with a calculated using only the years opening and closing professionally managed portfolio of investments.
We have shown separately the trusts are exempt from tax on the capital gains arising on their percentage of management other expenses and the investments subject to meeting certain criteria.
Income, net of performance fee when applicable.
expenses and tax, is substantially distributed to shareholders.
Total Returns Net Asset Value NAV Per Ordinary Share This is the return on the share price or NAV taking into The value of the Companys assets ie investments and cash account both the rise and fall of share prices and the held less any liabilities ie bank loans and debentures for dividends paid to shareholders.
Any dividends received by a which the Company is responsible, divided by the number of shareholder are assumed to have been reinvested in either shares in issue.
The aggregate NAV is also referred to as additional shares for share price total return or the shareholders funds on the Balance Sheet.
The NAV is Companys assets for NAV total return.
This is the same published daily.
calculation shown as the value of 1,000 with net income reinvested on page 4.
NAV per Ordinary Share with debt at market value This is where the NAV is calculated by attributing market also Website called fair values to the preference preferred ordinary Further information on the Company can be found at stocks and the debenture stocks rather than their par or www.
