32 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued e Income continued Where the Company enters into a commitment to underwrite an issue of securities in exchange for the receipt of commission, this creates a derivative financial instrument.
Any such derivatives are recognised initially at fair value and are subsequently re-measured at fair value, with the related gains and losses being reflected in the Income Statement.
Net losses arising from these derivatives, where the actual or expected loss from taking up the securities underwritten exceeds the commission income, are allocated to the capital return.
Net gains are allocated to the revenue return.
The accounting for option premium income is dealt with in note 1 m. f Management and administrative expenses and finance charges All expenses and finance charges are accounted for on an accruals basis.
In accordance with the Boards expectation, over the long term, that investment returns will be attributable 70% to capital gains and 30% to revenue, the Company charges to capital 70% of the finance costs excluding dividends payable on the preference and preferred ordinary stocks and management fees.
Performance fees incurred are charged to capital.
g Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Companys liability for current tax is calculated using the effective tax rate of corporation tax for the accounting period.
In line with the recommendations of the SORP, the allocation method used to calculate tax relief on expenses presented against capital returns in the supplementary information in the Income Statement is the marginal basis.
Under this basis, if taxable income is capable of being offset entirely by expenses presented in the revenue return column of the Income Statement, then no tax relief is transferred to the capital return column.
Deferred taxation is provided on all timing differences that have originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date.
This is subject to deferred tax assets only being recognised if it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable profits from which the future reversal of timing differences can be deducted.
Any liability to deferred tax is provided at the average rate of tax expected to apply based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted to reflect the time value of money.
h Borrowings Interest bearing bank loans, overdrafts and debentures are recorded initially at fair value, being the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
They are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Finance charges, including interest payable, premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in the Income Statement using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
i Preference stocks Under FRS 25 preference and preferred ordinary stocks are classified as debt.
The dividends associated with the preference and preferred ordinary stocks are charged fully to the Companys revenue return within finance costs.
j Dividends payable to shareholders Dividends payable to shareholders are recognised in the financial statements when they are paid or, in the case of final dividends, when they are approved by shareholders.
Dividends are dealt with in the Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds.
