The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 41 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 16 Risk management policies and procedures As an investment trust the Company invests in equities and other investments for the long term so as to secure its investment objective and policy as stated on page 14.
In pursuing its investment objective and policy, the Company is exposed to a variety of risks that could result in either a reduction in the Companys net assets or a reduction in the profits available for distribution by way of dividends.
These risks market risk comprising market price risk, currency risk and interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit and counterparty risk and the directors approach to the management of them, are set out below.
The Board and the Portfolio Manager co-ordinate the Companys risk management.
The objectives, policies and processes for managing the risks are set out below and have not changed from the previous accounting period.
16.1 Market risk The fair value of a financial instrument held by the Company may fluctuate due to changes in market prices.
This market risk comprises market price risk see note 16.1.
2 and interest rate risk see note 16.1.
The Portfolio Manager assesses the exposure to market risk when making each investment decision, and monitors the overall level of market risk on the whole of the investment portfolio on an ongoing basis.
1 Market price risk Market price risk changes in market prices other than those arising from interest rate risk or currency risk may affect the value of investments.
The Companys investments are susceptible to market price risk arising from uncertainties about the future prices of the investments.
Management of the risk The Board manages the risks inherent in the investment portfolio by ensuring full and timely access to relevant information from the Investment Manager.
The Board meets regularly and at each meeting reviews investment performance.
The Board monitors the Managers compliance with the Companys objectives, including investment strategy and asset allocation.
When appropriate, the Company may buy sell put or call options or futures on indices and on equity investments in its portfolio to manage its exposure to price risk or to generate income.
At 30 June 2011 the Company had open positions with a negative value of 73,000 2010: open positions with a negative value of 248,000.
Concentration of exposure to market price risk An analysis of the Companys investment portfolio is shown on pages 10 and 11.
This shows that the majority of the Companys investments are in UK listed companies.
Accordingly, there is a concentration of exposure to the UK, though it is recognised that an investments country of domicile or of listing does not necessarily equate to its exposure to the economic conditions in that country.
Market price risk sensitivity The sensitivity of a the return after taxation for the year and b the Companys net assets to an increase or decrease of 10% in the fair values of the Companys investments at each balance sheet date is shown on the next page.
This level of change is considered to be reasonably possible, based on observation of current market conditions.
