The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 25 Statement of Directors Responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial the financial position of the Company and enable them to statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the directors have prepared the financial statements in accordance prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
12 Under company law the directors must not approve the Each of the directors, who are listed on page 13, confirms financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give that, to the best of their knowledge: a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In the financial statements, which have been prepared in preparing these financial statements, the directors are accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted required to: Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law, give a true and fair view of select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the consistently: Company: and make judgments and accounting estimates that are the Report of the Directors in this Annual Report includes a reasonable and prudent: fair review of the development and performance of the state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have business and the position of the Company, together with a been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it and explained in the financial statements, respectively: and faces.
prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis Signed for and on behalf of the Board of directors unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
Simon fide Zoete The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Chairman records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys 14 September 2011 The financial statements are published on www.
com which is a website maintained by the Companys Manager, Henderson Global Investors Limited Henderson.
The maintenance and integrity of the website is the responsibility of Henderson: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
