Being a member s of Dexion Absolute Limited, and entitled to vote, hereby appoint the Chairman of the Meeting or the representative of the Company Secretary such appointment may be determined at the discretion of the Company Secretary or.................................................................................................................................................................................... As my our proxy to vote for me us and on my our behalf at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held at 9.30 a. m. on 13 June 2012 at 1 Le Truchot, St Peter Port, Guernsey and at any adjournment thereof.
Please indicate by placing a cross in the appropriate spaces below how you wish your votes to be cast.
Unless otherwise indicated the proxy will exercise his discretion both as to how he votes and as to whether or not he abstains from voting.
Vote Ordinary Resolution For Against Withheld 1.
Adoption of the Financial Statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2011 2.
Appointment of KPMG Channel Islands Limited as Auditors of the Company for the year ending 31 December 2012 together with the ratification of their remuneration 3.
Re-election of Mr John Hallam 4.
Re-election of Mr Trevor Ash 5.
Re-election of Mr Robin Bowie 6.
Re-election of Mr William Collins 7.
Re-election of Mrs Susie Farnon 8.
Re-election of Dr Paul Sharman 9.
Authorisation to allot ordinary shares and or C shares of any currency class 10.
If you desire someone other than the Chairman or a representative of the Company Secretary to act as your proxy, delete the Chairman of the Meeting or the representative of the Company Secretary such appointment may be determined at the discretion of the Company Secretary above and insert the name of the proxy desired.
If you wish to appoint the representative of the Company Secretary to act as your proxy delete the Chairman of the Meeting or.
If you do not delete these words and you do not insert the name of an alternative proxy in the space provided, you will be deemed to have appointed the Chairman of the Meeting as your proxy.
Any such proxy need not be a member of the Company.
In the case of a corporation this proxy must be executed under Common Seal or under the hand of an officer or duly authorised attorney.
In the case of joint holders the signature of the person whose name stands first in the Register is sufficient.
To appoint more than one proxy you may photocopy this form.
Please indicate the proxy holders name and the number of Shares in relation to which they are authorised to act as your proxy which, in aggregate, should not exceed the number of Shares held by you.
Please also indicate if the proxy instruction is one of multiple instructions being given.
All forms must be signed and should be returned together in the same envelope.
CREST members should use the CREST electronic proxy appointment service and refer to Note 4 of the Notice of Annual General Meeting in relation to the submission of a proxy appointment via CREST.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
To be effective this Form of Proxy, duly completed together with any power of attorney or authority under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy of such power of attorney or other authority, must be lodged with the Companys transfer agent Capita Registrars, PXS, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU not later than 9.30 a. m. on 11 June 2012.
The lodging of a completed Form of Proxy does not preclude a member from attending, speaking and voting at the AGM.
The quorum for this Meeting is two persons holding or representing by proxy 5% of the issued Share capital excluding any Share capital represented by treasury Shares between them.
If such a quorum is not present within half an hour from the time appointed for the Meeting, or if during the Meeting such a quorum ceases to be present, it shall stand adjourned to such day, time and place as a Chairman may determine and if at such adjourned meeting a quorum is not present within five minutes from the time appointed for the holding of the meeting, those Members present in person or by proxy shall be a quorum.
A vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes for or against a resolution.
69 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2011 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS Short Biographies Please find to follow the short biographies of the Directors who have been proposed for re-election at the AGM: John E Hallam, Chairman aged 63, appointed 26 November 2002, is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and qualified as an accountant in 1971.
Mr Hallam took on the role of Chairman on 30 November 2010.
He is a former partner of  and a past chairman of the Guernsey Financial Services Commission.
He is currently the chairman of Cazenove Absolute Equity Limited and Partners Group Global Opportunities Limited as well as being a director of a number of financial services companies including companies listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Mr Hallam is a resident of Guernsey.
Mr Hallam has served on the Board for 9 years.
Trevor C Ash, Senior Independent Director with effect from 30 November 2010 aged 65, appointed 26 November 2002, has over 30 years investment experience and is a Fellow Member of the Chartered Institute for Securities & Investment.
He was a director of Rothschild Asset Management C. I.
Limited now Insight Investment Management Limited, of which he was managing director until May 1999.
He is also a director of a number of hedge funds and fund of hedge funds.
He is a founding director of Valletta Fund Management Limited, the first fund management company to be established in Malta following the introduction of financial services regulations in 1995.
He is also a director of a number of venture capital, derivative and offshore funds managed or advised by the Rothschild Group and Merrill Lynch.
Mr Ash is a resident of Guernsey.
Mr Ash has served on the Board for 9 years.
Robin M J Bowie, aged 50, appointed 26 November 2002, was educated at Vanderbilt University, Tennessee.
He began his City career as a bond trader at Citibank in 1984, after which he worked at Goldman Sachs as a credit trader.
In 1989, at BZW he developed their ECU and European Government Bond trading operations and in 1995 moved to HSBC where he was in charge of European Government Bond trading.
In 1998 he became treasurer of KBC Bank in London with responsibility for the management of interest rate, foreign exchange and credit risk.
He left KBC in 2000 to found Dexion Capital.
He is a director of Dexion Capital Holdings Limited, a Guernsey company which is the holding company of the Manager and the Investment Consultant.
He is also a director of Dexion Trading Limited and Dexion Equity Alternative Limited which are funds of hedge funds, the Shares of which are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Until 11 April 2011 Mr Bowie was also a director of Dexion Commodities Limited.
Dexion Commodities Shareholders approved the winding up of the Company on 11 April 2011.
Mr Bowie has served on the Board for 9 years.
Dr. Paul Sharman, aged 60, appointed 21 November 2006, was educated at the University of Sussex, he received a Doctorate in Physics in 1976.
He spent ten years as a research physicist which included periods at CERN, Geneva, and Institut Laue-Langevin, Grenoble.
His career in the City began in 1983 when he joined Lombard-Odier as a technology analyst, after which he joined Baring Brothers as a US Fund Manager.
In 1992 he was appointed CIO at Hill Samuel Investment Management and in 1996 became CEO of SLC Asset Management, part of Sun Life Financial of Canada.
From 2001 he acted as a consultant to the Fund Management Industry before being appointed as Director of Investment Management at Cooperative Financial Services in 2005.
In 2010 he was appointed Chief Executive of Aerion Fund Management Ltd.
He resigned at the end of 2010 and is now CEO of Aerion Fund Management Limited, the fund manager of the National Grid Pension Scheme.
He is also a Director of Dexion Capital plc.
Dr. Sharman is a UK resident.
Dr. Sharman has served on the Board for 5 years.
Susie Farnon, aged 52, appointed 30 November 2010.
She was a Banking and Finance Partner with KPMG Channel Islands from 1990 until 2001 and Head of Audit KPMG Channel Islands from 1999.
She has served as President of the Guernsey Society of Chartered and Certified Accountants and as a member of The States of Guernsey Audit Commission and The Guernsey Public Accounts Committee.
She is a Commissioner of The Guernsey Financial Services Commission and a Non Executive Director of a number of property and investment companies.
Mrs Farnon is a resident of Guernsey.
Mrs Farnon has served on the Board for 1 year.
William N Collins, aged 62, appointed 30 November 2010, has over 35 years experience in banking and investment.
Since September 2007 he has been with Bank Sarasin, Guernsey as Director Private Clients and prior to that he worked for Barings in Guernsey for over 18 years.
In 1995 he was appointed a Director and from 2003 to August 2007 was Managing Director of Baring Asset Management C. I. Ltd. Mr Collins is a resident of Guernsey.
Mr Collins has served on the Board for 1 year.
70 Designed and printed by Perivan Financial Print 224769 Dexion Absolute Limited 1 Le Truchot St Peter Port Guernsey GY1 1WD email: clientservices@dexionabsolute.
