DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2011 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS GLOSSARY OF HEDGE FUND STRATEGIES to general stock market movements.
Portfolio Managers use Long Short Equities a range of fundamental and technical investment Long Short Equity strategies generally involve taking both methodologies to identify potential positions, may or may not long and short positions in equity securities that are deemed remain fully invested and use varying degrees of leverage.
to be under or overvalued.
Although the combination of long Some Portfolio Managers assume modest long positions and short investing can provide an element of protection while remaining net short.
against but not eliminate directional market exposure, long short equity Portfolio Managers generally do not Macro attempt to neutralise the amount of long and short positions Macro strategies generally involve fundamental, i. e. they will be net long or net short.
Portfolio Managers discretionary, directional trading in fixed income, currencies, may specialise in a particular industry or may diversify equities and commodities, using futures and other holdings across industries.
Portfolio Managers in this derivatives including commodity trading advisers CTAs.
strategy usually employ a low to moderate degree of Portfolio Managers invest in a wide variety of strategies and leverage.
financial instruments, often assuming an aggressive risk posture.
Most Portfolio Managers rely on macro-economic Long Short Credit analyses to invest across countries, markets, sectors and Portfolio Managers implementing Long Short Credit companies.
Futures and options are often used for hedging strategies generally take both long and short positions in and speculation and the use of leverage varies considerably.
credit-related instruments, such as corporate bonds, bank loans, trade claims, emerging market debt and credit Event Driven derivatives e. g. credit default swaps.
Portfolio Managers Event Driven strategies generally involve taking sizeable long utilising this strategy usually invest in companies in financial equity positions in individual companies in order to help put difficulty, reorganisation or bankruptcy and their portfolios into effect changes that the Company intended to unlock are often concentrated in debt instruments.
The use of value that is not currently reflected in the market.
Portfolio Managers differ in their preference for actively participating in the workout and Multi-Strategy Opportunistic restructuring process and the extent to which they use Multi-Strategy Opportunistic strategies generally involve leverage.
Although Long Short Credit strategies typically Portfolio Managers dynamically allocating capital to specific involve positions in debt instruments and credit derivatives, trades and strategies exhibiting unique risk return the Portfolio Managers implementing this strategy perform characteristics in a given market environment.
Trades can be extensive research on companies and may use this either arbitrage oriented, event-driven, or directional in information to invest both long and short in the equity nature and strategies may include long short equities, securities of such companies.
long short credit, event-driven, special situations, convertible bond arbitrage, capital structure arbitrage, volatility trading, Portfolio Hedge fixed income arbitrage and statistical arbitrage.
Portfolio Hedge strategies generally seek to profit from declining security prices, through short positions in either the equity, debt or  derivatives of companies with unfavourable prospects.
The strategy performs best in declining markets and therefore is especially attractive in a multi-manager fund to help reduce the funds total exposure 64
