Statement of Directors Responsibilities Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report responsible for preparing a Directors' Report, Directors' and accounts in accordance with applicable law and Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement regulations.
that complies with that law and those regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and statements for each financial year.
Under that law they have integrity of the corporate and financial information included elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance on the Company's website.
Legislation in the UK governing with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK the preparation and dissemination of financial statements Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a that: true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the of the profit or loss of the company for that period.
In applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view of preparing these financial statements, the Directors are the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of required to: the Company: and the Directors Report includes a fair review of the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them development and performance of the business and the consistently: position of the Company, together with a description of the make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and principal risks and uncertainties that the Company faces.
prudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed For Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc and explained in the financial statements: and Allan McKenzie prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Chairman unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
13 October 2011 The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
