Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the twenty-fourth Annual General Meeting of Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc will be held at 40 Princes Street, Edinburgh on 7 December 2011 at 12 noon to consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions, of which resolutions 1 to 13 inclusive will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and resolutions 14 to 16 inclusive will be proposed as special resolutions: 1.
To receive the reports of the Directors and auditor and the audited financial statements for the year to 31 August 2011.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year to 31 August 2011.
To approve payment of a final dividend of 3.2p per Ordinary share.
To re-elect Mr McKenzie as a Director of the Company 5.
To re-elect Mr Gairns as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr Lowrie as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr Maynard as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr McLaren as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr Watt as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the auditor for the year to 31 August 2012.
To increase the limit on the aggregate fees paid to Directors contained in clause 81 of the Companys Articles of Association to 250,000.
That, in substitution for any pre-existing power to allot or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company, but without prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to the date of this resolution, the Directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 13,089,757, such authority to expire on 28 February 2013 or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held after the passing of this resolution, unless previously revoked, varied or extended by the Company in general meeting, save that the Company may, at any time prior to the expiry of such authority, make an offer or enter into an agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after the expiry of such authority, and the Directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if such authority had not expired.
That, subject to the passing of resolution 13 in the notice convening the meeting at which this resolution is to be proposed the notice of meeting and in substitution for all existing powers, the Directors be and are hereby generally empowered pursuant to Section 570 of Companies Act 2006 the Act to allot equity securities as defined in Section 560 1 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority under Section 551 of the Act conferred by resolution 13 in the notice of meeting as if Section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 13,089,757, provided that this power shall be limited: i to the allotment of equity securities in connection with any issue in favour of the holders of Ordinary shares on the register on a date fixed by the Directors where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all the holders of Ordinary shares are proportionate as nearly as practicable to the respective numbers of Ordinary shares held by them on that date, provided that the Directors may make such exclusions or other arrangements as they may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws in any territory or the requirements of any relevant regulatory body or stock exchange: and ii to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to paragraph i of this resolution of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,963,464, being 5% of the nominal value of the existing issued share capital of the Company: and shall expire on 28 February 2013 or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution unless previously revoked, varied or extended by the Company in general meeting, save that the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
That, in substitution for any existing authority under Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, but without prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to the date hereof, the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised, in accordance with Section 701 of the Act, to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 4 of the Act of fully paid Ordinary shares of 20p each in the capital of the Company shares provided that: i the maximum aggregate number of shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 14.99% of the issued Ordinary share capital of the Company as at the date of the passing of this resolution: ii the minimum price which may be paid for a share shall be 20p exclusive of expenses : iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a share shall be an amount being not more than the higher of i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid relating to a share on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out: and iv unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 28 February 2013 or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held after the passing of this resolution, save that the Company may, at any time prior to such expiry, enter into a contract or contracts to purchase shares under such authority which would or might be completed or executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of shares pursuant to any such contract or contracts as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
That a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice provided that this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution.
By order of the Board Registered office: Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited 40 Princes Street Secretary Edinburgh EH2 2BY 7 November 2011 Notes: i A member is entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to exercise all or any of their rights to attend, speak and vote on their behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A member may appoint more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares.
A member may not appoint more than one proxy to exercise rights attached to any one share.
ii A form of proxy for use by shareholders is enclosed with these accounts.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not prevent any shareholder from attending the meeting and voting in person.
To be valid, the form of proxy should be lodged, together with any power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority at the address stated thereon, so as to be received not less than 48 hours excluding non-working days before the time of the meeting.
iii In accordance with Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, to have the right to attend and vote at the Meeting a member must first have his or her name entered in the Companys register of members by not later than 6.00pm on Monday 5 December 2011 or, in the event that the Meeting is adjourned, at 6.00pm on the day which is two business days before the time of the adjourned Meeting.
Changes to entries on that register after that time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any member to attend and vote at the Meeting referred to above.
iv CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual and by logging on to the website www.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
v In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications, and must contain the information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 53 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Companys Registrar ID RA19 no later than 48 hours excluding non-working days before the time of the meeting or any adjournment.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the Companys Registrar is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
vi CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
vii The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. viii The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose shares are held on their behalf by another person and who have been nominated to receive communications from the Company in accordance with Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 nominated persons.
Nominated persons may have a right under an agreement with the member who holds the shares on their behalf to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the person holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of members in relation to the appointment of proxies in notes i and ii above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these notes can only be exercised by members of the Company.
ix No Director has a service contract with the Company but copies of Directors letters of appointment will be available for inspection for at least 15 minutes prior to the Meeting and during the Meeting.
x As at close of business on 31 October 2011 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document, the Companys issued share capital comprised 196,346,350 Ordinary shares of 20p each.
The total number of voting rights in the Company as at 31 October 2011 was 196,346,350. xi Any person holding 3% or more of the total voting rights in the Company who appoints a person other than the Chairman as his proxy will need to ensure that both he and such third party complies with their respective disclosure obligations under the UK Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
xii Any corporation which is a shareholder can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a shareholder provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
xiii The members of the Company may require the Company to publish, on its website, a statement setting out any matter relating to the audit of the Companys accounts, including the Auditors Report and the conduct of the audit, which they intend to raise at the next meeting of the Company.
The Company will be required to do so once it has received such requests from either i members representing at least 5% of the total voting rights of the Company or ii at least 100 members who have a relevant right to vote and hold shares in the Company on which there has been paid up an average sum per member of at least 100.
Such requests must be made in writing and must state your full name and address, and be sent to: The Company Secretary, Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc, 40 Princes Street, Edinburgh EH2 2BY.
xiv Information regarding the Annual General Meeting, including information required by Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, is available from the Companys website, www.
xv Under Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company must answer any question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting put by a member attending the meeting unless: a answering the question would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information: b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
xvi Shareholders are advised that, unless otherwise stated, any telephone number, website or e-mail address which may be set out in this notice of Annual General Meeting or in any related documents including the proxy form is not to be used for the 54 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc purposes of serving information or documents on, or otherwise communicating with, the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
xvii There are special arrangements for holders of shares through the Aberdeen's Investment Plan for Children, Aberdeen's Investment Trust Share Plan and Investment Trust ISA.
These are explained in the Letter of Direction which such holders will have received with this report.
