221274 Invesco Edin pp52-pp60 13 06 2011 17:24 Page 58 58 SPECIALIST FUNDS MANAGED BY INVESCO PERPETUAL Investing for Income, Income Growth and Capital Growth from equities, fixed interest securities or property City Merchants High Yield Trust plc Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc UK Equity Share Aims to generate a high level of income from a variety of fixed Portfolio income instruments combined with a degree of security.
The Portfolio Aims to generate long-term capital and income growth Company is geared by bank debt.
with real growth in dividends from investment, primarily in the UK equity market.
The portfolio is geared by bank debt.
Invesco Income Growth Trust plc Aims to provide shareholders with a long-term growth in capital Invesco Property Income Trust Limited and real, long-term growth in dividends from an above-average The Company is a closed-ended investment company with yielding portfolio comprising mainly UK equities and equitylimited liability incorporated in Jersey.
The objective is to provide related securities.
Seeks to achieve a total return in excess of the ordinary shareholders with an attractive level of income together FTSE AllShare Index.
The Company is geared by bank debt.
with the prospect of income and capital growth from investing in commercial properties in the UK and Continental Europe.
The Invesco Leveraged High Yield Fund Limited Company is geared by bank debt.
A Jersey-incorporated closed-ended Company that aims to provide a high level of income, paid gross to UK investors, whilst Keystone Investment Trust plc seeking to maximise total return through investing, primarily in a Aims to provide shareholders with long-term growth of capital diversified portfolio of high-yielding corporate and government mainly from UK investments.
The Company is geared by way of bonds.
The Company seeks to balance the attraction of highdebenture stocks.
yield securities with the need for protection of capital and to Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc manage volatility.
The Company is highly geared.
Aims to generate capital growth with a higher than average Invesco Perpetual Recovery Trust 2011 plc income from investment, primarily in the UK equity market.
It is A split-capital investment trust with ordinary income shares, zero intended that the Company will provide shareholders with real dividend preference shares and units a combination of the dividend growth over the medium-term by investing mainly in two.
Aims to meet the capital entitlements of the zero dividend above-average yield equities.
However, investments are also preference shares and to maximise the capital and income made in companies with lower initial yields which are returns of the ordinary income shares by investing primarily in considered to have good potential for income growth.
The equities but also debt securities which are considered to offer Company is geared by a debenture stock and bank debt.
Returns to ordinary income shareholders are The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc geared by the prior charge of the zero shares.
The Company has Invests in UK securities with long term objective of achieving: an initial life projected to end in 2011.
1. an increase in the Net Asset Value per share by more than Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Managed Liquidity the growth in the FTSE All-Share Index: and Share Portfolio Aims to generate a high level of income from a variety of fixed 2. growth in dividends per share by more than the rate of UK income instruments combined with a high degree of security.
Investing in Smaller Companies Invesco Perpetual UK Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc Aims to achieve long-term total returns for the Companys shareholders from investment in a broad cross-section of small to medium size UK-quoted companies.
Investing Internationally Invesco Asia Trust plc Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Global Equity Share Aims to produce long-term capital growth by investing in a Portfolio diversified portfolio of Asian and Australasian securities.
The Aims to produce long-term capital growth from a sensibly Company aims to achieve growth in its net asset value in excess diversified portfolio of international equities including the UK.
of the Morgan Stanley Capital International All County Far East The portfolio comprises the best ideas of a number of Invesco Free ex Japan Index, measured in sterling.
The Company is Perpetuals investment managers.
The portfolio is geared by geared by bank debt.
Investing for Absolute Returns Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Hedge Fund Share Portfolio Aims to achieve absolute return of 3-month sterling LIBOR plus 6% per annum over a rolling 5-year period, coupled with low volatility.
Investing in Multiple Asset Classes A choice of asset classes within one investment trust with the Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc freedom to switch between them, twice a year, free from capital UK Equity Share Portfolio gains tax liability.
Please contact our Investor Services Team on 0800 085 8677 if you would like more information about the investment trusts or other specialist funds listed above.
Further details are also available on the following website: www.
221274 Invesco Edin pp52-pp60 13 06 2011 17:24 Page 59 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 59 NOTES 221274 Invesco Edin pp52-pp60 13 06 2011 17:24 Page 60 60 NOTES Perivan Financial Print 221274 221274 Invesco Edin cover 13 06 2011 11:11 Page 2 If you have any queries about The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc, or any of the other specialist funds managed by Invesco Perpetual, please contact our Investor Services Team on 0800 085 8677 www.
co. uk investmenttrusts Front Cover: Obsidian, volcanic, extrusive igneous rocks fractures in a distinctive way
