221274 Invesco Edin pp39-pp51 13 06 2011 11:30 Page 51 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 51 Fair Value of Hierarchy Disclosures All except one of the Companys portfolio of investments are in the Level 1 category as defined in FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
The three levels set out in FRS 29 follow.
Level 1 fair value based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets.
Level 2 fair values based on valuation techniques using observable inputs other than quoted prices within Level 1.
Level 3 fair values based on valuation techniques using inputs that are not based on observable market data.
Categorisation within the hierarchy is determined on the basis of the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement of each relevant asset liability.
The valuation techniques used by the Company are explained in the accounting policies note.
All except one of the Companys investments are Level 1 with one investment in Level 2.
There were no transfers between the levels during the year.
The sole investment in Level 2 comprised the Companys holding of Barclays Bank - Nuclear Power Notes, which was valued at 5.1 million 2010: 5.1 million.
Maturity Analysis of Contractual Liability Cash Flows The financial liabilities of the Company are shown in notes 11 and 12.
The major liabilities are the two debenture stocks with 100 million payable on 30 June 2014, the other 100 million payable on 30 September 2022 and interest payments totalling 11.5 million and 7.75 million per annum respectively.
Other liabilities comprise amounts due to brokers and accruals.
All are paid under contractual terms.
For amounts due to brokers, this is usually the purchase date of the investment plus three business days.
For accruals, this is normally within 30 business days of invoice or, in the case of management fees, in accordance with the management agreement.
Capital Management The Company does not have any externally imposed capital requirements.
The Companys capital is disclosed in the balance sheet and is managed on a basis consistent with its investment objective and policies, as disclosed in the Report of the Directors on page 15.
The principal risks and their management are discussed above.
Contingencies, Guarantees and Financial Commitments There were no contingencies, guarantees or financial commitments of the Company at the year end.
Related Party Transactions Invesco Asset Management Limited IAML, a wholly owned subsidiary of Invesco Limited, is Manager, Company Secretary and Administrator to the Company.
Details of management fees payable to IAML, together with details of Directors interests, are disclosed in the Report of the Directors.
There are no other related party transactions.
