221274 Invesco Edin pp01-pp13 13 06 2011 11:21 Page 13 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 13 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The shares of The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Managers Website are quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
Information relating to the Company can be found on the Managers website, which can be located Savings Plan and ISA at www.
The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc is a member The contents of websites referred to in this of the Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust Savings document, or accessible from links within those Scheme and the Invesco Perpetual Investment websites, are not incorporated in to, nor do they Trust ISA.
Shares in the Company can be form part of this annual financial report.
purchased and sold via these two schemes.
Financial Calendar Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust Savings In addition, the Company publishes information Scheme according to the following calendar: The Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust: Savings Announcements Scheme allows an investor to make monthly Half-yearly unaudited results November purchases from as little as 20 per month or Interim Management through lump sum investments of 500 or above Statements July and January in the shares of The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc in a straightforward and low cost way.
Final results May June Ordinary Share Dividends Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust ISA 1st interim payable November 2nd interim payable February The Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust ISA allows investments up to 10,680 in shares of The 3rd interim payable May payment was brought forward Edinburgh Investment Trust plc in each tax year.
Investors can also choose to make lump sum last year to 31 March 2010 Final payable July investments from 500, or regular investments from as little as 20 per month.
Debenture Stock Interest payable: 1 For full details of these Invesco Perpetual 11 2% 2014 June and December investment schemes please contact Invesco 3 7 4% 2022 September and March Perpetuals Investor Services Team free on AGM July 0800 085 8677.
Year End 31 March NAV Publication Location of AGM The net asset value NAV of the Companys The one hundred and twenty second Annual ordinary shares is calculated by the Manager on a General Meeting of the Company will be held at daily basis and is notified to the Stock Exchange the Weston Link, National Galleries of Scotland, on the next business day.
It is published daily in Princes Street, Edinburgh on 22 July 2011 at the newspapers detailed below.
Share Price Listings The investment manager, Neil Woodford, will be The price of your shares can be found in the making a presentation about the Company after following places: the AGM.
Financial Times Investment Companies Daily Telegraph Investment Trusts The Times Investment Companies The Scotsman Equity Inv Instruments Reuters ordinary shares EDIN.
L Bloomberg ordinary shares EDIN LN Internet addresses TrustNet www.
co. uk Invesco Perpetual www.
co. uk investmenttrusts Association of www.
