27 Basis of Accounting and Significant Accounting Policies continued New Standards to be Applied At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the IASB and the IFRIC have issued the following standards, amendments and interpretations to be applied to financial statements with periods commencing on or after the following dates: IAS 24 revised Related Party Disclosures effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011.
Revises the definition of related parties.
IFRS 9 Financial instruments: Classification effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
Standard addresses the classification and measurement of financial assets in the form of debt instrument or equity.
IFRS 7 amendments Financial Instruments: Disclosures effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011.
Amendments include multiple clarifications related to the disclosures of financial instruments.
IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013, subject to endorsement by the EU.
Standard provides additional guidance to assist in the determination of control where this is difficult to assess.
IFRS 13 Fair value measurement effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012, subject to endorsement by the EU.
Standard aims to improve consistency and reduce complexity by providing a precise definition of fair value and a single source of fair value measurement and disclosure requirements for use across IFRSs.
IAS 27 revised 2011 Separate Financial Statements effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013, subject to endorsement by the EU.
Standard contains accounting and disclosure requirements for investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, when an entity prepared separate financial statements.
Basis of Consolidation The consolidated Accounts include the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
Where subsidiaries are acquired or sold during the year their results are included in the consolidated accounts from the date of acquisition and up to the date of disposal respectively.
A subsidiary is an entity where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies so as to obtain benefit from its activities.
The principal subsidiaries comprise wholly owned companies and near wholly owned investment holding limited partnerships set up by the Company through which investments are made and through which external borrowings for investment purposes are raised.
The holdings in investment holding limited partnerships and wholly owned investment holding companies are included in the consolidated financial statements, on the basis that they are considered to be special purpose entities of the Company, which have been set up for the specific purpose of holding investments.
These investment holding limited partnerships and wholly owned investment holding companies are considered to be controlled by the Company under the interpretation of SIC 12 Special Purpose Entities as the Company enjoys predominantly all the risks and rewards from their activities.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Investments The Board have appointed Electra Partners LLP Electra Partners, an independent investment manager, under a contract of full discretionary management to manage the investments of the Company.
This is effected through the Management and Investment Guideline Agreement and the relevant limited partnership agreements of the investment holding limited partnerships through which the Company makes its investments.
Under these agreements Electra Partners as Manager, has full power to exercise the voting rights attaching to any of the Companys investments without reference to the Board.
Consequently, the Company does not have the power to participate in or govern the financial and operating policies of any of its investments and therefore even where the holding is greater than 50% of the equity, or between 20% and 50% of the equity, investments are not consolidated or accounted for using the equity method respectively.
Purchases and sales of listed investments and floating rate notes are recognised on the trade date where a contract exists whose terms require delivery within a time frame determined by the relevant market.
Purchases and sales of unlisted investments are recognised when the contract for acquisition or sale becomes unconditional.
Investments are designated at fair value through profit or loss described in the Accounts as investments held at fair value and are subsequently measured at reporting dates at fair value.
The fair value of direct unquoted investments is calculated in accordance with the Principles of Valuation of Investments below.
Changes in the fair value of investments are recognised in the Income Statement through the capital column.
56 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2011
