If Electra Partners terminates the management agreement, Electra may pay compensation in lieu of any part of the notice period but Electra Partners is not entitled to any additional compensation.
Electra Partners receives a priority profit share of 1.5% on the gross value of the Companys investment portfolio including cash but excluding any amounts committed to funds established and managed by Electra Partners.
During the year the Company continued to operate carried interest and co-investment schemes for executives of Electra Partners and details of these schemes are contained in Notes 23 and 25 of the Notes to the Accounts.
As detailed in the Corporate Governance Statement, the Board reviews the activities of Electra Partners on an ongoing basis and believes that the continuing appointment of Electra Partners on the terms agreed is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
Electra Partners is responsible for the investment management of a number of limited partnership funds to which the Company has subscribed.
Electra Partners manages the Companys investments in accordance with guidelines determined by the Directors and as specified in limited partnership and in management and investment guideline agreements.
Management Engagement Committee A Management Engagement Committee was established in 2011.
The Committee is chaired by Mr Cullinan and comprises Ms Barker and Ms Webber.
The Committee has written terms of reference which are available on the Companys website.
Further details in relation to the committee are provided in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 77 to 82.
Social, community, employee and environmental issues In carrying out its activities and in its relationships with the community, the Company aims to conduct itself responsibly, ethically and fairly.
The Company has no employees and the Board is composed entirely of non-executive Directors.
As an investment trust, the Company has no direct impact on the environment.
However, the Company believes that it is in the shareholders interests to consider environmental, social and ethical factors when selecting and retaining investments.
Electra believes that high standards of corporate social responsibility CSR make good business sense and have the potential to protect and enhance investment returns.
Consequently, the investment process takes social, environmental and ethical issues into account when, in Electra Partners view, these have a material impact on either investment risk or return.
Electra recognises and supports the view that social, environmental and ethical best practice should be encouraged.
It favours investing in companies committed to high standards of CSR and to the principles of sustainable development.
Results A revenue profit attributable to shareholders of 4,205,000 2010: profit of 1,558,000 was transferred to Revenue Reserves.
No dividend is proposed in respect of the year ended 30 September 2011 2010: nil.
Share capital On 29 December 2010 the Company issued 100 million of 5% Subordinated Convertible Bonds due 29 December 2017 at an issue price of 100 per cent and with an initial conversion price of 2,050p.
Bondholders may convert their bonds into ordinary shares of the Company from 7 February 2011 up to and including the date falling seven business days prior to 29 December 2017.
The conversion price of 2,050p will be adjusted to deal with certain events which would otherwise dilute the conversion of bondholders.
These events include dividends paid to ordinary shareholders, share rights and share related securities issued to shareholders, issue of other securities to shareholders, demergers and other events detailed in the Prospectus for the Bond dated 30 November 2010.
During the year, 35 Subordinated Convertible Bonds were converted into 1,704 ordinary shares.
At 30 September 2011 there were 35,340,391 ordinary shares of 25p each in issue.
The Company does not hold any shares in treasury.
68 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2011
