Directors Remuneration Report The Directors submit this report in accordance with the requirements of Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
An Ordinary Resolution for the approval of this report will be put to members at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The law requires the Companys Auditors to audit certain of the disclosures provided.
Where disclosures have been audited they are indicated as such.
Remuneration and Nomination Committee The Remuneration and Nomination Committee comprises all the non-executive Directors of the Company.
The Board considers it appropriate, given the number of non-executive Directors, that all Directors should be members of the Committee.
The Committee met three times in the year.
On 31 March 2011, Ms L Webber was appointed as Chairman of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee and as Senior Independent Director in place of Mr JP Williams who retired as a Director at the Annual General Meeting in February 2011.
The Committee resolved that the role of Senior Independent Director should receive an additional fee of 6,000 per annum, to reflect the increased responsibility and time commitment involved.
The Committee resolved at the same time that the additional fee paid to the Chairman of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee should be reduced to 3,000 previously 6,000.
The Committee did not consider it necessary to recommend any other changes to the existing fee arrangements during the year.
The basic Directors fee for each Director is 35,000 per annum with an additional fee of 115,000 per annum for the Chairman of the Company.
An additional fee of 6,000 per annum is payable to the Chairman of each of the Audit and Valuations Committees and to the Senior Independent Director.
Separate additional fees of 3,000 per annum are payable to the Chairman of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee and the non-Chairman members of the Valuations Committee.
The Company has no employees.
Policy on Directors Remuneration The Companys policy is that remuneration of non-executive Directors should be fair and sufficient to enable Directors properly to oversee the affairs of the Company and should reflect the specific circumstances of the Company, the duties and responsibilities of the Directors and the value and amount of time committed to the Companys affairs.
It is intended that this policy will continue for the year ended 30 September 2012 and subsequent years.
Non-executive Directors are not eligible to receive bonuses, pension benefits, share options or other benefits.
The Remuneration and Nomination Committee relies mainly on general salary surveys in respect of its consideration of the level of Directors remuneration.
The total remuneration of the Directors is determined by the provisions of the Articles of Association and by shareholders resolutions.
Directors Service Contracts None of the Directors has a service contract with the Company.
No arrangements have been entered into between the Company and the Directors to entitle any of the Directors to compensation for loss of office.
Total Shareholder Return The Directors consider that, since the Company invests in a broad range of commercial sectors, the FTSE All-Share Index is the most appropriate index against which to compare the Companys performance.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2011 75 Further information Governance Financial statements Business review Overview
