Board of Directors Colette Bowe Chairman An economist by profession, Dr Bowe has worked in Whitehall, City regulation and the fund management industry.
She is currently Chairman of the Ofcom board, a board member of the UK Statistics Authority and a member of the supervisory board of AXA Investment Managers Deutschland GmbH.
Dr Bowe was appointed a Director in 2007 and as Chairman in May 2010.
Kate Barker Ms Barker is a non executive director of Taylor Wimpey PLC and the Yorkshire Building Society, a non executive member of the Office for Budget Responsibility and a senior adviser to Credit Suisse.
She was, until May 2010, a member of the Monetary Policy Committee of the Bank of England, on which she served for three terms, and has held a range of other senior positions, including chief economic adviser to the Confederation of British Industry from 1994 to 2001.
Ms Barker was appointed a Director in November 2010.
Geoffrey Cullinan Mr Cullinan was a Director of Bain & Company from 1997 to 2005.
He was the founder and leader of their private equity business in Europe and continues to be an Adviser to Bain.
He was formerly Chief Executive of Hamleys plc 1996 and senior non executive director of Datamonitor plc 1994 to 2002.
Prior to that he was the managing partner of OC&C Strategy Consultants, which he co-founded in 1986.
Mr Cullinan was appointed a Director in January 2011.
He is Chairman of the Management Engagement Committee.
Roger Perkin Mr Perkin is a former senior partner at Ernst & Young with extensive global accounting experience and financial services expertise.
He spent 40 years at Ernst & Young and its predecessor firms, including over 30 years as a Partner, working with a wide range of clients before specialising in financial services.
He is a director of Nationwide Building Society and The Evolution Group Plc.
Mr Perkin was appointed a Director in 2009.
Mr Perkin is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
84 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2011
