Going Concern The Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Accounts as the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held on Thursday 23 February 2012.
In addition to the ordinary business the following special business will be considered: Authority to Purchase own Shares Resolution 8 A special resolution will be proposed to renew the Boards authority to purchase its own shares, so as to permit the purchase of up to 5,297,524 of the Companys ordinary shares or such number of shares as is equal to 14.99% of the total number of ordinary shares in issue at the date of the passing of the resolution subject to the constraints set out in the special resolution.
The Directors would intend to use this authority to purchase shares only if this would result in an increase in net asset value per share and would be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Should any shares be purchased under this authority, it is the intention of the Board that such shares be cancelled.
The Directors believe that the renewal of the Boards authority to purchase shares, as detailed above, is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole and therefore recommend shareholders to vote in favour of Resolution 8.
Additional Information for Shareholders Set out below is a summary of certain provisions of the Companys current Articles of Association the Articles and applicable English law concerning companies the Companies Act 2006 Companies Act.
This is a summary only and the relevant provisions of the Articles or the Companies Act should be consulted if further information is required.
Alteration of Articles of Association Any change to the Companys articles of association needs to be approved by shareholders by means of a special resolution.
Share Capital The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into ordinary shares of 25 pence each.
The shares are in registered form.
Dividends and Distributions Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the Company may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends not exceeding the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board may pay interim dividends whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies such payment.
The Board may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends payable in respect of the Companys shares from a person with a 0.25% interest of a class of shares if such a person has been served with a notice after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interest in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act.
Voting Rights Subject to any rights or restrictions attached to any shares, on a show of hands, every member who is present in person has one vote and every proxy present who has been duly appointed has one vote for every complete 25p in nominal amount of the shares of which he is the holder.
However, if the proxy has been duly appointed by more than one member entitled to vote on the resolution, and is instructed by one or more of those members to vote for the resolution and by one or more others to vote against it, or is instructed by one or more of those members to vote in one way and is given discretion as to how to vote by one or more others and wishes to use that discretion to vote in the other way he has one vote for and one vote against the resolution.
Every corporate representative present who has been duly authorised by a corporation has the same voting rights as the corporation would be entitled to.
On a poll every member present in person or by duly appointed proxy or corporate representative has one vote for every share of which he is the holder or in respect of which his appointment as proxy or corporate representative has been made.
A member, proxy or corporate representative entitled to more than one vote need not, if he votes, use all his votes or cast all the votes he uses the same way.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2011 71 Further information Governance Financial statements Business review Overview
