18 Financial Instruments i Management of Risk As an investment trust, the Groups investment objective is to seek capital growth from a portfolio of securities drawn from markets both within the UK and worldwide.
The holding of these financial instruments to meet this objective results in certain risks.
The Groups financial instruments comprise: 1.
Securities in unquoted and quoted companies, partnership interests and liquidity funds.
A loan facility, issuance of Zero Dividend Preference shares and Convertible Bonds, the purpose of which is to finance tender offers, other share buy-backs and on-market purchases of shares, the financing of new investment and refinancing existing debt.
Interest rate Swap and Cap in order to manage the risk of interest rate fluctuation in interest payable on the new multi-currency loan facility.
The main risks arising from the Groups and Companys financial instruments are fluctuations in market price, interest rate, credit, liquidity, capital and foreign currency exchange rate risk.
The policies for managing each of these risks are summarised below.
These policies have remained constant throughout the year under review and the preceding year.
The financial risks of the Company are aligned to the Groups financial risks.
Market Price Risk Market price risk arises mainly from uncertainty about future prices of financial instruments used in the Groups operations.
It represents the potential loss the Group might suffer through holding market positions in the face of price movements, mitigated by stock selection.
Electra Partners has responsibility for monitoring the portfolio in accordance with the Groups investment objectives and seeks to ensure that individual stocks meet an acceptable risk reward profile.
The Group is exposed to the risk of the change in value of its fund investments, listed and unlisted equity and non-equity shares, fixed income securities and floating rate notes.
For funds, listed investments, floating rate notes and liquidity funds the market risk variable is deemed to be the price itself.
For unlisted equity and non-equity shares the market risk is deemed to be the price earnings ratio.
The impact on profit or loss after tax and on shareholders equity, in absolute and percentage terms of those figures, due to movements in these variables, is set out in part ii of this Note.
Credit Risk The Groups exposure to credit risk principally arises from its investment in liquidity funds and its cash deposits.
Only major clearing houses are used when making cash deposits and the level of cash is reviewed on a regular basis.
A well diversified portfolio of liquidity funds is maintained with no more than 10% of gross assets held with any one institution.
The total invested in liquidity funds was 230,136,000 with associated accrued income of 136,000 2010: 174,889,000 with associated accrued income of 89,000.
Cash held on deposit was principally with two UK banks and totalled 39,434,000 2010: 36,947,000.
40 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2011
