26 Post Balance Sheet Events On 12 October 2011 the Bank Loan, a 185 million revolving multi-currency credit facility agreement, dated 17 July 2009 was amended and restated on broadly similar terms at a revised total facility amount of 195 million and repayable on 30 June 2016.
27 Basis of Accounting and Significant Accounting Policies The Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2011 have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
IFRS comprises standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC as adopted in the European Union as at 30 September 2011.
In order to reflect the activities of an investment trust company, supplementary information which analyses the Consolidated Income Statement between items of a revenue and capital nature has been presented alongside the Consolidated Income Statement.
In analysing total income between capital and revenue returns, the Directors have followed the guidance contained in the Statement of Recommended Practice for investment companies issued by the Association of Investment Companies in January 2009 the SORP.
The recommendations of the SORP which have been followed include: Realised and unrealised profits or losses arising on the revaluation or disposal of investments classified as held at fair value through profit or loss should be shown in the capital column of the Income Statement.
Realised gains are taken to the realised reserves in equity and unrealised gains are transferred to the unrealised reserves in equity.
Returns on any share or debt security whether in respect of dividends, interest or otherwise should be shown in the revenue column of the income statement.
The total of the revenue column of the Income Statement is taken to the revenue reserve in equity.
The Board should determine whether the indirect costs of generating capital gains should also be shown in the capital column of the Income Statement.
If the Board decides that this should be so, the management fee should be allocated between revenue and capital in accordance with the Boards expected long term split of returns, and other expenses should be charged to capital only to the extent that a clear connection with the maintenance or enhancement of the value of investments can be demonstrated.
The Board has decided that the Company should continue to charge priority profit share and finance costs, other than those in relation to the Zero Dividend Preference shares, as revenue items for the year ended 30 September 2011.
In accordance with the Companys status as a UK investment company under Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006, capital reserve may not be distributed by way of dividend.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and accordingly has not presented a separate parent company income statement.
The Accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis and under the historical cost basis of accounting, modified to include the revaluation of certain assets at fair value, as disclosed in the Principles of Valuation of Investments.
Application of New Standards At the balance sheet date, the Company has adopted all Standards and IFRIC interpretations that were either issued, or which become effective, during the year.
None of the standards applicable during the year were relevant and did not have a significant impact on the financial statements or accounting policies.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2011 55 Further information Governance Financial statements Business review Overview
