27 Basis of Accounting and Significant Accounting Policies continued Principles of Valuation of Investments i General In valuing investments, Electra Partners the Manager values investments at Fair Value at the reporting date, in accordance with IAS 39.
Fair Value represents the amount for which an asset could be exchanged between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms length transaction.
In estimating Fair Value, the Manager uses a methodology which is appropriate in light of the nature, facts and circumstances of the investment and its materiality in the context of the total investment portfolio.
Methodologies are applied consistently from one period to another except where a change results in a more accurate estimate of Fair Value.
ii Unlisted Investments The principal methodologies applied in valuing unlisted investments include the following: Earnings multiple Price of recent investment Net assets Discounted cash flows Industry valuation benchmarks In assessing whether a methodology is appropriate the Manager will be biased towards those methodologies that draw heavily on market based measures of risk and return, favouring those that rely on observable market data rather than assumptions.
Typically an earnings multiple basis will be used.
In applying the earnings multiple methodology, the Manager applies a market based multiple that is appropriate and reasonable to the maintainable earnings of the portfolio company.
In the majority of cases the Enterprise Value of the underlying business is derived by the use of an earnings multiple applied to the current years earnings where these can be forecast with a reasonable degree of certainty and are deemed to represent the best estimate of maintainable earnings.
Where this is not the case, historic earnings will generally be used in their place.
The Enterprise Value of the underlying business will be calculated using the earnings multiple or other appropriate basis as above : The Enterprise Value of the underlying business will then be adjusted for surplus assets or excess liabilities to arrive at an Enterprise Value for the portfolio company: and The valuation of Electras investment will be calculated from the Enterprise Value for the portfolio company after deduction of prior ranking debt and other financial instruments.
The Manager will normally derive the earnings multiple by reference to current market based multiples reflected in the valuations of quoted comparable companies or the price at which comparable companies have changed ownership.
Differences between the comparator multiple and the unquoted company being valued are reflected by adjusting the multiple for points of difference.
The reasons why such adjustments may be necessary include the following: Size and diversity of the entities Rate of growth of earnings Reliance on a small number of key employees Diversity of product ranges Diversity and quality of customer base Level of borrowing Any other reason the quality of earnings may differ Risks arising from the lack of marketability of the shares Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2011 57 Further information Governance Financial statements Business review Overview
