27 Basis of Accounting and Significant Accounting Policies continued Taxation The tax effect of different items of income gain and expense loss is allocated between capital and revenue on the same basis as the particular item to which it relates, using the Companys effective rate of tax for the accounting period.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax basis used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Zero Dividend Preference Shares Zero Dividend Preference Shares which exhibit the characteristics of debt are recognised as liabilities in the Balance Sheet in accordance with IAS 32.
After initial recognition, these liabilities are measured at amortised cost, which represents the initial net proceeds from the issuance after issue costs plus the accrued entitlement to the balance sheet date.
The accrued entitlement is calculated as the difference between the proceeds on the issue of these shares and the redemption amount at maturity and is charged as interest expense over the life of these shares using the effective interest method.
In accordance with the AIC SORP this interest expense is allocated to the capital column of the Income Statement.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation of uncertain timing or amount as a result of past events and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate of that obligation can be made.
The provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the amount to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
Changes in provisions are recognised in the Income Statement.
The provision for the incentive schemes is based on the valuation of investments as at the balance sheet date.
The incentive scheme is charged to the capital column of the Income Statement as a direct cost.
Revenue and Capital Reserves Net Capital return is taken to the non-distributable Capital Reserve in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
The net revenue return is taken to the Revenue Reserve from which dividend distributions are made.
Operating segments The chief operating decision-maker has been identified as Electra Partners.
Electra Partners review the Groups internal reporting in order to assess performance and allocate resources.
Electra Partners has determined the operating segments based on these reports.
Electra Partners considers the business as a single operating segment.
Bank Loans and receivables Bank loan is initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs associated with the loan.
After initial recognition, these are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, which is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash flows through the expected life of the liabilities.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs and any discount or premium on settlement.
60 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2011
