Since investment management, custody of assets and many administrative services are provided or arranged for the Company by Electra Partners, the Companys system of internal control mainly comprises the monitoring of the services provided by Electra Partners, including the operating controls established by them to ensure they meet the Companys business objectives.
As part of this process Electra Partners is responsible for submitting performance statistics, investment valuations and management accounts to the Board.
The key elements designed to provide effective internal control are as follows: Financial Reporting regular and comprehensive review by the Board of key investment and financial data, including management accounts, revenue projections, analyses of transactions and performance comparisons.
Investment Strategy regular review by the Board of the Companys Objective and Investment Policy, including commitments to new funds.
Management Agreements and Investment Performance the Board regularly monitors the performance of Electra Partners to ensure that the Companys assets and affairs are managed in accordance with the Companys Objective and Investment Policy.
The Board keeps under review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control by monitoring the operation of the key controls of Electra Partners as follows: The Board reviews the terms of the management agreements and receives regular reports from Electra Partners executives.
The Board reviews the certificates verifying compliance with documented controls provided by Electra Partners on a six monthly basis.
Voting Policy Under the investment management arrangements Electra Partners has complete discretion in relation to all voting issues in respect of the Companys investments.
Electra Partners has adopted the UK Stewardship Code and has made disclosures regarding its policies on stewardship on its website www.
Electra Partners policies on stewardship have been reviewed and endorsed by the Board.
Other Information in the Report of the Directors Other information regarding voting rights of shares, restrictions on voting, deadlines for exercising voting rights, appointment and replacement of Directors, powers of Directors, authority to make market purchases of shares, substantial interests in the Companys shares and details concerning alteration of the Articles of Association of the Company is contained in the Report of the Directors.
82 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2011
