Authority to Make Market Purchases of Shares As at 30 September 2011, the Company had authority to purchase for cancellation up to 5,297,269 shares.
This authority will lapse at the 2012 Annual General Meeting when a Special Resolution will be proposed to renew the Companys authority to make market purchases of its own shares.
During the year the Company did not purchase any shares for cancellation.
Multi-Currency Loan Facility At 30 September 2011 borrowings under the 185 million 2010: 185 million multi-currency revolving credit facility amounted to 163,707,000 2010: 163,945,000.
In October 2011, the Company completed a refinancing of the existing facility, increasing the size from 185 million to 195 million and extending the loan term from January 2013 to June 2016.
Directors The current Directors of the Company are listed on pages 84 and 85.
Dr C Bowe, Mr RK Perkin, Mr MEDA Walton and Ms L Webber served as Directors throughout the year ended 30 September 2011.
Ms K Barker was appointed as a non-executive Director on 1 November 2010 and Mr G Cullinan as a non-executive Director on 1 January 2011.
Mr RA Armstrong and Mr JP Williams retired from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 24 February 2011.
No other person was a Director of the Company during any part of the year.
Mr Perkin and Mr Walton will retire at the Annual General Meeting in 2012 and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Mr Cullinan offers himself for election at the Annual General Meeting in 2012.
Board Diversity The Board of Electra Private Equity PLC supports the recommendations of Lord Davies of Abersoch in his report Women on Boards.
The current balance of the Board is 50:50 women : men, with three female and three male Directors on the Board.
There have been two female Directors on the Board since 2007.
The Company aims to have a balance of relevant skills, experience and background amongst the Directors on the Board and believes that all Board appointments should be made on merit and with due regard to the benefits of diversity, including gender.
The Boards aim is to continue to maintain a diverse Board and, subject to appointing the best candidates available when current Directors retire, to have a proportion of at least one third women on the Board.
The Company is an investment trust which has no employees other than the non-executive Directors and therefore has no disclosures to make in this regard.
Directors Conflicts of Interest Directors report on actual or potential conflicts of interest at each Board meeting.
The Board has agreed that the Remuneration and Nomination Committee is responsible for considering and reviewing conflicts of interest and that any Director or Directors with a potential conflict would be excluded from such a review.
After consideration, if required, the Remuneration and Nomination Committee would subsequently make a recommendation to the Board of Directors.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee have been amended accordingly.
Directors Indemnity Directors and Officers Liability insurance cover has been put in place.
In addition, the Companys Articles of Association provide, subject to the provisions of applicable UK legislation, an indemnity for Directors in respect of costs incurred in the defence of any proceedings brought against them by third parties arising out of their positions as Directors, in which they are acquitted or judgement is given in their favour.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2011 69 Further information Governance Financial statements Business review Overview
