In the case of joint holders the vote of the senior who tenders a vote shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders, and seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names of the holders stand in the register of members.
A member is entitled to appoint another person as his proxy to exercise all or any of his rights to attend and to speak and vote at a meeting of the Company.
The appointment of a proxy shall be deemed also to confer authority to demand or join in demanding a poll.
Delivery of an appointment of proxy shall not preclude a member from attending and voting at the meeting or at any adjournment of it.
A proxy need not be a member.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by him.
Restrictions on Voting No member shall have the right to vote at any general meeting or at any separate meeting of the holders of any class of shares, either in person or by proxy, in respect of any share held by him unless all amounts presently payable by him in respect of that share have been paid.
In addition, if a person with a 0.25% interest of a class of shares has been served with a notice after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interest in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act the member shall not be entitled to vote.
Deadlines for exercising voting rights Votes are exercisable at a general meeting of the Company in respect of which the business being voted upon is being heard.
Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to corporate members, by corporate representative.
The Articles provide a deadline for submission of a proxy form in hard copy and electronic form of not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
In the case of a poll taken subsequently to the date of the meeting or adjourned meeting, the proxy form must be received not less than 24 hours or such shorter time as the Directors may determine before the time appointed for the taking of the poll.
Variation of rights The Articles specify that if the capital of the Company is divided into different classes of shares, rights attached to any class may be varied, either in such manner if any as may be provided by those rights: or in the absence of any such provision, with the consent in writing of the holders of three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that class excluding any shares of that class held as treasury shares, or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class, but not otherwise.
At every such separate meeting other than an adjourned meeting the quorum shall be two persons together holding or representing by proxy at least one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class in question excluding any shares of that class held as treasury shares.
At an adjourned meeting, the quorum shall be two persons holding shares of the class in question other than treasury shares or his proxy.
Transfer of shares The instrument of transfer of a share in certificated form may be in any usual form or in any other form which the Directors approve and shall be executed by or on behalf of the transferor and, where the share is not fully paid, by or on behalf of the transferee.
Where any class of shares is, for the time being, a participating security, title to shares of that class which are recorded on an operator register of members as being held in uncertificated form may be transferred by means of the CREST system.
The transfer may not be in favour of more than four transferees.
Transfers of shares in uncertificated form are effected by means of the CREST system.
The Directors may, in their absolute discretion, refuse to register the transfer of a share in certificated form which is not fully paid provided that if the share is listed on the Official List of the UK Listing Authority such refusal does not prevent dealings in the shares from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The Directors may also refuse to register a transfer of a share in certificated form whether fully paid or not unless the instrument of transfer: a is lodged, duly stamped, at the Office or at such other place as the Directors may appoint and except in the case of a transfer by a financial institution where a certificate has not been issued in respect of the share is accompanied by the certificate for the share to which it relates and such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: 72 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2011
