27 Basis of Accounting and Significant Accounting Policies continued Where a recent investment has been made, either by Electra or by a third party in one of Electras investments, after considering the background of the underlying investment, this price will generally be used as the estimate of Fair Value, subject to consideration of changes in market conditions and company specific factors.
Other methodologies, as detailed above, may be used at any time if this is deemed to provide a more accurate assessment of the Fair Value of the investment.
The indicators that the price of recent investment may no longer be appropriate include: Significant under over achievement of budgeted earnings Concerns with respect to debt covenants or refinancing Significant movements in the market sector of the investment Regulatory changes in the industry The Companys valuation model for debt instruments is the net present value of estimated future cash flows based on a discounted cash flow model.
The discount rate used by the Company is based on the risk-free rate of the economic environment in which portfolio companies operate and is adjusted in relation to other factors such as liquidity, credit and market risk.
Similar to the earnings multiple model the cash flows used in the discounted cash flow model are based on projected cash flow or earnings of the portfolio companies.
iii Listed Investments Listed investments that are traded on active markets are stated at the market bid price on the balance sheet date without discount.
Where the market for the listed investment is not considered to be active, the investment is treated as unlisted for valuation purposes.
Markets will be considered active if transactions are occurring regularly enough to provide reliable pricing information.
Markets will be considered inactive if the market price is not current, there is little publicly available information or there are few transactions for the investment.
iv Limited Partnership Funds Limited partnership funds are those set up by a third party where the Company does not hold a majority share and are at fair value, typically using the third party managers valuation after adjustment for purchase and sales between the date of the valuation and current financial year end.
v Other Investments Liquidity funds are held at the current fair value of the note.
Accrued Income Accrued income is included within investment valuations.
Derivative Financial Instruments Derivative financial instruments are used by the Group to manage the risk associated with changes in interest rates on its borrowings.
This is achieved by the use of interest rate swaps and interest rate caps.
All derivative financial instruments are held at fair value.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value on the contract date and subsequently remeasured at fair value at each reporting date.
The fair value of currency swaps and interest rate swaps is determined with reference to future cash flows and current interest and exchange rates.
All changes in the fair value of financial instruments are accounted for in the Income Statement.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash comprises cash at bank and short term deposits with an original maturity of less than three months.
58 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2011
