27 Basis of Accounting and Significant Accounting Policies continued Dividends Dividend distributions to shareholders are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved unconditionally by the shareholders or in the case of interim dividends when paid.
Foreign Currencies The Groups presentational currency and the Companys functional and presentational currency is pounds sterling sterling, since that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Transactions in currencies other than sterling are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
Foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated into the functional currencies of the Groups respective entities at rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising are recognised through the Income Statement.
At each balance sheet date assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into sterling at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation of the equity and reserves of subsidiaries with functional currencies other than sterling, are recognised directly in the Translation Reserve in equity.
Foreign exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in the Income Statement for the period.
Investment Income Net Gains Dividends receivable from equity shares are accounted on the ex-dividend date or, where no ex-dividend date is quoted, are accounted when the Groups right to receive payment is established.
Fixed returns on non-equity shares and debt securities are recognised on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect the effective yield when it is probable that economic benefit will flow to the Group.
Where income accruals previously recognised, but not received, are no longer considered to be reasonably expected to be received, either through investee company restructuring or doubt over its receipt, then these amounts are reversed through expenses.
Income distributions from limited partnership funds are recognised when the right to distribution is established.
Expenses All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Expenses are charged through the revenue column of the Income Statement except for expenses in connection with the disposal and acquisition of non-current asset investments, which are deducted from the disposal proceeds and added to acquisition costs of investments.
Finance Costs Costs of borrowings are expensed as revenue items through the Income Statement as they accrue on an effective interest rate basis.
Any costs incurred which were not directly related to the borrowing facility are expensed in the revenue account.
Priority Profit Share The majority of the investments are made by the Company through investment holding limited partnerships managed by Electra Partners.
Under the terms of the relevant limited partnership agreements the general partner is entitled to appropriate, as a first charge on the net income or net capital gains of the limited partnerships, an amount equivalent to its priority profit share.
In periods in which the investment holding limited partnerships have not yet earned sufficient net income or net capital gain to satisfy this priority profit share the entitlement is carried forward to the following period.
In all instances the cash amount paid to the general partner in each period is equivalent to the priority profit share.
The priority profit share is charged wholly to the revenue column of the Income Statement.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2011 59 Further information Governance Financial statements Business review Overview
