16272 F&C Annual Report Part 2:Layout 1 28 03 2012 18:13 Page 127 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 127 Company Accounting Policies Basis of preparation equity-settled share-based payments calculated in accordance with FRS 20: Share-based Payment, where no cash contributions are The separate Financial Statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act and are prepared under the made by the subsidiaries.
The uplift is credited to a capital contribution reserve in equity.
The Company recharges certain historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of investments, and in accordance with applicable accounting subsidiaries when it satisfies these equity-settled awards with its own shares.
standards in the United Kingdom.
The principal accounting policies set out below have been Tangible fixed assets applied consistently for the years ended 31 December 2011 and Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated 31 December 2010. depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
The Companys Financial Statements are presented in millions of Expenditure on tangible fixed assets is capitalised on initial pounds Sterling rounded to one decimal place, the Companys recognition.
Subsequent expenditure is only capitalised when it is functional and presentational currency.
probable that there will be future economic benefits associated with In accordance with Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 a the expenditure which can be measured reliably.
All other separate Profit and Loss Account for the Company is not presented.
expenditure is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account as an expense as incurred.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 29: Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and has not Tangible fixed assets are depreciated, using the straight-line disclosed the information required by that standard because the method, to write off the cost of assets over their estimated useful Company is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements lives, as follows: which are publicly available and include disclosures given under Leasehold improvements 10 years IFRS 7: Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Office furniture & equipment 3-5 years Computer equipment 3 years Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to The carrying value of assets and their useful lives are reviewed at each reporting date.
If an indication of impairment exists, the assets affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business Review on pages 2 to 21.
The financial position of are written down to their recoverable amount and the impairment is charged to the Profit and Loss Account in the year in which it arises.
the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position are also described in the Business Review.
In addition, note 36 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 104 to 108 includes the Groups Financial instruments objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its When financial instruments are recognised initially they are financial risk management objectives: details of its financial measured at fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs.
instruments and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The fair value of instruments that are actively traded in organised After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation financial markets is determined by reference to quoted market bid that the Company has adequate resources to continue in prices mid-price for Open Ended Investment Companies at the operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they close of business on the balance sheet date.
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these Financial instruments are classified into the categories described Financial Statements.
below: Turnover i Available for sale financial assets are carried at fair value in the Balance Sheet.
In respect of unquoted instruments, or where Turnover comprises fees for secretarial services provided to Investment Trusts, and shared services and administration services the market for a financial instrument is not active, fair value is established by using recognised valuation methodologies, in provided to subsidiary undertakings.
Fees are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account over the period for which these services accordance with International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines.
For unquoted investments in early stage enterprises and Dividend recognition enterprises with revenues but without significant profits or Dividends receivable and dividends payable are recognised only significant positive cash flows, fair value is determined using the when they have been declared and approved or at the date of Price of a Recent Investment method.
Repayments are treated payment for interim dividends.
as reductions to carrying value.
After an appropriate period, an assessment is made as to whether the circumstances of the Investments in subsidiaries investment have changed such that another valuation Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less accumulated methodology is appropriate or there is any evidence of impairment losses.
The cost includes the uplift arising from the deterioration or strong defensible evidence of an increase in 16272 F&C Annual Report Part 2:Layout 1 28 03 2012 18:13 Page 128 128 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Company Accounting Policies value.
In the absence of these indicators, fair value is Financial liabilities determined to be that reported at the previous balance A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the sheet date.
liability is either discharged, cancelled or expires.
Unquoted investments with revenues, maintainable profits Impairment of financial assets and or maintainable cash flows are valued by deriving an The Company assesses at each balance sheet date whether a Enterprise Value of the underlying business.
financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Movements in fair value, other than impairment losses and foreign exchange movements on monetary assets, are taken to Assets carried at amortised cost the fair value reserve in equity until derecognition of the asset, at If there is objective evidence that an impairment in loans and which time the cumulative amount in this reserve is recognised receivables carried at amortised cost has occurred, the amount of in the Profit and Loss Account.
The following assets are the impairment loss is measured as the difference between the classified as available for sale: assets carrying amount and the expected recoverable amount.
The carrying amount of the asset would be reduced and the amount of Fixed assets the loss recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
Other investments If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss ii Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss include decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event investments which have been specifically designated as at fair occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously value through profit or loss.
These are carried in the Balance recognised impairment loss is reversed.
Any subsequent reversal of Sheet at fair value and movements in fair value are taken to the an impairment loss is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account to Profit and Loss Account in the period in which they arise.
The the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its following assets are classified as financial instruments at fair amortised cost at the reversal date.
value through profit or loss: Fixed assets Available for sale financial assets Other investments If an available for sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising the difference between its cost net of any principal payment and iii Loans and receivables are measured on initial recognition at fair amortisation and its current fair value, less any impairment loss value plus any incremental costs incurred.
Subsequent to initial previously recognised in the Profit and Loss Account, is transferred recognition, loans and receivables are measured at amortised from reserves to the Profit and Loss Account.
Reversals in respect cost using the effective interest rate method.
Gains and losses of equity instruments classified as available for sale are not are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account when loans and recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
Reversals of impairment receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the losses on debt instruments are taken through the Profit and Loss amortisation process.
The following assets and liabilities are Account, if the increase in fair value of the instrument can be classified as loans and receivables: objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss Current assets: was recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
Debtors Cash and short-term deposits Deferred taxation iv Financial liabilities are recognised at amortised cost using the Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that effective interest rate method after initial recognition.
The have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where following liabilities are classified as financial liabilities: transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay less or receive more tax, with the following Creditors amounts falling due within one year exceptions: Creditors amounts falling due outwith one year Provision is made for tax on gains arising from the revaluation The Company has adopted trade date accounting for and similar fair value adjustments of fixed assets, or gains on purchases or sales of financial assets under a contract whose disposal of fixed assets that have been rolled over into terms require delivery of the assets within the timeframe replacement assets, only to the extent that, at the balance sheet established in the marketplace concerned.
Accordingly, such date, there is a commitment to dispose of the assets financial instruments are recognised on the date the Company concerned.
However, no provision is made where, on the basis commits to the purchase of the investments, and are of all available evidence at the balance sheet date, it is more derecognised on the date it commits to their sale.
likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over into replacement assets and charged to tax only when the Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities replacement assets are sold: Financial assets Provision is made for deferred tax that would arise on A financial asset or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset, is remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries only derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the asset to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have have expired.
been accrued as receivable: and 16272 F&C Annual Report Part 2:Layout 1 28 03 2012 18:13 Page 129 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 129 Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the 8 not to disclose transactions between F&C Group companies Directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be which eliminate on consolidation.
suitable taxable profits from which the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at the tax rates currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively the balance sheet date are translated at the exchange rate ruling at enacted at the balance sheet date.
the balance sheet date, and any exchange differences arising are taken to the Profit and Loss Account.
Operating leases Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to the Profit and Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at historical cost in a Loss Account on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of transaction and are not subsequently restated.
Non-monetary Lease incentives are recognised by the Company as a reduction of assets and liabilities stated at fair value in a foreign currency are the rental expense, allocated on a straight-line basis, over the translated at the exchange rate at the date the fair value was shorter of the lease term and a period ending on a date from which determined.
When fair value movements in assets and liabilities are it is expected the prevailing market rental will be payable.
reflected in the Profit and Loss Account, the corresponding exchange movements are also recognised in the Profit and Loss Accounting for Employee Benefit Trusts EBTs Account.
Conversely, when fair value movements in assets and UITF 38 requires that own shares acquired through an EBT be liabilities are reflected directly in equity, the corresponding exchange deducted in arriving at shareholders funds until they vest movements are also recognised directly in equity, with the exception unconditionally to the employees.
Consideration paid and received of available for sale debt instruments, which are reflected in the for the purchase or sale of these shares is included in shareholders Profit and Loss Account.
funds and no gain or loss is recognised.
Other assets and liabilities of the EBTs are recognised as assets and liabilities of the Company.
Share-based payments Ordinary Shares of the Company are held by EBTs in order to satisfy The Company operates a share scheme arrangement which is a number of F&C Group share-based payment plans and future required to be accounted for as a share-based payment.
exercises of options and awards to employees of subsidiary The fair value of share-based payment awards, where it is not companies.
The cost relating to the share-based payment plans is considered possible to estimate reliably the fair value of these recognised in the subsidiary companies which employ the staff in awards at the grant date, is determined by measurement of the receipt of awards and the Company recognises any fresh issue of equity instruments at intrinsic value.
The fair value is measured by an shares or re-issue of own shares when such a transaction occurs.
independent external valuer at each reporting date.
The intrinsic These shares are included in the Financial Statements of the value is spread over the vesting period.
Company as a deduction from shareholders funds.
Vesting of equity-settled employee share awards depends upon meeting non-market related performance conditions.
The type of Provisions vesting criteria affects the calculation of the expense charged to the A provision is recognised in the Balance Sheet when the Company Profit and Loss Account and subsequent adjustments as nonhas a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and market related conditions are performance criteria, such as earnings it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to targets and or service requirements.
The probability of meeting nonsettle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are market conditions is incorporated into the expense charge via the determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a preestimate of the number of awards expected to vest.
The total tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of cumulative expense is ultimately adjusted to reflect the actual money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
No number of awards which vest.
Therefore, if no awards vest, no provision is established where a reliable estimate of the obligation cumulative expense is ultimately recognised.
FRS 20: Share-based Payment makes a distinction between awards Where the Company expects some or all of a provision to be settled in equity and those settled in cash.
Equity-settled awards are reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset charged to the Profit and Loss Account with a corresponding credit but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
Cash-settled awards are charged to the Profit and Loss Where the Company has obligations under property leases and Account with a corresponding credit to liabilities.
The estimated fair where the space has ceased to be used for the purposes of the value of cash-settled awards is re-measured at each reporting date business, full provision is made for future net outstanding liabilities until the payments are ultimately settled.
under such leases after taking into account the effect of any expected sub-letting arrangements.
Ordinary Share capital When Ordinary Shares are issued the proceeds on issue are Related party disclosures allocated to the equity component and included in shareholders FRS 8: Related Party Disclosures requires disclosure of the details of funds, net of transaction costs.
material transactions between the reporting entity and related parties.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 16272 F&C Annual Report Part 2:Layout 1 28 03 2012 18:13 Page 130 130 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Company Accounting Policies When Ordinary Shares are repurchased, the amounts of consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, are recognised in the own share reserve included within retained earnings and are classified as deductions in equity.
Dealings in own shares are reflected through equity.
Dividends on Ordinary Shares are recognised on the date of payment, or if subject to approval, the date approved by the shareholders.
Cash flow statement The Company has taken advantage of the exemptions in FRS 1 revised : Cash Flow Statements and has elected not to prepare a Cash Flow Statement as it is included within the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement in the Consolidated Financial Statements of F&C Asset Management plc.
