16272 F&C Annual Report Part 2:Layout 1 28 03 2012 18:13 Page 141 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 141 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the thirty-second Annual General Meeting satisfy the consideration payable in relation to the of F&C Asset Management plc will be held at Ironmongers Hall, acquisition of Thames River and the related Shaftesbury Place, Barbican, London EC2Y 8AA on Wednesday 9 commutation arrangements and for the settlement of May 2012 at 10 a. m. UK time for the following purposes: awards made under the management share plans but without prejudice to the exercise of any such authority Ordinary Business prior to the date hereof: and To be proposed as ordinary resolutions: 2 unless renewed, revoked or varied in accordance with 1.
To receive the Financial Statements and the Reports of the the Act, shall expire at the completion of the Annual Directors and the Independent Auditor for the year ended General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2013, 31 December 2011. save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require the 2.
To declare a final dividend of 2.0 pence per share on the allotment of shares in the Company, or the right to ordinary shares of the Company to be paid on 25 May 2012 to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in members whose name appears on the register of members at the Company, after such expiry: and the close of business on 30 March 2012.
C for the purpose of this Resolution, Pre-Emptive Offer 3.
To elect Keith Jones as a Director.
means an offer of equity securities to: 4.
To elect Keith Percy as a Director.
1 holders of ordinary shares other than the Company on 5.
To re-elect Edward Bramson as a Director.
a fixed record date in proportion to their respective 6.
To re-elect Keith Bedell-Pearce as a Director.
holdings of such shares: and 7.
To re-elect Ian Brindle as a Director.
2 other persons entitled to participate in such offer by virtue of the rights attaching to any other equity 8.
To re-elect David Logan as a Director.
To re-elect Jeff Medlock as a Director.
in each case, subject to such exclusions or other 10.
To re-elect Derham ONeill as a Director.
arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or appropriate in relation to fractional entitlements, legal, 11.
To re-elect Kieran Poynter as a Director.
regulatory or practical problems under the laws or the 12.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange of ended 31 December 2011. any territory or otherwise.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as Auditor to the Company to To be proposed as special resolutions: hold office until the conclusion of the next General Meeting at 15.
THAT: which Financial Statements are laid before the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
A subject to the passing of resolution 14 set out in this Notice the Allotment Authority, the Directors be given power 14.
THAT: pursuant to section 570 of the Companies Act 2006 the A pursuant to section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of section Act, the Directors be generally and unconditionally 560 1 of the Act for cash, pursuant to the authorities given authorised to allot: by the Allotment Authority, and to sell treasury shares wholly 1 shares in the Company, or to grant rights to subscribe for cash, as if section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any for or to convert any security into shares in the such allotment or sale, provided that such power shall be Company, up to a maximum nominal amount of limited to the allotment of equity securities or the sale of 177,355.19, subject to paragraph A 2 : and treasury shares: 2 shares in the Company, or to grant rights to subscribe 1 in the case of paragraph A 1 of the Allotment for or to convert any security into shares in the Authority, a in connection with a Pre-Emptive Offer as Company, comprising equity securities within the defined in the Allotment Authority : or b in order to meaning of section 560 1 of the Act up to a maximum satisfy options or awards under any share scheme for nominal amount when aggregated with any allotment employees or share incentive plan approved by the made pursuant to paragraph A 1 of 354,710.38 in Company in general meeting: or c otherwise, up to a connection with a Pre-Emptive Offer undertaken by maximum nominal amount of 26,605.94: means of a rights issue: 2 in the case of paragraph A 2 of the Allotment B the authorities given in this Resolution: Authority, in connection with a Pre-Emptive Offer undertaken by means of a rights issue: 1 shall be in substitution for all pre-existing authorities to allot shares under section 551 of the Act other than the specific authorities granted at the general meeting of the Company held on 18 June 2010 to allot shares to 16272 F&C Annual Report Part 2:Layout 1 28 03 2012 18:13 Page 142 142 | SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION | Notice of Annual General Meeting B the power given in this Resolution: Special Business To be proposed as a special resolution: 1 shall be in substitution for all pre-existing authorities under section 570 of the Act but without prejudice to 17.
THAT the period of notice for calling a general meeting other the exercise of any such authority prior to the date than an Annual General Meeting shall be not less than 14 clear hereof: and days provided that this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2013.
2 unless renewed in accordance with the Act, shall expire at the same time as the Allotment Authority, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or By order of the Board agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted or treasury shares to be sold W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA after such expiry.
Secretary This power applies to a sale of shares which is an allotment 80 George Street of equity securities by virtue of section 560 3 of the Act as if Edinburgh EH2 3BU the words in the case of paragraph A 1 of the Allotment Authority, and in the case of paragraph A 2 of the 23 March 2012 Allotment Authority, were omitted from, respectively, paragraphs A 1 and A 2 of this resolution.
THAT, in substitution for any existing power under section 701 i A member who is entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, but without prejudice to appoint one or more proxies to attend and speak and vote on his her the exercise of any such power prior to the date hereof, the behalf.
A member may appoint more than one proxy provided that each Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares.
A authorised, pursuant to and in accordance with section 701 of member may not appoint more than one proxy to exercise rights attached to any one share.
A proxy need not be a member of the the Act, to make market purchases within the meaning of Company.
section 693 of the Act of fully paid ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each in the capital of the Company ordinary shares in such ii A Form of Proxy for use by Ordinary Shareholders in connection with the meeting is enclosed with these Accounts.
To be valid, the Form of Proxy terms and in such manner as the Directors of the Company may should be completed and signed and sent or delivered, together with any decide, provided that: power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or an extract from the Books of Council and Session or a notarially certified i the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares hereby copy or a copy certified in accordance with the Powers of Attorney Act authorised to be purchased is 53,211,879 being 1971 of such power or authority, in accordance with the instructions approximately 10 per cent.
of the issued ordinary share contained therein, so as to reach the Companys registrars, at the capital of the Company excluding treasury shares as at address stated thereon, not later than 10 a. m. UK time on 4 May 2012.
22 March 2012 : iii Alternatively, shareholders who would like to lodge their proxy electronically may do so via the Sharevote website ii the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share www.
co. uk or through CREST in each case so as to be is 0.1 pence exclusive of expenses : and received by no later than 10 a. m. UK time on 4 May 2012.
Further iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be details relating to proxy appointments through CREST are set out in note xvi below.
If you return more than one valid proxy appointment in paid for an ordinary share is an amount equal to 105 per respect of the same share, either by paper or electronic communication, cent.
of the average of the middle market quotations as the one which is received last will take precedence: if the Company is derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock unable to determine which of them was received last, none of them will Exchange for the ordinary shares for the five business days be treated as valid in respect of that share.
immediately preceding the date of purchase, iv Completing and returning a Form of Proxy will not prevent an Ordinary Shareholder from attending in person at the meeting referred to above such authority to expire on the earlier of the date falling 15 and voting should he or she wish to do so.
months after the date of the passing of this resolution and the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the v To be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and for the purposes of the determination by the Company of the votes they may cast, Company to be held in 2013, unless previously revoked, shareholders must be registered in the register of members of the varied or renewed by the Company in general meeting, save Company at 6.00 p. m. on Friday, 4 May 2012 or, in the event of any that the Company may at any time prior to the expiry of adjournment, on the date which is two days excluding any part of a day such authority enter into a contract or contracts to purchase that is not a working day before the time of the adjourned meeting.
Changes to the register of members after the relevant deadline shall be ordinary shares under such authority which will or might be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at completed or executed wholly or partly after the expiration the meeting.
of such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary vi If you are not a member of the Company but you have been nominated shares in pursuance of any such contract or contracts as if by a member of the Company to enjoy information rights, you do not this authority had not expired.
have a right to appoint a proxy.
16272 F&C Annual Report Part 2:Layout 1 28 03 2012 18:13 Page 143 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 143 vii If you are a person who has been nominated under section 146 of the xiv A member may not use any electronic address provided either in this Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights: Notice of Annual General Meeting or any related documents to communicate with the Company for any purpose other than those You may have a right under an agreement between you and the expressly stated.
member of the Company who has nominated you to have information rights Relevant Member to be appointed or to have xv The Company has made provision for shareholders who would like to someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
If you either do not have such a right or if you have such a right but xvi CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the do not wish to exercise it, you may have a right under an agreement CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the between you and the Relevant Member to give instructions to the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members Relevant Member as to the exercise of voting rights.
or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor viii Any corporation which is a shareholder can appoint one or more or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate corporate representative s who may exercise on its behalf all of its action on their behalf.
powers as a shareholder provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy ix Under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, shareholders meeting the Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications, and must contain the information Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors available via www.
The message, regardless of report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to meeting: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which valid, be transmitted so as to be received by our Registrars, Equiniti ID annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of RA19 by 10 a. m. UK time on 4 May 2012.
For this purpose, the time of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company may not require the receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006. issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instruction to section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that with at the meeting includes any statement that the Company has been Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special required under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a procedures in CREST for any particular message.
and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member x Any shareholder attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, b the transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST a question, or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the xi In accordance with section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the CREST system and timings.
contents of this notice, details of the total number of shares in respect of The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the meeting and, circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated if applicable, any members statements, members resolutions or Securities Regulations 2001. members matters of business received by the Company after the date of this notice of meeting will be available on the Companys website at www.
xii As at 22 March 2012 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this notice the Companys issued share capital consisted of 532,118,789 ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each carrying one vote each.
No shares are held in treasury.
Therefore, total voting rights in the Company as at 22 March 2012 are 532,118,789. xiii Copies of the following documents will be made available for inspection at the registered office of the Company and at the Companys head office during normal business hours on any week day Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted from the date of this notice until the close of the meeting, and at the place of the meeting from 15 minutes prior to and during the continuance of the meeting: the Executive Directors service contracts and Non-executive Directors letters of appointment: and the articles of association of the Company.
