16272 F&C Annual Report Part 2:Layout 1 28 03 2012 18:13 Page 47 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 47 Accounting Policies IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Basis of preparation and statement of compliance Funding Requirements and their interaction: These are the Consolidated Financial Statements of F&C Asset Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement Management plc and its subsidiaries the Group which have been prepared on a going concern basis and in accordance with 2010 Improvements to IFRS issued May 2010 : International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting European Union adopted IFRS, and those parts of the Companies Standards Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under adopted IFRS.
These Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in millions IFRS 3 Business Combinations of pounds Sterling, rounded to one decimal point, except where IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures otherwise indicated.
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Certain figures reported in the 2010 Financial Statements have been IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements reclassified within these Financial Statements for consistency with IAS 23 Interim Financial Reporting the presentation applied within these Financial Statements.
These changes are presentational in nature and do not change the Parent Company Financial Statements previously reported financial results for the year ended 31 December The parent Company has continued to present individual Financial 2010 nor the aggregate assets and liabilities at that date.
Statements prepared on a UK GAAP basis as permitted by section 395 1 of the Companies Act 2006, adopting the exemption of Going concern omitting the Profit and Loss Account and related notes conferred by The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to section 408 of that Act.
The Company Financial Statements, affect its future development, performance and position are set out together with their respective accounting policies and notes, are in the Business Review on pages 2 to 21.
The financial position of presented on pages 126 to 140. the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position are also described in the Business Review.
In addition, note 36 to the Financial Accounting estimates, assumptions and judgements Statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes The preparation of the Financial Statements necessitates the use of for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: estimates, assumptions and judgements.
These estimates, details of its financial instruments and its exposure to credit risk and assumptions and judgements affect the reported amounts of assets, liquidity risk.
liabilities, contingent assets and contingent liabilities at the reporting The Group has considerable financial resources together with longdate as well as the reported income and expenses for the year.
term contracts with a number of clients across different geographic While estimates are based on managements best knowledge and areas and industries.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a judgement using information and financial data available to them, reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to the actual outcome may differ from these estimates.
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The key sources of estimation, uncertainty and critical judgements in Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in applying accounting policies are disclosed, where appropriate, in the preparing these Financial Statements.
following notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements: New or revised standards a Impairment testing of intangible assets The Group has adopted the following new or revised standards and The projected revenue growth, projected operating cost growth interpretations as of 1 January 2011: and discount rates applied to cash flow projections, as disclosed in note 13.
The amendments to the standards and interpretations below did not have any impact on the accounting policies, b Pension assumptions financial position or performance of the Group: The mortality assumptions, expected rates of return, discount Amendments to IFRS: rates, rates of salary increases and inflation increases, as IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation: Amendments disclosed in note 25. relating to classification of Rights Issues c Non-controlling interest NCI put options IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments The fair value of the F&C REIT NCI put options is subject to IFRS 1 Limited Exemption from Comparative IFRS 7 Disclosures uncertainties in respect of future performance and other factors impacting the valuation of the F&C REIT Group.
Details of these IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures: Revised definition of related put options are disclosed in note 28. parties 16272 F&C Annual Report Part 2:Layout 1 28 03 2012 18:13 Page 48 48 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Accounting Policies d Provisions of acquisition or up to the date of disposal.
Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses Onerous contract provisions for premises are subject to uncertainties over time, including market rent reviews and break arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements.
options within the lease arrangements.
The final settlement in respect of the F&C Partners litigation is subject to determination NCI represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets in by an appeal process.
While there are a number of possible subsidiaries not held by the Group and are presented separately financial outcomes, the Directors have recognised a provision in in the Consolidated Income Statement Income Statement and respect of the amount which could be payable.
Details of within equity in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position provisions are disclosed within note 24.
Statement of Financial Position, separately from parent shareholders equity.
e Share-based payments The share-based payment expense in respect of the TRC ii Business combinations Commutation arrangements, as detailed in notes 15 a and IFRS 3 Revised relating to Business Combinations from 26 g, is dependent upon whether the underlying put and call 1 January 2010 options are exercised and, if exercised, the expense will vary A business combination is the bringing together of separate according to a number of factors, including the level of earnings entities or businesses into one reporting entity.
The result is that of the respective Investment Teams and the latest audited one entity, the acquirer, obtains control of one or more entities or financial results of the F&C Group.
The acquisition date is the date on which the The final F&C REIT variable NCI share-based payment expense acquirer obtains control of the acquiree.
will depend on the extent of the F&C REIT financial results over The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of the the remainder of the performance periods and, if the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or performance criteria are achieved, the value of F&C REIT assumed at the date of exchange.
Identifiable assets and business at the vesting date.
Details are given in note 26 c. liabilities acquired and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at f Deferred tax assets the acquisition date.
The excess of the consideration transferred The quantum of deferred tax assets recognised, as detailed in for the acquisition, plus any NCI, over the fair value of the note 17, is based upon assumptions as to the future profitability Groups share of identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as of the underlying companies to which they relate.
Acquisition-related expenses are expensed in the Income Statement.
g TRC contingent consideration The conditional consideration payable in respect of the b Foreign currencies acquisition of TRC has been estimated as nil, but is dependent The Groups presentational currency is Sterling.
Each entity in upon the level of future earnings of the TRC Group at 30 June the Group determines its own functional currency and amounts 2012, as detailed in note 15 a. included in the financial statements of each entity are measured in that functional currency.
Summary of significant accounting policies The accounting policies set out below have been applied i Foreign currency transactions consistently throughout the Group for the purposes of the Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the Consolidated Financial Statements for the years ended functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010, aside from any new or transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in revised standards applicable for the first time in the current year.
foreign currencies at the reporting date are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the reporting date, and any exchange a Consolidation differences arising are taken to the Income Statement.
i Subsidiaries Non-monetary assets and liabilities, other than intangible assets Subsidiaries are entities over which the Company has the arising on the acquisition of foreign operations measured at power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating historical cost in a foreign currency, are translated using the policies so as to obtain benefits from their activities.
Subsidiaries exchange rate at the date of transaction and are not subsequently follow accounting policies consistent with those of the Group, restated.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities stated at fair value in unless there is a requirement for the subsidiary to follow a a foreign currency are translated at the exchange rate at the date different accounting treatment, in which case, consolidation the fair value was determined.
When fair value movements in adjustments are made to align the treatment of such assets and liabilities are reflected in the Income Statement, the subsidiaries within the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The corresponding exchange movements are also recognised in the subsidiaries all have coterminous reporting periods, with three Income Statement.
Similarly, when fair value movements in assets exceptions.
and liabilities are reflected directly in equity, the corresponding exchange movements except any relating to available for sale The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the assets, monetary assets are also recognised directly in equity.
liabilities, results and cash flows of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold during the period are included in the consolidated results from the date 16272 F&C Annual Report Part 2:Layout 1 28 03 2012 18:13 Page 49 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 49 ii Foreign operations associated with gaining contracts are deferred and amortised over the estimated term of the contracts in line with the The functional currency of foreign operations is predominantly the Euro.
treatment of the associated initial fees received, while the subsequent renewal commission paid to agents is expensed as The assets and liabilities of, or relating to, foreign operations are the services are provided.
translated into Sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the reporting date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations f Exceptional income and costs are translated to Sterling at foreign exchange rates approximating Where the Group incurs significant non-recurring expenditure or to the rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign earns significant non-recurring income in respect of items that exchange differences arising on translation of foreign operations arise outwith the Groups normal business activities and which into Sterling, including related intangible assets, are recognised are sufficiently material to warrant separate disclosure, then directly in the Groups Foreign Currency Translation Reserve such items are disclosed in the Income Statement as FCTR, which is a separate component of equity, and reported in exceptional items, either separately or collectively, depending on the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
differences are recognised as income or expenses in the period in which the foreign operations are disposed of.
g Finance revenue Finance revenue comprises interest, dividends, investment c Revenue recognition income, expected return on pension assets and net fair value Management fees, investment advisory fees and other revenue gains through the Income Statement in respect of shareholder generated from the Groups asset management activities are investments.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to recognised in the Income Statement over the period which receive payment is established.
Interest income is recognised in these investment management services are provided.
the Income Statement on an effective interest rate basis as it Initial fees received in advance, arising on open-ended funds, accrues.
are taken to the Statement of Financial Position and amortised over the period of the asset management service.
The Group h Finance costs enters into standard contractual terms for all investors.
Finance costs comprise interest payable on borrowings, interest Therefore, the period of provision of asset management services on pension liabilities, amortisation of loan issue costs, unwinding is estimated based upon the Groups experience of the average of discount on provisions and net fair value losses through the holding periods of investors.
The average holding period is Income Statement in respect of shareholder investments.
reassessed on an annual basis.
Borrowing costs are recognised in the Income Statement on an effective interest rate basis.
The Group is entitled to earn performance fees from a number of clients if the actual investment performance of clients assets exceeds defined benchmarks by an agreed level of i Income taxes outperformance, generally in a set time period.
Performance The income tax expense or income disclosed on the face of the fees are recognised when the quantum of the fee can be Income Statement represents the aggregate of current tax and estimated reliably, which is when the performance period ends, the movement in deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the when this occurs on or before the reporting date, or where there Income Statement for the period, except to the extent that it is is a period of less than six months remaining to the end of the attributable to a gain or loss that is recognised directly in equity.
performance period and there is evidence at the reporting date In such cases the gain or loss shown in equity is stated which suggests that the current performance will be sustainable.
separately from the attributable income tax, which is also recognised directly in equity.
d Leases Current tax is the expected tax payable to, or receivable from, All leases entered into by the Group are operating leases, being the taxation authorities on the taxable profit or loss for the leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and period, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the rewards of ownership of the leased asset.
Rentals paid under reporting date, and includes any adjustment to tax payable in operating leases are charged to the Income Statement on a respect of previous years.
straight-line basis over the lease term.
Lease incentives are recognised by the Group as a reduction in the rental expense, Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities allocated on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Accounting policy s Provisions discusses the recognition of in the Financial Statements and the corresponding tax basis used in the computation of taxable profit or loss, accounted for provisions on onerous property leases when the leased space using the reporting date liability method.
has ceased to be occupied by the Group.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to e Fee and commission expenses apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset Fee and commission expenses comprise two main elements realised, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively costs associated with gaining new asset management contracts enacted at the reporting date.
and subsequent commission paid to agents.
The costs 16272 F&C Annual Report Part 2:Layout 1 28 03 2012 18:13 Page 50 50 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Accounting Policies Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable k Intangible assets temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to i Goodwill the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available Goodwill arising from a business combination is initially against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised, measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business except: combination over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
Following where the deferred tax asset or liability arises from the initial initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a accumulated impairment losses.
transaction that is not a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither the accounting nor Business combinations arising after 31 December 2009 are taxable profit or loss: or accounted for under IFRS 3 Revised : Business Combinations.
Where the initial amount of goodwill can only be determined on a in respect of taxable or deductible temporary differences provisional basis at the end of the financial reporting period, associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, adjustments are made to the amount of goodwill up to twelve where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences months from the date of acquisition to the extent that they relate can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary to revisions to the quantum of net assets acquired.
differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Any adjustment to the initial consideration, including amounts The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each which are conditional upon performance criteria, are recognised reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer in the Income Statement in the period in which the subsequent probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all change arises.
or part of the asset to be recovered.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment, or more frequently if Any income tax expense or income in respect of taxable gains events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying or losses attributable to policyholders falls to be borne by or to value may be impaired.
the benefit of the Groups unit-linked policyholders.
As a result, the Directors consider it appropriate to differentiate on the face ii Investment management contracts of the Income Statement between tax attributable to Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial policyholders and that attributable to shareholders.
The measurement of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is at fair value as at the date j Property, plant and equipment of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less carried at initial fair value less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Expenditure on property, plant and equipment is capitalised on The useful lives of investment management contracts are finite initial recognition.
Subsequent expenditure is only capitalised and such contracts are amortised on a straight-line basis over when it is probable that there will be future economic benefits their estimated useful lives or average contractual term, with associated with the expenditure which can be measured reliably.
amortisation being charged to the Income Statement.
The All other expenditure is recognised in the Income Statement as amortisation period is reviewed at each financial year end.
Details of estimated useful lives are shown in note 13.
Property, plant and equipment is depreciated so as to write off the cost of assets, using the straight-line method, over their iii Software and licences estimated useful lives, as follows: Separately purchased intangible assets have a finite life and are shown at cost less accumulated amortisation and any Leasehold improvements over 10 years accumulated impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged to the Computer equipment over 3 years Income Statement in equal annual instalments, based on the Office furniture & equipment over 3-5 years following useful economic lives: Motor vehicles over 3-4 years Software 3 years Depreciation is recognised as an expense in the Income Licences over the contractual term 3-5 years Statement.
Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is The carrying value of assets and their useful lives are reviewed expensed as incurred.
If an indication of impairment exists, the assets are written down to their recoverable amount and the l Impairment of intangible assets impairment is charged to the Income Statement in the period in At each reporting date the Group assesses whether there is an which it arises.
indication that an asset may be impaired.
If any such indication An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon exists, or when annual impairment testing is required, the Group disposal or when no further future economic benefits are makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition assets recoverable amount is the higher of an assets or cashof the asset calculated as the fair value less costs to sell is generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value in use, included in the Income Statement in the year the asset is and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does derecognised.
not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
Where the carrying 16272 F&C Annual Report Part 2:Layout 1 28 03 2012 18:13 Page 51 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 51 amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset ii Available for sale financial assets are also carried at fair is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable value in the Statement of Financial Position.
Any impairment arising is recognised in the Income unquoted instruments, or where the market for a financial Statement.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash instrument is not active, fair value is established by using flows are discounted to their present value using a discount rate recognised valuation methodologies, in accordance with that reflects current market assessments of the time value of International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation money and the risks specific to the asset.
Where insufficient information exists to produce a valuation then the price of recent investments is used.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a Such techniques include using: recent arms length market business combination is allocated to a cash-generating unit that transactions: reference to the current market value of is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
another instrument which is substantially the same: or Each unit to which the goodwill is so allocated represents the discounted cash flow analysis and option pricing models.
lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
For unquoted investments in early stage enterprises and enterprises with revenues but without significant profits or Where intangible assets form part of a cash-generating unit and significant positive cash flows, fair value is determined using part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the the Price of a Recent Investment method.
Repayments intangible assets associated with the operation disposed of are are treated as reductions to carrying value.
After an included in the carrying amount of the operation when appropriate period, an assessment is made as to whether determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
the circumstances of the investment have changed such that another valuation methodology is appropriate, and m Financial instruments whether there is any evidence of deterioration or strong Financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value, plus defensible evidence of an increase in value.
In the absence directly attributable transaction costs, in the case of investments of these indicators, fair value is determined to be that not at fair value through profit or loss.
reported at the previous reporting date.
The fair value of instruments that are actively traded in organised Unquoted investments with revenues, maintainable profits financial markets is determined by reference to quoted market and or maintainable cash flows are valued by deriving an bid prices mid price for OEICs at the close of business on the Enterprise Value of the underlying business.
For investments where there is no active market, Movements in fair value, other than impairment losses and fair value is determined using valuation techniques.
Such foreign exchange movements on monetary assets, are techniques include using: recent arms length market taken to the fair value reserve in equity until derecognition of transactions: reference to the current market value of another the asset, at which time the cumulative amount in this instrument which is substantially the same: or discounted cash reserve is recognised in the Income Statement.
flow analysis and option pricing models.
iii Loans and receivables are measured on initial recognition at Financial instruments are classified into the categories described fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs below: incurred.
Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and i Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss receivables are measured at amortised cost using the include investments that are held for trading purposes or effective interest rate method.
Gains and losses are that have been specifically designated as at fair value recognised in the Income Statement when loans and through profit or loss.
They are carried in the Statement of receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as Financial Position at fair value and movements in fair value through the amortisation process.
are taken to the Income Statement in the period in which iv Other financial liabilities include the NCI put options which they arise.
Interest and dividend income on these financial are recognised at fair value through profit or loss.
instruments is recognised separately in Finance revenue.
The NCI put options, over equity in majority-owned The Group has adopted trade date accounting for subsidiaries, are recognised at fair value at the reporting purchases or sales of financial assets under a contract date.
Upon initial recognition the fair value of the put option whose terms require delivery of the asset within the time is debited to equity.
Subsequent movements to the fair frame established in the marketplace concerned.
value are reflected in the Income Statement.
Fair value is the Accordingly, such financial instruments are recognised on the amount at which a derivative could be exchanged in a date the Group commits to the purchase of the investments, transaction at the reporting date between willing parties.
and are derecognised on the date it commits to their sale.
The remaining financial liabilities are recognised at amortised The Group has adopted the Fair Value Option in IAS 39, cost using the effective interest rate after initial recognition.
which enables the liabilities in respect of the Groups unitlinked investment contracts to be matched to the fair value Expenses incurred in respect of raising capital on interest of the related assets which are solely attributable to the bearing loans and borrowings are amortised over the term investment contract policyholders, thus reflecting the of the loan on an effective interest rate basis.
These contractual entitlement of the policyholders.
Differences in expenses are offset against the loan amount.
fair values are taken to the Income Statement.
16272 F&C Annual Report Part 2:Layout 1 28 03 2012 18:13 Page 52 52 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Accounting Policies Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Unit-linked policyholder assets held by MPF and related Financial assets policyholder liabilities are carried at fair value, with changes in A financial asset or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset, fair value taken to profit or loss.
is derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the Amounts received from and paid to investors under these asset have expired.
contracts are accounted for as deposits received or paid, and therefore not recorded in the Income Statement.
At the reporting Financial liabilities date the value of these contracts is stated at an amount equal A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the to the fair value of the net assets held to match the contractual liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
Impairment of financial assets p Insurance contract liabilities The Group assesses at each reporting date whether a financial Insurance contract liabilities are measured in accordance with asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Any change in the value of the liability is taken to Movement in fair value of unit-linked Assets carried at amortised cost liabilities in the Income Statement.
Where these liabilities are If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans reinsured, the element of the risk reinsured is valued on the and receivables carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the same basis as the related liability and is included as an asset in amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the the Statement of Financial Position.
Changes in the value of the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated asset are taken to the Income Statement.
Amounts recoverable future cash flows discounted at the financial assets original under reinsurance contracts are assessed for impairment at effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is each reporting date.
reduced and the amount of the loss is recognised in the Income Statement.
q Employee and member benefits If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss i Short-term employee benefits decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an Short-term employee benefits are recognised as an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the undiscounted expense and liability when the employee has previously recognised impairment loss is reversed.
Any rendered services during an accounting period.
Short-term subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the compensated absences are recognised, in the case of Income Statement to the extent that the carrying value of the accumulating compensated absences, when the employees asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
render service that increases their entitlement to future compensated absences or, in the case of non-accumulating Available for sale financial assets compensated absences, when the absences occur.
If an available for sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising the difference between its cost net of any principal payment ii Profit-sharing and bonus payments and amortisation and its current fair value, less any impairment These are recognised when there is a present legal or loss previously recognised in the Income Statement, is constructive obligation to make such payments as a result of past transferred from equity to the Income Statement.
Reversals in events and a reliable estimate of the obligation can be made.
respect of equity instruments classified as available for sale are not recognised in the Income Statement.
Reversals of iii Profit entitlement of members of Limited Liability impairment losses on debt instruments are taken through the Partnerships Income Statement if the increase in fair value of the instrument Where a member of a Limited Liability Partnership LLP has an can be objectively related to an event occurring after the automatic entitlement to distributions of partnership profits in impairment loss was recognised in the Income Statement.
respect of their services, an expense Distributions to members of LLPs and a liability Liabilities to members of LLPs are n Cash and cash equivalents recognised as their services are rendered during an accounting Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, deposits period.
held at call with banks and other short-term, highly liquid investments in money market instruments with original maturity iv Pension obligations dates of three months or less.
Defined benefit schemes o Investment contracts The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension The Group sells unit-linked pension investment contracts arrangements.
These schemes provide benefits based on final through its insurance entity, F&C Managed Pension Funds pensionable salary.
The assets of the funded schemes are held Limited MPF.
These unit-linked contracts involve both the in separate trustee-administered funds.
transfer of a financial instrument and the provision of investment The pension liability recognised in the Statement of Financial management services.
The financial instrument component is Position is the present obligation of the employer, which is the classified as a financial liability at fair value through profit or loss.
estimated present value of future benefits that employees have The financial liability is measured using a valuation technique earned in return for their services in the current and prior years, based on the carrying value of the assets and liabilities that are less the value of the plan assets in the schemes.
The discount held to back the contract.
rate applied to the employees benefits is the appropriate AA 16272 F&C Annual Report Part 2:Layout 1 28 03 2012 18:13 Page 53 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 53 corporate bond yield at the reporting date.
A qualified actuary Scholes, Binomial or Monte Carlo simulation.
The fair value is performs the calculation annually using the projected unit credit measured by an independent external valuer at the date the method.
The pension costs of the schemes in the Income award is granted and the expense is spread over the period Statement are analysed into: during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to exercise the awards, known as the vesting period.
Where current service cost, which is the actuarially calculated options exist for awards to vest on more than one date, the present value of the benefits earned by the active expense is initially spread over the period to the earliest possible employees in each period: vesting date.
The cumulative expense recognised in the Income past service costs, which relate to employee service in prior Statement is equal to the estimated fair value of the award periods, and arise as a result of the introduction of, or multiplied by the number of awards expected to vest.
Vesting of improvement to, retirement benefits in the current period.
awards typically depends upon meeting defined performance These are recognised in the Income Statement on a criteria such as underlying earnings per share EPS targets straight-line basis over the period in which the increase in and or share price return targets or continued employment.
benefits vests: The fair value of share-based payment awards, where it is not settlements or curtailments recognised in the Income considered possible to estimate reliably the fair value of these Statement to the extent that they are not allowed for in the awards at the grant date, is determined by measurement of the actuarial assumptions.
Gains or losses on settlements or equity instruments at intrinsic value.
The intrinsic value is spread curtailments are recognised at the date on which there is a over the vesting period.
demonstrable commitment to making a significant reduction Vesting of equity-settled employee share awards depends upon in the number of employees covered by the plan or an meeting market and or non-market related performance amendment to the terms of the plan: conditions.
The type of vesting criteria affects the calculation of the expected return on pension assets recognised within the expense charged to the Income Statement and subsequent Finance revenue: and adjustments, as follows: the interest on pension obligations recognised in Finance i Non-market related conditions are performance criteria not costs.
directly linked to Company share price targets, such as EPS targets and or continued employment.
The probability of The actuarial gains and losses, which arise from any new meeting non-market conditions is incorporated into the valuation and from updating the previous actuarial valuation to expense charge via the estimate of the number of awards reflect conditions at the reporting date, are taken in full to the expected to vest.
The total cumulative expense is Statement of Comprehensive Income for the period.
reassessed at each reporting date and is ultimately adjusted to reflect the actual number of awards which vest.
Defined contribution schemes Therefore, if no awards vest, no cumulative expense charge Contributions made to these schemes are charged to the is ultimately recognised.
Income Statement as they become payable in accordance with ii Market-related conditions are performance criteria linked to the rules of the scheme.
The probability of meeting market conditions is incorporated into the calculation of the v Other long-term employee benefits fair value of the award.
Should the market-based Other long-term employee benefits are recognised at the performance condition not ultimately be met, no discounted present value of the obligation at the reporting date.
true-up down adjustment is made to reflect this.
The benefit is determined using actuarial techniques to estimate Therefore, an expense charge is made whether marketthe amount of benefit employees have earned for their services based awards ultimately vest or not.
IFRS 2: Share-based Payment makes a distinction between awards settled in equity and those settled in cash.
Equity-settled vi Termination benefits awards are charged to the Income Statement with a Termination benefits are recognised as a liability and an expense corresponding credit to equity.
Cash-settled awards are charged when the Group is committed to the termination of employment to the Income Statement with a corresponding credit to before the normal retirement date.
The estimated fair value of cash-settled awards is retermination benefits arises when the Group has initiated detailed measured at each reporting date until the payments are plans which cannot realistically be withdrawn.
r Share-based payments Awards to employees treated as good leavers or employees The Group operates a number of share scheme arrangements who cancel their savings contracts under the Share Save which require to be accounted for as share-based payments.
Scheme vest immediately and the remaining full expense of the awards is charged to the Income Statement at that time.
Good All grants of shares, share options or other share-based leavers include retirees and involuntary redundancies.
instruments that were granted after 7 November 2002 have been recognised as an expense.
Where applicable, the fair The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as values of share-based payment awards are measured using a additional share dilution in the computation of EPS.
valuation model applicable to the terms of the awards Black 16272 F&C Annual Report Part 2:Layout 1 28 03 2012 18:13 Page 54 54 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Accounting Policies s Provisions The remainder of the issue proceeds is allocated to the equity A provision is recognised in the Statement of Financial Position component and included in shareholders equity, net of when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result transaction costs.
of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is Ordinary Share capital material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected When Ordinary Shares are repurchased, the amounts of future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, are assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, recognised in the own share reserve included within retained the risks specific to the liability.
No provision is established where earnings and are classified as deductions in equity.
The a reliable estimate of the obligation cannot be made.
Companys dealings in its own shares are reflected through equity.
Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be recovered from external parties, the recovery is recognised as a Dividends on Ordinary Shares are recognised on the date of separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
payment, or if subject to approval, the date approved by the shareholders.
Where the Group has obligations under property leases and where the space has ceased to be used for the purposes of the u Accounting for Employee Benefit Trusts EBTs business, full provision is made for future net outstanding The Group has several EBTs which own shares in the Company liabilities under such leases after taking into account the effect of and other investments to enable it to satisfy certain future any expected sub-letting arrangements.
The assets of the EBTs, which relate to unvested awards, are consolidated into the t Share capital Groups results, with these own shares included within retained When shares are issued, any component that creates a financial earnings at cost.
Consideration received for such shares is also liability of the Company or Group is presented as a liability in the recognised in retained earnings.
No gain or loss is recognised in Statement of Financial Position, measured initially at fair value, the performance statements on the purchase, sale, issue or net of transaction costs and thereafter at amortised cost until cancellation of equity shares.
Other investments held by EBTs extinguished on conversion or redemption.
are recognised as assets in the Statement of Financial Position.
v New standards and interpretations not applied The International Accounting Standards Board has issued the following standards, relevant to the Group, which have not yet been applied and have an effective date after the date of these Financial Statements: Effective for accounting periods International Accounting Standards IAS IFRS beginning on or after Endorsed by the European Union and available for early adoption: IFRS 7 Amendment Disclosures Transfers of financial assets 1 July 2011 Not yet endorsed by the European Union: IFRS 1 Amendment Severe Hyperinflation and Removal of Fixed Dates 1 July 2011 for First-time Adopters IAS 12 Amendment Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets 1 January 2012 IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income 1 July 2012 IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 1 January 2013 IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 1 January 2013 IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 1 January 2013 IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement 1 January 2013 IAS 27 Revised Separate Financial Statements 1 January 2013 IAS 28 Revised Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 1 January 2013 IAS 19 Amendment Employee Benefits 1 January 2013 IFRS 7 Amendment Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities 1 January 2013 IAS 32 Amendment Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities 1 January 2014 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments issued in 2009 and 2010 1 January 2015 One of the changes in respect of the IAS 19 Amendment for the defined benefit pension arrangements is that the Net Interest Cost will replace the Interest Cost and Expected Return on Assets.
The discount rate will be used to calculate the Net Interest Cost instead of a separate assumption for asset returns.
In addition administrative expenses will require to be shown separately and not within the Net Interest Cost.
The overall impact on the Income Statement will depend on the size of the defined benefit deficit and the differential between the expected return rate and the discount rate.
It is expected that there will be a slight increase in the net expense as a result of these changes.
The Directors are investigating the impact of the other new and revised standards.
It is anticipated that, at a minimum, additional disclosures will be required.
The Group intends to adopt the standards in the reporting period in which they become effective.
