16272 F&C Annual Report Part 2:Layout 1 28 03 2012 18:13 Page 144 144 | SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION | Notice To US Shareholders Certain PFIC Considerations Shareholders should consult their own tax advisors as to the tax US Shareholders are particularly urged to consult their own Tax considerations applicable to them relating to the purchase, Advisors regarding the US tax considerations relating to an ownership and disposition of our ordinary shares the Shares, investment in a company that may be or may become a PFIC, including the applicability of US Federal state and local tax laws and including the availability and consequences of elections that may be non-US tax laws.
This discussion does not address tax available to mitigate the adverse Federal income tax consequences considerations applicable to US Shareholders other than the passive of owning or disposing of PFIC shares.
In that regard, US foreign investment company rules.
Shareholders should be aware that the Company does not intend to satisfy the record keeping and other requirements that would permit F&C Asset Management plc the Company and certain of its a US Shareholder to make a qualified electing fund QEF election subsidiaries may be treated as passive foreign investment with respect to the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
companies each, a PFIC within the meaning of section 1297 of the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended the Code for Each taxpayer is hereby notified that: a any discussion of US US Federal income tax purposes.
Federal tax issues herein is not intended or written to be used, and cannot be used by the taxpayer, for the purpose of avoiding Treatment of the Company or any of its subsidiaries as a PFIC could penalties that may be imposed on the taxpayer under US Federal result in adverse tax consequences for US Shareholders.
tax law: b any such discussion is written to support the promotion A foreign corporation generally will be treated as a PFIC in any year or marketing of the transactions or matters addressed herein: and in which either 75 per cent.
or more of its gross income constitutes c the taxpayer should seek advice based on its particular passive income or at least 50 per cent.
of the value of its assets is circumstances from an independent tax advisor.
attributable to assets which produce or are held for the production of passive income.
In applying these tests, a non-US corporation that directly or indirectly owns at least 25 per cent.
by value, of the stock of another corporation is treated as if it held directly its proportionate share of the other corporations assets and received directly its proportionate share of the other corporations income.
Whether a non-US company is a PFIC is determined annually, and the status of the Company, or any of its subsidiaries, could change depending among other things upon the changes in the composition of its gross receipts and assets, and the nature of its business.
