Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the first Annual General conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Meeting of Fidelity China Special Situations PLC will be Company or the date 15 months after the passing of held at the Barbican Centre, Silk Street, London EC2Y this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but so that 8DS, on Friday 29 July 2011 at 11.00 am for the this authority shall allow the Company to make offers following purposes: or agreements before the expiry of this authority which would or might require relevant securities to be ORDINARY BUSINESS allotted after such expiry as if the authority conferred 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors Report and by this resolution had not expired.
financial statements for the period ended 31 March 2011.
THAT, subject to the passing of Resolution 11 set out above, the Directors be and they are hereby 2.
To approve the final dividend.
authorised, pursuant to Sections 570-573 of the Act to allot equity securities as defined in Section 560 of 3.
To elect Mr John Owen as a Director.
the Act pursuant to the authority given by the said Resolution 11 as if Section 561 of the Act did not 4.
To elect Mr Nicholas Bull as a Director.
apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited: 5.
To elect Mr David Causer as a Director.
a to the allotment of equity securities in connection 6.
To elect Hon Peter Pleydell-Bouverie as a Director.
with a rights issue in favour of all holders of a class of relevant equity securities where the equity 7.
To elect Mr Gary Shaughnessy as a Director.
securities attributable respectively to the interests of all holders of securities of such class are either 8.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for proportionate as nearly as may be to the the period ended 31 March 2011. respective numbers of relevant equity securities held by them or are otherwise allotted in 9.
To reappoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as Auditor of accordance with the rights attaching to such the Company to hold office until the conclusion of equity securities subject in either case to such the next general meeting at which financial exclusions or other arrangements as the Board statements are laid before the Company.
may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal or practical 10.
To authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors problems under the laws of, or the requirements remuneration.
of, any regulatory body or any stock exchange in any territory or otherwise : SPECIAL BUSINESS Resolutions 11 and 12 will, if approved, authorise the b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to a Directors to allot a limited number of the currently rights issue of equity securities up to an unissued ordinary shares for cash without first offering aggregate nominal amount of 662,654 such shares to existing ordinary shareholders pro rata to approximately 10% of the aggregate nominal their existing holdings.
The limit set by the Board is 10% amount of the issued share capital of the of the number of ordinary shares of the Company in Company as at 17 June 2011 : and issue on 17 June 2011.
The Directors will only issue new shares under this authority to take advantage of c to the allotment of equity securities at a price of opportunities in the market as they arise and only if they not less than the net asset value per share and this believe it is advantageous to the Companys power shall expire at the conclusion of the next shareholders to do so.
Annual General Meeting of the Company or the date 15 months after the passing of this To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution, whichever is the earlier, save that this resolutions which will be proposed, resolution 11 as an authority shall allow the Company to make offers ordinary resolution and resolution 12 as a special or agreements before the expiry of this authority, resolution: and the Directors may allot equity securities in relation to such an offer or agreement as if the 11.
THAT the Directors be and they are hereby generally authority conferred by this resolution had not and unconditionally authorised in accordance with expired.
Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot Resolution 13 is a special resolution which, if approved, relevant securities as defined in that section up to an will renew the Companys authority to purchase up to aggregate nominal amount of 662,654 14.99% of the number of ordinary shares in issue on approximately 10% of the aggregate nominal 17 June 2011 for cancellation.
Purchases of ordinary amount of the issued share capital of the Company as shares will be at the discretion of the Board and within at 17 June 2011 such authority to expire at the guidelines set from time to time by the Board in the light Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2011 Page 53 Notice of Meeting of prevailing market conditions.
Purchases will only be Notes: 1 A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the made in the market at prices below the prevailing net Annual General meeting may appoint a proxy or proxies to asset value per share, thereby resulting in an increased attend and to speak and vote instead of him.
A member may net asset value per share.
appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to 13.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section held by that member.
A proxy need not be a member of the 693 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make Company.
market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 of the Act of shares of 1 penny each in the capital of 2 A Form of Proxy is enclosed and must be returned to the Registrars at the address on the form to arrive not later than the Company the shares provided that: 12 noon on 27 July 2011.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not prevent a shareholder from subsequently a the maximum number of shares hereby authorised attending the meeting and voting in person if they so wish.
to be purchased shall be 99,331,900: 3 To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy, and b the minimum price which may be paid for a share any power of attorney or other authority under which it is is 1 penny: signed or a copy of any such authority certified notarially or in some other way approved by the Directors, must be c the maximum price which may be paid for a share deposited with the Companys Registrars, Capita Registrars, is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4BR not less than 48 hours before the time for middle market quotations for a share taken from holding the meeting or adjourned meeting or, in the case of the London Stock Exchange Official List for the a poll taken more than 48 hours after it is demanded, not less five business days immediately preceding the day than 24 hours before the time appointed for the taking of the on which the share is purchased: poll at which it is to be used.
d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the 4 In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior who conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of tenders the vote shall be accepted to the exclusion of the the Company unless such authority is renewed votes of the other joint holders and for this purpose, seniority prior to such time: and shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the Register of Members.
e the Company may make a contract to purchase 5 To appoint a proxy or to give or amend an instruction to a shares under the authority hereby conferred prior previously appointed proxy via the CREST system, the CREST to the expiry of such authority which will or may message must be received by the issuers agent RA10 by be executed wholly or partly after the expiration 12 noon on 27 July 2011.
For this purpose, the time of of such authority and may make a purchase of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the shares pursuant to any such contract.
timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to By order of the Board retrieve the message.
After this time any change of FIL Investments International instructions to a proxy appointed through CREST should be communicated to the proxy by other means.
CREST Personal Secretary Members or other CREST sponsored members and those 17 June 2011 CREST Members who have appointed voting service provider s should contact their CREST sponsor or voting Registered office: service provider s for assistance with appointing proxies via Beech Gate CREST.
For further information on CREST procedures, Millfield Lane limitations and systems timings please refer to the CREST Lower Kingswood Manual.
We may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by Tadworth CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of Surrey KT20 6RP the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
In any case your proxy form must be received by the Companys Registrars no later than 12 noon on 27 July 2011.
6 All members are entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting and ask questions.
The right to vote at the meeting will be determined by reference to the Register of Members as at 12 noon on 27 July 2011.
7 Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him and the member by whom he was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
If a Page 54 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2011 Notice of Meeting Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or the Company has been required under Section 527 of the does not wish to exercise it, he may, under any such Companies Act 2006 to publish on its website.
agreement, have a right to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights 14 Under Section 338 and Section 338A of the Companies Act of members in relation to the appointment of proxies in note 2006, members meeting the threshold requirements in those 2 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The right sections have the right to require the Company i to give, to described in that paragraph can only be exercised by members of the Company entitled to receive notice of the members of the Company.
meeting, notice of a resolution which may properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the meeting: and or 8 If the Chairman, as a result of any proxy appointments, is ii to include in the business to be dealt with at the meeting given discretion as to how the votes which are the subject of any matter other than a proposed resolution which may be those proxies are cast and the voting rights in respect of properly included in such business.
A resolution may properly those discretionary proxies, when added to the interests in be moved or a matter may properly be included in the the Companys securities already held by the Chairman, business of the meeting unless a in the case of a resolution result in the Chairman holding such number of voting rights only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of that he has a notifiable obligation under the Disclosure and inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys Transparency Rules, the Chairman will make the necessary constitution or otherwise, b it is defamatory of any person, notifications to the Company and the Financial Services or c it is frivolous or vexatious.
Such a request may be in Authority.
As a result, any member holding three per cent or hard copy form or in electronic form, must identify the more of the voting rights in the Company who grants the resolution of which notice is to be given or the matter to be Chairman a discretionary proxy in respect of some or all of included in the business of the meeting, must be authorised those voting rights and so would otherwise have a by the person or persons making it, must be received by the notification obligation under the Disclosure and Transparency Company not later than 21 July 2011, being the date six Rules, need not make separate notification to the Company clear weeks before the meeting, and in the case of a matter and the Financial Services Authority.
to be included in the business of the meeting only must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the 9 Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities request.
Regulations 2001, the Company has specified that to be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting 15 No Director has a service contract with the Company.
and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the register of 16 A copy of this notice and other information required by members by 6.00pm on 27 July 2011.
If the meeting is Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006 is published on the adjourned then, to be so entitled, members must be entered Companys website at www.
co. uk its Registered on the register of members at 6.00pm on the day two days Office: Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, Lower Kingswood, before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting, or, if the Tadworth, Surrey KT20 6RP Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at any other time specified in that notice.
10 As at 17 June 2011 the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document the Companys issued share capital consisted of 662,654,480 ordinary shares carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total number of voting rights in the Company as at 17 June 2011 was 662,654,480.
11 Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
12 Shareholders and any proxies or representatives they appoint understand that by attending the meeting they are expressly agreeing that they are willing to receive any communications, including communications relating to the Companys securities, made at the meeting.
13 It is possible that, pursuant to requests made by members of the Company under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company may be required to publish on its website a statement setting out any matter relating to the audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting or any circumstance connected with an Auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which the annual report and financial statements were laid.
The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2011 Page 55 Glossary to the Annual Report AGM Annual General Meeting of the Company AIC the Association of Investment Companies AIC Code the Association of Investment Companies Code of Corporate Governance, as amended from time to time AIFM Directive the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive American Depository Receipt A negotiable certificate issued by a US Bank representing a specified number or ADR of shares in a foreign stock that is traded on a US Exchange Articles of Association the articles of association of the Company, as amended from time to time Auditor Grant Thornton UK LLP or such other auditor as the Company may appoint from time to time Benchmark the MSCI China Index Board of Directors the Board of Directors of the Company or any duly constituted Committee thereof C Shares Convertible Shares of 100p each in the capital of the Company which were converted into new Ordinary Shares on 28 February 2011 Call and Put options Call or put options may be used to gain or reduce exposure to the underlying asset on a conditional basis: i. e. the purchase of a call option provides exposure to the upside potential of an underlying stock, with the downside risk being limited to the premium paid Capita or Capita Registrars a trading name for Capita Registrars Limited, the Companys Registrars Cenkos Securities Cenkos Securities plc, the Companys broker China or PRC the Peoples Republic of China excluding Taiwan, Hong Kong and the Macau Special Administrative Region of the PRC China A Shares shares issued by companies incorporated in the PRC and listed on either of the Chinese Stock Exchanges, traded in renminbi and available for investment by domestic Chinese investors and holders of a QFII licence China B Shares shares issued by companies incorporated in the PRC and listed on either of the Chinese Stock Exchanges, traded in foreign currencies and available for investment by domestic Chinese investors and foreign investors China H Shares shares issued by companies incorporated in the PRC and listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange and traded in Hong Kong dollars Chinese Stock Exchanges the Shanghai Stock Exchange, the Shenzhen Stock Exchange and any other stock exchange located within the PRC from time to time Collateral assets provided as security Combined Code the Financial Reporting Councils Combined Code on Corporate Governance Company Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Contract for difference or CFD A contract between an investor i. e. the Company and an investment bank at the end of which the parties exchange the difference between the opening and closing prices of a specified financial instrument.
The investor may reason that the asset price will rise, by buying long position or fall, by selling short position.
A contract for difference does not involve buying or selling the underlying asset, only agreeing to receive or pay the movement in its price.
A contract for difference only requires a small deposit margin on trades Conversion the conversion of the C Shares into Ordinary Shares which took place on 28 February 2011 Page 56 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2011 Glossary to the Annual Report Conversion Ratio The conversion ratio of the conversion was 0.9483 being the net proceeds of the C Shares of 97.50p per share divided by the net asset value of the Ordinary Shares of 102.82p per share on 28 February 2011 which meant that a holder of 1,000 C Shares received 948 Ordinary Shares Custodian JPMorgan Chase Bank N. A. London branch Custody Agreement the agreement between the Custodian and the Company regarding the custody of the assets of the Company dated 25 February 2010 Directors Directors of the Company listed in the section headed Corporate Information, and Director shall mean any one of them Derivatives Financial instruments whose value is derived from the value of an underlying asset or other financial instruments such as stocks, bonds, currency exchange rates, real estate and commodities, or market benchmarks such as interest rates.
The main categories of derivatives are Contracts For Difference, futures, options and swaps Disclosure and Transparency Rules the disclosure rules made by the UK Listing Authority under Part VI of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as amended from time to time Equity Linked Notes or ELN Debt instruments whose return on investment is linked to specific equities or equity markets.
The return on equity linked notes may be determined by an equity index, a basket of equities, or single equities Fair Value represents the carrying value on the Balance Sheet and it is also the difference between settlement price and the underlying value of the security FIL FIL Limited and each of its subsidiaries FIL Limited FIL Limited incorporated in Bermuda, the ultimate parent company of the FIL Group of companies Fidelity FIL Investments International Form of Proxy the form of proxy for use by Shareholders in respect of the General Meeting FRC Financial Reporting Council Gearing Debt either through bank borrowings and or through derivatives including CFDs Gross Asset Exposure the value of the total portfolio to which the investor i. e. the Company is exposed, whether through direct or indirect investment including through derivatives Gross Assets the sum of the value of each of the assets that the Company owns as calculated in accordance with the Companys valuation policy.
It also represents total assets less current liabilities, excluding the fixed term bank loan Hedging a strategy aimed at minimising or eliminating risk, normally involving positions in two different markets, with one offsetting the other.
Derivatives futures and options are widely used for hedging purposes because they can protect an investor against changes in the value of an underlying asset or currency.
It is not the policy of the Board to hedge the underlying investments or currencies of the holdings in the portfolio but rather to take the currency risk into consideration when making investments IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards Index linked securities Debt instruments whose return on investment is linked to changes in interest rates, stock exchanges, or other price indices Investment Manager or Manager FIL Investment Management Hong Kong Limited Investment Managers or Managers together, the Investment Manager and the Unlisted Investment Manager Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2011 Page 57 Glossary to the Annual Report KOSPI The Korea Composite Stock Price Index.
Index of all common shares traded on the Stock Market Division, previously known as the Korea Stock Exchange Management Agreement the agreement between FIL Investment Management Hong Kong Limited and the Company regarding the management of the Companys investments dated 25 February 2010 Management Agreements the Management Agreement and the Unlisted Management Agreement Management Fee The annual management fee is calculated as 1.5% of NAV Marked to market assigning a value based on the current fair market price Money marker instruments short term debt instruments that provide the unconditional right to receive a stated, fixed sum of money on a specified date.
Money market instruments include treasury bills, bonds commercial and financial paper, bankers acceptances, negotiable certificates of deposit and short term notes issued under note issuance facilities MSCI China Index the benchmark of the investment performance of the Company is the MSCI China Index, sterling equivalent Net Assets Gross assets less fixed term bank loans Net Asset Value or NAV per share the NAV is calculated as shareholders funds divided by the number of shares in issue Offer for Subscription the Public offer in the UK to subscribe for C Shares in the Company Open Offer the offer to Shareholders which constituted an invitation to apply for C Shares in the Company Options or options contract options provide the right to acquire or sell instruments at an agreed price at an agreed date Ordinary Shares ordinary shares of nominal value of 1penny each in the capital of the Company and Ordinary Share means any one of them Performance Fee the Investment Managers are entitled to an annual Performance Fee of 15% of any change in NAV attributable to performance which is more than 2% above the returns on the MSCI China Index, subject to a maximum Performance Fee payable in any year equal to 1.5% of the arithmetic mean of the value of assets with the valuation calculated at the end of each month during the year Placing the placing of C Shares by Cenkos Securities plc Portfolio Manager Anthony Bolton Portfolio value the total value of all underlying securities in the Portfolio Pre-emption rights Section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 provides that a company which offers equity securities must first make an offer of those securities, on the same or more favourable terms in proportion to the nominal value held by existing shareholders Prospectus the Prospectus of the Company dated 7 January 2011 QFII a Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor.
The Investment Manager is a QFII and as such has been granted a QFII licence by the China Securities Regulatory Commission CSRC which permits the Company to invest in China A Shares through the Investment Manager and has received an allocation of quota for onshore investment from the State Administration of Foreign Exchange of the PRC SAFE Red Chips companies incorporated outside the PRC and listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange and controlled by PRC entities, by way of direct or indirect shareholding and or representation on the board of directors Registrar Capita Registrars Page 58 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2011 Glossary to the Annual Report Renminbi currency of the PRC Secretarial Agreement the agreement between the Secretary and the Company regarding the provision of company secretarial and administrative services dated 25 February 2010 Secretary FIL Investments International Shareholders funds Shareholders funds are the net value of the Companys assets, cash and other current net assets, after deducting all debt, including bank loans, at their fair value Short stock exposure the position of an investor that has sold a security or derivative that it did not own but is now committed to eventually purchase to satisfy its obligation to sell, being a strategy used to capitalise on an expected decline in the securitys or derivatives price SIPP Self Invested Personal Pension SORP Statement of Recommended Practice UCITS Directive the European Council Directive of 20 December 1985 on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities UCITS No 85 611 EEC as amended Unlisted Investment Manager FIL Investments International Unlisted Management Agreement the Agreement between FIL Investments International and the Company regarding the management of the Companys unlisted investments Unlisted securities securities which are not listed on a regulated stock exchange Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2011 Page 59
