Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual We confirm that to the best of our knowledge the report and the financial statements in accordance with financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and the Directors to prepare financial statements for each fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and financial period.
Under the law they have elected to profit or loss of the Company: and the Directors Report prepare the financial statements in accordance with includes a fair review of the development and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted performance of the business and the position of the by the EU IFRS.
Company together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties it faces.
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company Approved by the Board on 17 June 2011 and signed on and of the profit or loss for the period.
these financial statements the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: John Owen Chairman state whether applicable IFRS have been followed, 17 June 2011 subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that adequate accounting records are kept which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, including a Business Review, a Directors Remuneration Report and a Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys pages of the Managers website www.
Visitors to the website need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in their jurisdictions.
Page 24 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2011
