Information for Investors Private investors: call free to 0800 41 41 10, 9am to such as change of address, stock transfer and 6pm, Monday to Saturday.
dividend mandate forms as well as buy and sell shares in the Company.
Financial advisers: call free to 0800 41 41 81, 8am to 6pm, Monday to Friday.
To make use of any of these facilities, please log on to the Capita Registrars website at: Existing shareholders who have a specific query www.
com regarding their holding or need to provide updated information, for example a change of address, should Should you have any queries in respect of the above contact the appropriate administrator: facilities, please do not hesitate to contact the Capita Share Portal helpline on 0871 664 0391 calls cost 10p Holders of ordinary shares plus network extras, overseas 44 20 8639 3367, or by Capita Registrars, Registrars to Fidelity China Special e-mail at shareportal@capita.
co. uk Situations PLC, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4BR.
Telephone: 0871 664 0300 Capita Share Dealing Services calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras.
Lines are You can make use of a low cost share dealing service open 8.30am 5.30pm Monday to Friday email: provided by Capita Registrars to buy or sell shares.
com Further information is available at www.
com, or by telephoning 0871 664 0454 calls cost 10p per Details of individual shareholdings and other information minute plus network extras.
Lines are open 8.30am can also be obtained from the Registrars website: 5.30pm Monday to Friday.
Using Capita Share Dealing www.
com Services you will also be able to deal in the shares of other companies for which Capita acts as Registrar, Fidelity Share Plan investors provided you are already a shareholder in the relevant Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan, Block C, Western company, and that company offers the Share Dealing House, Lynchwood Business Park, Peterborough, facility to its shareholders.
Telephone: 0845 358 1107 calls to this number are charged at 3.95p per minute from a BT landline Dividend Reinvestment Plan dependent on the tariff.
Other telephone service This is a convenient way to build up your shareholding providers costs may vary.
by using your cash dividends to buy more shares in the Company.
If you prefer to receive shares for your next Fidelity ISA investors dividend instead of cash please complete an application Fidelity, using the freephone numbers given above, or form online at www.
com or call by writing to: UK Customer Service, Fidelity Capita IRG Trustees on 0871 644 0381 calls cost International, Oakhill House, 130 Tonbridge Road, 10p per minute plus network extras from the UK or Hildenborough, Tonbridge, Kent TN11 9DZ.
General enquiries ShareGift General enquiries should be made to Fidelity, You may donate your shares to charity free of charge FIL Investments International, the Secretary, at the through ShareGift.
Further details are available at Companys registered office: FIL Investments www.
uk or by telephoning 020 7930 3737. International Investment Trusts, Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, Lower Kingswood, Tadworth, Surrey KT20 6RP KEEPING YOU UPDATED Telephone: 01732 361144.
Fax: 01737 836 892 If you hold Fidelity China Special Situations PLC shares in www.
co. uk its a Fidelity ISA, you will receive a yearly report detailing all of your transactions and the value of your shares.
ONLINE SHAREHOLDER SERVICES Investors with the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan SHARE PORTAL will receive statements and valuations twice a year.
Through the website of our Registrars, Capita Registrars, shareholders are able to manage their shareholding The share price of Fidelity China Special Situations PLC online by registering for the Share Portal, a free, secure, appears daily in The Financial Times.
Price and online access to your shareholding.
Facilities include: performance information is also available at fidelity.
Investors can obtain the real-time share Account Enquiry Allows shareholders to access their price by telephoning Fidelity for free on 0800 41 41 10 personal shareholding, including share transaction or FT Cityline on 0905 817 1690, voice activated service history, dividend payment history and to obtain an calls charged at 60p per minute on a per second basis up-to-date shareholding valuation: from a BT landline.
Charges from other telephone networks may vary.
Amendment of Standing Data Allows shareholders to change their registered postal address and add, change or delete dividend mandate instructions.
Shareholders can also download from this site forms Page 60 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2011 Information for Investors WARNING TO SHAREHOLDERS BOILER ROOM SCAMS Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders, offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
These operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
These brokers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive, and a 2006 survey by the Financial Services Authority FSA reported that the average amount lost by investors is around 20,000.
It is not just the novice investor that has been duped in this way: many of the victims had been successfully investing for several years.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved by visiting www.
uk register Report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0845 606 1234 or visiting www.
uk If the calls persist, hang up.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The FSA can be contacted by completing an online form at www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts overs eas.
Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in Company mailings.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the FSA website www.
uk Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2011 Page 61 Investing in Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Fidelity offers a range of options, so that you can INVESTING OUTSIDE AN ISA invest in the way that is best for you.
As Fidelity If you prefer to invest outside an ISA, or have already China Special Situations PLC is a company listed on used your full ISA allowance, the Fidelity Investment the London Stock Exchange you can also buy its Trust Share Plan offers you an alternative low cost and shares through a stockbroker, share shop or bank.
convenient way to put money into Fidelity China Special Situations PLC.
The minimum investment is 1,000 as a INVESTING INSIDE AN ISA lump sum, 250 as a top-up or 50 a month in a regular The maximum investment in a stocks and shares ISA for savings plan.
Investing for children the Share Plan is a 2011 2012 tax year is 10,680.
The full amount may be flexible and inexpensive way to invest on behalf of invested in a Stocks and Shares ISA, or you can invest up children.
All you have to do is enter the initials or name to half the ISA allowance in a Cash ISA and the balance of the child in the Designation Box on the Share Plan in a Stocks and Shares ISA.
The minimum investment per application form.
fund in the Fidelity ISA is 1,000 as a lump sum, 250 as a top-up, or 50 a month per company in a regular Holding shares within the Share Plan allows you to savings plan.
reinvest your dividends and make further investments without having to pay brokerage fees.
You will also be Charges The standard initial charge for the Fidelity ISA able to set up a monthly savings plan and receive is 3.5% but if you download the online application form statements and valuations twice a year.
you will pay just 1.25% initial charge.
The initial charge for investments through a Financial Adviser will be up to Charges There are no charges for buying, selling or 3.5%.
Fidelity pays stamp duty from the initial charge.
holding shares through the Fidelity Investment Trust There are no other charges for the Fidelity ISA, but the Share Plan other than stamp duty of 0.5%, which is Company pays an annual management charge of 1.5% currently payable on all share purchases.
However, if you plus a performance related fee, as set out in the Annual invest through a Financial Adviser, there may be an initial Report.
MOVING MONEY FROM A PREVIOUS ISA BENEFICIAL OWNERS OF SHARES If you have opened ISAs with other investment INFORMATION RIGHTS companies, you can move them into the Fidelity ISA and Registered shareholders of fully listed companies are invest in Fidelity China Special Situations PLC without able to nominate the underlying beneficial owners of losing any tax benefits.
Please note that during the their shares to receive information rights.
You should transfer your money will not be invested in the stock contact your registered shareholder direct to request to market so you may miss out on any growth during this receive your information rights.
beneficial owners of shares who have been nominated by the registered holder of those shares to receive Charges Fidelity does not apply an initial charge for a information rights under Section 146 of the Companies transfer into Fidelity China Special Situations PLC.
You Act 2006 are required to direct all communications to will also not have to pay any additional transfer costs.
the registered holder of their shares rather than to the However, please bear in mind that your current ISA Companys Registrars, Capita Registrars, or to the manager may ask you to pay an exit fee.
If your old fund Company direct.
provider charges you a fee for leaving them, you can claim it back from us.
Please note this offer does not apply to our share dealing service.
The annual management charge is as described above in the Investing inside an ISA section.
Page 62 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2011 Investing in Fidelity China Special Situations PLC INVESTING ONLINE Whilst you cannot use a Debit Card online to invest through an ISA or Share Plan the application forms you need are all available via www.
You can also invest online in Fidelity China Special Situations PLC shares via the share trading facility available via our website www.
The Share Dealing service, ShareNetwork, is provided by Xest which is the online trading division of Charles Stanley & Co Limited, a leading London stockbroker.
ShareNetwork enables you to buy or sell shares in any listed company during normal London Stock Exchange trading hours between 8am and 4.30pm any working day.
Shares in ShareNetwork can either be held direct or in an ISA, subject to the normal ISA limits and restrictions.
You will be shown a live price and be able to buy or sell immediately.
If an order is placed when the market is closed, it will be processed as soon as the market reopens.
Unlike many online share dealing services, Fidelity ShareNetwork gives you CREST personal membership for shares held direct.
This means that shares are registered on the CREST system in your own name and everything relating to your shares dividends, annual reports and so on will be sent direct to you and you will be able to attend and vote at shareholder meetings in your own name.
Personal CREST membership does not apply to ISA holdings which must be held in the name of the ISA managers nominee under ISA regulations.
There is no extra charge for opening a ShareNetwork ISA and share purchases or sales are executed on line for only 9 per trade Stamp duty is also payable on purchases at the rate of 0.5%.
There is an account administration fee of 5.10 per month regardless of how many different shares you own and whatever their value.
Of course, you need to remember that the value of tax savings and eligibility to invest in an ISA will depend on your individual circumstances, and all tax rules may change in the future.
The information on this page is provided by Fidelity and should not be seen as a recommendation by the Board of Fidelity China Special Situations PLC.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2011 Page 63 Other Investment Trusts managed by Fidelity FIDELITY ASIAN VALUES PLC Invests in equities primarily in South East Asia excluding Japan The portfolio is structured on a bottom-up basis, so stocks are selected on individual merit rather than purely by sector or market The manager focuses on companies with established market positions FIDELITY EUROPEAN VALUES PLC Invests in shares listed on Continental Europe stock markets The core of the portfolio is focused on stocks able to grow earnings faster than the market in the medium term The company also invests in small and emerging European markets FIDELITY JAPANESE VALUES PLC Invests mainly in small to medium sized companies The portfolio manager favours companies with superior mid to long term earnings growth The company invests across a wide range of industries and sectors FIDELITY SPECIAL VALUES PLC Invests primarily in small to medium sized UK companies Up to 20% can be invested in Europe and other markets The portfolio manager is a value investor, naturally seeking out stocks that are often unloved and unfashionable at the current time The value of investments can go down as well as up and you may not get back the amount you originally invest.
The eligibility to invest in an ISA depends on individual circumstances and all tax rules may change.
Overseas investments are subject to currency fluctuations and emerging markets may be more volatile than established markets.
If you are unsure about the suitability of an investment, please contact an adviser.
Page 64 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2011 FURTHER INFORMATION For application forms or more information about any of the investment options described here, please call the Fidelity Investment Trust Line on 0800 41 41 10 and talk to a Fidelity customer representative 9am to 6pm.
Alternatively, you may like to visit the Fidelity London Investor Centre at 25 Cannon Street, next to St Pauls Cathedral.
You can also find out more by visiting fidelity.
co. uk its or contacting your Financial Adviser.
The Fidelity Individual Savings Account ISA is offered and managed by Financial Administration Services Limited.
The Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan is managed by FIL Investments International.
Both companies are regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
The Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan is administered by BNP Paribas Securities Services and shares will be held in the name of Puddle Dock Nominees Limited.
The value of savings and eligibility to invest in an ISA will depend on individual circumstances and all tax rules may change in the future.
Fidelity investment trusts are managed by FIL Investments International with the exception of Fidelity China Special Situations PLC where FIL Investment Management Hong Kong Limited is the Investment Manager.
Fidelity only gives information about its own products and services and does not provide investment advice based on individual circumstances.
Should you wish to seek advice, please contact a Financial Adviser.
Please note that the value of investments and the income from them may fall as well as rise and the investor may not get back the amount originally invested.
Past performance is not a guide to future returns.
For funds that invest in overseas markets, changes in currency exchange rates may affect the value of your investment.
Investing in small and emerging markets can be more volatile than older developed markets.
Reference in this document to specific securities should not be construed as a recommendation to buy or sell these securities, but is included for the purposes of illustration only.
Investors should also note that the views expressed may no longer be current and may have already been acted upon by Fidelity.
The content of websites referenced in this document does not form part of this document.
Issued by Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Fidelity, Fidelity International and the Pyramid logo are trademarks of FIL Limited.
Printed on FSC certified paper.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
The FSC logo identifies products which contain wood from well managed forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
This document is printed on Cocoon Silk: a paper made using 50% recycled fibre from genuine waste paper and 50% virgin fibre.
The unavoidable carbon emissions generated during the manufacture and delivery of this document, have been reduced to net zero through a verified, carbon offsetting project.
