Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Fidelity 12.
THAT, subject to the passing of Resolution 11 set out above, the European Values PLC will be held at 25 Cannon Street, London Directors be and they are hereby authorised, pursuant to EC4M 5TA on 16 May 2012 at 12 noon for the following purposes: Sections 570 and 573 of the Act to allot equity securities as defined in Section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the ORDINARY BUSINESS authority given by the said Resolution 11 as if Section 561 of the 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors Report and Financial Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011. power shall be limited: 2.
a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue in favour of all holders of a class of relevant equity 3.
To re-elect Mr Humphrey van der Klugt as a Director.
securities where the equity securities attributable respectively to the interests of all holders of securities of such class are either 4.
To re-elect Mr James Robinson as a Director.
proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of relevant equity securities held by them or are otherwise 5.
To re-elect Mr Simon Duckworth as a Director.
allotted in accordance with the rights attaching to such equity securities subject in either case to such exclusions or other 6.
To re-elect Mr Simon Fraser as a Director.
arrangements as the Board may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal or practical 7.
To re-elect Dr Robin Niblett as a Director.
problems under the laws of, or the requirements of, any regulatory body or any stock exchange in any territory or 8.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year otherwise : ended 31 December 2011. b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to a rights issue of 9.
To reappoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as Auditor of the Company equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at 546,141 approximately 5% of the aggregate nominal amount which financial statements are laid before the Company.
of the issued share capital of the Company as at 6 March 2012 : and 10.
To authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors c to the allotment of equity securities at a price of not less than remuneration.
the net asset value per share SPECIAL BUSINESS and this power shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual Resolutions 11 and 12 will, if approved, authorise the Directors General Meeting of the Company or the date 15 months after to allot a limited number of the currently unissued ordinary the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, save that shares for cash without first offering such shares to existing this authority shall allow the Company to make offers or ordinary shareholders pro rata to their existing holdings.
The agreements before the expiry of this authority, and the Directors limit set by the Board is 5% of the number of ordinary shares of may allot equity securities in relation to such an offer or the Company in issue on 6 March 2012.
The Directors will only agreement as if the authority conferred by this resolution had issue new shares under this authority to take advantage of not expired.
opportunities in the market as they arise and only if they believe it is advantageous to the Companys shareholders to Resolution 13 is a special resolution which, if approved, will do so.
renew the Companys authority to purchase its shares for cancellation.
The limit set by the Board is 14.99% of the number To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions of ordinary shares in issue on 6 March 2012.
Purchases of which will be proposed, Resolution 11 as an ordinary resolution shares will be made at the discretion of the Board and within and Resolution 12 as a special resolution: guidelines set from time to time by the Board and in the light of prevailing market conditions.
THAT the Directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 of Purchases will only be made in the market at prices below the the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers prevailing net asset value per share, thereby resulting in an of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined in that increase in net asset value per share.
section up to an aggregate nominal amount of 546,141 approximately 5% of the aggregate nominal amount of the 13.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and issued share capital of the Company as at 6 March 2012 such unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 701 of authority to expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make market purchases Meeting of the Company or the date 15 months after the within the meaning of Section 693 of the Act of shares of 25p passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but so that each in the capital of the Company the shares provided this authority shall allow the Company to make offers or that: agreements before the expiry of this authority which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry a the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to be as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
purchased shall be 6,549,332: Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2011 51 Notice of Meeting b the minimum price which may be paid for a share is 25p: be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from c the maximum price which may be paid for a share is an which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message.
After amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market this time any change of instructions to a proxy appointed quotations for a share taken from the London Stock Exchange through CREST should be communicated to the proxy by other Official List for the five business days immediately preceding means.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored the day on which the share is purchased: members and those CREST Members who have appointed voting service provider s should contact their CREST sponsor d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of or voting service provider s for assistance with appointing the next Annual General Meeting of the Company unless such proxies via CREST.
For further information on CREST authority is renewed prior to such time: and procedures, limitations and systems timings please refer to the CREST Manual.
We may treat as invalid a proxy appointment e the Company may make a contract to purchase shares under sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
In authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after any case your proxy form must be received by the Companys the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of Registrars no later than 12 noon on 14 May 2012. shares pursuant to any such contract.
6 All members are entitled to attend and vote at the Annual By Order of the Board General Meeting and ask questions.
The right to vote at the FIL Investments International meeting will be determined by reference to the Register of Secretary Members as at 12 noon on 14 May 2012.
15 March 2012 7 Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person NOTES: nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to 1 A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under Annual General Meeting may appoint a proxy or proxies to an agreement between him and the member by whom he attend and to speak and vote instead of him.
A member may was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Annual someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
If a General Meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held does not wish to exercise it, he may, under any such by that member.
A proxy need not be a member of the agreement, have a right to give instructions to the member as Company.
to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of members in relation to the appointment of proxies in note 2 2 A Form of Proxy is enclosed and must be returned to the above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The right Registrars at the address on the form to arrive not later than described in that paragraph can only be exercised by 12 noon on 14 May 2012.
Completion and return of the form members of the Company.
of proxy will not prevent a shareholder from subsequently attending the meeting and voting in person if they so wish.
8 If the Chairman, as a result of any proxy appointments, is given discretion as to how the votes which are the subject of 3 To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy, and any those proxies are cast and the voting rights in respect of those power of attorney or other authority under which it is signed discretionary proxies, when added to the interests in the or a copy of any such authority certified notarially or in some Companys securities already held by the Chairman, result in other way approved by the Directors, must be deposited with the Chairman holding such number of voting rights that he has the Companys Registrars, Capita Registrars, PXS, The a notifiable obligation under the Disclosure and Transparency Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4BR not Rules, the Chairman will make the necessary notifications to less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting or the Company and the Financial Services Authority.
As a result, adjourned meeting or, in the case of a poll taken more than any member holding three per cent or more of the voting 48 hours after it is demanded, not less than 24 hours before rights in the Company who grants the Chairman a the time appointed for the taking of the poll at which it is to discretionary proxy in respect of some or all of those voting be used.
rights and so would otherwise have a notification obligation under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, need not make 4 In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior who tenders separate notification to the Company and the Financial the vote shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the Services Authority.
other joint holders and for this purpose, seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the 9 Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Register of Members.
Regulations 2001, the Company has specified that to be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting 5 To appoint a proxy or to give or amend an instruction to a and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they previously appointed proxy via the CREST system, the CREST may cast, members must be entered on the register of message must be received by the issuers agent RA10 by 12 members by 6.00pm on 14 May 2012.
If the meeting is noon on 14 May 2012.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will adjourned then, to be so entitled, members must be entered 52 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2011 Notice of Meeting on the register of members at 6.00pm on the day two days 15 No Director has a service contract with the Company.
before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting, or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at any other 16 A copy of this notice and other information required by time specified in that notice.
Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006 is published on the Companys website at www.
co. uk its 10 As at 6 March 2012 the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document the Companys issued share Registered Office: capital consisted of 43,691,341 ordinary shares carrying one Beech Gate, vote each.
Therefore, the total number of voting rights in the Millfield Lane, Company as at 6 March 2012 was 43,691,341.
Lower Kingswood, Tadworth, 11 Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more Surrey KT20 6RP corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
12 Shareholders and any proxies or representatives they appoint understand that by attending the meeting they are expressly agreeing that they are willing to receive any communications, including communications relating to the Companys securities, made at the meeting.
13 It is possible that, pursuant to requests made by members of the Company under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company may be required to publish on its website a statement setting out any matter relating to the audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting or any circumstance connected with an Auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which the annual report and financial statements were laid.
The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on its website.
14 Under Section 338 and Section 338A of the Companies Act 2006, members meeting the threshold requirements in those sections have the right to require the Company i to give, to members of the Company entitled to receive notice of the meeting, notice of a resolution which may properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the meeting: and or ii to include in the business to be dealt with at the meeting any matter other than a proposed resolution which may be properly included in such business.
A resolution may properly be moved or a matter may properly be included in the business of the meeting unless a in the case of a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution or otherwise, b it is defamatory of any person, or c it is frivolous or vexatious.
Such a request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, must identify the resolution of which notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business of the meeting, must be authorised by the person or persons making it, must be received by the Company not later than 23 March 2011, being the date six clear weeks before the meeting, and in the case of a matter to be included in the business of the meeting only must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2011 53 Investing in Fidelity European Values PLC The Manager of the Company FIL Investments International offers a range of options, so that you can invest in the way that is best for you.
As Fidelity European Values PLC is a company listed on the London Stock Exchange you can also buy its shares through a stockbroker, share shop or bank.
INVESTING INSIDE AN ISA Charges There are no charges for buying, selling or holding You may invest in the Companys shares through the Fidelity ISA shares through the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan other than Individual Savings Account.
A Fidelity ISA can be an excellent stamp duty of 0.5%, which is currently payable on all share way to get more from your investment, because you will not have purchases.
However, if you invest through a Financial Adviser, there to pay income or capital gains tax on your returns.
may be an initial charge of up to 3%.
BENEFICIAL OWNERS OF SHARES INFORMATION RIGHTS The maximum investment in a stocks and shares ISA is 10,680 for the 2011 2012 tax year and for 2012 2013 the new allowance is Registered shareholders of fully listed companies are able to 11,280.
The full amount may be invested in a Stocks and Shares nominate the underlying beneficial owners of their shares to ISA, or you can invest up to half the ISA allowance in a Cash ISA receive information rights.
You should contact your registered and the balance in a Stocks and Shares ISA.
The minimum shareholder direct to request to receive your information rights.
investment per fund in the Fidelity ISA is 1,000 as a lump sum, Please note that beneficial owners of shares who have been 250 as a top-up, or 50 a month per company in a regular nominated by the registered holder of those shares to receive savings plan.
information rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 are required to direct all communications to the registered holder Charges The standard initial charge for the Fidelity ISA is 3.5% of their shares rather than to the Companys Registrars, Capita but if you use the online application form you will pay just the Registrars, or to the Company direct.
Fidelity pays stamp duty from the initial charge.
There may be an additional annual charge of 0.5% when The Manager of the Company FIL Investments International you invest through a Financial Adviser.
There are no other charges offers a range of options, so that you can invest in the way that is for the Fidelity ISA, but the Company pays an annual management best for you.
charge to Fidelity of 0.85% plus a performance related fee where INVESTING ONLINE applicable, as set out in the annual report.
Whilst you cannot use a Debit Card online to buy an ISA or Share MOVING MONEY FROM A PREVIOUS ISA Plan the application forms you need are all available via If you have opened ISAs with other investment companies, you can www.
You can also invest online in Fidelity move them into the Fidelity ISA and invest in Fidelity European European Values PLC shares via the share trading facility available Values PLC without losing any tax benefits.
Please note that during via our website www.
The Share the transfer your money will not be invested in the stock market so Dealing service, ShareNetwork, is provided by Xest which is the you may miss out on any growth during this time.
online trading division of Charles Stanley & Co Limited, a leading London stockbroker.
ShareNetwork enables you to buy or sell Charges Fidelity does not apply an initial charge for a transfer shares in any listed company during normal London Stock into Fidelity European Values PLC.
You will also not have to pay Exchange trading hours between 8am and 4.30pm any working any additional transfer costs.
However, please bear in mind that day.
Shares in ShareNetwork can either be held direct or in an ISA, your current ISA manager may ask you to pay an exit fee.
If your subject to the normal ISA limits and restrictions.
You will be shown old fund provider charges you a fee for leaving them, you can a live price and be able to buy or sell immediately.
If an order is claim it back from us.
Please note this offer does not apply to our placed when the market is closed, it will be processed as soon as share dealing service.
Unlike many online share dealing services, Fidelity ShareNetwork gives you CREST personal membership for INVESTING OUTSIDE AN ISA shares held direct.
This means that shares are registered on the If you prefer to invest outside an ISA, or have already used your full CREST system in your own name and everything relating to your ISA allowance, the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan offers you a shares dividends, annual reports and so on will be sent direct low cost and convenient way to put money into Fidelity European to you and you will be able to attend and vote at shareholder Values PLC.
The minimum investment is 1,000 as a lump sum, meetings in your own name.
250 as a top-up or 50 a month through a regular savings plan.
Holding shares within the Share Plan allows you to reinvest your Personal CREST membership does not apply to ISA holdings which dividends and make further investments without having to pay must be held in the name of the ISA managers nominee under ISA brokerage fees.
You will also be able to set up a monthly savings regulations.
plan and receive statements and valuations twice a year.
There is no extra charge for opening a ShareNetwork ISA and share purchases or sales are executed on line for only 9 per Investing for children the Share Plan is a flexible and trade Stamp duty is also payable on purchases at the rate of inexpensive way to invest on behalf of children.
There is an account administration fee of 5.10 per month, is enter the initials or name of the child in the Designation Box on however many different shares you own and whatever their value.
the Share Plan application form.
Of course, you need to remember that the value of tax savings and eligibility to invest in an ISA will depend on your individual circumstances, and all tax rules may change in the future.
54 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2011 Investing in Fidelity European Values PLC CONTACT INFORMATION To make use of any of these facilities, please log on to the Capita Private investors: call free to 0800 41 41 10, 9am to 6pm, Monday Registrars website at: www.
Should you have any queries in respect of the above facilities, Financial advisers: call free to 0800 41 41 81, 8am to 6pm, please do not hesitate to contact the Capita Share Portal helpline Monday to Friday.
on 0871 664 0391 calls cost 10p plus network extras, overseas www.
co. uk its 44 20 8639 3367, or by e-mail at shareportal@capita.
co. uk Existing shareholders who have a specific query regarding their Capita Share Dealing Services holding or need to provide updated information, for example a You can make use of a low cost share dealing service provided by change of address, should contact the appropriate administrator: Capita Registrars to buy or sell shares.
Further information is available at www.
com, or by telephoning 0871 664 Holders of ordinary shares 0454 calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras.
Lines are Capita Registrars, Registrars to Fidelity European Values PLC, The open 8.30am 5.30pm Monday to Friday.
Using Capita Share Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4BR.
Dealing Services you will also be able to deal in the shares of Telephone: 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10p per minute plus network other companies for which Capita acts as Registrar, provided you extras.
Lines are open 8.30am 5.30pm Monday to Friday email: are already a shareholder in the relevant company, and that ssd@capitaregistrars.
com company offers the Share Deal facility to its shareholders.
Details of individual shareholdings and other information can also Dividend Reinvestment Plan be obtained from the Registrars website: This is a convenient way to build up your shareholding by using www.
com your cash dividends to buy more shares in the Company.
If you prefer to receive shares for your next dividend instead of cash, Fidelity Share Plan investors please complete an application form online at Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan, Block C, Western House, www.
com or call Capita IRG Trustees on 0871 Lynchwood Business Park, Peterborough, PE2 6BP.
Telephone: 0845 644 0381 calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras from the 358 1107 calls to this number are charged at 3.95p per minute UK or 44 20 8639 3402 from overseas.
from a BT landline dependent on the tariff.
Other telephone service providers costs may vary.
ShareGift You may donate your shares to charity free of charge through Fidelity ISA investors ShareGift.
Further details are available at www.
uk or Fidelity, using the freephone numbers given above, or by writing to: by telephoning 020 7930 3737.
UK Customer Service, Fidelity Worldwide Investment, Oakhill House, 130 Tonbridge Road, Hildenborough, Tonbridge, Kent TN11 KEEPING YOU UPDATED 9DZ If you hold Fidelity European Values PLC shares in an ISA, you will receive a yearly report detailing all of your transactions and the General enquiries should be made to the Secretary, at the value of your shares.
Investors with the Fidelity Investment Trust Companys registered office: FIL Investments International Share Plan will receive statements and valuations twice a year.
Investment Trusts, Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, Lower Kingswood, Tadworth, Surrey KT20 6RP Telephone: 01732 361144.
Fax: 01737 The share price of Fidelity European Values PLC appears daily in 836 892 www.
co. uk its The Financial Times.
Price and performance information is also available at fidelity.
co. uk its ONLINE SHAREHOLDER SERVICES SHARE PORTAL Through the website of our Registrars, Capita Registrars, You can also obtain current price information by telephoning shareholders are able to manage their shareholding online by Fidelity on 0800 41 41 10 freephone or FT Cityline on 0905 817 registering for the Share Portal, a free, secure, online access to 1690 voice activated service calls charged at 60p per minute on your shareholding.
Facilities include: a per second basis from a BT landline.
Charges from other telephone networks may vary.
Account Enquiry Allows shareholders to access their personal shareholding, including share transaction history, dividend payment history and to obtain an up-to-date shareholding valuation: Amendment of Standing Data Allows shareholders to change their registered postal address and add, change or delete dividend mandate instructions.
Shareholders can also download from this site forms such as change of address, stock transfer and dividend mandate forms as well as buy and sell shares in the Company.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2011 55 Investing in Fidelity European Values PLC FURTHER INFORMATION For application forms or more information about any of the investment options described here, please call the Fidelity Investment Trust Line on 0800 41 41 10 and talk to a Fidelity customer representative 9am to 6pm Monday to Saturday.
Alternatively, you may like to visit the Fidelity London Investor Centre at 25 Cannon Street, next to St Pauls Cathedral.
You can also find out more by visiting fidelity.
co. uk its or contacting your Financial Adviser.
The Fidelity Individual Savings Account ISA is offered and managed by Financial Administration Services Limited.
The Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan is managed by FIL Investments International.
Both companies are regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
The Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan is administered by BNP Paribas Securities Services and shares will be held in the name of Puddle Dock Nominees Limited.
The value of savings and eligibility to invest in an ISA will depend on individual circumstances and all tax rules may change in the future.
Fidelity investment trusts are managed by FIL Investments International.
Fidelity only gives information about its own products and services and does not provide investment advice based on individual circumstances.
Should you wish to seek advice, please contact a Financial Adviser.
Please note that the value of investments and the income from them may fall as well as rise and the investor may not get back the amount originally invested.
Past performance is not a guide to future returns.
For funds that invest in overseas markets, changes in currency exchange rates may affect the value of your investment.
Investing in small and emerging markets can be more volatile than older developed markets.
Reference in this document to specific securities should not be construed as a recommendation to buy or sell these securities, but is included for the purposes of illustration only.
Investors should also note that the views expressed may no longer be current and may have already been acted upon by Fidelity.
Issued by Fidelity European Values PLC Fidelity, Fidelity Worldwide Investment, the Fidelity Worldwide Investment logo and F symbol are trademarks of FIL Limited.
The contents of websites referred to in this document do not form part of the Annual Report.
56 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2011 Contents Warning to Shareholders Objective and Highlights 1 Financial Summary 2 BOILER ROOM SCAMS Chairmans Statement 3 Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders, offering to sell them what often turn Managers Review 5 out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
These operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
These brokers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive and a 2006 survey by the Financial Services Authority FSA reported that the Ten Largest Investments 7 average amount lost by investors is around 20,000.
It is not just the novice investor that has been duped in this way: many of the victims had been successfully investing for several years.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to Distribution of the Portfolio 8 buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
Summary of Performance 10 If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Board of Directors and Corporate Information 13 Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation Directors Report 14 Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved by visiting www.
uk register Business Review 14 General 17 Report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0845 606 1234 or visiting www.
uk Statement of Directors Responsibilities 21 If the calls persist, hang up.
Corporate Governance Statement 22 Directors Remuneration Report 28 If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
Financial Calendar 29 The FSA can be contacted by completing an online form at Independent Auditors Report 30 www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts overseas.
html Financial Statements 31 Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in Company mailings.
Full Portfolio Listing 49 More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the FSA website Notice of Meeting 51 www.
uk Investing in Fidelity European Values PLC 55 Investment Trusts Managed by Fidelity Worldwide Investment Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report For the year ended 31 December 2011 Fidelity, Fidelity Worldwide Investment, the Fidelity Worldwide Investment logo and F symbol are trademarks of FIL Limited Printed on FSC certified paper.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
The FSC logo identifies products which contain wood from well managed forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
This document is printed on Cocoon Silk: a paper made using 50% recycled fibre from genuine waste paper and 50% virgin fibre.
The unavoidable carbon emissions generated during the manufacture and delivery of this document, have been reduced to net zero through a verified, carbon offsetting project.
