Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and Under applicable law and regulations the Directors are also financial statements in accordance with applicable law and responsible for preparing a Directors Report, including a Business regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Review, a Directors Remuneration Report and a Corporate financial statements for each financial period.
Under that law they Governance Statement that comply with that law and those have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys pages of the Managers website www.
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair Visitors to the website need to be aware that legislation in the view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of for the period.
the financial statements may differ from legislation in their own jurisdictions.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: We confirm that to the best of our knowledge the financial select suitable accounting policies and then apply them statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of consistently: accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company: and the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and prudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been performance of the business and the position of the Company followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties it explained in the financial statements: and faces.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will Approved by the Board on 6 March 2012 and signed on its behalf.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that adequate accounting records are kept which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding Humphrey van der Klugt the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps Chairman for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
6 March 2012 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2011 21
