Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Fidelity might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry Special Values PLC will be held at 25 Cannon Street, London EC4M as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
5TA on 15 December 2011 at 11.00am for the following purposes: 13.
THAT, subject to the passing of Resolution 12 set out above, the ORDINARY BUSINESS Directors be and they are hereby authorised, pursuant to 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors Report and financial Sections 570-573 of the Act to allot equity securities as defined statements for the year ended 31 August 2011. in Section 560 of the Act pursuant to the authority given by the said Resolution 12 as if Section 561 of the Act did not apply to 2.
any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited: 3.
To re-elect Ms Lynn Ruddick as a Director.
a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue in favour of all holders of a class of relevant equity 4.
To re-elect Mr Ben Thomson as a Director.
securities where the equity securities attributable respectively to the interests of all holders of securities of such class are either 5.
To re-elect Mrs Sharon Brown as a Director.
proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of relevant equity securities held by them or are otherwise 6.
To re-elect Mr Douglas Kinloch Anderson as a Director.
allotted in accordance with the rights attaching to such equity securities subject in either case to such exclusions or other 7.
To re-elect Mr Andrew Irvine as a Director.
arrangements as the Board may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal or practical 8.
To re-elect Ms Nicky McCabe as a Director.
problems under the laws of, or the requirements of, any regulatory body or any stock exchange in any territory or 9.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year otherwise : and ended 31 August 2011. b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to a rights issue of 10.
To reappoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as Auditor of the Company equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at 1,405,472 approximately 10% of the aggregate nominal which financial statements are laid before the Company.
amount of the issued share capital of the Company as at 4 November 2011 : and 11.
To authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors remuneration.
c to the allotment of equity securities at a price of not less than the net asset value per share SPECIAL BUSINESS Resolutions 12 and 13 will, if approved, authorise the Directors and this power shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual to allot a limited number of the currently unissued ordinary General Meeting of the Company or the date 15 months after shares for cash without first offering such shares to existing the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, save that ordinary shareholders pro rata to their existing holdings.
The this authority shall allow the Company to make offers or limit set by the Board is 10% of the number of ordinary shares of agreements before the expiry of this authority, and the Directors the Company in issue on 4 November 2011.
The Directors will may allot equity securities in relation to such an offer or only issue new shares under this authority to take advantage of agreement as if the authority conferred by this Resolution had opportunities in the market as they arise and only if they not expired.
believe it is advantageous to the Companys shareholders to do so.
Resolution 14 is a special resolution which, if approved, will renew the Companys authority to purchase up to 14.99% of the To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following Resolutions number of ordinary shares in issue on 4 November 2011 for which will be proposed, Resolution 12 as an ordinary resolution cancellation.
Purchases of ordinary shares will be at the and Resolution 13 as a special resolution: discretion of the Board and within guidelines set from time to time by the Board in the light of prevailing market conditions.
THAT the Directors be and they are hereby generally and Purchases will only be made in the market at prices below the unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 of prevailing net asset value per share, thereby resulting in an the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers increased net asset value per share.
of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined in that section up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,405,472 14.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and approximately 10% of the aggregate nominal amount of the unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 693 of issued share capital of the Company as at 4 November 2011 the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make market purchases such authority to expire at the conclusion of the next Annual within the meaning of Section 693 of the Act of shares of 25p General Meeting of the Company or the date 15 months after each in the capital of the Company the shares provided the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but so that: that this authority shall allow the Company to make offers or a the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to be agreements before the expiry of this authority which would or purchased shall be 8,427,212: Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2011 53 Notice of Meeting b the minimum price which may be paid for a share is 25p: c the maximum price which may be paid for a share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for a share taken from the London Stock Exchange Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is purchased: d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: and e the Company may make a contract to purchase shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of shares pursuant to any such contract.
By order of the Board FIL Investments International Secretary 11 November 2011 Registered office: Beech Gate Millfield Lane Lower Kingswood Tadworth Surrey KT20 6RP Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2011 54 Notes to Notice of Meeting 1.
A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the 7.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person Annual General Meeting may appoint a proxy or proxies to nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to attend and to speak and vote instead of him.
A member may enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Annual an agreement between him and the member by whom he General Meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
A proxy need not be a member of the Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or Company.
does not wish to exercise it, he may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the member as 2.
A Form of Proxy is enclosed and must be returned to the to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of members in relation to the appointment of proxies in Registrars at the address on the form to arrive not later than 11.00am on 13 December 2011.
Completion and return of the paragraph 1 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
form of proxy will not prevent a shareholder from The right described in that paragraph can only be exercised subsequently attending the meeting and voting in person if by members of the Company.
If the Chairman, as a result of any proxy appointments, is 3.
To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy, and any given discretion as to how the votes which are the subject of power of attorney or other authority under which it is signed those proxies are cast and the voting rights in respect of those or a copy of any such authority certified notarially or in some discretionary proxies, when added to the interests in the other way approved by the Directors, must be deposited with Companys securities already held by the Chairman, result in the Chairman holding such number of voting rights that he has the Companys Registrars, Capita Registrars, P O Box 25, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4BR not less than 48 hours before the a notifiable obligation under the Disclosure and Transparency time for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting or, in the Rules, the Chairman will make the necessary notifications to case of a poll taken more than 48 hours after it is demanded, the Company and the Financial Services Authority.
As a result, not less than 24 hours before the time appointed for the any member holding 3 per cent or more of the voting rights in the Company who grants the Chairman a discretionary proxy taking of the poll at which it is to be used.
in respect of some or all of those voting rights and so would 4.
In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior who tenders otherwise have a notification obligation under the Disclosure the vote shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the and Transparency Rules, need not make separate notification other joint holders and for this purpose, seniority shall be to the Company and the Financial Services Authority.
determined by the order in which the names stand in the 9.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Register of Members.
Regulations 2001, the Company has specified that to be 5.
To appoint a proxy or to give or amend an instruction to a entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting previously appointed proxy via the CREST system, the CREST and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they message must be received by the issuers agent RA10 by may cast, members must be entered on the Register of Members by 6.00pm on 13 December 2011.
If the meeting is 11.00am on 13 December 2011.
For this purpose, the time of adjourned then, to be so entitled, members must be entered receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications on the Register of Members at 6.00pm on the day two days Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting, or, if the message.
After this time any change of instructions to a proxy Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at any other time specified in that notice.
appointed through CREST should be communicated to the proxy by other means.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members and those CREST Members who 10.
As at 4 November 2011 the latest practicable date prior to have appointed voting service provider s should contact their the publication of this document the Companys issued CREST sponsor or voting service provider s for assistance with ordinary share capital consisted of 56,218,896 ordinary shares carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total number of voting appointing proxies via CREST.
For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and systems timings please rights in the Company as at 4 November 2011 was refer to the CREST Manual.
We may treat as invalid a proxy 56,218,896. appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 11.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more 2001.
In any case your proxy form must be received by the corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all Companys Registrars no later than 11.00am on 13 December of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in 2011. relation to the same shares.
All members are entitled to attend and vote at the Annual 12.
Shareholders and any proxies or representatives they appoint General Meeting and ask questions.
The right to vote at the understand that by attending the meeting that they are meeting will be determined by reference to the Register of expressly agreeing that they are willing to receive any Members as at 11.00am on 13 December 2011. communications, including communications relating to the Companys securities, made at the meeting.
Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2011 55 Notes to Notice of Meeting 13.
It is possible that, pursuant to requests made by members of the Company under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company may be required to publish on its website a statement setting out any matter relating to the audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting or any circumstance connected with an Auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual reports and financial statements were laid.
The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on its website.
Under Sections 338 and 338A of the Companies Act 2006, members meeting the threshold requirements in those sections have the right to require the Company i to give, to members of the Company entitled to receive notice of the meeting, notice of a resolution which may properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the meeting: and or ii to include in the business to be dealt with at the meeting any matter other than a proposed resolution which may be properly included in such business.
A resolution may properly be moved or a matter may properly be included in the business of the meeting unless a in the case of a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution or otherwise, b it is defamatory of any person, or c it is frivolous or vexatious.
Such a request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, must identify the resolution of which notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business of the meeting, must be authorised by the person or persons making it, must be received by the Company not later than 1 November 2011, being the date six clear weeks before the meeting, and in the case of a matter to be included in the business of the meeting only must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request.
No Director has a service contract with the Company.
A copy of this notice and other information required by Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006 is published on the Companys website at www.
co. uk its Registered office: Beech Gate Millfield Lane Lower Kingswood Tadworth Surrey KT20 6RP Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2011 56 Investing in Fidelity Special Values PLC The Manager of the Company FIL Investments International offers a range of options, so that you can invest in the way that is best for you.
As Fidelity Special Values PLC is a company listed on the London Stock Exchange you can also buy its shares through a stockbroker, share shop or bank.
INVESTING INSIDE AN ISA purchases.
However, if you invest through a Financial Adviser, there You may invest in the Companys shares through the Fidelity ISA may be an initial charge of up to 3%.
A Fidelity ISA can be an excellent way to get more from your investment, because you will not have BENEFICIAL OWNERS OF SHARES INFORMATION RIGHTS to pay income or capital gains tax on your returns.
Registered shareholders of fully listed companies are able to nominate the underlying beneficial owners of their shares to The maximum investment in a stocks and shares ISA is 10,680 for receive information rights.
You should contact your registered the 2011 2012 tax year.
The full amount maybe invested in a shareholder direct to request to receive information rights.
Please Stocks and Shares ISA, or you can invest up to half the ISA note that beneficial owners of shares who have been nominated allowance in a Cash ISA and the balance in a Stocks and Shares by the registered holder of those shares to receive information ISA.
The minimum investment in the Fidelity ISA is 1,000 as a lump rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 are required sum, 250 as a top-up or 50 a month per company in a regular to direct all communications to the registered holder of their shares savings plan.
rather than to the Companys Registrars, Capita Registrars, or to Charges The standard initial charge for the Fidelity ISA is 3.5% the Company direct.
but if you download the online application form you will pay just 1.25% initial charge.
The initial charge for investments through a INVESTING ONLINE Financial Adviser will be up to 3.5%.
Fidelity pays stamp duty from Whilst you cannot use a Debit Card online to buy an ISA or Share the initial charge.
There are no other charges for the Fidelity ISA Plan the application forms you need are all available via but the Company pays an annual management charge to Fidelity www.
You can also invest online in Fidelity Special of 0.875% as set out in the annual report.
Values PLC shares via the share trading facility available via our website www.
The Share Dealing MOVING MONEY FROM A PREVIOUS ISA service, ShareNetwork, is provided by Xest which is the online If you have opened ISAs with other investment companies, you can trading division of Charles Stanley & Co Limited, a leading London move them into the Fidelity ISA and invest in Fidelity Special Values stockbroker.
ShareNetwork enables you to buy or sell shares in any PLC without losing any tax benefits.
Please note that during the listed company during normal London Stock Exchange trading transfer your money will not be invested in the stock market so you hours between 8 am and 4.30 pm any working day.
Shares in may miss out on any growth during this time.
ShareNetwork can either be held direct or in an ISA, subject to the normal ISA limits and restrictions.
You will be shown alive price Charges Fidelity does not apply an initial charge for a transfer into and be able to buy or sell immediately.
If an order is placed when Fidelity Special Values PLC.
You will also not have to pay any the market is closed, it will be processed as soon as the market additional transfer costs.
However, please bear in mind that your reopens.
Unlike many online share dealing services, Fidelity current ISA manager may ask you to pay an exit fee.
If your old ShareNetwork gives you CREST personal membership for shares fund provider charges you a fee for leaving them, you can claim it held direct.
This means that shares are registered on the CREST back from Fidelity.
Please note this offer does not apply to Fidelitys system in your own name and everything relating to your shares share dealing service.
dividends, annual reports and so on will be sent direct to you and you will be able to attend and vote at shareholder meetings INVESTING OUTSIDE AN ISA in your own name.
If you prefer to invest outside an ISA, or have already used your full ISA allowance, the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan offers you a Personal CREST membership does not apply to ISA holdings which low-cost and convenient way to put money into Fidelity Special must be held in the name of the ISA managers nominee under ISA Values PLC.
The minimum investment is 1,000 as a lump sum, regulations.
There is no extra charge for opening a ShareNetwork 250 as a top-up or 50 a month through in a regular savings ISA and share purchases or sales are executed on line for only 9 plan.
Holding shares within the Share Plan allows you to reinvest per trade Stamp duty is also payable on purchases at the rate of your dividends and make further investments without having to pay 0.5%.
There is an account administration fee of 5.10 per month, brokerage fees.
You will also be able to set up a monthly savings regardless of how many different shares you own and whatever plan and receive statements and valuations twice a year.
Of course, you need to remember that the value of tax savings and eligibility to invest in an ISA will depend on your Investing for children the Share Plan is a flexible and individual circumstances, and all tax rules may change in the future.
inexpensive way to invest on behalf of children.
All you need to do is enter the initials or name of the child in the Designation Box on CONTACT INFORMATION the Share Plan application form.
Private investors: call free to 0800 41 41 10, 9am to 6pm, Monday to Saturday.
Charges There are no charges for buying, selling or holding Financial advisers: call free to 0800 41 41 81, 8am to 6pm, shares through the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan other than Monday to Friday.
stamp duty of 0.5%, which is currently payable on all share www.
co. uk its Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2011 57 Investing in Fidelity Special Values PLC Existing shareholders who have a specific query regarding their Capita Share Dealing Services holding or need to provide updated information, for example a You can make use of a low cost share dealing service provided by change of address, should contact the appropriate administrator: Capita Registrars to buy or sell shares.
Further information is available at www.
com, or by telephoning 0871 664 Holders of ordinary shares 0454 calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras.
Lines are Capita Registrars, Registrars to Fidelity Special Values PLC, The open 8.30 am 5.30 pm Monday to Friday.
Using Capita Share Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4BR.
Dealing Services you will also be able to deal in the shares of Telephone: 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10p per minute plus network other companies for which Capita acts as Registrar, provided you extras.
Lines are open 8.30am 5.30pm Monday to Friday are already a shareholder in the relevant company, and that email:ssd@capitaregistrars.
com company offers the Share Deal facility to its shareholders.
Details of individual shareholdings and other information can also be obtained from the Registrars website: Dividend Reinvestment Plan www.
com This is a convenient way to build up your shareholding by using your cash dividends to buy more shares in the Company.
If you Fidelity Share Plan investors prefer to receive shares for your next dividend instead of cash Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan, Block C, Western House, please complete an application form online at Lynchwood Business Park, Peterborough, PE2 6BP.
com or call Capita IRG Trustees on 0871 Telephone: 0845 358 1107 calls to this number are charged at 644 0381 calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras from the 3.95p per minute from a BT landline dependent on the tariff.
telephone service providers costs may vary.
ShareGift Fidelity ISA investors You may donate your shares to charity free of charge through Fidelity, using the freephone numbers given on page 57, or by ShareGift.
Further details are available at www.
uk or writing to: UK Customer Service, Fidelity Worldwide Investment, by telephoning 020 7930 3737.
Oakhill House, 130 Tonbridge Road, Hildenborough, Tonbridge, Kent TN11 9DZ.
KEEPING YOU UPDATED If you hold Fidelity Special Values PLC shares in an ISA, you will General enquiries should be made to Fidelity, the Investment receive a yearly report detailing all of your transactions and the Manager and Secretary, at the Companys registered office: FIL value of your shares.
Investors with the Fidelity Investment Trust Investments International Investment Trusts, Beech Gate, Millfield Share Plan will receive statements and valuations twice a year.
The Lane, Lower Kingswood, Tadworth, Surrey KT20 6RP.
share price of Fidelity Special Values PLC appears daily in The Telephone: 01732 361144.
Price and performance information is also Fax: 01737 836 892 available at fidelity.
co. uk its You can also obtain current price information by telephoning ONLINE SHAREHOLDER SERVICES SHARE PORTAL Fidelity on 0800 41 41 10 freephone or FT Cityline on 0905 817 Through the website of our Registrars, Capita Registrars, 1690 voice activated service calls charged at 60p per minute on shareholders are able to manage their shareholding online by a per second basis from a BT landline.
Charges from other registering for the Share Portal, a free, secure, online access to telephone networks may vary.
Facilities include: Account Enquiry Allows shareholders to access their personal shareholding, including share transaction history, dividend payment history and to obtain an up-to-date shareholding valuation: Amendment of Standing Data Allows shareholders to change their registered postal address and add, change or delete dividend mandate instructions.
Shareholders can also download from this site forms such as change of address, stock transfer and dividend mandate forms as well as buy and sell shares in the Company.
To make use of any of these facilities, please log on to the Capita Registrars website at: www.
com Should you have any queries in respect of the above facilities, please do not hesitate to contact the Capita Share Portal helpline on 0871 664 0391 calls cost 10p plus network extras, overseas 44 20 8639 3367, or by e-mail at shareportal@capita.
co. uk Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2011 58 Investing in Fidelity Special Values PLC FURTHER INFORMATION For application forms or more information about any of the investment options described here, please call the Fidelity Investment Trust Line on 0800 41 41 10 and talk to a Fidelity customer representative 9am to 6pm Monday - Saturday.
Alternatively, you may like to visit the Fidelity London Investor Centre at 25 Cannon Street, London near St Pauls Cathedral.
You can also find out more by visiting fidelity.
co. uk its or contacting your Financial Adviser.
The Fidelity Individual Savings Account ISA is offered and managed by Financial Administration Services Limited.
The Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan is managed by FIL Investments International.
Both companies are authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
The Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan is administered by BNP Paribas Securities Services and shares will be held in the name of Puddle Dock Nominees Limited.
The value of savings and eligibility to invest in an ISA will depend on individual circumstances and all tax rules may change in the future.
Fidelity investment trusts are managed by FIL Investments International.
Fidelity only gives information about its own products and services and does not provide investment advice based on individual circumstances.
Should you wish to seek advice, please contact a Financial Adviser.
Issued by Fidelity Special Values PLC.
Please note that the value of investments and the income from them may fall as well as rise and the investor may not get back the amount originally invested.
Past performance is not a guide to future returns.
For funds that invest in overseas markets, changes in currency exchange rates may affect the value of your investment.
Investing in small and emerging markets can be more volatile than other more developed markets.
Reference in this document to specific securities should not be construed as a recommendation to buy or sell these securities, but is included for the purposes of illustration only.
Investors should also note that the views expressed may no longer be current and may already have been acted upon by Fidelity.
Fidelity, Fidelity Worldwide Investment, the Fidelity Worldwide Investment logo and F symbol are trademarks of FIL Limited The contents of websites referred to in this document do not form part of the annual report.
Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2011 59 Glossary of Terms BENCHMARK - Contracts For Difference valued as the difference between the FTSE All-Share Index against which the performance of the settlement price and the value of the underlying shares in the Company is measured contract unrealised gains or losses CAPITAL GAINS TAX CGT FUTURE OR FUTURE CONTRACT Capital gains tax is the tax which you may have to pay if you sell An agreement to buy or sell a fixed amount of an asset at a fixed your shares at a profit future date and a fixed price COLLATERAL GEARING OR GEARING EXPOSURE Asset provided as security for the unrealised gain or loss under a Gearing or gearing exposure describes the level of a Companys Contract For Difference debt and is usually expressed as a percentage.
It can be through the use of bank loans, bank overdrafts or Contracts For Difference CONTRACT FOR DIFFERENCE CFD in order to increase a Companys exposure to stocks.
Borrowing is A contract between an investor and an investment house at the permitted to buy or gain exposure to further investments.
If assets end of which the parties exchange the difference between the rise in value, gearing magnifies the return to ordinary opening price and the closing price of the underlying asset of the shareholders.
Correspondingly, if the assets fall in value, gearing specified financial instrument.
It does not involve buying or selling magnifies the fall.
The gearing percentage reflects the amount of the underlying asset, only agreeing to receive or pay the borrowings the Company uses to invest in the market.
Contracts movement in its share price.
A Contract For Difference allows the For Difference are used as a way of gaining exposure to the price investor to gain access to the movement in the share price by movements of shares without buying the underlying shares directly depositing a small amount of cash known as margin.
The investor may reason that the asset price will rise, by buying long GEARING RATIO position or fall, by selling short position.
If the investor trades In a simple example, if a company has 100 million of net assets long, dividends are received and interest is paid.
If the investor and 8 million of borrowings either via bank loans or long trades short, dividends are paid and interest is received Contracts For Difference then the shareholders funds are 8% geared gearing ratio is stated as 108%.
Normally, the higher the CORPORATION TAX gearing factor, the more sensitive an investment trusts shares will The tax the Company may have to pay on its profits for a year.
be to the movements up and down in the value of the investment Investment trust companies are exempt from corporation tax on portfolio their capital gains and do not pay tax on any UK dividends.
As they can offset expenses against any taxable income, most HEDGING investment trusts do not pay corporation tax and are therefore tax A strategy aimed at minimising or eliminating the risk or loss efficient through adverse movements, normally involving positions in two different markets, with one offsetting the other.
The Company uses DERIVATIVES derivative instruments for gearing and investment rather than Financial instruments such as futures, options and Contracts For hedging purposes Difference whose value is derived from the value of an underlying asset NET ASSET VALUE NAV Net asset value is sometimes also described as shareholders DISCOUNT funds, and represents the total value of the Companys assets less If the share price of the Company is lower than the net asset the total value of its liabilities.
For valuation purposes it is common value per share, the Company is said to be trading at a discount.
to express the net asset value on a per share basis The discount is shown as a percentage of the net asset value.
The opposite of a discount is a premium.
It is more common for an OPTIONS investment trust to trade at a discount than a premium Options call or put are used to gain or reduce exposure to the underlying asset on a conditional basis, for example, the purchase EXPOSURE of a call option provides exposure to the upside potential of an The total of fixed asset of investments, futures and options at fair underlying stock, with the downside risk being limited to the value plus the fair value of the underlying securities within the premium paid Contracts For D ifference PRE-EMPTION RIGHTS FAIR VALUE Section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 provides that a company The fair value is the best estimate of the value of the investments, offering a new issue of shares must first make an offer of these including derivatives, at a point in time and this is measured as: shares, on the same or more favourable terms, in proportion to the - Listed and AIM quoted investments valued at bid prices, or last nominal value held by existing shareholders.
At each annual price, where available otherwise at published price quotations general meeting, the Board seeks shareholder approval to - Unlisted investments valued using an appropriate valuation disapply pre-emption right provisions technique in the absence of an active market - Options valued at the quoted trade price for the contract Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2011 60 Glossary of Terms PREMIUM If the share price of the Company is higher then the net asset value per share, the Company is said to be trading at a premium.
The premium is shown as a percentage of the net asset value.
The opposite of a premium is a discount RETURN The return generated in the period from the investments: Income Return reflects the dividends and interest from investments and other income net of expenses, finance costs and taxation.
Capital Return reflects the return on capital, excluding any income returns.
Total Return reflects the aggregate of capital and income returns in the period.
The net asset value total return reflects capital changes in the net asset value and dividends paid in the period SHARE REPURCHASES An increasingly popular way for investment trust companies to return cash to their shareholders is through offering to repurchase a proportion of shares currently held.
Companies seek the permission of shareholders to do so at their annual general meetings allowing them to repurchase a proportion of their total shares up to 15%.
This process is also used to reduce the discount to net asset value, by reducing the number of shares in issue and thereby increasing the net asset value per share for remaining shareholders TOTAL EXPENSE RATIO TER The total expense ratio represents the total expenses excluding interest incurred by the Company as a percentage of average shareholders funds TOTAL RETURN The return on the share price or net asset value per share taking into account the rise and fall of share prices and the dividends paid to shareholders.
Any dividends received by the shareholder are assumed to have been reinvested in additional shares for share price total return or the Companys assets for net asset value total return Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2011 61 Warning to Shareholders BOILER ROOM SCAMS Many companies are aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders, offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
These operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
These brokers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive, and a 2006 survey by the Financial Services Authority FSA reported that the average amount lost by investors is around 20,000.
It is not just the novice investor that has been duped in this way: many of the victims had been successfully investing for several years.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved by visiting www.
uk register Report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0845 606 1234 or visiting www.
uk If the calls persist, hang up.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The FSA can be contacted by completing an online form at www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts overseas.
html Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in Company mailings.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the FSA website www.
uk ATTENDANCE CARD Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual General Meeting PLEASE RETAIN THIS SECTION PLEASE RETURN THE CARD BELOW IN THE ENVELOPE PROVIDED BY 11.00AM ON 13 DECEMBER 2011 Notes 1.
On receipt of this form duly signed but without specific directions the proxy will vote or abstain at its discretion.
You may appoint more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares.
To do so, additional proxy form s may be obtained by contacting Capita Registrars on 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras.
Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday or you may photocopy this form.
Please indicate in the box next to the proxy holders name the number of shares in relation to which they are authorised to vote as your proxy.
This form of proxy must be lodged at PXS, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU not less than forty-eight hours before the time of the meeting or any adjournment thereof together with the power of attorney or other authority under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority.
In the case of joint holders the vote of the senior who tenders the vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and for this purpose seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the Register of The Directors of Fidelity Special Values PLC invite you to attend the Members.
The names of all the joint holders should be stated.
Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held at 25 Cannon 5.
If the appointor is a corporation this form of proxy must be executed under its common seal or be signed on its behalf by an officer or attorney duly Street, London EC4M 5TA at 11.00am on 15 December 2011. authorised.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
A shareholder may Signature of Barcode: appoint a proxy of their choice.
If such an appointment is made, delete the words the Chairman of the meeting or and insert the name of the person person attending appointed proxy in the space provided.
The Chairman of the meeting will act as your proxy whether or not such deletion is made if no other name is inserted.
Completion and return of this form will not prevent a member from attending the meeting and voting in person.
Registered office: Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, Lower Kingswood, Tadworth, Surrey KT20 6RP.
Registered number 2972628 FORMOFPROXY Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual General Meeting Barcode: Investor code: I We being a shareholder s of the above named Company hereby appoint the Chairman of the meeting or Event code: Name of proxy Number of shares appointed proxy over as my our proxy to vote on my our behalf at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 15 December 2011 at 11.00am and at any adjournment thereof.
I We have indicated with an X how I we wish my our votes to be cast on the following resolutions: Please mark X to indicate Please mark X to indicate ORDINARY BUSINESS how you wish to vote how you wish to vote 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors Report 10.
To reappoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as Auditor of and Financial Statements for the year ended the Company 31 August 2011 11.
To authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors 2.
To approve a final dividend remuneration 3.
To re-elect Ms Lynn Ruddick as a Director SPECIAL BUSINESS 4.
To re-elect Mr Ben Thomson as a Director 12.
To renew the Directors authority to allot shares 5.
To re-elect Mrs Sharon Brown as a Director 13.
To renew the Companys authority to make market 6.
To re-elect Mr Douglas Kinloch Anderson as a Director purchases of shares in the capital of the Company 7.
To re-elect Mr Andrew Irvine as a Director 8.
To re-elect Ms Nicky McCabe as a Director 9.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 August 2011 To assist with arrangements, if you intend attending the meeting in person please place a X in the box opposite Signature Date For Against Vote Withheld For Against Vote Withheld Fidelity, Fidelity Worldwide Investment, the Fidelity Worldwide Investment logo and F symbol are trademarks of FIL Limited The printing inks used for this report are made from vegetable based oils and 95% of cleaning solvents are recycled for further use.
The electricity was all generated from renewable sources and on average 99% of any dry waste associated with this production will be recycled.
Printed using environmental print technology by a CarbonNeutral company, registered to the Environmental Management System, ISO 14001 and EMAS, the Eco Management and Audit Scheme.
The FSC logo identifies products which contain wood from well managed forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
This document is printed on CoCoon 50 Silk, a paper containing 50% recycled fibre & 50% virgin fibre.
Pulps used are elemental chlorine free, manufactured at a mill with the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System.
