Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and Under applicable law and regulations the Directors are also the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and responsible for preparing a Directors Report, including a Business regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Review, a Directors Remuneration Report and a Corporate financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they Governance Statement that comply with that law and those have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance regulations.
with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The Directors have delegated the responsibility for the The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss information included on the Companys pages of the Managers for the period.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
to: We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial select suitable accounting policies and then apply them statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of consistently: accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company: and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been performance of the business and the position of the Company followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties it explained in the financial statements: and faces.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will Approved by the Board on 4 November 2011 and signed on its continue in business.
behalf by The Directors are responsible for ensuring that adequate accounting records are kept which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps Lynn Ruddick for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Chairman 4 November 2011 Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2011 27
