IIn nffor orm ma attiion on f for or S Sh ha arreh eho olld der ers s Net asset value and share price Unit of Market Quotation price The Companys net asset value is released daily, on Ordinary shares 25p 14.875p the working day following the calculation date, to the 4.25% Perpetual London Stock Exchange.
The current share price of debenture stock 100 28.25 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust is shown in the investment trust section of the stockmarket page in Shareholders in doubt as to their CGT position most leading newspapers, usually under For & Col. should consult their professional advisers.
Investors in New Zealand can obtain share prices from leading newspapers in that country.
Income tax The final dividend of 4.10 pence per share is Performance information payable on 11 May 2012.
Individual UK resident Information on the Companys performance is shareholders who are subject to UK income tax at provided in the half-yearly and final reports which the lower rate or the basic rate have no further tax are sent to shareholders in August and March liability.
Shareholders not resident in the UK, and any respectively and in the interim management statement shareholders in doubt as to their tax position, should announcements.
More up-to-date performance consult their professional advisers.
information, including the full list of investments in the portfolio as at the most recent quarter end, is available Association of Investment Companies AIC on the Internet at www.
com Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust is a member under Investor Information.
The F&C website at of the AIC, which publishes a monthly statistical www.
com also provides a monthly update information service in respect of member companies.
on the Companys geographic spread and largest The publication also has details of ISA and other holdings, along with comments from the Fund investment plans available.
For further details, please Manager.
contact the AIC on 020 7282 5555, or visit the website: www.
UK capital gains tax CGT An approved investment trust does not pay tax on capital gains.
UK resident individuals may realise net capital gains of up to 10,600 in the tax year ended 5 April 2012 without incurring any tax liability.
The rate of CGT of 18% will apply where taxable income and gains do not exceed the income tax higher rate threshold 35,000 in 2011-12 tax year.
The higher rate of 28% will apply to those whose income and gains exceed this figure.
For UK investors who acquired Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust stock prior to 31 March 1982, the costs for CGT purposes, based on the price at that date, adjusted for capital changes are as follows: Report and Accounts 2011 63
