Notes on the Accounts continued 26 Financial Risk Management continued d Fair Values of financial assets and liabilities The assets and liabilities of the Company are, in the opinion of the Directors, reflected in the balance sheet at fair value, or at a reasonable approximation thereof, except for the debenture which is carried at par value in accordance with Accounting Standards.
The fair value of the debenture, derived from their quoted market price at 31 December 2011 was 132,513,000 2010: 141,874,000.
Borrowings under overdraft and loan facilities are short-term in nature and hence do not have a value materially different from their capital repayment amount.
Borrowings in foreign currencies are converted into Sterling at exchanges rates ruling at each valuation date.
The fair value of investments quoted on active markets is determined directly by reference to published price quotations in these markets.
Unquoted investments, including private equity investments, are valued based on professional advice and assumptions that are not wholly supported by prices from current market transactions or by observable market data.
The Directors make use of recognised valuation techniques and may take account of recent arms length transactions in the same or similar investments.
With respect specifically to investments in private equity funds or partnerships, the underlying managers provide regular valuations to the Directors, based on the latest information available to the managers and not necessarily co-terminous with the reporting dates of the Company.
The Directors review the valuations for consistency with the Companys accounting policies and with fair value principles.
e Capital Risk Management The objective of the Company is stated as being to provide shareholders with long-term growth in capital and income.
In pursuing this long-term objective, the Board has a responsibility for ensuring the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
It must therefore maintain an optimal capital structure through varying market conditions.
This involves the ability to: issue and buy back share capital within limits set by the shareholders in general meeting: borrow monies in the short and long term: and pay dividends to shareholders out of current year revenue earnings as well as out of brought forward revenue reserves.
Changes to ordinary share capital are set out in note 18 on the accounts.
Dividend payments are set out in note 10 on the accounts.
Borrowings are set out in notes 14, 15 and 17 on the accounts.
27 Post Balance Sheet Movement in Net Assets The NAV per share debt at par on 1 March 2012 was 353.79p 31 December 2011: 351.24p.
60 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
