N No otte es o s on t n th he A e Ac cc co ou un ntts s 1 General information Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC is an Investment Company, incorporated in the United Kingdom with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company Registration number is 12901, and the Registered office is Exchange House, Primrose Street, London, EC2A 2NY, England.
The Company conducts its affairs so as to qualify as an Investment Trust under the provisions of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act, 2010.
Approval of the Company under S1158 has been received subject to there being no subsequent enquiry in respect of the year ended 31 December 2010 and all previous applicable financial years.
Such approval exempts the Company from UK Corporation Tax on gains realised in the relevant year on its portfolio of fixed asset investments and derivatives.
2 Significant accounting policies a Basis of accounting The accounts of the Company have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention, modified to include fixed asset investments and derivatives at fair value, and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, Accounting Standards applicable in the United Kingdom and with the Revised Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts SORP issued in January 2009.
The functional and reporting currency of the Company is pounds Sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
The Company had no operating subsidiaries at any time during the years ended 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010.
Consequently, consolidated accounts have not been prepared.
There have been no significant changes to the accounting policies during the year ended 31 December 2011.
In accordance with the SORP, the Income Statement has been analysed between a Revenue Account dealing with items of a revenue nature and a Capital Account relating to items of a capital nature.
Revenue returns include, but are not limited to, dividend income and operating expenses and tax insofar as the expenses and tax are not allocated to capital, as described in note 2 b below.
Net revenue returns are allocated via the revenue account to the Revenue Reserve, out of which interim and final dividend payments are made.
Capital returns include, but are not limited to, realised and unrealised profits and losses on fixed asset investments, derivatives and currency profits and losses on cash and borrowings.
Net capital returns may not be distributed by way of dividend and are allocated via the Capital Account to the Capital Reserves.
Dividends payable to equity shareholders are shown in the Reconciliation of Movement in Shareholders Funds.
b Principal accounting policies The policies set out below have been applied consistently throughout the year.
i Financial instruments Financial Instruments include fixed asset investments, derivative assets and liabilities, and long-term debt instruments, cash and short-term deposits, debtors and creditors.
Accounting Standards recognise a hierarchy of fair value measurements, for financial instruments measured at fair value in the Balance Sheet, which gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities level 1 and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs level 3.
The classification of financial instruments depends on the lowest significant applicable input, as follows: Level 1 Unadjusted, fully accessible and current quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Included within this category are investments listed on any recognised stock exchange or quoted on the AIM Market in the UK.
Level 2 Quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, or other directly or indirectly observable inputs which exist for the duration of the period of investment.
Examples of such Instruments would be those for which the quoted price has been suspended, forward exchange contracts and certain other derivative instruments.
The Company held no such securities during the year under review.
Level 3 External inputs are unobservable.
Value is the Directors best estimate, based on advice from relevant knowledgeable experts, use of recognised valuation techniques and on assumptions as to what inputs other market participants would apply in pricing the same or similar instrument.
Included within this category are investments in private companies or securities, whether invested in directly or through pooled Private Equity vehicles.
38 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC 2 Significant accounting policies continued ii Fixed asset investments and derivative financial instruments As an Investment Trust, the Company measures its fixed asset investments at fair value through profit or loss and treats all transactions on the realisation and revaluation of investments held as fixed assets, as transactions on the Capital Account.
Purchases are recognised on the relevant trade date, inclusive of expenses which are incidental to the acquisition of the investments.
Sales are also recognised on the trade date, after deducting expenses incidental to the sales.
Quoted investments are valued at bid value at the close of business on the relevant date on the exchange on which the investment is listed.
Investments which are not quoted or which are not frequently traded are stated at Directors best estimate of fair value.
In arriving at their estimate, the Directors make use of recognised valuation techniques and may take account of recent arms length transactions in the same or similar investment instruments.
Where no reliable fair value can be estimated, investments are carried at cost or less any provision for impairment.
With respect specifically to investments in private equity, whether through funds or partnerships, the Directors rely on unaudited valuations of the underlying unlisted investments as supplied by the managers of those funds or partnerships.
The Directors regularly review the principles applied by the managers to those valuations to ensure they are in compliance with the above policies.
Distributions from private equity funds are recognised when the right to distributions is established.
iii Derivative Instruments Derivatives including forward exchange contracts and options are classified as held for trading and are accounted for as financial assets or liabilities.
Where it can be demonstrated that the derivative is connected to the maintenance of the Companys investments, the change in fair value is recognised as capital and shown in the Capital column of the Income Statement.
Where an option is written in the expectation that it will not be exercised, or that any losses on exercise will be outweighed by the value of the premiums received, the premiums are recognised in the Revenue column of the Income Statement.
The value of the premium is usually the options initial fair value and is recognised evenly over the life of the option.
Subsequent changes to fair value are adjusted in the Capital column of the Income Statement such that the total amounts recognised within Revenue and Capital represent the change in fair value of the option.
iv Debt Instruments The Companys debt instruments include long-term debenture stock included in the Balance Sheet at proceeds received, net of issue costs, and short-term bank borrowings and overdrafts, initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
No debt instruments held during the year required hierarchical classification.
The 11.25% debenture stock was issued in 1989 and 4.25% perpetual debenture stock was issued in 1960.
The fair market value of these debenture stocks is set out in note 17 on the accounts.
Finance charges, including interest, are accrued using the effective interest rate method.
See 2 vii below for allocation of finance charges within the Income Statement.
v Foreign currency Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are expressed in Sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Purchases and sales of investment securities, dividend income, interest income and expenses are translated at the rates of exchange prevailing at the respective dates of such transactions.
Exchange profits and losses on fixed assets investments are included within the changes in fair value in the Capital Account.
Exchange profits and losses on other currency balances are separately credited or charged to the Capital Account except where they relate to revenue items.
vi Income Income from equity shares is brought into the Revenue Account except where, in the opinion of the Directors, its nature indicates it should be recognised as within the Capital Account on the ex-dividend date or, where no ex-dividend date is quoted, when the Companys right to receive payment is established.
Fixed returns on nonequity shares and debt securities are recognised on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect the effective yield on the investment.
Dividends are accounted for in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 16 Current Taxation FRS16 on the basis of income actually receivable, without adjustment for the tax credit attaching to the dividends.
Dividends from overseas companies continue to be shown gross of withholding tax.
Where the Company has elected to receive its dividends in the form of additional shares rather than in cash scrip dividends, the amount of the cash dividend foregone is recognised as income.
Any excess in the value of the shares received over the amount of the cash dividend foregone is recognised in capital reserves.
Report and Accounts 2011 39 Notes on the Accounts continued 2 Significant accounting policies continued vii Expenses, including finance charges Expenses are charged to the Revenue Account of the Income Statement, except as noted below: expenses incidental to the acquisition or disposal of fixed assets investments are included within the cost of the investments or deducted from the disposal proceeds of investments and are thus charged to Capital Reserve realised via the Capital Account: 100% of management fees, invoiced to the Company in respect of certain Private Equity investments, are allocated to capital reserves, via the Capital Account, in accordance with the Boards long-term expected split of returns from those investments: 50% of other management fees, and 50% of finance costs both net of applicable tax relief are allocated to Capital Reserves via the Capital Account, in accordance with the Boards long-term expected split of returns from the investment portfolio excluding private equity investments of the Company: and All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
viii Taxation Deferred tax is provided on an undiscounted basis in accordance with FRS19 on all timing differences that have originated but not reversed by the Balance Sheet date, based on tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised if it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable profits from which the future reversal of timing differences can be deducted.
In line with the recommendations of the SORP, the allocation method used to calculate the tax relief on expenses charged to capital is the marginal basis.
Under this basis, if taxable income is capable of being offset entirely by expenses charged through the Revenue Account, then no tax relief is transferred to the Capital Account.
ix Capital Redemption Reserve The nominal value of ordinary share capital repurchased for cancellation is transferred out of Share Capital and into the Capital Redemption Reserve, on a trade date basis.
x Capital Reserves Capital reserve arising on investments sold The following are accounted for in this reserve: gains and losses on the disposal of fixed asset investments and derivatives: realised exchange differences of a capital nature: costs of professional advice, including related irrecoverable VAT, relating to the capital structure of the Company: other capital charges and credits charged or credited to this account in accordance with the above policies: and costs of repurchasing ordinary share capital are recognised on a trade date basis.
Capital reserve arising on investments held The following are accounted for in this reserve: increases and decreases in the valuation of fixed asset investments and derivatives held at the year end: and unrealised exchange differences of a capital nature.
40 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
