N No otte es o s on t n th he A e Ac cc co ou un ntts s 1 General information Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC is an Investment Company, incorporated in the United Kingdom with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company Registration number is 12901, and the Registered office is Exchange House, Primrose Street, London, EC2A 2NY, England.
The Company conducts its affairs so as to qualify as an Investment Trust under the provisions of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act, 2010.
Approval of the Company under S1158 has been received subject to there being no subsequent enquiry in respect of the year ended 31 December 2010 and all previous applicable financial years.
Such approval exempts the Company from UK Corporation Tax on gains realised in the relevant year on its portfolio of fixed asset investments and derivatives.
2 Significant accounting policies a Basis of accounting The accounts of the Company have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention, modified to include fixed asset investments and derivatives at fair value, and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, Accounting Standards applicable in the United Kingdom and with the Revised Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts SORP issued in January 2009.
The functional and reporting currency of the Company is pounds Sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
The Company had no operating subsidiaries at any time during the years ended 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010.
Consequently, consolidated accounts have not been prepared.
There have been no significant changes to the accounting policies during the year ended 31 December 2011.
In accordance with the SORP, the Income Statement has been analysed between a Revenue Account dealing with items of a revenue nature and a Capital Account relating to items of a capital nature.
Revenue returns include, but are not limited to, dividend income and operating expenses and tax insofar as the expenses and tax are not allocated to capital, as described in note 2 b below.
Net revenue returns are allocated via the revenue account to the Revenue Reserve, out of which interim and final dividend payments are made.
Capital returns include, but are not limited to, realised and unrealised profits and losses on fixed asset investments, derivatives and currency profits and losses on cash and borrowings.
Net capital returns may not be distributed by way of dividend and are allocated via the Capital Account to the Capital Reserves.
Dividends payable to equity shareholders are shown in the Reconciliation of Movement in Shareholders Funds.
b Principal accounting policies The policies set out below have been applied consistently throughout the year.
i Financial instruments Financial Instruments include fixed asset investments, derivative assets and liabilities, and long-term debt instruments, cash and short-term deposits, debtors and creditors.
Accounting Standards recognise a hierarchy of fair value measurements, for financial instruments measured at fair value in the Balance Sheet, which gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities level 1 and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs level 3.
The classification of financial instruments depends on the lowest significant applicable input, as follows: Level 1 Unadjusted, fully accessible and current quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Included within this category are investments listed on any recognised stock exchange or quoted on the AIM Market in the UK.
Level 2 Quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, or other directly or indirectly observable inputs which exist for the duration of the period of investment.
Examples of such Instruments would be those for which the quoted price has been suspended, forward exchange contracts and certain other derivative instruments.
The Company held no such securities during the year under review.
Level 3 External inputs are unobservable.
Value is the Directors best estimate, based on advice from relevant knowledgeable experts, use of recognised valuation techniques and on assumptions as to what inputs other market participants would apply in pricing the same or similar instrument.
Included within this category are investments in private companies or securities, whether invested in directly or through pooled Private Equity vehicles.
38 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
