Analysis of the Groups Portfolio continued Ten Largest Investments Set out below are details of the ten largest investments in the portfolio and details of each project.
As at 31 March 2011, the largest investment the Home Office project accounted for 12.9% of the portfolio.
Directors Valuation 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 PROJECT Valuation as a Valuation as a percentage of percentage of Directors portfolio Directors portfolio valuation valuation million million Directors Valuation m 673.1 509.6 Colchester Garrison 6.3% 8.8% Dutch High Speed Rail Link 12.2% 14.7% Home Office 12.9% 16.2% Kemble Water 4.4% 4.8% M80 DBFO Road 4.3% North West Anthony Henday Road 3.5% Oxford John Radcliffe Hospital 4.6% Queen Alexandra Hospital 9.4% Romford Hospital 3.8% 4.9% West Middlesex Hospital 2.9% 3.4% Total 64.3% 52.8% 625m and includes track, noise attenuation, signalling, power Colchester Garrison distributions and communications systems.
Financial close was in The project is a 35 year concession to provide a new facility for the October 2001.
Secretary of State for Defence in Colchester, Essex, UK.
Colchester Garrison provides accommodation for approximately 3,500 military Certificates of Availability have been issued for both the North and and 750 civilian personnel.
The project is located on the original Southern sections.
Maintenance obligations are carried out by a joint garrison site and partly on an adjacent brown field site owned by the venture comprising Siemens Nederland BV, Koninklijke BAM NBM Ministry of Defence.
Capital expenditure on the project was NV and Fluor Infrastructure BV.
Construction was completed in April 2008 which was five months ahead of the original programme.
The last year has seen a gradual build-up of the train services by the State to a level where there is now a half hour service.
Availability Catering, cleaning and transport services are provided by Sodexo has been very good with minimal deductions achieved.
The focus for Defence Services Limited.
WS Atkins Facilities Management Limited the Project Company has been to clear the outstanding issues is responsible for estate and grounds maintenance, contract between the parties, and progress has been made in this respect.
management and security, waste management and lifecycle.
The Project Company has established an improvement committee to review all aspects of project performance to ensure best possible Excellent relationships have been maintained at all levels of the practice is being employed.
project during the year, and all outstanding construction issues have been resolved with operational performance settling down to a very Home Office satisfactory routine with minimal deductions and complaints.
The project is a 29 year concession commissioned by the UK Home Office to build, finance, operate and maintain a new headquarters A significant achievement during the year was to work with the client building to replace their existing office accommodation with to progress the provision for a Help for Heroes rehabilitation centre.
purpose-built serviced offices in Westminster, London.
The project Construction has now commenced and should be ready for opening involved capital expenditure of approximately 200m and the at the end of this year.
demolition of the existing offices on a 4.3 acre site, followed by the construction of a building comprising three purpose-built Dutch High Speed Rail Link interconnecting office blocks to accommodate up to 3,450 staff.
The largest PPP project signed to date in the Netherlands, the Dutch Construction was completed in January 2005. high speed rail link provides a high-speed connection from Schiphol Airport to the Belgian border.
The HSL Zuid project, as it is known The services being provided include health and safety, cleaning, locally, was developed for the Dutch Ministry of Transport, Public catering and energy management.
Operations are managed by Works and Waste Management and the Ministry of Finance under a Ecovert FM Limited a facilities management subsidiary of Bouygues.
The project involves capital expenditure of over 28 H ICL A N N U A L R E P O R T & A C COU N T S 2011 The project team has been working with the Home Office Property North West Anthony Henday Road Group to enable annual reductions in the Home Office energy The North-West Anthony Henday P3 in Alberta, Canada comprises consumption to be very near to the Governments target for Central the design, build, financing and ongoing operation of a 21km stretch Government department buildings of 10% for the year to end of of the four and six lane ring-road surrounding the city of Edmonton.
The project is currently under construction, with operations scheduled to begin in November 2011.
Construction is being carried As part of the contract requirements a benchmarking exercise was out by a joint venture comprising Flatiron Constructors Canada managed by the project team.
It involved the supply chain agreeing Limited, Parsons Overseas Company of Canada Ltd and Graham to revise their soft facilities management costs which provided Infrastructure, itself a JV between Graham Infrastructure LP and significant financial savings to the client.
A customer satisfaction survey was carried out on members of the The ongoing operations and maintenance will be carried out by 3,000 staff and users of the building.
Of those staff that participated Carmacks Maintenance Services Ltd, under a long-term services over 76% agreed that the services provided to the project have agreement.
The concession contract lasts for 30 years from the improved over the last 12 months and generally satisfaction levels beginning of operations, expiring no later than November 2041. were at good or very good.
The project team have developed an approach to working with the Kemble Water various stakeholders including the main highway client, Alberta This is a participation of 30m in the junior term loan facility for Transportation and a number of municipalities through which the Kemble Water, the vehicle set up to acquire RWE Thames Water new road passes.
This has resulted in the efficient resolution of Holdings Thames Water.
Kemble Water acquired the whole of issues relating to the new road linking into local roads and the Thames Water from RWE, including the regulated UK water business municipalities own plans for their local roads improvements.
A and non-regulated businesses this includes Thames Waters similar partnership approach has seen the utilities, gas water and property, commercial, and international businesses.
electricity committed to working as part of an integrated project delivery team.
The junior term loan was repaid in full in early April 2011.
Oxford John Radcliffe Hospital M80 DBFO Road The Oxford John Radcliffe PFI Hospital project involves the design, The M80 DBFO project, between Stepps and Haggs in Scotland, construction, management, financing, operation and maintenance of involves the upgrade of a ten kilometre stretch of the existing M80, a new wing adjacent to the former Radcliffe Infirmary in Oxford.
The as well as a new eight kilometre section of motorway, seven new concession runs until 31 December 2036. junctions and 60 additional structures.
The project is currently 18 months into a three year construction period, with works being The new wing was constructed by Carillion Construction Ltd and performed under a Bilfinger Berger UK, Northstone NI Ltd and John reached operational completion in December 2006.
The new Graham Dromore Ltd joint venture.
facilities built under the contract formed the West Wing and the New Childrens Hospital.
A number of adult and children services The project is on schedule to complete in Q4 2011 and will operate were relocated from the Radcliffe Infirmary and other sites within under a 30 year concession contract thereafter.
The motorway is to the Oxford Radcliffe Hospitals NHS trust to centralise them into be operated and maintained by BEAR Scotland Ltd under a long-term one facility.
Facilities management services are subcontracted to Carillion The project team were pleased to allow the Emergency Services Services Ltd. access to a 2.5km stretch of the new Moodiesburn Bypass prior to opening for Operation Roller, an emergency training exercise held in A lot has been achieved during the year with the resolution of many November 2010.
A very successful training exercise involving staged outstanding claims, assistance to the Trust to achieve significant accidents and casualties was carried out by all members of the budgetary savings and benchmarking being concluded without the Emergency Services, fire, police and ambulance with no disruption to need for Market Testing.
A cost saving workshop instigated by the project Company produced The Scottish Spina Bifida Association SSBA have been selected as numerous ideas to reduce Trust costs and some of these were the nominated charity for the project which means the Project team incorporated into the benchmarking process providing around 1m personnel work to raise money through a number of initiatives of savings for the wider Trust budget.
Close contact with the Trust including the Contractors site safety programme.
By meeting and has been maintained during the year and support has been given to exceeding quarterly safety targets, money is released and donated the Service provider to improve areas of performance in estates to SSBA.
To date over 9,500 has been raised just though this one management and portering.
H ICL A N N U A L R E P O R T & A C COU N T S 2011 29 Analysis of the Groups Portfolio continued Queen Alexandra Hospital West Middlesex Hospital The completed hospital has 1,026 inpatient beds, 34 neonatal The project is a 35 year concession to design, construct, finance, intensive care cots, 3 endoscopy suites and 20 main operating operate and maintain a new 228 bed hospital in West Middlesex, UK.
The concession contract runs until December 2040.
Financial close occurred in January 2001 and the project involved capital expenditure of approximately 60m.
Construction was The new hospital buildings were developed and built by Carillion completed on time in June 2003.
Construction Ltd, a subsidiary of Carillion.
The majority of the new facilities have been operational since June 2009, with final Building management services comprise the repair and maintenance construction completed last month.
A subsidiary of Carillion provides of plumbing and security systems as well as health and safety facilities management services to the project under a long-term services.
Catering, laundry, cleaning, porterage and security services services agreement.
Operations are being managed by Ecovert FM Limited, the facilities management subsidiary of Bouygues Since acquiring the project last year, the Investment Adviser has Construction S. A. taken a fresh approach to reviewing the project and assisting the service provider to generally raise standards, client satisfaction The project enjoys good relationships between all parties and soft and lower payment deductions.
The final construction phase was services continue to be delivered to acceptable standards.
The completed in June 2010 which leads to a final completion certificate project has received compliments for assisting the Trust in achieving for construction in 2011.
Another major change in the year has an excellent score in the overall ratings in the Patient Environment been to replace the Project Company managers to generally Action Team assessment categories.
improve overall performance, reduce the areas of conflict and be more efficient.
Service improvement initiatives have been made to a range of services including help desk operations, NEPT and portering.
The FM Romford Hospital contractor has reviewed waste management service specifications to improve recycling and reduce costs.
The project has also supported This project involves the design, build and finance of a new hospital the Trust in achieving savings in utilities costs by the installation of the Queens Hospital in Romford, Essex, followed by the energy management equipment and LED lighting.
maintenance of the hospital and the provision of non-clinical services and a Managed Equipment Service for a term of 36 years that ends in 2040.
The project involved capital expenditure of approximately 211m and its construction was completed in October 2006 by Bovis Lend Lease Limited.
Soft and Hard Facilities management is the responsibility of Sodexo Limited and the Medical Equipment Services are provided by Siemens plc.
The last year has provided the opportunity to familiarize ourselves with the project, people and current issues.
At the Investment Advisers instigation a relationship building cost reduction workshop was arranged last autumn with all key parties.
HM Treasury announced in February a thorough review of this project to identify savings and efficiencies within the project and lessons that can be applied to other PFI projects.
All parties cooperated and the previously held workshop was timely as it had identified ideas, savings, and opportunities.
