Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 1.
Reporting Entity HICL Infrastructure Company Limited the Company is a company domiciled in Guernsey, Channel Islands, whose shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company as at and for the year ended 31 March 2011 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Consolidated Group.
The Consolidated Group invests in infrastructure projects in the UK, Canada and Europe.
The parent company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Consolidated Group.
Of the Consolidated Groups portfolio of 38 investments at 31 March 2011, 27 have been accounted for as investments the Entity Investments in accordance with the accounting policies set out in parts b and d of note 2.
The eleven remaining investments are deemed to be subsidiaries of the Company the Operating Subsidiaries, and are therefore treated as business combinations as described in parts b and c of note 2.
Certain items of the accounting policies apply only to the Operating Subsidiaries.
Where applicable, this is noted in the relevant accounting policy note.
Key Accounting Policies a Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements and the company financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 23 May 2011.
The consolidated financial statements which give a true and fair view have been prepared in compliance with the Companies Guernsey Law 2008 and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU using the historical cost basis, except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair values: derivative financial instruments and financial instruments classified at fair value through profit or loss.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the Consolidated Groups functional currency.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS as adopted by the EU, requires the Directors and advisers to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expense.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Investment Adviser's Report on pages 11 to 17.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Results on pages 18 to 21.
In addition, notes 1 to 4 and 21 to 22 of the financial statements include the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with long-term contracts with various public sector customers and suppliers across a range of infrastructure projects.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that year or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Note 3 shows critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions.
Supplementary information has been provided analysing the income statement between those items of a revenue nature and those of a capital nature, in order to better reflect the Consolidated Groups activities as an investment company.
Those items of income and expenditure which relate to the interest and dividend yield of investments and annual operating and interest expenditure are shown as revenue.
Those items of income and expenditure which arise from changes in the fair value of investments, foreign exchange movements, finance receivables and derivative financial instruments are recognised as capital.
Standards adopted early by the Consolidated Group During the year and the prior year no new standards were adopted early by the Consolidated Group.
H ICL A N N U A L R E P O R T & A C COU N T S 2011 51 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2011 2.
Key Accounting Policies continued New standards effective for the current year The following standards which have been applied in this years financial statements are: IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation this interpretation provides guidance on accounting for hedges of net investments in foreign operations in an entitys consolidated financial statements.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations the revised standard continues to apply the acquisition method to business combinations, however, all payments to purchase a business are to be recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, some contingent payments are subsequently re-measured at fair value through income, goodwill may be calculated based on the parents share of net assets or it may include goodwill related to the non-controlling interest, and all transaction costs are expensed.
IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements the effects of all transactions with non-controlling interests to be recorded in equity if there is no change in control: any remaining interest in an investee is re-measured to fair value in determining the gain or loss recognised in profit or loss where control over the investee is lost.
IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners provides accounting guidance for non-reciprocal distributions of non-cash assets to owners and those in which owners may elect to receive a cash alternative.
Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Eligible Hedged Items.
Clarifies how the principles underlying hedge accounting should be applied in particular situations.
Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Classification of Rights Issues.
Requires rights issues denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the issuer to be classified as equity regardless of the currency in which the exercise price is denominated.
IFRIC 18 Transfer of Assets from Customers which is applicable for annual periods commencing on or after 1 November 2009.
Clarifies the requirements for IFRSs for agreements in which an entity receives from a customer an item of property, plant and equipment that the entity must then use either to connect the customer to a network or to provide the customer with ongoing access to a supply of goods or services.
IFRS 2 Share Based Payment: Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment Transactions amended to require an entity receiving goods or services receiving entity in either an equity-settled or a cash-settled share-based payment transaction to account for the transaction in its separate or individual financial statements.
This principle applies if another group entity or shareholder settles the transaction settling entity and the receiving entity has no obligation to settle the payment.
Improvements to IFRSs 2009 the IASB published amendments to various standards collectively referred to as Improvements to IFRSs on 16 April 2009.
The Improvements to IFRSs 2009 comprise 15 amendments to 12 standards and is the result of the IASBs second annual improvements project AIP.
The adoption of these standards has led to the following change in the Consolidated Groups accounting policies: Accounting for business combinations From 1 April 2010 the Consolidated Group has applied IFRS 3 Business Combinations 2008 in accounting for business combinations.
The change in accounting policy has been applied prospectively and has had no material impact on earnings per share.
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is transferred to the Consolidated Group.
Control is the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, the Consolidated Group takes into consideration potential voting rights that currently are exercisable.
Acquisitions on or after 1 April 2010 For acquisitions on or after 1 April 2010, the Consolidated Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as: the fair value of the consideration transferred: plus the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquire: plus if the business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value of the existing equity interest in the acquiree: less the net recognised amount generally fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
Key Accounting Policies continued The consideration transferred does not include amounts related to the settlement of pre-existing relationships.
Such amounts are generally recognised in the profit and loss.
Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Consolidated Group incurs in conjunction with a business combination are expensed as incurred.
Acquisitions prior to 1 April 2010 All business combinations were accounted for using the purchase method.
Goodwill represents the difference between the cost of acquisition over the Consolidated Groups share of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed including intangible assets of a subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Identifiable intangible are those which can be measured reliably, sold separately or which arise from legal rights regardless of whether those rights are separable.
Costs comprise the fair values of assets given and liabilities assumed, plus any direct costs of acquisition.
Standards not yet applied As at 31 March 2011 the following standards applicable to the Consolidated Group, which have not been applied in this financial information, were in issue and endorsed by the EU but not yet effective: Amendments to IFRS 2 Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment Transactions clarifies accounting for group cash-settled sharebased payment transactions.
Revised IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures the revised standard has simplified the definition of a related party and removed inconsistencies.
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments addresses the accounting by an entity when the terms of a financial liability are renegotiated and result in the entity issuing equity instruments to a creditor to extinguish all or part of the financial liability.
Improvements to IFRSs 2010 the IASB published amendments to various standards with various effective dates on 6 May 2010.
The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010 or 1 January 2011.
The 2010 improvements contains eleven amendments to six standards and to one interpretation and is the result of the IASBs third annual improvements project AIP.
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of the above standards in future years will not have a material impact on the financial statements of the Consolidated Group.
b Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements of the Consolidated Group include the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries up to 31 March 2011.
Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities as defined in IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements on a line by line basis from the date that control commences until the date control ceases.
Nine of the eleven subsidiaries have a different statutory financial reporting date to the Company, being 31 December.
Their results for the year to 31 March are included by reference to management accounts.
Associates are those entities over which the Company has significant influence as defined in IAS 28 Investments in Associates.
By virtue of the Companys status as an investment fund and the exemption provided by IAS 28.1, investments in such entities are designated upon initial recognition to be accounted for at fair value through profit or loss.
Joint ventures are those entities over which the Company has joint control as defined by IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures.
By virtue of the Companys status as an investment fund and the exemption provided by IAS 31.1, investments in such entities are designated upon initial recognition to be accounted for at fair value through profit or loss.
Intra-Group receivables, liabilities, revenue and expenses are eliminated in their entirety when preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Gains that arise from intra-group transactions and that are unrealised from the standpoint of the Consolidated Group on the balance sheet date are eliminated in their entirety.
Unrealised losses on intra-group transactions are also eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, to the extent that the loss does not correspond to an impairment loss.
c Acquisition of subsidiaries The Group has changed its accounting policy with respect to accounting for business combinations.
See Note 2 a Accounting for business combinations for further details.
H ICL A N N U A L R E P O R T & A C COU N T S 2011 53 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2011 2.
Key Accounting Policies continued d Financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Consolidated Groups balance sheet when the group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are derecognised when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the instrument expire or the asset is transferred and the transfer qualifies for derecognition in accordance with IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
i Non-derivative financial instruments Non-derivative financial instruments comprise investments in equity and debt securities, finance receivables, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, loans and borrowings and trade and other payables.
Non-derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value including directly attributable transaction costs, except for financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss.
Subsequent to initial recognition, non-derivative financial instruments are measured as described below.
Investments in equity and debt securities Entity Investments investments in the equity and loanstock of entities engaged in infrastructure activities which are not classified as subsidiaries of the Consolidated Group are designated at fair value through profit or loss since the Consolidated Group manages these investments and makes purchase and sale decisions based on their fair value.
The initial difference between the transaction price and the fair value, derived from using the discounted cash flows methodology at the date of acquisition, is recognised only when observable market data indicates there is a change in a factor that market participants would consider in setting the price of that investment.
After initial recognition, investments at fair value through profit or loss are measured at fair value with changes recognised in the income statement.
Finance receivables Finance receivables are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequent to initial recognition, finance receivables are measured at fair value using the discounted cash flows methodology, with changes recognised in the income statement as gains loss on finance receivables as a capital item.
Finance receivables are designated at fair value through profit or loss because it eliminates or significantly reduces the accounting mismatch that would result from fair value movements in interest rate swaps.
Loans and borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value of the consideration received, less transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Other Other non-derivative financial instruments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any impairment losses.
ii Derivative financial instruments The Operating Subsidiaries hold derivative financial instruments to mitigate their interest rate risk and inflation rate risk exposures.
All derivatives are recognised initially at fair value with attributable transaction costs recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Thereafter, derivatives are measured at fair value with changes recognised in the income statement as part of finance costs.
Fair value is based on price quotations from financial institutions active in the relevant market.
The Consolidated Group has not used hedge accounting.
iii Fair values The fair values are determined using the income approach, except for derivative financial instruments, which discounts the expected cash flows attributable to each asset at an appropriate rate to arrive at fair values.
In determining the appropriate discount rate, regard is had to risk free rates, the specific risks of each investment and the evidence of recent transactions.
iv Effective interest The effective interest rate is that rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument to the relevant assets carrying amount.
Key Accounting Policies continued e Intangible assets Intangible assets are recognised as part of a business combination if they are reliably measurable and separable from the acquired entity or give rise to other contractual legal rights.
Only one category of intangible asset has been recognised as part of a business combination to date, being the fair value of service concessions in Operating Subsidiaries as at the date of acquisition.
These assets are being amortised over the life of the concessions concerned on a straight-line basis.
The accounting policies for intangible assets arising under IFRIC 12 are disclosed in part k of this note.
f Impairment i Financial assets Financial assets, other than those at fair value through profit or loss, are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date.
A financial asset is considered to be impaired if objective evidence indicates that one or more events have had a negative effect on the estimated future cash flows of that asset.
An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at amortised cost is calculated as the difference between its carrying amount, and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate.
Significant financial assets are tested for impairment on an individual basis.
The remaining financial assets are assessed collectively in groups that share similar credit risk characteristics.
All impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
An impairment loss is reversed if the reversal can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised.
For financial assets measured at amortised cost the reversal is recognised in the income statement.
ii Non-financial assets The carrying amounts of the Consolidated Groups non-financial assets are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any evidence of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement whenever the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of an asset is the greater of its net selling price and its value in use.
The value in use is determined as the net present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the asset, discounted using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount after the reversal does not exceed the amount that would, have been determined, net of applicable depreciation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
g Share capital and share premium Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or associated with the establishment of the Company that would otherwise have been avoided are written-off against the balance of the share premium account.
h Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash balances, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term, highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the cash flow statement.
i Non-controlling interests The interest of non-controlling shareholders is stated at the non-controllings proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
Subsequently, any losses applicable to the non-controlling interest in excess of the carrying value of the non-controlling interest are allocated against the interest of the parent, except to the extent that the non-controlling has both a binding obligation and the ability to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
j Revenue i Services revenue Services revenue in accordance with IFRIC 12, which relates solely to the Operating Subsidiaries, is comprised of the following components: revenues from the provision of facilities management services to Private Finance Initiative or Public Private Partnerships PFI PPP projects calculated as the fair value of services provided see Note k i : the fair value of the consideration receivable on construction and upgrade services: availability fees and usage fees on PFI PPP projects where the principal asset is accounted for as an intangible asset see Note k ii : and third party revenues on PFI PPP projects.
H ICL A N N U A L R E P O R T & A C COU N T S 2011 55 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2011 2.
Key Accounting Policies continued ii Gains on finance receivables Gains on finance receivables relate solely to the Operating Subsidiaries.
Revenue Gains on finance receivables included in the revenue category includes interest, dividends and other operating income relating to finance receivables designated at fair value through profit or loss.
Interest income arising on finance receivables at fair value through profit or loss is recognised in the income statement as it accrues, using the effective interest rate of the instrument concerned.
Dividends are recognised when the Consolidated Groups rights to receive payment have been established.
That part of the dividend which has already been recognised in the fair value of finance receivable is deducted from the carrying amount of the relevant finance receivable.
Fees and other operating income are recognised when the Consolidated Groups rights to receive payment have been established.
Capital Gains on finance receivables included in the capital category arise from the movement in the fair value of the finance receivables excluding the movements shown as revenue above.
iii Gains on investments Gains on investments relates solely to the Entity Investments.
Revenue Gains on investments included in the revenue category includes interest, dividends and other operating income relating to the Entity Investments.
Interest income arising on Entity Investments is recognised in the income statement as it accrues, using the effective interest rate of the instrument concerned as calculated at the acquisition or origination date.
That part of the dividend which has already been recognised in the fair value of investments is deducted from the carrying amount of the relevant investment.
Capital Gains on investments included in the capital category arise from the movement in the fair value of the Entity Investments excluding the movements shown as revenue above.
k Service concessions In accordance with IFRIC 12 and the various provisions of IFRS, the Consolidated Group has determined the appropriate treatment of the principal assets of, and income streams from, PFI PPP and similar contracts within the Operating Subsidiaries.
Results of all service concessions which fall within the scope of IFRIC 12 conform to the following policies depending on the rights to consideration under the service concessions: i Service concessions treated as financial assets Service concessions are determined to give rise to finance receivables where the Consolidated Group, as operator, has an unconditional contractual right to receive cash or another financial asset from or at the direction of the grantor.
Revenue is recognised by allocating a proportion of total cash receivable to construction income and service income.
The consideration received will be allocated by reference to the relative fair value of the services delivered, when the amounts are separately identifiable.
During the construction phase, revenue is recognised at cost, plus attributable profit to the extent that this is reasonably certain, in accordance with IAS 11.
Costs for this purpose include valuation of all work done by subcontractors whether certified or not, and all overheads other than those relating to the general administration of the relevant companies.
During the operational stage, cash received in respect of the service concessions is allocated to services revenue see part j i of this note based on its fair value, with the remainder being allocated between capital repayment and interest income using the effective interest method see part j ii of this note.
The finance receivables are designated as at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with part d of this note.
The fair values of the finance receivables are determined in a similar manner to that described in part d i, with changes recognised in the income statement.
Key Accounting Policies continued ii Service concessions treated as intangible assets Service concessions are determined to give rise to intangible assets to the extent the Consolidated Group, as operator, has a contractual right to charge users of the public services.
The intangible asset represents the construction cost of assets which give rise to the contractual right to charge.
The intangible asset is amortised to estimated residual value over the remaining life of the service concession and tested each year for impairment.
Revenue arising in respect of these service concessions is recognised when the services are delivered.
l Borrowing costs Borrowing costs incurred for the construction of any qualifying assets are capitalised during the period of time that is required to complete and prepare the asset for its intended use.
Other borrowing costs are expensed.
m Income tax Under the current system of taxation in Guernsey, the Company itself is exempt from paying taxes on income, profits or capital gains.
The Companys Operating Subsidiaries are UK based and are therefore subject to UK tax legislation.
Dividend and interest income received by the Consolidated Group may be subject to withholding tax imposed in the country of origin of such income, but all such tax is currently recoverable.
Income tax on the profit for the year of the Operating Subsidiaries comprises current and deferred tax.
Current tax is the tax payable on the taxable income for the year.
Deferred tax is provided in full using the balance sheet liability method on temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes, except for differences arising on: the initial recognition of goodwill: the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a business combination and at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting or taxable profit: and investments in subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities where the group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the difference and it is probable that the difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to the temporary differences when they reverse, based on the laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
For the UK Operating Subsidiaries deferred tax is measured at UK tax rates.
A deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which temporary difference can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
n Foreign exchange gains and losses Transactions entered into by group entities in a currency other than their functional currency are recorded at the rates ruling when the transactions occur.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of unsettled monetary assets and liabilities are recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement as capital amounts.
o Segmental reporting The Chief Operating Decision Maker the CODM is of the opinion that the Group is engaged in a single segment of business, being investment in infrastructure which is currently predominately in private finance initiatives and public private partnership companies in one geographical area, the United Kingdom.
The financial information used by the CODM to allocate resources and manage the Group presents the business as a single segment is prepared on an Investment basis.
The Investment basis deconsolidates the subsidiary investments.
A reconciliation of the consolidated financial statements to pro-forma statements on an Investment basis is shown within the Financial Results of the annual report.
p Expenses All expenses and the profit share of the General Partner are accounted for on an accruals basis.
The Consolidated Groups investment management and administration fees, finance costs including interest on long-term borrowings and all other expenses are charged through the consolidated income statement.
q Dividends Dividends are recognised when they become legally payable.
In the case of interim dividends, this is when declared by the Directors.
In the case of final dividends, this is when approved by the shareholders at the AGM.
For script dividends where the Company issues shares with an equal value to the cash dividend amount as an alternative to the cash dividend a credit to equity is recognised when the shares are issued.
H ICL A N N U A L R E P O R T & A C COU N T S 2011 57 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2011 2.
Key Accounting Policies continued r Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Consolidated Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Consolidated Group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
s Statement of compliance Pursuant to the Protection of Investors Bailiwick of Guernsey Law, 1987 the Company is an Authorised Closed-Ended Investment Scheme.
As an authorised scheme, the Company is subject to certain ongoing obligations to the Guernsey Financial Services Commission.
t Comparatives Certain investment activities on the face of the consolidated cash flow statement have been reclassified as operating activities to better reflect the nature of the business.
Certain other comparatives have been reclassified to conform to the current years presentation.
Critical Accounting Judgements, Estimates And Assumptions The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions in certain circumstances that affect reported amounts.
The judgements, estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are outlined below.
i Investments at fair value through profit or loss The Consolidated Group has a greater than 50% shareholding in certain entities see Note 15, where in the opinion of the Directors it is unable to govern the financial and operating policies of the entities by virtue of agreements with the other shareholder s. These entities are consequently not treated as subsidiaries, and instead they are accounted for as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, as set out in Note 2 b.
By virtue of the Companys status as an investment fund and the exemption provided by IAS 28.1 and IAS 31.1, investments in associates and joint ventures are designated upon initial recognition to be accounted for at fair value through profit or loss.
Fair values for those investments for which a market quote is not available are determined using the income approach which discounts the expected cash flows at the appropriate rate.
In determining the discount rate, regard is had to risk free rates, specific risks and the evidence of recent transactions.
The Directors have satisfied themselves that the PFI PPP P3 investments share the same investment characteristics and as such constitute a single asset class for IFRS 7 disclosure purposes.
The carrying amount of the PFI PPP P3 investments would be an estimated 11.2 million higher or 10.8 million lower 2010: 7.5 million higher or 7.2 million lower if the discount rate used in the discounted cash flow analysis were to differ by 25 basis points from that used in the fair value calculation.
The weighted average discount rate for the PFI PPP P3 portfolio as at 31 March 2011 was 8.7% 2010: 8.7%.
The carrying amount of the PFI PPP P3 investments would be an estimated 6.8 million higher or 6.5 million lower 2010: 6.0 million higher or 5.3 million lower if the inflation rate used in the discounted cash flow analysis were to differ by 25 basis points from that used in the fair value calculation.
The UK inflation rate assumed for all future periods from 31 March 2011 is 2.75% 2010: 2.75%.
The carrying amount of the PFI PPP P3 investments would be an estimated 2.8 million higher or 2.7 million lower 2010: 1.9 million higher or 2.0 million lower if the deposit rates used in the discounted cash flow analysis were to differ by 25 basis points from that used in the fair value calculation.
The UK deposit rates assumed for all future periods from 31 March 2011 were 1% to March 2013 and 4% thereafter 2010: 1% to March 2012 and 4.5% thereafter.
ii Finance receivables at fair value through profit or loss Fair values are determined using the income approach which discounts the expected cash flows at the appropriate rate.
The carrying amount of finance receivables would be an estimated 17.4 million higher or 16.8 million lower 2010: 14.4 million higher or 13.8 million lower if the discount rate used in the discounted cash flow analysis were to differ by 25 basis points from that used in the fair value calculation.
The discount rates at 31 March 2011 were between 5.2% and 6.6% 2010: between 5.4% and 6.8%.
Critical Accounting Judgements, Estimates And Assumptions continued iii IFRIC 12 Service concessions fall within the scope of IFRIC 12 where the grantor controls or regulates what services the operator must provide with the infrastructure, to whom it must provide them, and the price: and the grantor controls, through ownership, beneficial entitlement or otherwise, any significant residual interest in the infrastructure at the end of the service agreement.
Each subsidiary has been assessed to determine whether they fall within the scope of IFRIC 12.
Following this review it was determined that all eleven subsidiaries controlled at the year end, fall within this scope.
Service concessions are determined to be finance receivables where the operator has a contractual right to receive cash or another financial asset from or at the direction of the grantor.
Alternatively, service concessions are determined to be intangible assets to the extent the operator has a contractual right to charge users of the public services.
iv Intangible assets Intangible assets represent fair value of service concessions for operating subsidiary projects recognised on acquisition, which are primarily attributable to the service portion of the project contracts, and intangible assets recognised under IFRIC 12.
Fair values are determined using the income approach which discounts the expected cash flows attributable to the services portion of the service concessions acquired at an appropriate rate to arrive at fair values.
In determining the appropriate discount rate, regard is had to risk free rates and the specific risks of each project.
Financial Instruments Financial risk management Financial risk is managed by the group on an Investment basis, so for the purposes of this note, the group comprises the Company, its two wholly-owned Luxembourg subsidiaries HICL Infrastructure 1 SARL and HICL Infrastructure 2 SARL and the English Limited Partnership Infrastructure Investments Limited Partnership IILP, and is referred to as the Investment Group.
The objective of the Investment Groups financial risk management is to manage and control the risk exposures of its investment portfolio.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for overseeing the management of financial risks, however the review and management of financial risks are delegated to the Investment Adviser and the Operator of the Group which has documented procedures designed to identify, monitor and manage the financial risks to which the Investment Group is exposed.
This note presents information about the Groups exposure to financial risks, its objectives, policies and processes for managing risk and the Groups management of its financial resources.
The Investment Group owns a portfolio of investments predominantly in the subordinated loanstock and ordinary equity of project finance companies.
These companies are structured at the outset to minimise financial risks where possible, and the Investment Adviser and Operator primarily focus their risk management on the direct financial risks of acquiring and holding the portfolio, but continue to monitor the indirect financial risks of the underlying projects through representation, where appropriate, on the Boards of the project companies and the receipt of regular financial and operational performance reports.
Interest rate risk The Investment Group invests in subordinated loanstock of project companies, usually with fixed interest rate coupons.
Where floating rate debt is owned the primary risk is that the Consolidated Groups cash flows will be subject to variation depending upon changes to base interest rates.
The portfolios cash flows are continually monitored and reforecasted both over the near future five year time horizon and the long-term over whole period of projects concessions to analyse the cash flow returns from investments.
The Investment Group has made limited use of borrowings to finance the acquisition of investments and the forecasts are used to monitor the impact of changes in borrowing rates against cash flow returns from investments as increases in borrowing rates will reduce net interest margins.
The Groups policy is to ensure that interest rates are sufficiently hedged to protect the Groups net interest margins from significant fluctuations when entering into material medium long-term borrowings.
This includes engaging in interest rate swaps or other interest rate derivative contracts.
The Investment Group has an indirect exposure to changes in interest rates through its investment in project companies, which are financed by senior debt.
Senior debt financing of project companies is generally either through floating rate debt, fixed rate bonds or index linked bonds.
Where senior debt is floating rate, the projects typically have concession length hedging arrangements in place, which are monitored by the project companies managers, finance parties and boards of directors.
Floating rate debt is hedged using fixed floating interest rate swaps.
The finance costs in the income statement would be an estimated 8.4 million higher or 8.4 million lower 2010: 9.7 million higher or 9.7 million lower if the interest rates used in the fair value calculation of the interest rate swaps were to differ by 25 basis points.
H ICL A N N U A L R E P O R T & A C COU N T S 2011 59 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2011 4.
Financial Instruments continued Inflation risk The Groups project companies are generally structured so that contractual income and costs are either wholly or partially linked to specific inflation where possible to minimise the risks of mismatch between income and costs due to movements in inflation indexes.
The Investment Groups overall cashflows are estimated to partially vary with inflation and consequently the portfolio valuation will vary with inflation.
The effects of these inflation changes do not always immediately flow through to the Investment Groups cashflows, particularly where a projects loanstock debt carries a fixed coupon and the inflation changes flow through by way of changes to dividends in future periods.
The sensitivity of the portfolio valuation is shown in Note 3 i.
The finance costs in the income statement would be an estimated 6.4 million higher or 6.4 million lower 2010: 5.0 million higher or 5.0 million lower if the RPI rates used in the fair value calculation of the inflation swaps were to differ by 25 basis points.
Market risk Returns from the Investment Groups investments are affected by the price at which they are acquired.
The value of these investments will be a function of the discounted value of their expected future cash flows, and as such will vary with, inter alia, movements in interest rates, market prices and the competition for such assets.
Currency risk The projects in which the Group invests all conduct their business and pay interest, dividends and principal in sterling other than its investment in Dutch High Speed Rail project comprising 13.1% of investments at fair value, which conducts its business and pays its interest, dividends and principal in Euros and its investments in North-West Anthony Henday P3 and Kicking Horse Canyon P3 projects comprising 1.7% of investments at fair value, which conduct there business and pay interest, dividends and principal in Canadian dollars.
The Group monitors its foreign exchange exposures using its near term and long-term cash flow forecasts.
Its policy is to use foreign exchange hedging to provide protection to the level of sterling distributions that the Investment Group aims to pay over the medium term, where considered appropriate.
This may involve the use of forward exchange and other currency hedging contracts, as well as the use of Euro, Canadian and other currency denominated borrowings.
The Investment Group at 31 March 2011 hedged its currency exposure through forward sale of Euros and Canadian dollars.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty of the Group will be unable or unwilling to meet a commitment that it has entered into with the Group.
The Groups key direct counterparties are the project companies in which it makes investments.
The Investment Groups near term cash flow forecasts are used to monitor the timing of cash receipts from project counterparties.
Underlying the cash flow forecast are project company cash flow models, which are regularly updated by project companies and provided to the Operator, for the purposes of demonstrating the projects ability to pay interest and dividends based on a set of detailed assumptions.
Many of the Investment Groups investment and subsidiary entities generally receive revenue from government departments, and public sector or local authority clients.
Therefore a significant portion of the Groups investments revenue is with counterparties of good financial standing.
The Group is also reliant on the projects subcontractors continuing to perform their service delivery obligations such that revenues to projects are not disrupted.
The Investment Adviser has a subcontractor counterparty monitoring procedure in place.
The credit standing of subcontractors is reviewed, and the risk of default estimated for each significant counterparty position.
Monitoring is ongoing, and period end positions are reported to the Board on a quarterly basis.
The Investment Groups largest credit risk exposure to a project at 31 March was to the Home Office project 14% of portfolio by value and the largest subcontractor counterparty risk exposure was to subsidiaries of the Bouygues group which provided facilities management services in respect of 21% of the portfolio by value.
The Consolidated Group is subject to credit risk on its loans, receivables, cash and deposits.
The Consolidated Groups cash and deposits are held with a variety of well known banks.
The credit quality of loans and receivables within the investment portfolio is based on the financial performance of the individual portfolio companies.
For those assets that are not past due, it is believed that the risk of default is small and capital repayments and interest payments will be made in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions of the investment.
Fair value adjustments, or loan impairments, are made when the net present value of the future cash flows predicted to arise from the asset, discounted using the effective interest rate method, implies non-recovery of all or part of the Groups loan investment.
In these cases a loan impairment is recorded equal to the valuation shortfall.
As at 31 March 2011, the ageing of trade receivables past due but not impaired were as follows: 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 million million 3 to 6 months due 0.2 Over 6 months due 0.5 0.1 0.5 0.3 At 31 March 2011 there were no loans and other receivables considered past due or impaired 2010: nil for the Consolidated Group.
Financial Instruments continued Credit risk continued The Consolidated Groups maximum exposure to credit risk over financial assets is the carrying value of those assets in the balance sheet.
The Consolidated Group does not hold any collateral as security.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as these fall due.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will have sufficient financial resources and liquidity to meets its liabilities when due.
The Group ensures it maintains adequate reserves, banking facilities and reserve borrowing facilities by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
The Investment Groups investments are predominantly funded by share capital and medium term debt funding.
The Investment Groups investments are generally in private companies in which there is no listed market and therefore such investment would take time to realise and there is no assurance that the valuations placed on the investments would be achieved from any such sale process.
One of the Investment Groups investments is a loan to Kemble Water, which was repaid in full in April 2011.
The Investment Groups investments have borrowings which rank senior to the Investment Groups own investments into the companies.
This senior debt is structured such that, under normal operating conditions, it will be repaid within the expected life of the projects.
Debt raised by the investment companies from third parties is without recourse to the Investment Group.
The Investment Groups investments may include obligations to make future investment amounts.
These obligations will typically be supported by standby letters of credit, issued by the Investment Groups bankers in favour of the senior lenders to the investment companies.
Such subscription obligations are met from the Investment Groups cash resources when they fall due.
Such obligations totalled 47.0 million 2010: 8.3 million at the year end.
The Investment Group currently has a committed 200 million five year revolving bank facility expiring in December 2012 and is secured over all assets of the Consolidated Group.
The facility is of a sufficient size to meet the Investment Groups foreseeable funding requirements, and to provide significant headroom available to support acquisitions, should suitable opportunities be identified and executed.
The table below analyses the Consolidated Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts in the table are the contracted undiscounted cashflows including the impact of netting agreements.
Less than Between Between More than 31 March 2011 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years million million million million Bank borrowings 17.7 17.4 45.4 289.1 Trade and other payables 28.9 Interest on bank borrowings 22.9 21.8 59.2 172.1 Other loans and borrowings 11.8 10.7 35.1 220.6 Interest on other loans and borrowings 13.6 13.4 38.7 132.1 Other financial liabilities 16.7 13.2 18.566.6 Total 111.6 76.5 196.9 880.5 Less than Between Between More than 31 March 2010 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years million million million million Bank borrowings 16.6 17.8 93.2 304.9 Trade and other payables 20.9 Interest on bank borrowings 23.9 23.0 62.2 191.0 Other loans and borrowings 11.3 11.7 32.5 224.6 Interest on other loans and borrowings 13.5 13.4 38.8 143.3 Other financial liabilities 17.8 13.9 20.7 68.4 Total 104.0 79.8 247.4 932.2 H ICL A N N U A L R E P O R T & A C COU N T S 2011 61 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2011 4.
Financial Instruments continued Capital management The Investment Group utilises a 200 million revolving acquisition facility of which 153.3 million is undrawn at year end to fund acquisitions.
Further equity raisings are considered when debt drawings are at an appropriate level.
The proceeds from the share issues are used to repay debt or to fund future investment commitments.
The Investment Group makes prudent use of its leverage.
Under the Articles the Investment Groups outstanding borrowings, including any financial guarantees to support outstanding subscription obligations but excluding internal Investment Group borrowings of the Investment Groups underlying investments, are limited to 50% of the Adjusted Gross Asset Value of its investments and cash balances at any time.
The ratio of the Investment Groups debt to Adjusted Gross Asset Value at the end of the year was as follows: 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 million million Outstanding drawings Bank borrowings 3.1 Letter of credit facility 46.7 7.2 46.7 10.3 Adjusted Gross Asset Value Portfolio valuation 673.1 509.6 Cash and cash equivalents 54.7 12.8 727.8 522.4 Borrowing concentration 6.4% 2.0% From time to time the Investment Group issues its own shares on the market: the timing of these purchases depends on market prices.
In order to assist in the narrowing of any discount to the Net Asset Value at which the Ordinary Shares may trade from time to time, the Company may, at the sole discretion of the Directors: make market purchases of up to 14.99% p. a. of its issued Ordinary Shares: and make tender offers for the Ordinary Shares.
There were no changes in the Investment Groups approach to capital management during the year.
Fair value estimation The following summarises the significant methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments: Non-derivative financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques.
The Consolidated Group uses the income approach which discounts the expected cash flows attributable to each asset at an appropriate rate to arrive at fair values.
In determining the discount rate, regard is had to risk free rates, the specific risks of each investment and the evidence of recent transactions.
Derivative financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Consolidated Group is the current bid price.
Note 2 discloses the methods used in determining fair values on a specific asset liability basis.
Where applicable, further information about the assumptions used in determining fair value is disclosed in the notes specific to that asset or liability.
Financial Instruments continued Classification of financial instruments 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 million million Financial assets Designated at fair value through profit or loss Investment in Entity Investments 426.0 307.4 Operating Subsidiaries financial assets 779.1 788.6 Financial assets at fair value 1,205.1 1,096.0 Loans and receivables Trade and other receivables 15.7 12.1 Cash and cash equivalents 114.9 67.1 Financial assets at amortised cost 130.6 79.2 Financial liabilities Designated at fair value through profit or loss Other financial liabilities fair value of derivatives 82.8 84.9 Financial liabilities at fair value 82.8 84.9 At amortised cost Trade and other payables 28.9 20.9 Current tax payable 0.8 0.8 Loans and borrowings 647.7 660.1 Financial liabilities at amortised cost 677.4 681.8 The Directors believe that the carrying values of all financial instruments, except the fixed rate and RPI-linked bonds, are not materially different to their fair values.
See Note 21 for the comparison between fair values and the carrying values of the fixed rate and RPI-linked bonds.
Secured bank and bond borrowings totalling 623.6 million 2010: 642.3 million are secured by fixed and or floating charges over the Consolidated Groups financial assets.
The terms of these charges are generally of a form that are usual and customary to project finance borrowing and lending activities.
Fair value hierarchy The fair value hierarchy is defined as follows: Level 1: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
As at 31 March 2011 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total million million million million Investments at fair value through profit or loss Note 15 29.7 396.3 426.0 Finance receivables at fair value through profit or loss Note 17 779.1 779.1 29.7 1,175.4 1,205.1 Other financial liabilities fair value of derivatives Note 22 82.8 82.8 82.8 82.8 H ICL A N N U A L R E P O R T & A C COU N T S 2011 63 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2011 4.
Financial Instruments continued Fair value hierarchy continued As at 31 March 2010 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total million million million million Investments at fair value through profit or loss Note 15 24.8 282.6 307.4 Finance receivables at fair value through profit or loss Note 17 788.6 788.6 24.8 1,071.2 1,096.0 Other financial liabilities fair value of derivatives Note 22 84.9 84.9 84.9 84.9 There were no transfers between Level 1 and 2 during the year.
Reconciliations of Level 3 assets from beginning balances to the ending balances, disclosing separately changes during the year are disclosed in notes 15 and 17 respectively.
Sensitivity analyses disclosing the effect of different economic assumptions on the fair value of the Level 3 assets are disclosed in Note 3.
Services Revenue For year ended For year ended 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 million million Service revenue 89.2 81.3 Construction revenue 31.2 19.8 Other revenue 0.8 1.5 121.2 102.6 Revenue from 5 customers which each represent more than 10% of the Groups total revenues provide approximately 101.2 million 2010: 90.2 million of revenue.
The Group has treated each Government entity and or department as a separate customer.
All services revenue is derived from customers domiciled in the United Kingdom.
Construction revenue includes 27.7 million 2010: 16.3 million of capital variations funded by the Ministry of Defence and shareholders on the Helicopter Training project.
Gains Loss on Investments For the year ended For the year ended 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 Revenue Capital Total Revenue Capital Total million million million million million million Interest from investments 18.8 18.8 14.8 14.8 Dividend income from investments 5.8 5.8 5.5 5.5 Fees and other operating income 1.5 1.5 1.3 1.3 Gains loss on valuation Note 15 9.7 9.7 2.3 2.3 26.1 9.7 35.8 21.6 2.3 19.3 Included within the loss on valuation in 2010 is an unrealised exchange loss of 0.1 million on the Consolidated Groups Euro borrowings.
The Consolidated Group had no overseas borrowing at the year end.
The following exchange rates were used at the year end: 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 Euro 0.89 0.89 Canadian 0.64 n a 64 H ICL A N N U A L R E P O R T & A C COU N T S 2011 7.
Services Costs For year ended For year ended 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 million million Service and construction costs 93.6 76.9 Amortisation of intangibles see Note 14 8.6 8.3 Other costs 3.6 3.9 105.8 89.1 8.
Administrative Expenses For year ended For year ended 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 million million Fees payable to the Consolidated Groups auditors for the audit of the Consolidated Group accounts 0.1 0.1 Fees payable to the Consolidated Groups auditors and its associates for other services: The audit of the Companys Operating Subsidiaries and other audit related services 0.2 0.3 Taxation advisory services 0.1 0.1 Management fees 1.1 1.1 Operator fees Note 24 6.55.2 Investment fees Note 24 1.6 0.8 Directors fees Note 24 0.2 0.1 Professional fees 0.6 0.5 Project bid costs 0.3 0.8 Other costs 1.1 1.0 11.8 10.0 In addition to the above an amount of 0.2 million 2010: 0.2 million was paid to associates of the Consolidated Groups auditors in respect of audit and tax services provided to Entity Investments and therefore not included within consolidated administrative expenses.
The Consolidated Group had no employees during the year.
Net Finance Costs For the year ended For the year ended 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 Revenue Capital Total Revenue Capital Total million million million million million million Interest expense: Interest on bank loans and overdrafts 26.8 26.8 23.9 23.9 Interest and indexation on other loans 21.6 21.6 9.4 9.4 Other finance costs 2.7 2.7 2.3 2.3 Total finance costs 51.1 51.1 35.6 35.6 Interest income: Interest on bank deposits 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.3 Other finance income 0.7 0.7 3.2 3.2 Change in fair value of interest and inflation rate swaps 1.7 1.7 0.8 0.8 Total finance income 0.4 2.4 2.8 0.3 4.0 4.3 Net finance costs income 50.7 2.4 48.3 35.3 4.0 31.3 H ICL A N N U A L R E P O R T & A C COU N T S 2011 65 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2011 10.
Income Tax Under the current system of taxation in Guernsey, the Company itself is exempt from paying taxes on income, profits or capital gains.
Therefore, income from investments is not subject to any further tax in Guernsey, although these investments will bear tax in the individual jurisdictions in which they operate.
The Companys Operating Subsidiaries are UK based and as a consequence are bound by UK tax legislation.
Operating Subsidiaries in the UK have provided for UK corporation tax at the rate of 28% for current tax liabilities 2010: 28% and 26% for deferred tax assets and liabilities 2010: 28%.
Changes in overseas tax rates Finance no.
2 Act 2010 enacted the reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 28% to 27% with effect from April 2011.
In addition, the UK Government announced three further annual 1% cuts to reduce the rate to 24% from April 2014.
At the 2011 Budget on 23 March 2011 the UK Government announced that the corporation tax rate would instead reduce to 26% from April 2011 with three further annual 1% cuts to 23% by April 2014.
Other than the enacted change to 26%, the effects of the announced changes are not reflected in the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 as they have not yet been enacted however the impact would be a reduction in deferred tax assets and liabilities.
Income Tax Expense For year ended For year ended 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 million million Foreign current tax: Foreign corporation tax on profits for the year 0.8 1.2 Total current tax expense 0.8 1.2 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences Note 10d 9.1 4.4 Total income tax credit in the income statement Note 10b 8.3 3.2 The income tax credit in the year of 8.3 million 2010: 3.2 million is due to movements in deferred tax.
The main component of the deferred tax movement arises from a reduction in the UK corporation tax rate of 26% which has led to a re-measurement of the Consolidated Groups deferred tax asset and liability.
The effect has resulted in a reduction in the deferred tax asset and liability and a corresponding tax credit.
Further analysis of deferred tax movements recognised in the consolidated income statement is detailed in Note 10d.
Reconciliation of Effective Tax Rate For year ended For year ended 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 million million Profit before taxation 38.3 7.7 Expected tax on profit at 0% 2010: 0% Different tax rates applied in overseas jurisdictions 7.5 2.0 Tax losses recognised 0.8 1.2 Total income tax credit for the year 8.3 3.2 66 H ICL A N N U A L R E P O R T & A C COU N T S 2011 10c.
Recognised Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: As at 31 March 2011 As at 31 March 2010 Assets Liabilities Net Assets Liabilities Net million million million million million million Finance receivables at fair value through profit or loss 0.5 22.4 21.9 0.2 21.3 21.1 Intangible assets 43.2 43.2 49.0 49.0 Subordinated debt 8.2 0.6 7.6 10.1 1.5 8.6 Other financial liabilities fair value of derivatives 20.9 12.6 8.3 22.6 15.3 7.3 Tax losses 4.6 4.6 3.8 3.8 Carrying value of finance receivable on acquisition where there is no available tax deduction 26.1 26.1 29.5 29.5 Other 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 Net assets liabilities 34.3 104.9 70.6 36.7 116.4 79.7 10d.
Deferred Tax Movements For the year ended 31 March 2011 Acquired in Recognised Opening business in profit Closing balance combination or loss balance million million million million Finance receivables at fair value through profit or loss 21.1 0.8 21.9 Intangible assets 49.0 5.8 43.2 Subordinated debt 8.6 1.0 7.6 Other financial liabilities fair value of derivatives 7.3 1.0 8.3 Tax losses 3.8 0.8 4.6 Carrying value of finance receivable on acquisition where there is no available tax deduction 29.5 3.4 26.1 Other 0.2 0.1 0.1 79.7 9.1 70.6 For the year ended 31 March 2010 Acquired in Recognised Opening business in profit Closing balance combination or loss balance million million million million Finance receivables at fair value through profit or loss 14.9 15.7 9.5 21.1 Intangible assets 48.5 2.8 2.3 49.0 Subordinated debt 7.3 1.9 0.6 8.6 Other financial liabilities fair value of derivatives 10.2 4.2 7.1 7.3 Tax losses 5.0 1.2 3.8 Carrying value of finance receivable on acquisition where there is no available tax deduction 27.6 3.2 1.3 29.5 Other 0.2 0.2 68.5 15.6 4.4 79.7 H ICL A N N U A L R E P O R T & A C COU N T S 2011 67 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2011 11.
Earnings per Share and Diluted Earnings per Share Basic and diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
2011 2010 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company 45.2 million 6.0 million Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 504.5 million 379.5 million Basic and diluted earnings per share 9.0 pence 1.6 pence The denominator for the purposes of calculating both basic and diluted earnings per share are the same as the Company had not issued any share options or other instruments that would cause dilution.
2011 2010 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue In millions of shares Issued ordinary shares at 1 April 454.3 338.3 Effect of shares issued as a script dividend alternative 0.6 0.3 Effect of shares issued under the block listing 30.1 26.1 Effect of shares issued under the Placing and Offer for Subscription of C shares 19.5 14.8 Weighted average number of ordinary shares at 31 March 504.5 379.5 Further details of shares issued in the year are set out in Note 23.
Dividends For year ended For year ended 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 million million Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders during the year: Second interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2010 of 3.35p 2009: 3.275p per share 15.2 11.0 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2011 of 3.275p 2010: 3.2p per share 16.3 12.0 31.5 23.0 Second interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2011 of 3.425p 2010: 3.35p per share 20.4 15.2 The second interim dividend was approved by the Board on 19 May 2011 and is payable by 30 June 2011 to shareholders on the register as at 27 May 2011.
The second interim dividend is payable to shareholders as a cash payment or alternatively as a scrip dividend.
The dividend has not been included as a liability at 31 March 2011.
The 2010 second interim distribution and the 2011 interim distribution are included in the statement of changes in shareholder equity.
For year ended For year ended For year ended For year ended For year ended 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 31 March 2008 31 March 2007 Interim dividend for the period ended September 3.275p 3.20p 3.125p 3.05p 2.875p Interim dividend for the period ended March 3.425p 3.35p 3.275p 3.20p 3.225p 6.7p 6.55p 6.4p 6.25p 6.1p 13.
Net Assets The calculation of net assets per share is based on shareholders equity of 657.0 million as at 31 March 2011 2010: 486.6 million and 595.1 million 2010: 454.3 million ordinary shares in issue at that date.
Intangible Assets 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 million million Cost Opening balance 189.5 179.5 Acquisition through business combinations 10.0 Balance as at 31 March 189.5 189.5 Amortisation Opening balance 18.9 10.6 Amortisation for the year 8.6 8.3 Balance as at 31 March 27.5 18.9 Carrying amounts At 31 March 162.0 170.6 Intangible assets represent the fair value of customer contracts for operating subsidiary projects recognised on acquisition, which are primarily attributable to the service portion of the project contracts, and intangible assets recognised under IFRIC 12.
See Note 3 iv for the methods and assumptions used in determining the fair values.
Intangibles are being amortised on a straight line basis over the forecast remaining life of the concessions concerned on acquisition of the subsidiaries range from between 11.5 and 30.5 years.
Amortisation of 8.6 million 2010: 8.3 million is included within service cost expenses in the consolidated income statement.
Investments at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 million million Opening balance 307.4 280.1 Investments in the year 106.3 60.1 Accrued interest 2.3 1.3 Repayments in the year 6.5 3.5 Subscription obligations 8.0 1.0 Gain loss on valuation 10.9 1.8 Investments consolidated during the year 25.8 Other movements 2.4 1.4 Carrying amount at year end 426.0 307.4 This is represented by: Less than one year 29.7 Greater than one year 396.3 307.4 Carrying amount at year end 426.0 307.4 Gain loss on valuation as above 10.9 1.8 Less: transaction costs incurred 1.2 0.5 Gain loss on investments 9.7 2.3 The losses have been included in Gains loss on investments presented in the consolidated income statement as capital items.
The Kemble Water junior loan, which is classified as Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy, had a gain in valuation of 4.9 million during the year 2010: 6.4 million.
The remaining investments were all classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
The Investment Adviser has carried out fair market valuations of the investments as at 31 March 2011.
The Directors have satisfied themselves as to the methodology used, the discount rates applied, and the valuation.
The Directors have also obtained an independent opinion from a third party, with considerable expertise in valuing these type of investments, supporting the reasonableness of the valuation.
The Kemble Water junior loan was valued on a market quote basis and the other investments, which are all investments in PFI PPP P3 projects, are valued using a discounted cashflow methodology.
The valuation techniques and methodologies have been applied consistently with the prior year.
Discount rates applied range from 8.4% to 10.0% weighed average of 8.7% 2010: 8.4% to 11.0% weighted average of 8.7%.
H ICL A N N U A L R E P O R T & A C COU N T S 2011 69 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2011 15.
Investments at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss continued The following economic assumptions were used in the discounted cashflow valuations: UK inflation rates 2.75% UK deposit interest rates 1% for 2 years to March 2013 and 4% thereafter Euro Sterling exchange rate 0.89 for all future periods Can$ Sterling exchange rate 0.64 for all future periods The economic assumptions for the year ended 31 March 2010 were as follows: UK inflation rates 2.75% UK deposit interest rates 1% for 2 years to March 2012 and 4.5% thereafter Euro Sterling exchange rate 0.89 for all future periods Investments are generally restricted on their ability to transfer funds to the Group under the terms of their senior funding arrangement for that investment.
Significant restrictions include: Historic and projected debt service and loan life cover ratios exceed a given threshold: Required cash reserve account levels are met: Senior lenders have agreed the current financial model that forecasts the economic performance of the project company: Project company is in compliance with the terms of its senior funding arrangements: and Senior lenders have approved the annual budget for the company.
Details of investments recognised at fair value through profit or loss were as follows: Percentage Holding 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 Subordinated Mezzanine Subordinated Mezzanine Investments project name Equity loanstock debt Equity loanstock debt Bishop Auckland Hospital 36.0% 36.0% 100.0% 36.0% 36.0% 100.0% Blackburn Hospital 50.0%50.0% 50.0%50.0% 1 Bradford Schools 34.0% 34.0% 34.0% 34.0% Colchester Garrison 42.0% 42.0% 42.0% 42.0% Darlington Schools 50.0%50.0% 50.0%50.0% Defence Sixth Form College 45.0% 45.0% 45.0% 45.0% Durham and Cleveland Firearms Training Centre 2 Dutch High Speed Rail Link 43.0% 43.0% 37.5% 37.5% Ealing Schools 50.0%50.0% 50.0%50.0% GMPA Police Stations Haverstock School 50.0%50.0% 50.0%50.0% Health & Safety Laboratory 80.0% 90.0% 80.0% 90.0% Health & Safety HQ 50.0%50.0% 50.0%50.0% 1 3 Helicopter Training Facility 21.8%59.0% 21.8%59.0% Highland Schools 50.0%50.0% 50.0%50.0% Kemble Water Junior Loan 3.6% 3.6% Kent Schools 50.0%50.0% 70 H ICL A N N U A L R E P O R T & A C COU N T S 2011 15.
Investments at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss continued Percentage Holding 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 Subordinated Mezzanine Subordinated Mezzanine Investments project name Equity loanstock debt Equity loanstock debt 4 Kicking Horse Canyon P3 50.0% 1 5 5 6 M80 Motorway DBFO 41.6% 41.6% MPA South East London Police Stations 50.0%50.0% 50.0%50.0% MPA Specialist Training Centre Newcastle Libraries 50.0%50.0% 50.0%50.0% North Tyneside Schools 50.0%50.0% 50.0%50.0% 1 4 6 North-West Anthony Henday P3 50.0%50.0% Oxford John Radcliffe Hospital 89.9% 100.0% 50.0%50.0% Pinnacle Schools, Fife 40.0% 40.0% 100.0% 40.0% 40.0% 100.0% Queen Alexandra Hospital 89.9% 100.0% Renfrewshire Schools 30.0% 30.0% 30.0% 30.0% Romford Hospital 50.0%50.0% 50.0%50.0% Sussex Custodial Centre 89.9% 100.0% 82.3% 82.3% Wooldale Centre 50.0%50.0% 50.0%50.0% 1 The Consolidated Group has future investment obligations totalling 47.0 million and its share of the projects capital commitments is 38.0 million.
2 The investment company is incorporated in the Netherlands.
3 The Consolidated Groups economic interest in the Helicopter Training project includes the above investment in CAE Aircrew Training Services Plc Op Co and the controlling interest in CVS Leasing Limited Asset Co see note 28.
4 The investment company is incorporated in Canada.
5 The Consolidated Group has put and call options to increase these interests to 49.9%.
There are no other future loanstock or capital commitments on other investments at fair value through the profit or loss.
Acquisition of Subsidiaries Year ended 31 March 2011 There were no acquisitions of subsidiaries during the year ended 31 March 2011.
Year ended 31 March 2010 During the prior year the Group acquired additional interests in the equity and loan stock of Durham and Cleveland Firearms Training Centre, GMPA Police Stations and MPA Specialist Training Centre.
The acquisitions took the groups economic interest in these four projects to 72.9% in each.
The total consideration paid in cash for the interests in these projects was 8.0 million.
The transaction cost for the three acquisitions was fide minimus.
Intangible assets represent the fair value of customer contracts for operating subsidiary projects recognised on acquisition, which are primarily attributable to the service portion of the project contracts, and intangible assets recognised under IFRIC 12.
Intangibles are amortised on a straight line basis over the remaining life of the concessions concerned.
H ICL A N N U A L R E P O R T & A C COU N T S 2011 71 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2011 16a.
Acquisition of Subsidiaries continued Durham and Cleveland Firearms Training Centre In November 2009 the Group acquired 22.9% of the equity and loan stock in the project bringing the total equity and loan stock interests to 72.9%.
The aggregate consideration paid for the interests in the project before the November acquisition was 1.3 million.
This project is a concession to design, construct, finance, operate and maintain a new firearms training facility for the Cleveland Police Authority, which became operational in 2001.
Book value Fair value Fair value at acquisition adjustments acquired million million million Finance receivables at fair value through profit or loss 6.7 2.2 8.9 Deferred tax assets 0.5 0.5 Cash and cash equivalents 1.5 1.5 Current liabilities 0.3 0.3 Deferred tax liabilities 1.8 0.5 2.3 Other non-current liabilities 5.9 1.8 7.7 Non-controlling interests 0.2 0.2 Net assets acquired 0.2 0.2 0.4 Goodwill Fair value of consideration for equity 0.4 Fair value of consideration for loan stock 1.4 1.8 Less: Carrying amount of investment previously held as fair value through profit or loss 1.2 Consideration paid for the remaining interests 0.6 Cash acquired 1.5 Net cash inflow 0.9 The finance receivable in the book value at acquisition under IFRS is valued at amortised cost rather than at fair value through profit or loss, and therefore there is a fair value adjustment to reflect the fair value acquired.
Acquisition of Subsidiaries continued GMPA Police Stations In November 2009 the Group acquired 22.9% of the equity and loan stock in the project bringing the total equity and loan stock interests to 72.9%.
The aggregate consideration paid for the interests in the project before the November acquisition was 14.1 million.
This project is a concession to design, construct, finance, operate and maintain a new traffic headquarters and 16 new police stations.
Book value Fair value Fair value at acquisition adjustments acquired million million million Intangible assets 4.4 4.4 Finance receivables at fair value through profit or loss 89.6 25.8 115.4 Deferred tax assets 4.0 4.0 Cash and cash equivalents 8.3 8.3 Other current assets 0.1 0.1 Current liabilities 3.8 3.8 Deferred tax liabilities 8.5 8.5 Other non-current liabilities 93.7 14.3 108.0 Non-controlling interests 3.2 3.2 Net assets acquired 0.5 8.2 8.7 Goodwill Fair value of consideration for equity 8.7 Fair value of consideration for loan stock 8.7 17.4 Less: Carrying amount of investment previously held as fair value through profit or loss 12.1 Consideration paid for the remaining interests 5.3 Cash acquired 8.3 Net cash inflow 3.0 The finance receivable in the book value at acquisition under IFRS is valued at amortised cost rather than at fair value through profit or loss, and therefore there is a fair value adjustment to reflect the fair value acquired.
H ICL A N N U A L R E P O R T & A C COU N T S 2011 73 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2011 16a.
Acquisition of Subsidiaries continued Metropolitan Police Specialist Training Centre In November 2009 the Group acquired 22.9% of the equity and loan stock in the project bringing the total equity and loan stock interests to 72.9%.
The aggregate consideration paid for the interests in the project before the November acquisition was 5.3 million.
This project involved a complete remodelling and refurbishment of the Metropolitan Polices existing training school, which was completed in 2003.
Book value Fair value Fair value at acquisition adjustments acquired million million million Intangible assets 5.55.5 Finance receivables at fair value through profit or loss 37.8 8.7 46.5 Deferred tax assets 1.6 1.6 Cash and cash equivalents 5.2 5.2 Other current assets 1.5 1.5 Current liabilities 2.3 2.3 Deferred tax liabilities 6.7 4.0 10.7 Other non-current liabilities 35.0 5.7 40.7 Non-controlling interests 1.8 1.8 Net assets acquired 0.5 4.3 4.8 Goodwill Fair value of consideration for equity 4.8 Fair value of consideration for loan stock 2.2 7.0 Less: Carrying amount of investment previously held as fair value through profit or loss 4.9 Consideration paid for the remaining interests 2.1 Cash acquired 5.2 Net cash inflow 3.1 The finance receivable in the book value at acquisition under IFRS is valued at amortised cost rather than at fair value through profit or loss, and therefore there is a fair value adjustment to reflect the fair value acquired.
If all the acquisitions had occurred on 1 April 2009, the estimated consolidated total income would have been 151.3 million and consolidated profit for the year would have been 11.6 million.
The aggregate loss in respect of the acquired subsidiaries was 2.1 million during the year.
Acquisition of Other Investments Year ended 31 March 2011 The Consolidated Group has acquired a greater than 50% shareholding in certain entities see Note 15, where in the opinion of the Directors it is unable to govern the financial and operating policies of the entities by virtue of agreements with the other shareholder s. These entities are consequently not treated as subsidiaries, and instead they are accounted for as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, as set out in Note 2 b.
In June 2010, the Group acquired a 74.9% interest in the equity and loanstock of The Hospital Company QAH Limited through the acquisition of a 74.9% interest in the investment holding company, The Hospital Company QAH Holdings Limited.
The total consideration paid in cash for the interest in this project was 46.4 million.
In September 2010, the Group acquired a further 7.55% equity interest and 17.65% loan note interest in the Sussex Custodial Services Limited, taking its total equity interest in the project to 89.9% and loan note interest to 100%.
The total consideration paid in cash for these interests was 1.1 million.
In November and December 2010, the Group acquired interests in two UK PFI and two Canadian P3 projects.
The consideration was 65.9 million, including deferred investment obligations of approximately 46.1 million at October 2010 exchange rates.
Acquisition of Other Investments continued The four interests are: a 50.0% interest in the equity and loanstock of Kent Education Partnership Limited through the acquisition of a 50.0% interest in the investment holding company, Kent Education Partnership Holdings Limited: a 41.6% indirect interest in the equity and loanstock of Highway Management Scotland Limited, currently under construction in Scotland, through the acquisition of a 41.6% interest in the investment holding company, Highway Management M80 Investment Management Limited.
Through the future exercise of options rights over the holdings of the other shareholders, this interest will increase to 49.9%: a 50.0% interest in the North-West Connect General Partnership, currently in construction in Alberta, Canada, through the acquisition of a 50.0% interest in the investment holding company, North-West Connect Holdings Inc: and a 50.0% interest in the Transpark Highway General Partnership in British Columbia, Canada, part of the Trans-Canada Highway through the acquisition of a 50.0% interest in the investment holding company, Transpark Highway Holding Inc.
In October 2010, the Group acquired a further 15.0% equity interest and 25.1% loan note interest in The Hospital Company QAH Limited, taking its total equity interest in the project to 89.9% and loan note interest to 100%.
The total consideration paid in cash for the incremental interest in this project was 13.4 million.
In October 2010, the Group acquired a further 39.9% equity interest and 50% loan note interest in The Hospital Company Oxford John Radcliffe Limited, taking its total equity interest in the project to 89.9% and loan note interest to 100%.
The total consideration paid in cash for the incremental interest in this project was 13.9 million.
In March 2011, the Group acquired a further 5.49% equity and loan note interest in Infraspeed BV, the Dutch High Speed Rail PPP project, taking its total equity and loan note interests in the project to 42.99%.
The total consideration paid in cash for the incremental interest in this project was 11.6 million 10.3 million.
Year ended 31 March 2010 In June 2009, the Group acquired a 30% interest in the equity and loanstock of The Renfrewshire Schools Partnerships Limited through the acquisition of a 30% interest in the investment holding company, RSP Holdings Limited.
The total consideration paid in cash for the interest in this project was 6.8 million.
In July 2009, the Group acquired a 50% interest in the equity and loanstock of Alpha Schools Highland Limited through the acquisition of a 50% interest in the investment holding company, Alpha Schools Highland Holdings Limited.
The total consideration paid in cash for the interest in this project was 16.8 million.
In September 2009, the Group acquired a 34% interest in the equity and loanstock of Integrated Bradford SPV Two Limited through the acquisition of a 34% interest in the investment holding company, Integrated Bradford Hold Co Two Limited.
The total consideration for the interest in this project was 7.4 million, the majority of which is a loanstock subscription obligation payable at the end of construction in 2011.
In December 2009, the Group acquired a 50% interest in the equity and loanstock of Catalyst Healthcare Romford Limited through the acquisition of a 50% interest in the investment holding company, Catalyst Healthcare Romford Holdings Limited.
The total consideration paid in cash for the interest in this project was 23.9 million.
In March 2010, the Group acquired a 50% interest in the equity and loanstock of Kajima Newcastle Library Limited through the acquisition of a 50% interest in the investment holding company, Kajima Newcastle Library Holdings Limited.
The total consideration paid in cash for the interest in this project was 3.0 million.
H ICL A N N U A L R E P O R T & A C COU N T S 2011 75 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2011 17.
Finance Receivables at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 million million Opening balance 788.6646.6 Acquisition of subsidiaries 170.8 Gain loss on valuation 6.6 19.3 Repayments in the year 17.4 13.6 Other movements 1.3 4.1 Carrying amount at year end 779.1 788.6 This is represented by: Less than one year 17.5 16.6 Greater than one year 761.6 772.0 Carrying amount at year end 779.1 788.6 The operating subsidiaries concession contracts with public sector bodies are considered as financial assets.
Gain in fair values of financial assets of 6.6 million for the year ended 31 March 2011 2010: 19.3 million loss, are separately disclosed in the consolidated income statement as a capital amount.
See Note 3 ii for the methods and assumptions used in determining the fair values.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of the financial assets in the balance sheet.
Interest income in relation to finance receivables of 40.6 million has been recognised in the consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 March 2011 as a revenue amount 2010: 35.5 million.
Trade and Other Receivables 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 million million Trade receivables 9.8 5.1 Other debtors 1.0 0.5 Prepayments and accrued income 4.9 6.5 15.7 12.1 19.
Cash and Cash Equivalents 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 million million Bank balances 34.5 39.5 Call deposits 80.4 27.6 Cash and cash equivalents 114.9 67.1 The effective interest rate on call deposits was between 0.3% and 1.0% 2010: between 0.3% and 0.9%.
The deposits had a maturity of between 7 and 338 days 2010: between 30 and 183 days.
Trade and Other Payables 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 million million Trade payables 7.6 4.4 Accruals 15.7 11.5 Other payables 5.65.0 28.9 20.9 76 H ICL A N N U A L R E P O R T & A C COU N T S 2011 21.
Loans and Borrowings 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 million million Non-current liabilities Bank borrowings 350.1 369.5 Subordinated debt 23.4 16.8 RPI-linked bonds 157.6 159.7 Fixed rate bond 85.2 84.5 616.3 630.5 Current liabilities Bank borrowings 19.4 18.6 Subordinated debt 0.7 1.0 RPI-linked bonds 11.3 10.0 31.4 29.6 Total loans and borrowings 647.7 660.1 Terms and debt repayment schedule The terms and conditions of outstanding loans are as follows: Weighted average effective Average year interest rate of maturity Carrying amount 2011 2010 million million Secured bank borrowings Operating Subsidiaries 5.9% 2025 369.5 386.3 Secured bank borrowings Partnership 5.8% 2012 1.8 Subordinated debt 12.9% 2021 24.1 17.8 RPI-linked bonds 6.0% 2030 168.9 169.7 Fixed rate bond 5.7% 2031 85.2 84.5 647.7 660.1 The interest rate profile for secured bank borrowings is floating.
This debt is hedged using fixed floating interest rate swaps.
The bonds have either fixed interest coupons or are RPI-linked bonds where the interest coupon varies with inflation.
The bonds are guaranteed by FSA UK Limited and Ambac Assurance UK Limited and are secured by a fixed and floating charge over the assets of the respective subsidiary companies.
The index-linked bonds are indexed annually and semi-annually using published RPI figures.
The index ratio uses a base index figure ranging from 173.3 to 174.5 and a numerator index figure that is published by the Office for National Statistics.
The fair value of all borrowings is deemed to reflect their carrying value, except fixed rate and RPI-linked bonds.
An analysis of fair values and carrying values of bonds is detailed below: 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair amount value amount value million million million million RPI-linked bonds 168.9 190.8 169.7 204.5 Fixed rate bond 85.2 94.1 84.5 91.4 254.1 284.9 254.2 295.9 The fair value of fixed rate and RPI-linked bonds has been determined on a market quote basis.
H ICL A N N U A L R E P O R T & A C COU N T S 2011 77 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2011 21.
Loans and Borrowings continued The currency profile of the Consolidated Groups loans and borrowings is as follows: 2011 2010 million million Pound Sterling 647.7 657.0 Euro 3.1 647.7 660.1 The exchange rate used as at 31 March 2010 to convert the Euro loan was 0.89.
The Consolidated Group has the following undrawn borrowing facilities at 31 March: 2011 2010 Floating rate million million Secured expiring within one year expiring between 1 and 2 years 153.3 expiring between 2 and 5 years 189.7 expiring after 5 years 8.0 8.0 161.3 197.7 Unsecured expiring within one year 161.3 197.7 The Operating Subsidiaries are required to meet certain bank covenants on its debt, the most significant of which are maintaining debt service cover ratios cash flows available for debt service as a ratio of debt servicing amounts above 1.05 and Loan Life Cover Ratio above 1.05.
There were no material events of non-compliance in the Operating Subsidiaries in the year.
The Company is also required to meet certain bank covenants on its debt, the most significant of which are maintaining a Forward and Historic Interest Cover Ratio above 1.15 and Gearing Ratio not greater than 1:1.
Other Financial Liabilities Fair Value of Derivatives 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 million million Non-current liabilities Interest rate swaps 56.4 63.5 Inflation swap 26.1 22.6 Forward foreign exchange contract 0.3 1.2 82.8 84.9 Financial liabilities have been fair valued in accordance with Note 2 d. The gain in fair value of interest and inflation rate swaps of 1.7 million for the year ended 31 March 2011 2010: gain 0.8 million is disclosed within finance income in the consolidated income statement as a capital amount see Note 9.
In order to manage exposure to movements in interest rates, project companies financed by floating rate debt swap their floating rate exposure for fixed rates using interest rate swaps.
The notional amounts of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts at 31 March 2011 were 444.7 million 2010: 438.4 million.
The notional amount of the outstanding inflation rate swap contracts at 31 March 2011 was 1.4 million 2010: 1.4 million.
Capital and Reserves Ordinary shares Management shares 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 million million million million On issue at 1 April 454.3 338.3 Issued for cash 139.0 115.0 Issued as a script dividend alternative 1.8 1.0 On issue at 31 March fully paid 595.1 454.3 The holders of the 595,139,454 ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company 2010: 454,301,314.
The 2 Management Shares of 0.01p each carry one vote each on a poll, do not carry any right to dividends and, in winding-up, rank only for a return of the amount of the paid-up capital on such shares after return of capital on Ordinary Shares and Nominal Shares.
The Management Shares are not redeemable and are accrued for and on behalf of a Guernsey charitable trust.
Share capital and share premium 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 million million Opening balance 234.0 106.5 Premium arising on issue of equity shares 159.0 129.3 Expenses of issue of equity shares 2.3 1.8 Balance at 31 March 390.7 234.0 Share capital is 59.5 thousand 2010: 45.4 thousand.
For the year ended 31 March 2011 On 30 June 2010 0.3 million new ordinary shares of 0.01p each fully paid in the Company were issued as a scrip dividend alternative in lieu of cash for the second interim dividend in respect of the year ending 31 March 2010.
On 31 December 20101.5 million new ordinary shares of 0.01p each fully paid in the Company were issued as a scrip dividend alternative in lieu of cash for the interim dividend in respect of the year ending 31 March 2011.
On 13 December 2010 the Company announced the results of its Placing and Offer for Subscription of C shares.
The Company raised 110.0m before expenses through the issue of 110,000,000 C shares at a price of 1.00 per C share, of which 56,739,235 C Shares were issued pursuant to the Open Offer, 2,769,811 C Shares were issued pursuant to the Offer for Subscription and 50,490,954 C Shares were issued by way of the Placing.
The C shares were converted to 97,350,000 ordinary shares and admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange on 17 January 2011.
In the year ending 31 March 2011 41.7 million new ordinary shares were issued to various institutional investors at an issue price per share before expenses ranging between 112.5p and 115.0p.
For the year ended 31 March 2010 On 30 June 2009 0.1 million new ordinary shares of 0.01p each fully paid in the Company were issued as a scrip dividend alternative in lieu of cash for the second interim dividend in respect of the year ending 31 March 2009.
On 31 December 20090.9 million new ordinary shares of 0.01p each fully paid in the Company were issued as a scrip dividend alternative in lieu of cash for the interim dividend in respect of the year ending 31 March 2010.
On 11 December 2009 the Company announced the results of its Placing and Offer for Subscription of C shares.
The Company raised 80.0m before expenses through the issue of 80,000,000 C shares at a price of 1.00 per C share, of which 19,838,594 C shares were issued pursuant to the offer for subscription and 60,161,406 C shares were issued by way of the placing.
The C shares were converted to 71,856,000 ordinary shares and admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange on 15 January 2010.
In the year ending 31 March 2010 43.1 million new ordinary shares were issued to various institutional investors at an issue price per share before expenses ranging between 109.9p and 115.75p.
Retained reserves Retained reserves comprise retained earnings and the balance of the share premium account, as detailed in the consolidated statements of changes in shareholders equity.
H ICL A N N U A L R E P O R T & A C COU N T S 2011 79 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2011 24.
Related Party Transactions The Investment Adviser to the Company and the Operator of a limited partnership through which the group holds its investments is InfraRed Capital Partners Limited IRCP.
At 31 March 2011 IRCP was a wholly owned subsidiary of HSBC Group.
Since year end IRCPs ownership changed as outlined in Note 26.
IRCPs appointment as Investment Adviser is governed by an Investment Advisory Agreement which may be terminated after an initial four year term, starting in February 2006, by either party giving one years written notice.
The appointment may also be terminated if IRCPs appointment as Operator is terminated.
The Investment Adviser is entitled to a fee of 0.1 million p. a. disclosed within investment fees in Note 8 2010: 0.1 million, payable half-yearly in arrears and which is subject to review, from time to time, by the Company.
IRCP has been appointed as the Operator of Infrastructure Investments Limited Partnership by the General Partner of the Partnership, Infrastructure Investments General Partner Limited, a sister subsidiary of IRCP.
The Operator and the General Partner may each terminate the appointment of the Operator by either party giving one years written notice.
Either the Operator or the General Partner may terminate the appointment of the Operator by written notice if the Investment Advisory Agreement is terminated in accordance with its terms.
The General Partners appointment does not have a fixed term, however if IRCP ceases to be the Operator, the Company has the option to buy the entire share capital of the General Partner and IRCP Group has the option to sell the entire share capital of the General Partner to the Company, in both cases for nominal consideration.
The Directors consider the value of the option to be insignificant.
In aggregate IRCP and the General Partner are entitled to fees and or profit share equal to: i 1.1 per cent p. a. of the adjusted gross asset value of all investments of the group that are not in either their construction or ramp-up phases up to 750 million and 1.0 per cent p. a. for the incremental value in excess of 750 million: ii 1.5 per cent p. a. of investments of the group that are in either their construction or ramp-up phases, excluding investments acquired with the acquisition of the initial portfolio the ramp-up phase of an investment means the period following completion of a projects construction phase during which it is building up to be fully operational with full service provision : and iii 1.0 per cent of the value of new portfolio investments, that are not sourced from entities, funds or holdings managed by the IRCP Group.
The total Operator fees charged to the Income Statement was 6.5 million 2010: 5.2 million of which 3.6 million remained payable at year end 2010: 2.7 million.
The total charge for new portfolio investments disclosed within investment fees in Note 8 was 1.5 million 2010: 0.7 million of which 1.0 million remained payable at year end 2010: 0.3 million.
Transactions during the year The following summarises the transactions between the Consolidated Group and its associates in the year: Transactions Balance Year ended Year ended 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 million million million million Loanstock investments 66.1 29.1 285.2 199.9 Loanstock repayments 2.5 2.1 Equity investments 47.0 21.6 152.9 84.1 Equity repayments 4.0 1.3 Outstanding subscription obligations Loanstock interest 18.8 14.8 10.8 10.9 Dividends received 5.8 5.4 Fees and other income 1.5 1.3 At 31 March 2011 the Consolidated Group had total cash holdings with HSBC Bank plc of 81.4 million 2010: 34.5 million.
Total interest income earned from cash holdings held with HSBC Bank plc for the year was 0.1 million 2010: 0.2 million.
The Consolidated Group paid nil 2010: 0.1 million to HSBC Insurance Brokers Limited in the year for premiums in respect of Directors and Officers liability insurance.
The Consolidated Group entered into Euro and Canadian dollar to Sterling sale and forward sale agreements with HSBC Bank plc during the year.
Net payments received in respect of these agreements were 1.4 million 2010: 1.5 million paid, and as at 31 March 2011 the mark to market of the outstanding Euro and Canadian sale agreements was a 0.3 million liability 2010: 1.2 million asset.
The Directors of the Consolidated Group, who are considered to be key management, received fees for their services.
Further details are provided in the Report of the Directors on page 36.
Directors expenses of 10,634 2010: 3,982 were also paid in the year.
All of the above transactions were undertaken on an arms length basis.
Guarantees and Other Commitments As at 31 March 2011 the Consolidated Group had 47.0 million in commitments for future project investments 2010: 8.3 million and 20.3 million in capital commitments 2010: 12.3 million.
Events after Balance Sheet Date On 11 April 2011, the Group received 30 million from its investment in the Kemble Water junior loan which was fully repaid at par.
The 30 million proceeds received compares with the valuation of the investment in the Groups portfolio as at 31 March 2011 of 29.7 million.
The Company will seek to invest the proceeds of the repayment as and when suitable acquisition opportunities arise.
On 30 April 2011, HSBC Group successfully completed the majority sale of its infrastructure and real estate fund management business, of which the Investment Adviser is part, to the businesses senior management.
The Companys Investment Advisor changed its name to InfraRed Capital Partners Limited formerly HSBC Specialist Fund Management Limited.
On 23 May 2011 the Group completed the acquisition of three school PFI projects from subsidiaries of Kier Group plc and Dexia SA for a consideration of 17.2 million.
The interests acquired are 75% of the equity and loan note interests in both Norwich and Oldham Schools and 37.5% of the equity and loan note interests in Sheffield Schools.
There were no other events after the balance sheet date, which are required to be disclosed.
Disclosure Service Concession Arrangements The Group holds investments in 37 service concession arrangements in the Accommodation, Education, Health, Transport and Law and Order sectors.
The concessions vary on the required obligations but typically require the financing and operation of an asset during the concession period.
As at 31 March 2011 34 of the service concessions were fully operational.
The rights of both the concession provider and concession operator are stated within the specific project agreement.
The standard rights of the provider to terminate the project include poor performance and in the event of force majeure.
The operators rights to terminate include the failure of the provider to make payment under the agreement, a material breach of contract and relevant changes of law which would render it impossible for the service company to fulfil its requirements.
H ICL A N N U A L R E P O R T & A C COU N T S 2011 81 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2011 27.
Disclosure Service Concession Arrangements continued Project Short description of Number Project Key concession arrangements Start date End date of years Capex subcontractors Barnet Hospital Design, construct, operate and maintain 1999 2032 33 65m Ecovert South Ltd the re-building of Barnet General Hospital Compass Contract in North London for the Wellhouse Services UK Ltd National Health Service Trust.
Bishop Auckland Design, construct, finance, service and 1999 2062 60 with 66m ISS Mediclean Ltd Hospital maintain a redevelopment of Bishop break Auckland General Hospital, County clause Durham for South Durham Health option by Care NHS Trust.
Grantor at Year 30, 40 & 50 Blackburn Design, construct, finance and maintain 2003 2041 38 100m Haden Building Hospital new facilities at the Queens Park Hospital Management in Blackburn for the East Lancashire Hospitals NHS Trust.
Bradford Schools Design, construct, finance and maintain 2009 2036 27 175m Amey Communities four secondary schools for Bradford Metropolitan District Council.
Central Middlesex Design, construct, finance and maintain 2003 2036 33 75m Ecovert FM Ltd Hospital new hospital facilities, and to refurbish some existing facilities, for the Brent Emergency Care and Diagnostic Centre on the Central Middlesex Hospital site in North West London.
Colchester Design, construct, finance and maintain a 2004 2039 35550m Sodexo Defence Garrison new garrison facility at Colchester, Essex for Services Ltd The Secretary of State for Defence.
WS Watkins Facilities Management Ltd Conwy Schools Design, build, operate and maintain three 2003 2030 27 40m Sodexo Education schools for Conwy County Borough Council Services Ltd in North Wales.
Cleveland and Construction of a state of the art firearms and 2000 2026 266m John Laing Integrated Durham Police tactical training centre at Urlay Nook in the Services Ltd Tactical Training North of England.
Construction completed Centre successfully in March 2002.
Darlington Darlington Schools is a four-school education 2004 2031 27 31m Mitie PFI Ltd Schools PFM project consisting of an Education Village which brought together three existing schools and one primary school.
The facilities became available on a phased basis in 2005 and 2006 Defence 6th Form Design, build, operate, finance and maintaining 2003 2033 30 40m TQ Education and College a new residential sixth form college for the Training Ltd Secretary of State for Defence.
Interserve Defence Ltd Dutch High Design, construct, finance, operate and 2001 2031 30 625m Siemens Nederland By Speed Rail maintain one of the largest high speed Koninklijke BAM NBM NV railway projects in Europe to date.
Fluor Infrastructure BV Ealing Schools Ealing Schools is a four-school education 2004 2031 27 31m Mitie PFI Ltd PFI project consisting of one secondary school and three primary schools in the London Borough of Ealing.
The schools became operational in 2004.
Disclosure Service Concession Arrangements continued Project Short description of Number Project Key concession arrangements Start date End date of years Capex subcontractors Exeter Crown Build and service a new crown and county 2002 2034 32 20m Sodexo Ltd Court court building in Exeter.
Fife Schools The facility involved the construction of 3 new 2001 2028 27 40m Sodexo Ltd schools and a sports hall, all of which have been constructed successfully and are now fully operational.
GMPA Police Construction of 17 police stations on 16 sites 2002 2030 28 82m John Laing Integrated Stations around Greater Manchester.
Construction of all Services Ltd stations were complete by September 2006.
Haverstock School Haverstock is a single school education PFI 2003 2030 27 21m Mitie PFI Ltd project consisting of a new secondary school on an existing school site on Haverstock Hill, Camden.
Phase 1 of the new school became operational in 2004 with subsequent phases handed over one year later.
Health & Safety HSE Merseyside HQ is an accommodation PFI 2002 2035 30 62m Honeywell Merseyside HQ project.
It is a four-storey office building that Control Systems serves as the HSEs operational headquarters Reliance Integrated and houses 1,500 employees.
The building Services Ltd became operational in 2005.
Health & Safety Building of new workshops and offices in Buxton 2002 2035 33 60m Interserve Facilities Laboratory and the disposal of old facilities at Sheffield.
Management Ltd Helicopter Design, construction, management, operation 1997 2037 40 with 100m Serco Ltd Training Facility and financing of a simulator based training break Vega Software facility for RAF helicopter pilots.
clause by Engineering Ltd Grantor at Year 20 Highland Schools Design, construction and operate eleven 2006 2037 30 143m Morrison Facilities urban and rural schools.
Services Home Office HQ Build, finance, operate and maintain a new 2002 2032 29 200m Ecovert FM ltd headquarters building to replace the Home Offices existing London office accommodation with purpose-built serviced offices.
Kicking Horse Upgrade, operate and maintain a section of 2008 2030 22 CAD$ HMC Services Inc Canyon highway in British Columbia.
Full availability 127m was completed in August 2007.
Kent Schools Design, build, funding and partial operation of 2007 2035 2695m Mitie PFI Ltd six schools in Kent under the UK Governments PFI programme.
Construction was completed in June 2007.
M80 Motorway Design, build, finance and operate a section 2011 2041 30 275m Bear Scotland Ltd of the M80 motorway in Scotland.
Final completion is scheduled for December 2011.
MPA Specialist Construction of a firearms and public order 2001 2028 27 40m John Laing Integrated Training Centre training facility in Gravesend, Kent for the Services Ltd Metropolitan Police Authority.
Construction was completed in February 2003.
H ICL A N N U A L R E P O R T & A C COU N T S 2011 83 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2011 27.
Disclosure Service Concession Arrangements continued Project Short description of Number Project Key concession arrangements Start date End date of years Capex subcontractors MPA SEL Police Construction of 4 police stations in South East 2001 2029 28 80m John Laing Integrated Stations London for the Metropolitan Police Authority.
Services Ltd Construction was completed in February 2004.
Newcastle Finance, develop, construct and operate a new 2007 2034 27 30m Integral UK Limited Libraries city centre library in Newcastle and an additional satellite library in High Heaton, both in the North East of the UK.
Construction was completed in March 2009.
North Tyneside North Tyneside Schools is a four-school education 2002 2034 32 30m Mitie PFI Ltd Schools PFI project consisting of one secondary school Burnside and three primary schools Western, Marine, Coquet in North Tyneside.
The schools became operational in 2003 2004.
North West Financing, building, maintaining and 2011 2041 30 CAD$ Carmacks Maintenance Anthony Henday rehabilitating the northwest leg of the Anthony 995m Services Ltd Henday Drive ring road in the City of Edmonton, Alberta.
Traffic availability is expected on or before November 2011.
Oxford John Design, construction, management, financing, 2003 2036 33 161m Carillion Services Ltd Radcliffe Hospital operation and maintenance of a new wing adjacent to the former Radcliffe Infirmary.
Construction was completed ahead of schedule in March 2001.
Portsmouth Design and construction of a new hospital 2005 2040 35255m Carillion Services Ltd Hospital and retained estates work in Portsmouth.
Construction was completed in June 2010.
Renfrewshire Design, construction, management, financing, 2005 2037 32 100m Amey BPO Services Ltd Schools operation and maintenance of six primary and four secondary schools in Renfrewshire, Scotland.
Romford Hospital Design, construction, management, financing, 2004 2040 36211m Sodexo Healthcare operation and maintenance of a new hospital Services Ltd in Romford.
Sodexo Services Ltd Bovis Lend Lease Ltd Stoke Mandeville Design, finance, construct, refurbish, operate 2004 2036 30 40m Sodexo Healthcare Hospital and maintain a new hospital facility for the Services Ltd Buckingham Hospitals NHS Trust.
Sussex Custodial Build and service three custody centres in 2001 2031 30 20m Reliance Task Centre Sussex for Sussex Police Authority.
The centres Management Ltd are at Worthing, Chichester and Brighton.
A fourth centre at Eastbourne was subsequently contracted for as a variation.
West Middlesex Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain 2001 2036 3560m Ecovert FM Ltd Hospital a new 228 bed hospital for West Middlesex University Hospital NHS Trust.
Wooldale Centre Wooldale Centre for Learning is an education PFI 2003 2029 2624m Mitie PFI Ltd for Learning project consisting of a Centre for Learning CfL comprising a secondary school with sixth form, public library, primary school and nursery on a large site in Northamptonshire.
The first phase of the CfL the primary school, library and part of the secondary school became operational in 2004.
Principal Subsidiaries Ownership Name Country interest HICL Infrastructure 1 SARL Luxembourg 100.0% HICL Infrastructure 2 SARL Luxembourg 100.0% HICL Infrastructure 3 SARL Luxembourg 100.0% HICL Infrastructure Canada Inc Canada 100.0% Infrastructure Investments Limited Partnership United Kingdom 100.0% Infrastructure Investments Holdings Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Infrastructure Investments Portsmouth Limited United Kingdom 100.0% AGP Holdings 1 Limited United Kingdom 100.0% AGP 2 Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Annes Gate Property PLC United Kingdom 100.0% ByCentral Holdings Limited United Kingdom 100.0% ByCentral Limited United Kingdom 100.0% ByWest Holdings Limited United Kingdom 100.0% ByWest Limited United Kingdom 100.0% CVS Leasing Limited United Kingdom 80.4% Enterprise Civic Buildings Holdings Limited United Kingdom 90.0% Enterprise Civic Buildings Limited United Kingdom 90.0% Enterprise Education Conwy Holdings Limited United Kingdom 90.0% Enterprise Education Conwy Limited United Kingdom 90.0% Enterprise Healthcare Holdings Limited United Kingdom 90.0% Enterprise Healthcare Limited United Kingdom 90.0% Metier Healthcare Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Metier Holdings Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Services Support Cleveland Holdings Limited United Kingdom 72.9% Services Support Cleveland Limited United Kingdom 72.9% Services Support Gravesend Holdings Limited United Kingdom 72.9% Services Support Gravesend Limited United Kingdom 72.9% Services Support Manchester Holdings Limited United Kingdom 72.9% Services Support Manchester Limited United Kingdom 72.9% Reporting date 31 December All the consolidated revenues and the material net assets of the subsidiaries above are derived from the United Kingdom.
