Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing this report and the financial Disclosure of Information to statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the Auditors The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 requires the Directors to Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are they have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by EU have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit and applicable law.
information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of Auditors the Company for that period.
KPMG Channel Islands Limited have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and a resolution proposing their In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: re-appointment will be submitted at the Annual General Meeting.
Select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: By order of the Board Make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Authorised signatory Dexion Capital Guernsey Ltd State whether applicable accounting standards have been Company Secretary followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 23 May 2011 explained in the financial statements: and Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Registered Office: unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 1 Le Truchot continue in business.
Guernsey St Peter Port The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records Channel Islands GY1 1WD which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Company Guernsey Law, 2008.
They have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report including a Business Review and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
Directors Responsibility Statement We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and Group included in the consolidation as a whole: and the Chairmans Statement and Report of the Directors include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and Group included in the consolidation taken as a whole together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
