Independent Auditors Report to the Members of HICL Infrastructure Company Limited We have audited the Group and Company financial statements the Opinion on Financial Statements financial statements of HICL Infrastructure Company Limited for In our opinion the financial statements: the year ended 31 March 2011 which comprise the Consolidated and Company Income Statements, the Consolidated and Company give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Company Statement of Companys affairs as at 31 March 2011 and of the Groups and Changes in Shareholders Equity, the Consolidated and Company Companys profit for the year then ended: Cash Flow Statements and the related notes.
The financial reporting are in accordance with International Financial Reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable Standards as adopted by the EU: and law and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by comply with the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008. the EU.
Matters on Which we are Required to This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in Report by Exception accordance with section 262 of the Companies Guernsey Law, We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where 2008.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companies Guernsey Law 2008 requires us to report to you the Companys members those matters we are required to state to if, in our opinion: them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility the Company has not kept proper accounting records, or to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we the financial statements are not in agreement with the have formed.
accounting records: or we have not received all the information and explanations, which Respective Responsibilities of Directors to the best of our knowledge and belief are necessary for the and Auditor purpose of our audit.
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 38, the directors are responsible for We have nothing to report with respect to the following: the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Code specified for our review.
Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements Steven D. Stormonth An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and For and on behalf of disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable KPMG Channel Islands Limited assurance that the financial statements are free from material Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditors misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an 20 New Street assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to St Peter Port the Groups and Companys circumstances and have been Guernsey consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness GY1 4AN of significant accounting estimates made by the Board of Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual 23 May 2011 Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
