HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Overview continued Principal activities Business and operating models Strategic direction Principal activities Our operating income is primarily derived from: net interest income interest income on HSBC is one of the largest banking and financial customer loans and advances, less interest services organisations in the world, with a market expense on interest bearing customer accounts capitalisation of US$136bn at 31 December 2011. and debt securities in issue: We are headquartered in London.
net fee income fee income earned from the Our products and services are delivered to provision of financial services and products to clients through four global businesses, Retail Banking customers of our global businesses: and and Wealth Management RBWM, Commercial Banking CMB, Global Banking and Markets net trading income income from trading GB&M, and Global Private Banking GPB.
activities primarily conducted in Global Markets, including Foreign Exchange, Credit, We operate through long-established businesses Rates and Equities trading.
and have an international network of some 7,200 offices in 85 countries and territories in six Operating model geographical regions: Europe, Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific, Middle East and North Africa HSBC has a matrix management structure which MENA, North America and Latin America.
includes global businesses, geographical regions and global functions.
Taken together, our five largest customers do not account for more than 1% of our income.
We Holding company have contractual and other arrangements with numerous third parties in support of our business HSBC Holdings plc, the holding company of the activities.
None of the arrangements is individually Group, has listings in London, Hong Kong, New considered to be essential to the business of the York, Paris and Bermuda.
HSBC Holdings is the Group.
primary provider of equity capital to its subsidiaries and provides non-equity capital to them where Following a Group-wide review of our necessary.
businesses, 16 disposals or closures were announced in 2011, and a further 3 in 2012.
The most Under authority delegated by the Board of significant of these were the sales of 195 retail HSBC Holdings, the Group Management Board branches, primarily in upstate New York, our US GMB is responsible for management and day-toCard and Retail Services portfolio and our day running of the Group.
The Board, together with businesses in Costa Rica, El Salvador and Honduras.
GMB, ensures that there are sufficient cash resources For further information on these disposals, see page to pay dividends to shareholders, interest to 380. bondholders, expenses and taxes.
There were no significant acquisitions during HSBC Holdings does not provide core funding the year.
to any subsidiary, is not a lender of last resort and does not carry out any banking business in its own Business and operating models right.
HSBC has a legal entity-based Group structure, sometimes referred to as subsidiarisation, Business model which underpins our strong balance sheet and helps We accept deposits and channel these deposits into generate a resilient stream of earnings.
lending activities, either directly or through the capital markets.
We also offer a range of products Global businesses and financial services including broking, Our four global businesses are responsible for underwriting and credit facilities, trade finance, developing, implementing and managing their credit cards, sales of insurance and investment business propositions consistently across the Group, products and funds under management.
These focusing on profitability and efficiency.
They set banking and financial services are provided to a wide their strategies within the confines of the Group range of clients including governments, large and strategy in liaison with the geographical regions, are mid-market corporates, small and medium-sized responsible for issuing planning guidance regarding enterprises SMEs, high net worth individuals, and their businesses, are accountable for their profit and mass affluent and retail customers.
loss performance and manage their headcount.
