Information on the scrip dividend scheme and currencies in which shareholders may elect to have the cash dividend paid will be sent to shareholders on or about 27 March 2012.
Interim dividends for 2012 The Board has adopted a policy of paying quarterly interim dividends on the ordinary shares.
Under this policy it is intended to have a pattern of three equal interim dividends with a variable fourth interim dividend.
It is envisaged that the first interim dividend in respect of 2012 will be US$0.09 per ordinary share.
Dividends are declared in US dollars and, at the election of the shareholder, paid in cash in one of, or in a combination of, US dollars, sterling and Hong Kong dollars, or, subject to the Boards determination that a scrip dividend is to be offered in respect of that dividend, may be satisfied in whole or in part by the issue of new shares in lieu of a cash dividend.
An informal meeting of shareholders will be held at 1 Queens Road Central, Hong Kong on Monday, 21 May 2012 at 4.30pm.
2 A Vote Withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the votes For and Against the resolution.
415 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information continued IMS and Interim Results Shareholder enquiries and communications Stock symbols Investor relations Information Interim Management Statements and Interim Results Interim Management Statements are expected to be issued on or around 8 May 2012 and 5 November 2012.
The Interim Results for the six months to 30 June 2012 are expected to be issued on 30 July 2012.
Shareholder enquiries and communications Enquiries Any enquiries relating to shareholdings on the share register, for example transfers of shares, change of name or address, lost share certificates or dividend cheques, should be sent to the Registrars at the address given below.
The Registrars offer an online facility, Investor Centre, which enables shareholders to manage their shareholding electronically.
Principal Register: Hong Kong Overseas Branch Register: Bermuda Overseas Branch Register: Computershare Investor Services PLC Computershare Hong Kong Investor Investors Relations Team The Pavilions Services Limited HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited th Bridgwater Road Rooms 1712-1716, 17 Floor 6 Front Street Bristol BS99 6ZZ Hopewell Centre Hamilton HM 11 United Kingdom 183 Queens Road East Bermuda Telephone: 44 0 870 702 0137 Hong Kong Telephone: 1 441 299 6737 Email via website: Telephone: 852 2862 8555 Email: www.
co. uk contactus Email: hsbc.
bm Investor Centre: Investor Centre: Investor Centre: www.
com investor bm Any enquiries relating to ADSs should be sent to the depositary: The Bank of New York Mellon PO Box 358516 Pittsburgh, PA 15252-8516 USA Telephone US : 1 877 283 5786 Telephone International : 1 201 680 6825 Email: shrrelations@bnymellon.
com shareowner Any enquiries relating to shares held through Euroclear France, the settlement and central depositary system for NYSE Euronext Paris, should be sent to the paying agent: HSBC France 103, avenue des Champs Elyses 75419 Paris Cedex 08 France Telephone: 33 1 40 70 22 56 Email: .
fr If you have been nominated to receive general shareholder communications directly from HSBC Holdings, it is important to remember that your main contact in terms of your investment remains as it was the registered shareholder, or perhaps custodian or broker, who administers the investment on your behalf.
Therefore any changes or queries relating to your personal details and holding including any administration thereof must continue to be directed to your existing contact at your investment manager or custodian.
HSBC Holdings cannot guarantee dealing with matters directed to it in error.
Further copies of this Annual Report and Accounts 2011 may be obtained by writing to the following departments: For those in Europe, the Middle East For those in Asia-Pacific: For those in the Americas: and Africa: Communications Communications Asia Employee Communications HSBC Holdings plc The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking HSBC North America 8 Canada Square Corporation Limited 26525 N Riverwoods Boulevard London E14 5HQ 1 Queens Road Central Mettawa, Illinois 60045 United Kingdom Hong Kong USA 416 Electronic communications Shareholders may at any time choose to receive corporate communications in printed form or to receive a notification of their availability on HSBCs website.
To receive future notifications of the availability of a corporate communication on HSBCs website by email, or revoke or amend an instruction to receive such notifications by email, go to www.
If you provide an email address to receive electronic communications from HSBC, we will also send notifications of your dividend entitlements by email.
If you received a notification of the availability of this document on HSBCs website and would like to receive a printed copy of it, or if you would like to receive future corporate communications in printed form, please write or send an email to the appropriate Registrars at the address given above.
Printed copies will be provided without charge.
Chinese translation A Chinese translation of this Annual Report and Accounts 2011 is available upon request after 27 March 2012 from the Registrars: Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited Computershare Investor Services PLC th Rooms 1712-1716, 17 Floor The Pavilions Hopewell Centre Bridgwater Road 183 Queens Road East Bristol BS99 6ZZ Hong Kong United Kingdom Please also contact the Registrars if you wish to receive Chinese translations of future documents or if you have received a Chinese translation of this document and do not wish to receive such translations in future.
Stock symbols HSBC Holdings ordinary shares trade under the following stock symbols: London Stock Exchange HSBA Euronext Paris HSB Hong Kong Stock Exchange 5 Bermuda Stock Exchange HSBC New York Stock Exchange ADS HBC Investor relations Enquiries relating to HSBCs strategy or operations may be directed to: Manager Investor Relations SVP Investor Relations Head of Investor Relations, Asia-Pacific HSBC Holdings plc HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 8 Canada Square 26525 N Riverwoods Boulevard Corporation Limited London E14 5HQ Mettawa, Illinois 60045 1 Queens Road Central United Kingdom USA Hong Kong Telephone: 44 0 20 7991 8041 1 224 544 4400 852 2822 4908 Facsimile: 44 0 845 587 0225 1 224 552 4400 852 3418 4469 Email: investorrelations@hsbc.
hk Where more information about HSBC is available This Annual Report and Accounts 2011, and other information on HSBC, may be viewed on HSBCs website: www.
Reports, statements and information that HSBC Holdings files with the Securities and Exchange Commission are available at www.
Investors can also request hard copies of these documents upon payment of a duplicating fee, by writing to the SEC at the Office of Investor Education and Advocacy, 100 F Street N. E. Washington, DC 20549-0123 or by emailing PublicInfo@sec.
Investors should call the Commission at 202 551 8090 if they require further assistance.
Investors may also obtain the reports and other information that HSBC Holdings files at www.
417 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information continued Simplified structure chart of HSBC Holdings plc Taxation of shares and dividends UK residents 418 Taxation of shares and dividends Information on the taxation consequences of the HSBC Holdings scrip dividends offered in lieu of the Taxation UK residents 2010 fourth interim dividend and the first, second and third interim dividends for 2011 was set out in The following is a summary, under current law, of the Secretarys letters to shareholders of 30 March, certain UK tax considerations that are likely to be 1 June, 31 August and 7 December 2011.
In no material to the ownership and disposition of case, was the difference between the cash dividend shares.
The summary does not purport to be foregone and the market value of the scrip dividend a comprehensive description of all the tax in excess of 15% of the market value.
Accordingly, considerations that may be relevant to a holder of the amount of the dividend income chargeable to shares.
In particular, the summary deals principally tax, and, the acquisition price of HSBC Holdings with shareholders who are resident solely in the UK US$0.50 ordinary shares the shares for UK for UK tax purposes and only with holders who hold capital gains tax purposes, was the cash dividend the shares as investments and who are the beneficial foregone.
owners of the shares, and does not address the tax treatment of certain classes of holders such as Taxation of capital gains dealers in securities.
Holders and prospective purchasers should consult their own advisers The computation of the capital gains tax liability regarding the tax consequences of an investment arising on disposals of shares in HSBC Holdings in shares in light of their particular circumstances, by shareholders subject to UK tax on capital gains including the effect of any national, state or local can be complex, partly depending on whether, for laws.
example, the shares were purchased since April 1991, acquired in 1991 in exchange for shares in Taxation of dividends The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, or acquired subsequent to 1991 in exchange Currently no tax is withheld from dividends paid by for shares in other companies.
However, dividends are paid with an associated tax credit which is available for set-off For capital gains tax purposes, the acquisition by certain shareholders against any liability they cost for ordinary shares is adjusted to take account may have to UK income tax.
Currently, the of subsequent rights and capitalisation issues.
Any associated tax credit is equivalent to 10% of the capital gain arising on a disposal by a UK company combined cash dividend and tax credit, i. e. one-ninth may also be adjusted to take account of indexation of the cash dividend.
If in doubt, shareholders are recommended to consult their professional advisers.
For individual shareholders who are resident in the UK for taxation purposes and liable to UK Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax income tax at the basic rate, no further UK income tax liability arises on the receipt of a dividend from Transfers of shares by a written instrument of HSBC Holdings.
Individual shareholders who are transfer generally will be subject to UK stamp duty liable to UK income tax at the higher rate or at the rate of 0.5% of the consideration paid for the additional rate are taxed on the combined amount of transfer, and such stamp duty is generally payable the dividend and the tax credit at the dividend upper by the transferee.
rate currently 32.5% and the dividend additional An agreement to transfer shares, or any interest rate currently 42.5%, respectively.
The tax credit is therein, normally will give rise to a charge to stamp available for set-off against the dividend upper rate duty reserve tax at the rate of 0.5% of the and the dividend additional rate liability.
However, provided an instrument of UK resident shareholders are not entitled to any tax transfer of the shares is executed pursuant to the credit repayment.
agreement and duly stamped before the date on Although non-UK resident shareholders are which the stamp duty reserve tax becomes payable, generally not entitled to any repayment of the tax under the current practice of UK HM Revenue and credit in respect of any UK dividend received, some Customs it will not be necessary to pay the stamp such shareholders may be so entitled under the duty reserve tax, nor to apply for such tax to be provisions of a double taxation agreement between cancelled.
Stamp duty reserve tax is generally their country of residence and the UK.
However, in payable by the transferee.
most cases no amount of the tax credit is, in practice, Paperless transfers of shares within CREST, the repayable.
UKs paperless share transfer system, are liable to 419 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information continued Taxation of shares and dividends US residents stamp duty reserve tax at the rate of 0.5% of the Taxation of dividends consideration.
In CREST transactions, the tax Currently no tax is withheld from dividends paid by is calculated and payment made automatically.
A US holder must include cash Deposits of shares into CREST generally will not be dividends paid on the shares or ADSs in ordinary subject to stamp duty reserve tax, unless the transfer income on the date that such holder or the ADS into CREST is itself for consideration.
Following the depositary receives them, translating dividends paid case HSBC pursued before the European Court of in UK pounds sterling into US dollars using the Justice Case C-569 07 HSBC Holdings plc and exchange rate in effect on the date of receipt.
A US Vidacos Nominees v The Commissioners for HM holder that elects to receive shares in lieu of a cash Revenue & Customs HMRC now accepts that the dividend must include in ordinary income the fair charge to stamp duty reserve tax at 1.5% on the issue market value of such shares on the dividend payment of shares to a depositary receipt issuer or a clearance date, and the tax basis of those shares will equal such service located within the European Union is fair market value.
Subject to certain exceptions for positions that Taxation US residents are held for less than 61 days or are hedged, and subject to a foreign corporation being considered a The following is a summary, under current law, of qualified foreign corporation which includes not the principal UK tax and US federal income tax being classified for US federal income tax purposes considerations that are likely to be material to the as a passive foreign investment company, certain ownership and disposition of shares or ADSs by a dividends qualified dividends received by an holder that is a resident of the US for US federal individual US holder before 2013 generally will be income tax purposes a US holder and who is not subject to US taxation at a maximum rate of 15%.
resident or ordinarily resident in the UK for UK tax Based on the companys audited financial statements purposes.
The summary does not purport to be a and relevant market and shareholder data, HSBC comprehensive description of all of the tax Holdings does not anticipate being classified as a considerations that may be relevant to a holder of passive foreign investment company.
In particular, the summary deals dividends paid on the shares or ADSs generally only with US holders that hold shares or ADSs as should be treated as qualified dividends.
capital assets, and does not address the tax treatment of holders that are subject to special tax rules, such Taxation of capital gains as banks, tax-exempt entities, insurance companies, dealers in securities or currencies, persons that hold Gains realised by a US holder on the sale or other shares or ADSs as part of an integrated investment disposition of shares or ADSs normally will not be including a straddle comprised of a share or ADS subject to UK taxation unless at the time of the sale and one or more other positions, and persons that or other disposition the holder carries on a trade, own, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the profession or vocation in the UK through a branch or voting stock of HSBC Holdings.
This discussion is agency or permanent establishment and the shares or based on laws, treaties, judicial decisions and ADSs are or have been used, held or acquired for the regulatory interpretations in effect on the date purposes of such trade, profession, vocation, branch hereof, all of which are subject to change.
Under the or agency or permanent establishment.
Such gains current income tax treaty between the UK and the will be included in income for US tax purposes, and US, US holders are no longer entitled to claim a will be long-term capital gains if the shares or ADSs special foreign tax credit in respect of dividends.
were held for more than one year.
A long-term capital gain realised by an individual holder before Holders and prospective purchasers should 2013 generally will be subject to US tax at a consult their own advisers regarding the tax maximum rate of 15%.
consequences of an investment in shares or ADSs in light of their particular circumstances, including Inheritance tax the effect of any national, state or local laws.
Shares or ADSs held by an individual whose Any US federal tax advice included in this domicile is determined to be the US for the purposes Annual Report is for informational purposes only: of the United States-United Kingdom Double it was not intended or written to be used, and cannot Taxation Convention relating to estate and gift taxes be used, for the purpose of avoiding US federal tax the Estate Tax Treaty and who is not for such penalties.
purposes a national of the UK will not, provided any US Federal estate or gift tax chargeable has been 420 paid, be subject to UK inheritance tax on the No stamp duty will be payable on the transfer individuals death or on a lifetime transfer of shares of, or agreement to transfer, an ADS, provided that or ADSs except in certain cases where the shares or the ADR and any separate instrument of transfer or ADSs i are comprised in a settlement unless, at the written agreement to transfer remain at all times time of the settlement, the settlor was domiciled in outside the UK, and provided further that any such the US and was not a national of the UK, ii is transfer or written agreement to transfer is not part of the business property of a UK permanent executed in the UK.
No stamp duty reserve tax will establishment of an enterprise, or iii pertains to be payable on a transfer of, or agreement to transfer, a UK fixed base of an individual used for the an ADS effected by the transfer of an ADR.
performance of independent personal services.
In such cases, the Estate Tax Treaty generally provides US backup withholding tax and information a credit against US Federal tax liability for the reporting amount of any tax paid in the UK in a case where the Distributions made on shares or ADSs and proceeds shares or ADSs are subject to both UK inheritance from the sale of shares or ADSs that are paid within tax and to US Federal estate or gift tax.
the US, or through certain financial intermediaries to US holders, are subject to information reporting and Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax may be subject to a US backup withholding tax ADSs unless, in general, the US holder complies with If shares are transferred to a clearance service or certain certification procedures or is a corporation or depository receipt ADR issuer located outside other person exempt from such withholding.
Holders the European Union which will include a transfer that are not US persons generally are not subject to of shares to the Depository UK stamp duty and or information reporting or backup withholding tax, stamp duty reserve tax will be payable.
The stamp but may be required to comply with applicable duty or stamp duty reserve tax is generally payable certification procedures to establish that they are not on the consideration for the transfer and is payable US persons in order to avoid the application of such at the aggregate rate of 1.5%.
information reporting requirements or backup withholding tax to payments received within the The amount of stamp duty reserve tax payable US or through certain financial intermediaries.
on such a transfer will be reduced by any stamp duty paid in connection with the same transfer.
421 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview
