Glossary Abbreviation Brief description A 1 ABS Asset-backed security ADR American Depositary Receipt ADS American Depositary Share Advance HSBC Advance, a global banking proposition for the mass-affluent segment of customers AIEA Average interest-earning assets ALCO Asset and Liability Management Committee AML Anti-money laundering ARM Adjustable-rate mortgage ATM Automated teller machine B Bao Viet BaoViet Holdings, an insurance and financial services company in Vietnam Barion Barion Funding Limited, a term funding vehicle Basel Committee Basel Committee on Banking Supervision Basel I 1988 Basel Capital Accord 1 Basel II 2006 Basel Capital Accord 1 Basel III Basel Committees reforms to strengthen global capital and liquidity rules BBA British Bankers Association BoCom Bank of Communications Co. Limited, mainland Chinas fourth largest bank by market capitalisation Bps Basis points.
One basis point is equal to one hundredth of a percentage point Brazilian operations HSBC Bank Brasil S. A. Banco Mltiplo and subsidiaries, plus HSBC Servios e Participaes Limitada C CARD Act Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility and Disclosure Act, US CD Certificate of deposit 1 CDS Credit default swap 1 CDO Collateralised debt obligation CDPC Credit derivative product companies CGU Cash-generating unit CMB Commercial Banking, a global business CML Consumer and Mortgage Lending portfolio in the US, comprising Consumer Lending and Mortgage Services business in run-off Consumer and Mortgage A portfolio of assets in run-off in the US derived from the Consumer Lending and Mortgage Services Lending Portfolio businesses 1 CP Commercial paper CPI Consumer price index 1 CRR Customer risk rating CVA Credit valuation adjustment D Dodd-Frank The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform & Consumer Protection Act DPF Discretionary participation feature of insurance and investment contracts DVA Debit valuation adjustment E EBA European Banking Authority EL Expected loss EPS Earnings per share EU European Union F Fannie Mae Federal National Mortgage Association, US Freddie Mac Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, US FSA Financial Services Authority UK FTSE Financial Times Stock Exchange index G G20 Leaders, Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors of the Group of Twenty GB&M Global Banking and Markets, a global business GDP Gross domestic product Ginnie Mae Government National Mortgage Association, US Global Markets HSBCs treasury and capital markets services in Global Banking and Markets GMB Group Management Board GPB Global Private Banking GPSP Group Performance Share Plan which is part of the HSBC Share Plan 2011 Group HSBC Holdings together with its subsidiary undertakings G-SIFI Global Systemically Important Financial Institution 423 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information continued Glossary Abbreviation Brief description H Hang Seng Bank Hang Seng Bank Limited, one of Hong Kongs largest banks 1 HELoC Home equity lines of credit HFC HFC Bank Limited, the UK-based consumer finance business acquired through the acquisition by HSBC of HSBC Finance HIBOR Hong Kong Interbank Offer Rate HNAH HSBC North American Holdings Inc. Hong Kong The Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the Peoples Republic of China HSBC HSBC Holdings together with its subsidiary undertakings HSBC Assurances HSBC Assurances, comprising Erisa S. A. the French life insurer, and Erisa I.
A. R. D. the property and casualty insurer together, formerly Erisa HSBC Bank HSBC Bank plc, formerly Midland Bank plc HSBC Bank Argentina HSBC Bank Argentina S. A. HSBC Bank Bermuda HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited formerly The Bank of Bermuda Limited HSBC Bank Malaysia HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad HSBC Bank Middle East HSBC Bank Middle East Limited, formerly The British Bank of the Middle East HSBC Bank USA HSBCs retail bank in the US, HSBC Bank USA, N. A. formerly HSBC Bank USA, Inc. HSBC Finance HSBC Finance Corporation, the US consumer finance company formerly Household International, Inc. HSBC France HSBCs French banking subsidiary, formerly CCF S. A. HSBC Holdings HSBC Holdings plc, the parent company of HSBC HSBC Mexico HSBC Mxico S. A. the commercial banking subsidiary of Grupo Financiero HSBC, S. A. fide C. V. HSBC Premier HSBCs premium global banking service HSBC Private Bank Suisse HSBC Private Bank Suisse S. A. HSBCs private bank in Switzerland I IAS International Accounting Standard IASB International Accounting Standards Board ICB Independent Commission on Banking IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRSs International Financial Reporting Standards Industrial Bank Industrial Bank Co. Limited, a national joint-stock bank in mainland China held by Hang Seng Bank IPO Initial public offering 1 IRB Internal ratings-based K KPI Key performance indicator KPMG KPMG Audit Plc and its affiliates L 1 LGD Loss given default LIBOR London Interbank Offer Rate LTV Loan to value ratio M Madoff Securities Bernard L Madoff Investment Securities LLC Mainland China Peoples Republic of China excluding Hong Kong Malachite Malachite Funding Limited, a term funding vehicle Mazarin Mazarin Funding Limited, an asset-backed CP conduit 1 MBS US mortgage-backed security 1 Monoline Monoline insurance company MSCI Morgan Stanley Capital International index N NYSE New York Stock Exchange O OFAC Office of Foreign Asset Control 1 OTC Over-the-counter P 1 PD Probability of default Performance Shares Awards of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under employee share plans that are subject to corporate performance conditions Ping An Ping An Insurance Group Company of China, Limited, the second-largest life insurer in the PRC PPI Payment protection insurance product PRC Peoples Republic of China Premier See HSBC Premier PVIF Present value of in-force long-term insurance business 424 Abbreviation Brief description R RBWM Retail Banking and Wealth Management, a global business Repo Sale and repurchase transaction Restricted Shares Awards of Restricted Shares define the number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares to which the employee will become entitled, generally between one and three years from the date of the award, and normally subject to the individual remaining in employment Reverse repo Security purchased under commitments to sell Risk Management Meeting The Risk Management Meeting of the Group Management Board RPI Retail price index UK RWA Risk-weighted asset S S&P Standard and Poors rating agency SEC Securities and Exchange Commission US SIC Securities investment conduit 1 SIV Structured investment vehicle SME Small and medium-sized enterprise Solitaire Solitaire Funding Limited, a special purpose entity managed by HSBC 1 Special purpose entity SPE T The Hongkong and Shanghai The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, the founding member of the HSBC Group Banking Corporation TSR Total shareholder return U UAE United Arab Emirates UK United Kingdom US United States of America US run-off portfolio Includes our CML, vehicle finance and Taxpayer Financial Services businesses and insurance, commercial, corporate and treasury activities in HSBC Finance on an IFRSs management basis V 1 VAR Value at risk Visa Visa Inc. 1 Full definition included in Glossary of Terms on page 431.
425 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information continued Glossary Term Definition A Adjustable-rate mortgages Mortgage loans in the US on which the interest rate is periodically changed based on a reference price.
ARMs These are included within affordability mortgages.
Affordability mortgages Mortgage loans where the customers monthly payments are set out at a low initial rate, either variable or fixed, before resetting to a higher rate once the introductory period is over.
Agency exposures Exposures to near or quasi-government agencies including public sector entities fully owned by government carrying out non-commercial activities, provincial and local government authorities, development banks and funds set up by government.
Alt-A A US description for loans regarded as lower risk than sub-prime, but with higher risk characteristics than lending under normal criteria.
Arrears Customers are said to be in arrears or in a state of delinquency when they are behind in fulfilling their obligations, with the result that an outstanding loan is unpaid or overdue.
When a customer is in arrears, the total outstanding loans on which payments are overdue are described as delinquent.
Asset-backed securities Securities that represent an interest in an underlying pool of referenced assets.
The referenced pool can ABSs comprise any assets which attract a set of associated cash flows but are commonly pools of residential or commercial mortgages.
B Back-testing A statistical technique used to monitor and assess the accuracy of a model, and how that model would have performed had it been applied in the past.
Bail-ininable debt Bail-in refers to imposition of losses at the point of non viability but before insolvency on bank liabilities bail-inable debt that are not exposed to losses while the institution remains a viable, going concern.
Whether by way of write-down or conversion into equity, this has the effect of recapitalising the bank although it does not provide any new funding.
Bank levy A levy that applies to UK banks, building societies and the UK operations of foreign banks from 1 January 2011.
The amount payable is based on a percentage of the groups consolidated liabilities and equity as at 31 December 2011 after deducting certain items the most material of which are those related to insured deposit balances, tier 1 capital, insurance liabilities, high quality liquid assets and items subject to a legally enforceable net settlement agreement.
Basel II The capital adequacy framework issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in June 2006 in the form of the International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards, amended by subsequent changes to the capital requirements for market risk and re-securitisations, commonly known as Basel 2.5, which took effect 31 December 2011.
Basel III In December 2010, the Basel Committee issued Basel III rules: A global regulatory framework for more resilient banks and banking systems and International framework for liquidity risk measurement, standards and monitoring.
Together these documents present the Basel Committees reforms to strengthen global capital and liquidity rules with the goal of promoting a more resilient banking sector.
In June 2011, the Basel Committee issued a revision to the former document setting out the finalised capital treatment for counterparty credit risk in bilateral trades.
The Basel III requirements will be phased in starting on 1 January 2013 with full implementation by 1 January 2019.
C Capital conservation buffer A capital buffer, prescribed by regulators under Basel III, and designed to ensure banks build up capital buffers outside periods of stress which can be drawn down as losses are incurred.
Should a banks capital levels fall within the capital conservation buffer range, capital distributions will be constrained by the regulators.
Capital planning buffer A capital buffer, prescribed by the FSA under Basel II, and designed to ensure banks build up capital buffers outside periods of stress which can be drawn down as losses are incurred.
Should a banks capital levels fall within the capital planning buffer range, a period of heightened regulatory interaction would be triggered.
Collateralised debt obligation A security issued by a third-party which references ABSs and or certain other related assets purchased by CDO the issuer.
CDOs may feature exposure to sub-prime mortgage assets through the underlying assets.
Collectively assessed Impairment assessment on a collective basis for homogeneous groups of loans that are not considered impairment individually significant and to cover losses which have been incurred but have not yet been identified on loans subject to individual assessment.
Commercial paper CP An unsecured, short-term debt instrument issued by a corporation, typically for the financing of accounts receivable, inventories and meeting short-term liabilities.
The debt is usually issued at a discount, reflecting prevailing market interest rates.
Commercial real estate Any real estate investment, comprising buildings or land, intended to generate a profit, either from capital gain or rental income.
Common equity tier 1 capital The highest quality form of regulatory capital under Basel III that comprises common shares issued and related share premium, retained earnings and other reserves excluding the cash flow hedging reserve, less specified regulatory adjustments.
426 Term Definition Conduits HSBC sponsors and manages multi-seller conduits and securities investment conduits SICs.
The multiseller conduits hold interests in diversified pools of third-party assets such as vehicle loans, trade receivables and credit card receivables funded through the issuance of short-dated commercial paper and supported by a liquidity facility.
The SICs hold predominantly asset-backed securities referencing such items as commercial and residential mortgages, vehicle loans and credit card receivables funded through the issuance of both long-term and short-term debt.
Constant net asset value fund A fund that prices its assets on an amortised cost basis, subject to the amortised book value of the portfolio remaining within 50 basis points of its market value.
Contractual maturities The date on which the final payment principal or interest of any financial instrument is due to be paid, at which point all the remaining outstanding principal and interest have been repaid.
Core tier 1 capital The highest quality form of regulatory capital that comprises total shareholders equity and related noncontrolling interests, less goodwill and intangible assets and certain other regulatory adjustments.
Countercyclical capital buffer A capital buffer, prescribed by regulators under Basel III, which aims to ensure that capital requirements take account of the macro-financial environment in which banks operate.
This will provide the banking sector with additional capital to protect it against potential future losses, when excess credit growth in the financial system as a whole is associated with an increase in system-wide risk.
Credit default swap A derivative contract whereby a buyer pays a fee to a seller in return for receiving a payment in the event of a defined credit event e. g. bankruptcy, payment default on a reference asset or assets, or downgrades by a rating agency on an underlying obligation which may or may not be held by the buyer.
Credit derivative product Independent companies that specialise in selling credit default protection on corporate exposures in the companies CDPCs form of credit derivatives.
Credit enhancements Facilities used to enhance the creditworthiness of financial obligations and cover losses due to asset default.
Credit risk Risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty fails to meet an obligation under a contract.
It arises mainly from direct lending, trade finance and leasing business, but also from products such as guarantees, derivatives and debt securities.
Credit valuation adjustment An adjustment to the valuation of OTC derivative contracts to reflect the creditworthiness of OTC derivative counterparties.
Formerly described as Credit Risk Adjustment.
Credit risk mitigation A technique to reduce the credit risk associated with an exposure by application of credit risk mitigants such as collateral, guarantee and credit protection.
Credit risk spread The premium over the benchmark or risk-free rate required by the market to accept a lower credit quality.
The yield spread between securities with the same coupon rate and maturity structure but with different associated credit risks.
The yield spread rises as the credit rating worsens.
Customer deposits Money deposited by account holders.
Such funds are recorded as liabilities.
Customer remediation Customer remediation refers to activities carried out by HSBC to compensate customers for losses or damages associated with a failure to comply with regulations.
Customer remediation is initiated by HSBC in response to customer complaints, and not specifically initiated by regulatory action.
Customer risk rating CRR A scale of 23 grades measuring internal obligor probability of default.
D Debit valuation adjustment An adjustment made by an entity to the valuation of OTC derivative liabilities to reflect within fair value the entitys own credit risk.
Debt restructuring A restructuring by which the terms and provisions of outstanding debt agreements are changed.
This is often done in order to improve cash flow and the ability of the borrower to repay the debt.
It can involve altering the repayment schedule as well as debt or interest charge reduction.
Debt securities Assets on the Groups balance sheet representing certificates of indebtedness of credit institutions, public bodies or other undertakings, excluding those issued by Central Banks.
Debt securities in issue Transferable certificates of indebtedness of the Group to the bearer of the certificates.
These are liabilities of the Group and include certificates of deposits.
Deed-in-lieu An arrangement in which a borrower surrenders the deed for a property to the lender without going through foreclosure proceedings and is subsequently released from any further obligations on the loan.
Defined benefit obligation The present value of expected future payments required to settle the obligations of a defined benefit plan resulting from employee service.
E Economic capital The internally calculated capital requirement which is deemed necessary by HSBC to support the risks to which it is exposed.
Economic profit The difference between the return on financial capital invested by shareholders and the cost of that capital.
Economic profit may be expressed as a whole number or as a percentage.
Equity risk The risk arising from positions, either long or short, in equities or equity-based instruments, which create exposure to a change in the market price of the equities or equity instruments.
Expected loss EL A regulatory calculation of the amount expected to be lost on an exposure using a 12 month time horizon and downturn loss estimates.
EL is calculated by multiplying the Probability of Default a percentage by the Exposure at Default an amount and Loss Given Default a percentage.
Exposure A claim, contingent claim or position which carries a risk of financial loss.
427 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information continued Glossary Term Definition F Exposure at default EAD The amount expected to be outstanding after any credit risk mitigation, if and when the counterparty defaults.
EAD reflects drawn balances as well as allowance for undrawn amounts of commitments and contingent exposures.
Fair value adjustment An adjustment to the fair value of a financial instrument which is determined using a valuation technique level 2 and level 3 to include additional factors that would be considered by a market participant that are not incorporated within the valuation model.
First lien A security interest granted over an item of property to secure the repayment of a debt that places its holder first in line to collect repayment from the sale of the underlying collateral in the event of a default on the debt.
Five filters An internal measure designed to improve capital deployment across the Group.
This examines the strategic relevance of each business in each country, in terms of connectivity and economic development, and the current returns, in terms of profitability, cost efficiency and liquidity.
Forbearance strategies Strategies that are employed in order to improve the management of customer relationships, maximise collection opportunities and, if possible, avoid default, foreclosure or repossession.
Such arrangements include extended payment terms, a reduction in interest or principal repayments, approved external debt management plans, debt consolidations, the deferral of foreclosures, other modifications and re-ages.
FSA standard rules The method prescribed by the FSA for calculating market risk capital requirements in the absence of VAR model approval.
Funded exposures A funded exposure is one where the notional amount of a contract is or has been exchanged.
Funding risk A form of liquidity risk arising when the liquidity needed to fund illiquid asset positions cannot be obtained at the expected terms and when required.
G Global Systemically Important A bank that meets the criteria defined in the Basel Committee's final rules set out in their 4 November Bank G-SIB 2011 document Global systemically important banks: Assessment methodology and the additional loss absorbency requirement.
At 31 December 2011, the official list of such banks comprised the 29 names, which include HSBC, published by the Financial Stability Board also on 4 November 2011.
The Financial Stability Board is co-ordinating, on behalf of the G20 Group of Governors and Heads of Supervision GHOS, the overall set of measures to reduce the moral hazard and risks to the global financial system posed by global systemically important financial institutions G-SIFIs of all kinds.
Government-sponsored A group of financial services enterprises created by the US Congress.
Their function is to reduce the cost enterprises GSEs of capital for certain borrowing sectors of the economy, and to make them more efficient and transparent.
Examples in the residential mortgage borrowing segment are Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae.
GSEs carry the implicit backing, but are not direct obligations, of the US Government.
GPSP Awards Awards that define the number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares to which the employee will become entitled, generally five years from the date of the award, and normally subject to individual remaining in employment.
The shares to which the employee becomes entitled are subject to a retention requirement until cessation of employment.
H Historical rating transition HRTMs show the probability of a counterparty with a particular rating moving to a different rating over a matrices HRTM defined time horizon.
Home Equity Lines of Credit A form of revolving credit facility provided to US customers, which is supported in the majority of cases HELoCs by a second lien or lower ranking charge over residential property.
Holdings of HELOCs are classified as sub-prime.
I Impaired loans Loans where the Group does not expect to collect all the contractual cash flows or expects to collect them later than they are contractually due.
Impairment allowances Managements best estimate of losses incurred in the loan portfolios at the balance sheet date.
Individually assessed Exposure to loss is assessed on all individually significant accounts and all other accounts that do not impairment qualify for collective assessment.
Insurance risk A risk, other than a financial risk, transferred from the holder of a contract to the insurance provider.
The principal insurance risk is that, over time, the combined cost of claims, administration and acquisition of the contract may exceed the aggregate amount of premiums received and investment income.
Internal Capital Adequacy The Groups own assessment of the levels of capital that it needs to hold through an examination of its Assessment Process risk profile from regulatory and economic capital viewpoints.
Internal Model Method IMM One of three approaches defined by Basel II to determine exposure values for counterparty credit risk.
Internal ratings-based approach A method of calculating credit risk capital requirements using internal, rather than supervisory, estimates IRB of risk parameters.
Invested capital Equity capital invested in HSBC by its shareholders, adjusted for certain reserves and goodwill previously amortised or written off.
IRB advanced approach A method of calculating credit risk capital requirements using internal PD, LGD and EAD models.
428 Term Definition IRB foundation approach A method of calculating credit risk capital requirements using internal PD models but with supervisory estimates of LGD and conversion factors for the calculation of EAD.
ISDA International Swaps and Derivatives Association.
ISDA Master agreement Standardised contract developed by ISDA used as an umbrella under which bilateral derivatives contracts are entered into.
K Key management personnel Directors and Group Managing Directors of HSBC Holdings.
L Legacy credit A portfolio of assets comprising Solitaire, SICs, ABS trading and correlation portfolios and derivative transactions entered into with monoline insurers.
Legal proceedings Legal proceedings include civil court, arbitration or tribunal proceedings brought against HSBC companies whether by way of claim or counterclaim or civil disputes that may, if not settled, result in court, arbitration or tribunal proceedings.
Level 1 quoted market price Financial instruments with quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets.
Level 2 valuation technique Financial instruments with quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets or quoted prices for using observable inputs identical or similar instruments in inactive markets and financial instruments valued using models where all significant inputs are observable.
Level 3 valuation technique Financial instruments valued using valuation techniques where one or more significant inputs are with significant unobservable unobservable.
inputs Leveraged finance Funding provided for entities with higher than average indebtedness, which typically arises from subinvestment grade acquisitions or event-driven financing.
Leverage ratio A measure, prescribed by regulators under Basel III, which is the ratio of tier 1 capital to total exposures.
Total exposures include on-balance sheet items, off-balance sheet items and derivatives, and should generally follow the accounting measure of exposure.
This supplementary measure to the risk-based capital requirements is intended to constrain the build-up of excess leverage in the banking sector.
Liquidity risk The risk that HSBC does not have sufficient financial resources to meet its obligations as they fall due, or will have to do so at an excessive cost.
This risk arises from mismatches in the timing of cash flows.
Loan modification An account management action that results in a change to the original terms and conditions of a loan either temporarily or permanently without resetting its delinquency status, except in case of a modification re-age where delinquency status is also reset to up-to-date.
Account modifications may include revisions to one or more terms of the loan including, but not limited to, a change in interest rate, extension of the amortisation period, reduction in payment amount and partial forgiveness or deferment of principal.
Loan re-age An account management action that results in the resetting of the contractual delinquency status of an account to up-to-date upon fulfilment of certain requirements which indicate that payments are expected to be made in accordance with the contractual terms.
Loans past due Loans on which repayments are overdue.
Loan-to-value ratio LTV A mathematical calculation that expresses the amount of the loan as a percentage of the value of security.
A high LTV indicates that there is less cushion to protect the lender against house price falls or increases in the loan if repayments are not made and interest is added to the outstanding loan balance.
Loss given default LGD The estimated ratio percentage of the loss on an exposure to the amount outstanding at default EAD upon default of a counterparty.
Loss severity The realised amount of losses incurred including ancillary amounts owed when a loan is foreclosed or disposed of through the arrangement with the borrower.
The loss severity is represented as a percentage of the outstanding loan balance.
M Market risk The risk that movements in market risk factors, including foreign exchange rates and commodity prices, interest rates, credit spreads and equity prices will reduce income or portfolio values.
Medium term notes MTNs Notes issued by corporates across a range of maturities.
MTNs are frequently issued by corporates under MTN Programmes whereby notes are offered on a regular and continuous basis to investors.
Monoline insurers Entities which specialise in providing credit protection to the holders of debt instruments in the event of monolines default by the debt security counterparty.
This protection is typically held in the form of derivatives such as CDSs referencing the underlying exposures held.
Mortgage-backed securities Securities that represent interests in groups of mortgages, which may be on residential or commercial MBSs properties.
Investors in these securities have the right to cash received from future mortgage payments interest and or principal.
When the MBS references mortgages with different risk profiles, the MBS is classified according to the highest risk class.
Mortgage-related assets Assets which are referenced to underlying mortgages.
Mortgage vintage The year a mortgage was originated.
N Negative equity mortgages Equity is the value of the asset less the outstanding balance on the loan.
Negative equity arises when the value of the property purchased is below the balance outstanding on the loan.
429 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information continued Glossary Term Definition Net asset value per share Total shareholders equity, less non-cumulative preference shares and capital securities, divided by the number of ordinary shares in issue.
Net interest income The amount of interest received or receivable on assets net of interest paid or payable on liabilities.
Net principal exposure The gross principal amount of a financial asset after taking account of credit protection purchased but excluding the effect of any counterparty credit valuation adjustment to that protection.
It includes assets that benefit from monoline protection, except where this protection is purchased with a CDS.
Non-conforming mortgages US mortgages that do not meet normal lending criteria.
Examples include mortgages where the expected level of documentation is not provided such as with income self-certification, or where poor credit history increases the risk and results in pricing at a higher than normal lending rate.
O Offset mortgages A flexible type of mortgage where a borrower's savings balance s held at the same institution can be used to offset the mortgage balance owing.
The borrower pays interest on the net balance which is calculated by subtracting the credit balance s from the debit balance.
As part of the offset mortgage a total facility limit is agreed and the borrower may redraw past capital repayments up this agreed limit.
Overnight Index Swap OIS A method of valuing collateralised interest rate derivatives which uses a discount curve that reflects the discounting overnight interest rate typically earned or paid in respect of collateral received.
Operational risk The risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events, including legal risk.
Over-the-counter OTC A bilateral transaction e. g. derivatives that is not exchange traded and that is valued using valuation models.
P Performance Shares Awards of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under employee share plans that are subject to the achievement of corporate performance conditions.
Prime A US description for mortgages granted to the most creditworthy category of borrowers.
Private equity investments Equity securities in operating companies not quoted on a public exchange, often involving the investment of capital in private companies or the acquisition of a public company that results in its delisting.
Probability of default PD The probability that an obligor will default within a one-year time horizon.
R Refi rate The refi or refinancing rate is set by the European Central Bank ECB and is the price banks pay to borrow from ECB.
Regulatory capital The capital which HSBC holds, determined in accordance with rules established by the FSA for the consolidated Group and by local regulators for individual Group companies.
Regulatory matters Regulatory matters refer to investigations, reviews and other actions carried out by, or in response to the actions of, regulators or law enforcement agencies in connection with alleged wrongdoing by HSBC.
Renegotiated loans Loans for which the contractual terms have been changed because of significant concerns about the borrowers ability to meet the contractual payments when due.
Restricted Shares Awards that define the number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares to which the employee will become entitled, generally between one and three years from the date of the award, and normally subject to the individual remaining in employment.
The shares to which the employee becomes entitled may be subject to retention requirement.
Retail loans Money lent to individuals rather than institutions.
This includes both secured and unsecured loans such as mortgages and credit card balances.
Return on equity Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders divided by average invested capital.
Risk appetite An assessment of the types and quantum of risks to which HSBC wishes to be exposed.
Risk-weighted assets Calculated by assigning a degree of risk expressed as a percentage risk weight to an exposure in RWAs accordance with the applicable Standardised or IRB approach rules.
S Sale and repurchase agreement A repo is a short-term funding agreement that allows a borrower to create a collateralised loan by selling a financial asset to a lender.
As part of the agreement the borrower commits to repurchase the security at a date in the future repaying the proceeds of the loan.
For the party on the other end of the transaction buying the security and agreeing to sell in the future it is reverse repurchase agreement or a reverse repo.
Seasoning The emergence of credit loss patterns in portfolios over time.
Second lien A security interest granted over an item of property to secure the repayment of a debt that is issued against the same collateral as a first lien but that is subordinate to it.
In the case of default, repayment for this debt will only be received after the first lien has been repaid.
Securitisation A transaction or scheme whereby the credit risk associated with an exposure, or pool of exposures, is tranched and where payments to investors in the transaction or scheme are dependent upon the performance of the exposure or pool of exposures.
A traditional securitisation involves the transfer of the exposures being securitised to an SPE which issues securities.
In a synthetic securitisation, the tranching is achieved by the use of credit derivatives and the exposures are not removed from the balance sheet of the originator.
430 Term Definition Short sale In relation to credit risk management, a short sale is an arrangement in which a bank permits the borrower to sell the property for less than the amount outstanding under a loan agreement.
The proceeds are used to reduce the outstanding loan balance and the borrower is subsequently released from any further obligations on the loan.
Single-issuer liquidity facility A liquidity or stand-by line provided to a corporate customer which is different from a similar line provided to a conduit funding vehicle.
Sovereign exposures Exposures to governments, ministries, departments of governments, embassies, consulates and exposures on account of cash balances and deposits with central banks.
Special purpose entities A corporation, trust or other non-bank entity, established for a narrowly defined purpose, including for SPEs carrying on securitisation activities.
The structure of the SPE and its activities are intended to isolate its obligations from those of the originator and the holders of the beneficial interests in the securitisation.
Standardised approach In relation to credit risk, a method for calculating credit risk capital requirements using External Credit Assessment Institutions ECAI ratings and supervisory risk weights.
In relation to operational risk, a method of calculating the operational capital requirement by the application of a supervisory defined percentage charge to the gross income of eight specified business lines.
Structured finance notes An instrument whose return is linked to the level of a specified index or the level of a specified asset.
The return on a structured note can be linked to equities, interest rates, foreign exchange, commodities or credit.
Structured notes may or may not offer full or partial capital protection in the event of a decline in the underlying index or asset.
Structured Investment Vehicles Special purpose entities which invest in diversified portfolios of interest-earning assets, generally funded SIVs through issues of commercial paper, medium-term notes and other senior debt to take advantage of the spread differentials between the assets in the SIV and the funding cost.
Student loan related assets Securities with collateral relating to student loans.
Subordinated liabilities Liabilities which rank after the claims of other creditors of the issuer in the event of insolvency or liquidation.
Sub-prime A US description for customers with high credit risk, for example those who have limited credit histories, modest incomes, high debt-to-income ratios, high loan-to-value ratios for real estate secured products or have experienced credit problems caused by occasional delinquencies, prior charge-offs, bankruptcy or other credit-related problems.
T Tier 1 capital A component of regulatory capital, comprising core tier 1 and other tier 1 capital.
Other tier 1 capital includes qualifying capital instruments such as non-cumulative perpetual preference shares and hybrid capital securities.
Tier 2 capital A component of regulatory capital, comprising qualifying subordinated loan capital, related noncontrolling interests, allowable collective impairment allowances and unrealised gains arising on the fair valuation of equity instruments held as available-for-sale.
Tier 2 capital also includes reserves arising from the revaluation of properties.
Troubled debt restructuring A US description for restructuring a debt whereby the creditor for economic or legal reasons related to a debtors financial difficulties grants a concession to the debtor that it would not otherwise consider.
U Unfunded exposures An exposure where the notional amount of a contract has not been exchanged.
US Government agency and US Securities that are guaranteed by US Government agencies such as Ginnie Mae, or by US Government Government sponsored sponsored entities including Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
enterprises mortgage-related assets V Value-at-risk A measure of the loss that could occur on risk positions as a result of adverse movements in market risk VAR factors e. g. rates, prices, volatilities over a specified time horizon and to a given level of confidence.
W Wholesale loans Money lent to sovereign borrowers, banks, non-bank financial institutions and corporate entities.
Write-down Reduction in the carrying value of an asset due to impairment or fair value movements.
Wrong-way risk An adverse correlation between the counterpartys probability of default and the mark-to-market value of the underlying transaction.
431 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview
