Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Responsibility of Directors Directors responsibilities in relation Directors declaration in relation to the financial statements to relevant audit information The following statement sets out the responsibilities of the Having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the Companys Directors in relation to the financial statements of both the auditors, each of the Directors confirms that: Group and the Company.
The reports of the independent x to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, there is no auditors for the Group and the Company set out their relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors responsibilities in relation to those financial statements.
are unaware: and Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial x he or she has taken all steps that a Director might reasonably statements for each financial year which give a true and fair be expected to have taken in order to make himself or view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as herself aware of relevant audit information and to establish at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Group and the Company for the financial year.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: Directors responsibility statement The Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge and x select appropriate accounting policies and apply belief that: them consistently: x the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the x make judgments and estimates that are reasonable applicable accounting standards identified above, give a and prudent: true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position x state whether applicable accounting standards have been and profit or loss of the Company and the Group: and followed, subject to any material departures being disclosed x the Directors report which incorporates the business and explained: and review includes a fair review of the development and x prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, performance of the business and the position of the unless they consider that to be inappropriate.
Group and the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
The applicable accounting standards referred to above are: a United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles The names of the Directors are listed in this Directors report UK GAAP for the Company: and b International Financial and their details appear on the Board of Directors page.
Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Neither the Company nor the Directors accept any liability to Union and implemented in the UK for the Group.
any person in relation to this Annual Report except to the extent The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Company that such liability could arise under English law.
Accordingly, keeps sufficient accounting records to disclose with reasonable any liability to a person who has demonstrated reliance on any accuracy the financial position of the Company and the Group untrue or misleading statement or omission shall be determined and to enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements in accordance with section 90A of the Financial Services and comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Markets Act 2000.
Regulation, and that the Company financial statements and the The responsibility statement was approved by the Board of Directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Directors on 22 February 2012 and signed on its behalf by: Act 2006.
They are also responsible for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Company and the Group and, in that context, having proper regard to the establishment Richard Burrows of appropriate systems of internal control with a view to the Chairman prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are required to prepare financial statements and to provide the auditors with every opportunity to take whatever Ben Stevens steps and undertake whatever inspections the auditors consider Finance Director and CIO to be appropriate for the purpose of enabling them to give their audit report.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report on www.
com in accordance with the UK legislation governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements.
Access to the website is available from outside the UK, where comparable legislation may be different.
The Directors consider that they have pursued the actions necessary to meet their responsibilities as set out in this statement.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 108
