Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information Notes on the accounts the exemptions taken under IFRS 1 on the first time adoption of IFRS 1 Accounting policies at 1 January 2004 and, in particular, those relating to goodwill on Basis of accounting business combinations which are explained in the accounting The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with policies below.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the Such estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable in the applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
circumstances and constitute managements best judgment at the date of the financial statements.
In the future, actual experience may deviate from The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost these estimates and assumptions, which could affect the financial convention except as described in the accounting policy below on statements as the original estimates and assumptions are modified, financial instruments.
as appropriate, in the year in which the circumstances change.
The Group has not adopted any new and amended IFRS and IFRIC interpretations, that have had any significant effect on reported profit or Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial information includes the financial statements equity or on the disclosures in the financial statements, with effect from 1 January 2011. of British American Tobacco p. l. c. and its subsidiary undertakings, together with the Groups share of the results of its associates and joint ventures.
The preparation of the Group financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Group, where control is the revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and the disclosure of contingent power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity so liabilities at the date of the financial statements.
The key estimates and as to obtain benefit from its activities.
assumptions are set out in the accounting policies below, together with Associates and joint ventures comprise investments in undertakings, the related notes to the accounts.
which are not subsidiary undertakings, where the Groups interest in The most significant items include: the equity capital is long term and over whose operating and financial policies the Group exercises a significant influence and, in the case of the review of asset values, especially goodwill and impairment joint ventures, has joint control.
They are accounted for using the testing.
The key assumptions used in respect of goodwill and equity method.
impairment testing are the determination of cash-generating units, the long-term growth rate for cash flow projections and the rate used The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired during the period are included from the date of acquisition of a controlling interest at which to discount the cash flow projections.
These are described in note 9: date, for the purposes of consolidation, the purchase consideration the estimation of and accounting for retirement benefit costs.
is allocated between the underlying net assets acquired, including The determination of the carrying value of assets and liabilities, intangible assets other than goodwill, on the basis of their fair value.
as well as the charge for the year, and amounts recognised in other Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
Similarly, the results comprehensive income, involves judgments made in conjunction of associates and joint ventures are included from the date of acquiring with independent actuaries.
These involve estimates about uncertain significant influence or, in the case of joint ventures, joint control.
future events based on the environment in different countries, including life expectancy of scheme members, salary and pension The results of subsidiary undertakings, associates and joint ventures which increases, inflation and expected returns on assets, as well as discount have been sold during the year are included up to the date of disposal.
rates and asset values at the year end.
The assumptions used by the The profit or loss on sale is calculated by reference to the net asset value Group and sensitivity analysis are described in note 12: at the date of disposal, adjusted for purchased goodwill previously consolidated in the balance sheet.
the estimation of amounts to be recognised in respect of taxation and legal matters, and the estimation of other provisions for liabilities and Inter-company balances and transactions, and any unrealised gains charges are subject to uncertain future events, may extend over arising from inter-company transactions, are eliminated in preparing several years and so the amount and or timing may differ from the consolidated financial statements.
The accounting policy for taxation is explained Foreign currencies below and the recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities, together The functional currency of the Parent Company is sterling and this is with a note of unrecognised amounts, are shown in note 6 b and also the presentation currency of the Group.
The income and cash flow note 13.
Other provisions for liabilities and charges are as set out in statements of Group undertakings expressed in currencies other than note 22.
The accounting policy on contingent liabilities, which are not sterling are translated to sterling using exchange rates applicable to the provided for, is set out below and the contingent liabilities of the dates of the underlying transactions.
Average rates of exchange in each Group are explained in note 30: year are used where the average rate approximates the relevant exchange the definition of adjusting items, which are separately disclosed as rate at the date of the underlying transactions.
Assets and liabilities of memorandum information, is explained below and the impact of Group undertakings are translated at the applicable rates of exchange these on the calculation of adjusted earnings is described in note 7: at the end of each year.
For hyperinflationary countries, the financial the estimation of the fair values of acquired net assets arising in a statements in local currency are adjusted to reflect the impact of local business combination under IFRS 3 Revised and the allocation of the inflation prior to translation into sterling.
purchase consideration between the underlying net assets acquired, The differences between retained profits of overseas subsidiary including intangible assets other than goodwill, on the basis of their undertakings, associates and joint ventures translated at average and fair values.
These estimates are prepared in conjunction with the closing rates of exchange are taken to reserves, as are differences arising advice of independent valuation experts where appropriate.
The on the retranslation to sterling using closing rates of exchange of relevant transactions for 2011 are described in note 26: and overseas net assets at the beginning of the year.
Any differences that have arisen since 1 January 2004 are presented as a separate component British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 116 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the 1 Accounting policies continued date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equitysettled share-based payments is expensed over the vesting period, based of equity.
As permitted under IFRS 1, any differences prior to that date on the Groups estimate of awards that will eventually vest.
For plans are not included in this separate component of equity.
where vesting conditions are based on total shareholder returns, the Where a disposal of an investment in a Group undertaking results in a loss fair value at date of grant reflects these conditions, whereas earnings of control of a subsidiary undertaking, the loss of significant influence over per share vesting conditions are reflected in the calculation of awards that an associated company or the loss of joint control over a joint venture, the will eventually vest over the vesting period.
For cash-settled share-based cumulative amount of the related foreign exchange differences deferred in payments, a liability equal to the portion of the services received is the separate component of equity are recognised in the income statement recognised at its current fair value determined at each balance sheet when the gain or loss on disposal is recognised.
Fair value is measured by the use of the Black-Scholes option differences comprise the exchange differences on all amounts deemed pricing model, except where vesting is dependent on market conditions to be part of the net investment in the undertaking, which are recycled when the Monte Carlo option pricing model is used.
The expected life to the income statement when a disposal occurs.
For partial disposals of used in the models has been adjusted, based on managements best subsidiary undertakings the related exchange differences are reclassified estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and within equity.
For all other partial disposals the proportional share of the behavioural considerations.
related exchange differences is recycled to the income statement.
Research and development Foreign currency transactions are initially recognised in the functional Research expenditure is charged to income in the year in which it currency of each entity in the Group using the exchange rate ruling at is incurred.
Development expenditure is charged to income in the the date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting year it is incurred, unless it meets the recognition criteria of IAS 38 from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of Intangible Assets.
foreign currency assets and liabilities at year end rates of exchange are recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in equity Taxation as qualifying cash flow hedges, on inter-company net investment loans Taxation is that chargeable on the profits for the period, together with and qualifying net investment hedges.
Foreign exchange gains or losses deferred taxation.
recognised in the income statement are included in profit from operations The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of tax laws or net finance costs depending on the underlying transactions that gave enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries rise to these exchange differences.
where the Groups subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures operate and Revenue generate taxable income.
Revenue principally comprises sales of cigarettes, cigars, leaf and other Deferred taxation is provided in full using the liability method for tobacco products to external customers.
Revenue excludes duty, excise temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and and other taxes and is after deducting rebates, returns and other similar liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amount used for taxation discounts.
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards purposes.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on of ownership are transferred to a third party.
investments in Group undertakings, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is Retirement benefit costs probable that it will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
A deferred tax The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable schemes.
The net deficit or surplus for each defined benefit pension profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
As required scheme is calculated in accordance with IAS 19, based on the present under IAS 12, deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of the scheme assets adjusted, where appropriate, for any Deferred tax is determined using the tax rates that have been enacted surplus restrictions or the effect of minimum funding requirements.
or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or deferred tax liability Actuarial gains and losses, changes in unrecognised scheme surpluses is settled.
and minimum funding requirements are recognised in full through other comprehensive income.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly Past service costs resulting from enhanced benefits are expensed over the in equity, in which case it is recognised in other comprehensive income period to vesting and if they vest immediately, then they are recognised or changes in equity.
at that time in the income statement.
The Group has exposures in respect of the payment or recovery of a The Group also has certain post-retirement healthcare schemes number of taxes.
Liabilities or assets for these payments or recoveries and they are accounted for on a similar basis to the defined benefit are recognised at such time as an outcome becomes probable and pension schemes.
when the amount can reasonably be estimated.
For defined benefit schemes, the actuarial cost charged to profit from Goodwill operations consists of current service cost, interest cost, expected return on plan assets, past service cost and the impact of any settlements Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and is considered to have an indefinite life subject to impairment reviews.
Any impairment of goodwill or curtailments.
is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not Some benefits are provided through defined contribution schemes subsequently reversed.
and payments to these are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition of a subsidiary, Share-based payments associate or joint venture over the Groups share of the fair value The Group has equity-settled and cash-settled share-based of identifiable net assets acquired.
Goodwill is stated at cost net of compensation plans.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 117 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information Notes on the accounts continued capitalisation is on or after 1 January 2009, are capitalised as part of the 1 Accounting policies continued cost of the asset, in accordance with IAS 23 Revised Borrowing costs.
The Groups previous policy was to expense such borrowing costs as accumulated impairment losses and recognised amortisation prior they were incurred.
Leased assets The Groups policy up to and including 1997 was to eliminate goodwill against reserves.
Goodwill acquired from 1998 to 31 December 2003 Assets where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset are classified as finance leases and was capitalised and amortised over its useful economic life.
are included as part of property, plant and equipment.
Finance lease As permitted under IFRS 1, in respect of acquisitions prior to assets are initially recognised at an amount equal to the lower of their 1 January 2004, the classification and accounting treatment of business fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at combinations was not amended on transition to IFRS.
Goodwill previously inception of the lease, then depreciated over the shorter of the lease written off direct to reserves is not recycled to the income statement on term and their estimated useful lives.
Leasing payments consist of capital the disposal of the subsidiary, associate or joint venture to which it relates.
and finance charge elements and the finance element is charged to the Goodwill in respect of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
In respect of associates and joint ventures, goodwill is included in Rental payments under operating leases are charged to the income the carrying value of the investment in the associated company or statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination Where arrangements are entered into which, while they are not in the legal form of a lease, are in substance a lease under IFRIC 4, then they of the profit or loss on disposal.
are recognised on the same basis as the leased assets above.
Intangible assets other than goodwill The intangible assets shown on the Group balance sheet consist mainly Impairment of non-financial assets of trademarks acquired by the Groups subsidiary undertakings and Assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events indicate that the computer software.
carrying amount of a cash-generating unit may not be recoverable.
In addition, assets that have indefinite useful lives are tested annually Acquired trademarks are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation for impairment.
An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the and impairment.
Trademarks with indefinite lives are not amortised carrying value exceeds the higher of the assets fair value less costs to sell but are reviewed annually for impairment.
Intangible assets other than and its value in use.
goodwill classified as held-for-sale are not amortised.
Other trademarks A cash-generating unit is the smallest identifiable group of assets that are amortised on a straight-line basis over their remaining useful lives, consistent with the pattern of economic benefits expected to be received, generates cash flows which are largely independent of the cash flows from other assets or groups of assets.
At the acquisition date, any goodwill which do not exceed 20 years.
Any impairments of trademarks are recognised in the income statement but increases in trademark values acquired is allocated to the relevant cash-generating unit or group of cashgenerating units expected to benefit from the acquisition for the purpose are not recognised.
of impairment testing of goodwill.
Computer software is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment, and is amortised on a straight-line basis over periods ranging Impairment of financial assets from three years to seven years.
Financial assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date, or whenever events indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
In The investments in associates and joint ventures shown in the Group the case of equity investments classified as available-for-sale, a significant balance sheet include trademarks arising from the combination of or prolonged decline in the fair value of the investment below its cost Brown & Williamson B&W and R J Reynolds RJR in 2004 to form is considered as an indicator that the investment is impaired.
Reynolds American Inc. RAI, as well as those arising on the acquisition of Conwood by RAI in 2006.
As the combination of B&W and RJR for the Inventories Group involved the partial disposal of B&W and an investment in RAI, Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is fair values were assigned to trademarks formerly owned by RJR but based on the weighted average cost incurred in acquiring inventories and not to those formerly owned by B&W.
Most of the carrying value of the bringing them to their existing location and condition, which will include trademarks relates to trademarks which are deemed to have indefinite lives raw materials, direct labour and overheads, where appropriate.
Net and each trademark is subject to an annual impairment test.
Certain minor realisable value is the estimated selling price less costs to completion and trademarks are being amortised over their remaining lives.
Tobacco inventories which have an operating cycle that exceeds 12 months are classified as current assets, consistent with recognised Property, plant and equipment industry practice.
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line Financial instruments basis to write off the assets over their useful economic life.
No depreciation Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the Group is provided on freehold land or assets classified as held for sale.
Freehold becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the relevant instrument and leasehold property are depreciated at rates between 2.5 per cent and derecognised when it ceases to be a party to such provisions.
and 4 per cent per annum, and plant and equipment at rates between Such assets and liabilities are classified as current if they are expected 7 per cent and 25 per cent per annum.
to be realised or settled within 12 months after the balance sheet date.
If not, they are classified as non-current.
Capitalised interest Borrowing costs which are directly attributable to the acquisition, Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair construction or production of intangible assets or plant, property value, plus directly attributable transaction costs where applicable, and equipment that takes a substantial period of time to get ready with subsequent measurement as set out below.
for its intended use or sale, and for which the commencement date for British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 118 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information for derivatives that are designated as fair value hedges, the carrying 1 Accounting policies continued value of the hedged item is adjusted for the fair value changes attributable to the risk being hedged, with the corresponding entry Non-derivative financial assets are classified on initial recognition as being made in the income statement.
The changes in fair value available-for-sale investments, loans and receivables or cash and cash of these derivatives are also recognised in the income statement: equivalents as follows: for derivatives that are designated as hedges of net investments in Available-for-sale investments: available-for-sale investments are foreign operations, the changes in their fair values are recognised those non-derivative financial assets that cannot be classified as loans directly in other comprehensive income, to the extent that they are and receivables or cash and cash equivalents.
effective, with the ineffective portion being recognised in the income Loans and receivables: these are non-derivative financial assets with statement.
Where non-derivatives such as foreign currency fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
borrowings are designated as net investment hedges, the relevant exchange differences are similarly recognised.
The accumulated gains Cash and cash equivalents: cash and cash equivalents include cash and losses are reclassified to the income statement when the foreign in hand and deposits held on call, together with other short-term highly operation is disposed of: and liquid investments including investments in certain money market funds.
Cash equivalents normally comprise instruments with maturities of three for derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting or are not months or less at date of acquisition.
In the cash flow statement, cash and designated as hedges, the changes in their fair values are recognised cash equivalents are shown net of bank overdrafts, which are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
as current borrowings in the liabilities section on the balance sheet.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required to document prospectively the relationship between the item being hedged Apart from available-for-sale investments, non-derivative financial assets and the hedging instrument.
The Group is also required to demonstrate are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method, subject an assessment of the relationship between the hedged item and the to reduction for allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
These hedging instrument, which shows that the hedge will be highly effective estimates for irrecoverable amounts are recognised when there is objective on an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness testing is reperformed periodically evidence that the full amount receivable will not be collected according to ensure that the hedge has remained, and is expected to remain, to the original terms of the asset.
Such evidence might include financial highly effective.
difficulties of the debtor, defaults of payment or significant overdue balances.
For interest-bearing assets, their carrying value includes Hedge accounting is discontinued when a hedging instrument is accrued interest receivable.
Available-for-sale investments are stated derecognised e. g. through expiry or disposal, or no longer qualifies for at fair value, with changes in fair value being recognised directly in other hedge accounting.
Where the hedged item is a highly probable forecast comprehensive income.
When such investments are derecognised e. g. transaction, the related gains and losses remain in equity until the through disposal or become impaired, the accumulated gains and losses, transaction takes place, when they are reclassified to the income statement previously recognised in other comprehensive income, are reclassified in the same manner as for cash flow hedges as described above.
When to the income statement within finance income.
Dividend and interest a hedged future transaction is no longer expected to occur, any related income on available-for-sale investments are included within finance gains and losses, previously recognised in other comprehensive income, income when the Groups right to receive payments is established.
are immediately reclassified to the income statement.
Fair values for quoted investments are based on observable market prices.
Derivative fair value changes recognised in the income statement are If there is no active market for a financial asset, the fair value is established either reflected in arriving at profit from operations if the hedged item by using valuation techniques principally involving discounted cash is similarly reflected or in finance costs.
Dividends Non-derivative financial liabilities are stated at amortised cost using the Final dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognised effective interest method.
For borrowings, their carrying value includes as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the accrued interest payable, as well as unamortised issue costs.
dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders at the Annual Derivative financial assets and liabilities are initially recognised, and General Meeting, while interim dividend distributions are recognised in subsequently measured, at fair value, which includes accrued interest the period in which the dividends are declared and paid.
receivable and payable where relevant.
Changes in their fair values are Segmental analysis recognised as follows: The Group is organised and managed on the basis of its geographic for derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges, the changes in regions.
These are the reportable segments for the Group as they form the their fair values are recognised directly in other comprehensive focus of the Groups internal reporting systems and are the basis used by income, to the extent that they are effective, with the ineffective the chief operating decision maker, identified as the Management Board, portion being recognised in the income statement.
Where the hedged for assessing performance and allocating resources.
item results in a non-financial asset, the accumulated gains and losses, The Group is a single product business providing cigarettes and other previously recognised in other comprehensive income, are included tobacco products.
While the Group has clearly differentiated brands, in the initial carrying value of the asset basis adjustment and global segmentation between a wide portfolio of brands is not part of recognised in the income statement in the same periods as the the regular internally reported financial information.
Where the underlying transaction does not result in The prices agreed between Group companies for intra-group sales such an asset, the accumulated gains and losses are reclassified to the of materials, manufactured goods, charges for royalties, commissions, income statement in the same periods as the hedged item: services and fees, are based on normal commercial practices which would apply between independent businesses.
Royalty income, less related expenditure, is included in the region in which the licensor is based.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 119 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information Notes on the accounts continued A revised IAS 19 Employee Benefits has been issued and has mandatory 1 Accounting policies continued application subject to EU endorsement from 1 January 2013.
The new standard does not change the values of retirement benefit assets and Adjusting items liabilities on the balance sheet, but does change the amounts recognised Adjusting items are significant items in the profit from operations, net in the income statement and in other comprehensive income.
The finance costs, taxation and the Groups share of the post-tax results of expected return on plan assets and the interest cost on liabilities are associates and joint ventures which individually or, if of a similar type, in replaced by a new component of the income statement charge interest aggregate, are relevant to an understanding of the Groups underlying on the net retirement benefit asset liability.
In addition, prior service financial performance.
While the disclosure of adjusting items is costs will no longer be deferred and will be recognised immediately.
not required by IFRS, these items are separately disclosed either as The revised standard has retrospective application.
Had the standard memorandum information on the face of the income statement and been applied to the 2011 results profit for the year would have been in the segmental analyses, or in the notes to the accounts as appropriate.
approximately 54 million lower 2010: 47 million lower, with The Group believes that these items are useful to users of the Group a compensating credit in other comprehensive income.
financial statements in helping them to understand the underlying IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements business performance and are used to derive the Groups principal and IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities have been issued along non-GAAP measure which is adjusted diluted earnings per share.
with revised versions of IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements and IAS 28 Provisions Associates: additionally IAS 31 Joint Ventures has been withdrawn.
These Provisions are recognised when either a legal or constructive obligation as standards form a single package of proposals with mandatory application a result of a past event exists at the balance sheet date, it is probable that from 1 January 2013 subject to EU endorsement.
The aim of these an outflow of economic resources will be required to settle the obligation standards is to improve the quality of reporting in relation to the and a reasonable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
consolidation of subsidiaries, special purpose vehicles and accounting for joint arrangements.
While the requirements of IFRS 12 will potentially Contingent liabilities and contingent assets lengthen certain disclosures in respect of Group entities, the requirements Subsidiaries and associates and joint ventures companies are defendants of these standards are not expected to materially affect the Group.
in tobacco-related and other litigation.
Provision for this litigation would be made at such time as an unfavourable outcome became probable and An amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements has been the amount could be reasonably estimated.
This amendment changes the disclosure of items presented in other comprehensive income grouping them into items which recycle Contingent assets are possible assets whose existence will only be to profit and loss and items which will not.
Apart from the change in confirmed by future events not wholly within the control of the entity disclosure, this amendment will have little impact on the Group Accounts.
and are not recognised as assets until the realisation of income is Mandatory application subject to EU endorsement is for accounting virtually certain.
periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012.
The Group records its external legal fees and other external defence costs IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement has been issued.
This standard aims for tobacco-related and other litigation as these costs are incurred.
to provide a single source of fair value measurement and disclosure Repurchase of share capital requirements for use across IFRS.
The implementation of IFRS 13 does When share capital is repurchased the amount of consideration paid, not change where fair value is or is not applied under IFRS and will not including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a deduction from require a restatement of historical transactions.
Repurchased shares which are not cancelled, or shares purchased subject to EU endorsement is from 1 January 2013. for the employee share ownership trusts, are classified as treasury shares In addition, a number of other interpretations and revisions to and presented as a deduction from total equity.
existing standards have been issued which will be applicable to the Future changes to accounting policies Group financial statements in future years and which will have no Certain changes to IFRS will be applicable for the Group accounts in future material effect on reported profit or equity or on the disclosures in years.
Set out below are those which are considered to affect the Group.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments has been issued.
This standard represents the first phase of the IASBs project to replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, and has mandatory application for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015.
In its current form, it sets out the classification and measurement criteria for financial assets and financial liabilities.
It requires all financial assets, including assets currently classified under IAS 39 as available-for-sale, to be measured at fair value through profit and loss unless the assets can be classified as held at amortised cost.
Qualifying equity investments held at fair value may have their fair value changes taken through other comprehensive income by election.
Where the fair value option for certain financial liabilities is applied, the portion of fair value changes representing own credit risk would be recognised through other comprehensive income rather than the income statement.
The Group does not use the fair value option for financial liabilities.
The effect of applying the standard in its current form is not considered to have a material impact on the Groups reported profit or equity.
These changes have not been endorsed by the EU and will only become applicable once that endorsement has occurred.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 120 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information 2 Segmental analyses As the chief operating decision maker, the Management Board reviews external revenues and adjusted profit from operations to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources.
Interest income, interest expense and taxation are centrally managed and accordingly such items are not presented by segment as they are excluded from the measure of segment profitability.
As part of the plans to reduce complexity and drive efficiency in management structures and achieve a better balance in the scale of our regions, it was decided to reduce the management structure from five regions to four regions from 1 January 2011.
Markets which comprised the Eastern Europe region were merged into the Africa and Middle East region and the Western Europe region.
Russia, Ukraine, Moldova, Belarus, Caucasus and Central Asia form part of the new Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa region EEMEA, while Romania, Bulgaria, Serbia, Montenegro, Albania and Kosovo have become part of the Western Europe region.
The comparatives have been restated according to the new management structure.
The four geographic regions are the reportable segments for the Group as they form the focus of the Groups internal reporting systems and are the basis used by the Management Board for assessing performance and allocating resources.
The Management Board reviews current and prior year segmental revenue, adjusted profit from operations of subsidiaries and adjusted post-tax results of associates and joint ventures at constant rates of exchange.
The constant rate comparison provided for reporting segment information is based on a retranslation, at prior year exchange rates, of the current year results of the Groups overseas entities but, other than in exceptional circumstances, does not adjust for transactional gains and losses in operations which are generated by movements in exchange rates.
As a result, the 2011 segmental results were translated using the 2010 rates of exchange.
The 2010 figures are also stated at the 2010 rates of exchange.
The analyses of revenue for the 12 months to 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010, based on location of sales, are as follows: Restated 2011 2010 Revenue Constant Translation Revenue rates exchange Current rates Revenue m m m m Asia-Pacific 4,150 101 4,251 3,759 Americas 3,574 16 3,558 3,498 Western Europe 3,532 68 3,600 3,695 EEMEA 4,206 216 3,990 3,931 Revenue 15,462 63 15,399 14,883 The analyses of profit from operations and the Groups share of the post-tax results of associates and joint ventures, reconciled to profit before taxation, are as follows: Restated 2011 2010 Adjusted segment Adjusted result segment Segment Adjusted Constant Translation result Adjusting result segment Adjusting Segment rates exchange Current rates items Current rates result items result m m m m m m m m Asia-Pacific 1,480 59 1,539 58 1,481 1,332 56 1,276 Americas 1,440 1 1,441 15 1,426 1,382 36 1,346 Western Europe 1,204 24 1,228 153 1,075 1,103 236 867 EEMEA 1,362 51 1,311 298 1,013 1,167 338 829 5,486 33 5,519 524 4,995 4,984 666 4,318 Fox River 274 274 Profit from operations 5,486 33 5,519 798 4,721 4,984 666 4,318 Net finance costs 460 480 Asia-Pacific 238 13 225 28 253 208 9 199 Americas 448 16 432 17 415 412 63 349 EEMEA 2 2 2 2 2 Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 688 29 659 11 670 622 72 550 Profit before taxation 4,931 4,388 The adjustments to profit from operations and the Groups share of the post-tax results of associates and joint ventures are explained in notes 3 e to 3 h and in note 5, respectively.
The Fox River provision made in 2011 see note 3 h has not been allocated to a segment or segments as it relates to a 1998 settlement agreement.
It is presented separately from the segmental reporting which is used to evaluate segment performance and to allocate resources.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 121 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information Notes on the accounts continued 2 Segmental analyses continued Adjusted profit from operations at constant rates of 5,486 million 2010: 4,984 million excludes certain impairment of intangibles and property, plant and equipment, as well as amortisation of trademarks.
These are treated as adjusting items as explained in notes 3 b and 3 e to 3 g and are excluded from segmental profit from operations at constant rates as follows: Restated 2011 2010 Adjusting items Adjusted Adjusted Adjusting items comprising depreciation depreciation comprising Depreciation, Adjusted impairment and and impairment and amortisation depreciation and Depreciation, amortisation Translation amortisation amortisation of and impairment and amortisation of amortisation and Constant rates exchange Current rates trademarks Current rates amortisation trademarks impairment m m m m m m m m Asia-Pacific 105 1 106 31 137 98 26 124 Americas 127 127 5 132 107 107 Western Europe 101 2 103 55 158 129 104 233 EEMEA 116 5 111 279 390 108 325 433 449 2 447 370 817 442 455 897 External revenue and non-current assets other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets and retirement benefit assets are analysed between the UK and all foreign countries at current rates of exchange as follows: United Kingdom All foreign countries Group 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m m m Revenue is based on location of sale External revenue 124 103 15,275 14,780 15,399 14,883 United Kingdom All foreign countries Group 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m m m Intangible assets 173 110 11,819 12,348 11,992 12,458 Property, plant and equipment 188 159 2,859 2,958 3,047 3,117 Investments in associates and joint ventures 2,613 2,666 2,613 2,666 Included in the external revenue from foreign countries is 1,732 million 2010: 1,696 million attributable to Brazil, being the only subsidiary contributing more than 10 per cent of the Groups external revenue in 2011 and 2010.
The main acquisitions comprising the goodwill balance of 11,120 million 2010: 11,656 million in intangible assets are provided in note 9.
Included in investments in associates and joint ventures are amounts of 1,831 million 2010: 1,872 million attributable to the investment in Reynolds American and 735 million 2010: 747 million attributable to the investment in ITC.
Further information can be found in note 11.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 122 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information 3 Profit from operations a Employee benefit costs 2011 2010 m m Wages and salaries 2,059 2,099 Social security costs 247 245 Other pension and retirement benefit costs note 12 98 119 Share-based payments equity-settled note 27 76 67 Share-based payments cash-settled note 27 21 20 2,501 2,550 b Depreciation, amortisation and impairment costs 2011 2010 m m Intangibles amortisation of trademarks note 3 f 58 62 amortisation of other intangibles 92 66 impairment 273 300 Property, plant and equipment depreciation 366 376 impairment 28 93 817 897 Impairment of goodwill and trademarks is explained in note 3 g. Impairment in respect of certain other intangibles and property, plant and equipment are shown as part of restructuring costs see note 3 e. c Other operating income This represents operating income arising from the Groups activities which falls outside the definition of revenue and includes gains as a result of property disposals, service fees and other shared costs charged to third parties, manufacturing fees and trademark income.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 123 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information Notes on the accounts continued 3 Profit from operations continued d Other operating expenses include: Restated 2011 2010 m m Research and development expenses excluding employee benefit costs and depreciation 81 82 Exchange differences 38 62 Rent of plant and equipment operating leases minimum lease payments 42 39 sublease payments 1 Rent of property operating leases minimum lease payments 85 84 contingent rents 1 sublease payments 2 2 Fees payable for audit services pursuant to legislation: fees payable to  LLP for Parent Company and Group audit 1.7 1.8 fees payable to other  firms and associates for local statutory and Group reporting audits 8.0 7.9 Audit fees payable to  firms and associates 9.7 9.7 Audit fees payable to other firms 0.4 0.4 Total audit fees payable 10.1 10.1 Fees payable to  firms and associates for other services: other services pursuant to statutory legislation 0.2 0.2 tax advisory services 3.8 5.6 tax compliance 1.3 1.0 services relating to information technology 0.2 2.1 other non-audit services 0.4 0.5 5.9 9.4 Research and development expenses for 2010 have been restated to include the costs related to Marketing Futures.
The total fees payable to  firms and associates included above are 15.6 million 2010: 19.1 million.
Total research and development costs including employee benefit costs and depreciation were 166 million 2010 restated: 164 million.
Other operating expenses also include the Fox River provision, which was made in 2011 and explained in note 30 see page 182.
As a result of restrictions on accessing foreign exchange at the official exchange rate in Uzbekistan, the Group revalues monetary items, mostly comprising foreign currency payables, in its subsidiary in Uzbekistan at a more conservative rate.
This rate represents the rate at which management expects to settle these items and resulted in the recognition of net exchange losses of 38 million in 2010.
These were included in exchange differences of 62 million within other operating expenses in 2010. e Restructuring and integration costs Restructuring costs reflect the costs incurred as a result of initiatives to improve the effectiveness and the efficiency of the Group as a globally integrated enterprise.
These initiatives include a review of the Groups manufacturing operations, overheads and indirect costs, organisational structure and systems and software used.
The costs of these initiatives together with the costs of integrating acquired businesses into existing operations, including acquisition costs, are included in profit from operations under the following headings: 2011 2010 m m Employee benefit costs 100 163 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment costs 39 100 Other operating expenses 72 68 Other operating income 18 20 193 311 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 124 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information 3 Profit from operations continued Restructuring and integration costs in 2011 principally relate to the continuation of: factory closure and downsizing activities in Denmark and Australia respectively: a voluntary separation scheme and closure of the printing unit in Argentina: the closure of the Jawornik factory in Poland, the Tire factory in Turkey and the Lecce factory in Italy.
The costs also cover the social plan and other closure activities relating to the Bremen factory closure in Germany and the integration of Productora Tabacalera fide Colombia, S. A. S. Protabaco into existing operations, including acquisition costs, as well as other restructuring initiatives directly related to improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the Group as a globally integrated enterprise.
In addition, they also include separation packages in respect of permanent headcount reductions and permanent employee benefit reductions in the Group.
Restructuring and integration costs in 2010 principally relate to: the continuation of factory closure and downsizing activities in Denmark and Australia respectively: the closure of the Jawornik factory in Poland, the Tire factory in Turkey and the Lecce factory in Italy.
The costs also cover a voluntary separation scheme and closure of the printing unit in Argentina and the continued integration of Bentoel into existing operations: as well as other restructuring initiatives directly related to improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the Group as a globally integrated enterprise.
These include the combining of the Groups businesses in Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands and some other activities to reduce the overheads of the Group.
In addition, the Group has recognised impairment charges as a result of the continued review of its software assets in light of the development of global software solutions.
Restructuring and integration costs in 2010 also include a payment of US$21 million to Reynolds American relating to the early termination and settlement of all disputes at issue in respect of the Contract Manufacturing Agreement dated 30 July 2004, as explained in note 29.
Other operating income in 2011 includes gains from sale of surplus land and buildings in Argentina and the release of deferred income from a disposal in 2007.
In 2010, other operating income also includes gains on property disposals and the release of deferred income from a disposal in 2007. f Amortisation of trademarks The acquisitions of Protabaco, Bentoel, Tekel and ST resulted in the capitalisation of trademarks which are amortised over their expected useful lives, which do not exceed 20 years.
The amortisation charge of 58 million 2010: 62 million is included in depreciation, amortisation and impairment costs in profit from operations.
g Impairment of goodwill and trademarks During 2011, the Group impaired the remaining balance of the goodwill in respect of the Tekel acquisition in 2008, amounting to 273 million.
This followed a goodwill and trademarks impairment of 249 million and 44 million respectively for the year ended 31 December 2010.
Although cost saving initiatives in the acquisition plan have been delivered successfully, the impairment recognised in 2010 was calculated on the basis of no further significant excise increases.
However, the Turkish Government announced a further increase effective from October 2011 and an additional increase effective from January 2013.
The excise increases to date have resulted in the growth of illicit trade and a loss of volumes and market share and this is expected to continue.
Turkey remains an important strategic market for the Group.
The basis for determining the recoverable amounts of the goodwill and trademarks is explained in note 9. h Fox River A provision of 274 million has been made for a potential claim under a 1998 settlement agreement entered into by a Group subsidiary in respect of the clean up of sediment in the lower Fox River.
This is explained in more detail in note 30 see page 182.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 125 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information Notes on the accounts continued 4 Net finance costs 2011 2010 m m m m Finance costs interest payable bank borrowings 82 81 finance leases 1 2 facility fees 8 8 other 476 492 567 583 fair value changes on derivative financial instruments 12 209 exchange differences on financial liabilities 2 285 577 507 Finance income interest and dividend income interest income in respect of available-for-sale investments 1 gains in respect of available-for-sale investments 1 dividend income in respect of available-for-sale investments 2 2 other interest income 79 57 82 60 exchange differences on financial assets 35 33 117 27 Net finance costs 460 480 The Group manages foreign exchange gains and losses and fair value changes on a net basis, as shown below.
The derivatives that generate the fair value changes are detailed in note 16.
Fair value changes cash flow hedges transferred from equity 9 16 fair value hedging instruments exchange related movements 4 14 fair value hedging instruments net interest income 62 74 fair value hedging instruments interest related movements see note i 51 75 fair value changes on hedged items interest related movements see note i 39 54 instruments held-for-trading note ii 73 302 12 209 Finance costs exchange differences on financial liabilities 2 285 Finance income exchange differences on financial assets 35 33 25 43 Notes: i Hedge ineffectiveness in respect of fair value hedges is a 12 million gain 2010: 21 million gain being the difference between the two items above.
ii IFRS requires derivatives which do not meet the tests for hedge accounting under IAS 39 to be classified as instruments held-for-trading with fair value changes included in the income statement.
These derivatives principally consist of other derivatives shown in note 16 d and forward foreign currency contracts which have not been designated as hedges due to their fair value changes offsetting with other components of net finance costs relating to financial assets and liabilities.
Other interest payable includes interest on the bonds and notes detailed in note 21.
Facility fees principally relate to the Groups central undrawn banking facility of 2 billion 2010: 2 billion, as well as the Groups 450 million term loan facility 2010: 450 million.
Both facilities were renegotiated and agreed during December 2010 from 1.75 billion and 700 million respectively.
Exchange differences in respect of hedged items subject to fair value hedges and cash flow hedges were a gain of 4 million 2010: 14 million loss and a gain of 9 million 2010: 16 million gain respectively and are included in Finance costs exchange differences in the table above.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 126 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information 5 Associates and joint ventures 2011 2010 Groups Groups Total share Total share m m m m Gross turnover including duty, excise and other taxes 12,841 4,864 12,834 4,924 Duty, excise and other taxes 4,053 1,541 4,205 1,620 Revenue 8,788 3,323 8,629 3,304 Profit from operations 2,861 1,066 2,473 938 Net finance costs 149 62 152 63 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 2,712 1,004 2,321 875 Taxation on ordinary activities 881 331 846 322 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 1,831 673 1,475 553 Attributable to: Owners of parent company 670 550 Non-controlling interests 3 3 673 553 Analysed as: adjusted share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 659 622 issue of shares and change in shareholding 91 28 30 9 smoking cessation programme 55 23 gain on disposal of business 51 22 Canadian settlements 140 59 other 37 16 10 4 670 550 Dividends listed investments 479 460 unlisted investments 7 6 486 466 The share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures is after the following adjusting items which are excluded from the calculation of adjusted earnings per share as set out in note 7.
In 2011, the Groups interest in ITC decreased from 31.43 per cent to 31.04 per cent as a result of ITC issuing ordinary shares under the companys employee stock option scheme.
The issue of shares and change in the Groups share of ITC resulted in a gain of 28 million, which is treated as a partial deemed disposal and included in the income statement.
During the year, Reynolds American, along with other tobacco companies, was refused by the US Supreme Court a request to revoke a 2009 order requiring them to finance a US$278 million smoking cessation programme in Louisiana Scott case.
The Groups share of this charge amounts to 23 million net of tax.
In March 2011, Reynolds American sold Lane Limited for US$205 million in cash.
The Groups share of the gain on the disposal of this business amounts to 22 million net of tax.
Reynolds American has also recognised the following amounts which have been combined in the table of adjusting items and reported in other: Reynolds American reported a charge of US$64 million in respect of four Engle progeny lawsuits that have proceeded through the appellate process in the state of Florida.
The amount includes compensatory and punitive damages as well as attorneys fees and statutory interest.
The Groups share of this charge amounts to 10 million net of tax.
Reynolds American recognised trademark amortisation and impairment of US$47 million and the Groups share of these charges amounts to 8 million net of tax.
Reynolds American reported US$16 million and US$11 million of tax credits and interest, respectively and the Groups share of these credits amounts to 6 million net of tax.
Reynolds American recognised restructuring charges of US$23 million and the Groups share of these charges amounts to 4 million net of tax.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 127 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information Notes on the accounts continued 5 Associates and joint ventures continued During 2010, the Groups interest in ITC decreased from 31.92 per cent to 31.43 per cent as a result of ITC issuing ordinary shares under the companys employee stock option scheme.
This resulted in a charge of 9 million.
In the year ended 31 December 2010, a subsidiary of Reynolds American, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company Inc. RJRTC, entered into a comprehensive settlement agreement with the Canadian federal, provincial and territorial governments to resolve all the governments civil claims related to smuggling in Canada during the 1980s and 1990s.
As part of the civil settlement, RJRTC agreed to pay the governments CA$325 million.
In a separate matter, a subsidiary of R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings Inc. Northern Brands International Inc. entered into a plea agreement with the Ministry of the Attorney General of Ontario.
As a result of its plea to one count of conspiracy to aid others in the sale and possession of contraband cigarettes in the early 1990s, Northern Brands paid a fine of CA$75 million.
The Groups share of these charges amounted to 59 million net of tax.
In the year ended 31 December 2010, Reynolds American recognised the following amounts which have been combined in the table of adjusting items and reported in other: Reynolds American recognised restructuring charges from the closure of one factory in August 2010 and the planned closure of another in mid 2011.
As a result of these actions, Reynolds American recorded charges mostly relating to asset impairment and, to a lesser extent, severance costs.
The Groups share of these charges amounted to 6 million net of tax.
RJRTC also received a payment of US$21 million as a result of the agreement to terminate early the Contract Manufacturing Agreement dated 30 July 2004 between RJRTC and BATUS Japan Inc. a wholly owned Group subsidiary, and settle all disputes at issue between the parties as explained in note 29.
The Groups share of this receipt amounted to 3 million net of tax.
In addition, Reynolds American recognised a trademark impairment charge of US$6 million as well as trademark amortisation of US$4 million.
The Groups share of these charges amounted to 1 million net of tax.
6 Taxation on ordinary activities a Summary of taxation on ordinary activities 2011 2010 m m UK corporation tax credit 16 Comprising: current year tax expense 14 16 adjustments in respect of prior periods 16 double taxation relief 14 16 Overseas tax 1,470 1,294 Comprising: current year tax expense 1,449 1,270 adjustments in respect of prior periods 21 24 Total current tax 1,470 1,278 Deferred tax 86 30 Comprising: deferred tax relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 84 30 deferred tax relating to changes in tax rates 2 1,556 1,248 b Franked Investment Income Group Litigation Order British American Tobacco is the principal test claimant in an action in the United Kingdom against HM Revenue & Customs in the Franked Investment Income Group Litigation Order FII GLO.
There are 25 corporate groups in the FII GLO.
The case concerns the treatment for UK corporate tax purposes of profits earned overseas and distributed to the UK.
The claim was filed in 2003 and the case was heard in the European Court of Justice ECJ in 2005 and a decision of the ECJ received in December 2006.
In July 2008, the case reverted to a trial in the UK High Court for the UK Court to determine how the principles of the ECJ decision should be applied in a UK context.
The High Court judgment in November 2008 concluded, amongst many other things, that dividends received from EU subsidiaries should be, and should have been, exempt from UK taxation.
It also concluded that certain dividends received before 5 April 1999 from the EU and, in some limited circumstances after 1993 from outside the EU, should have been treated as franked investment income with the consequence that advance corporation tax need not have been paid.
Claims for the repayment of UK tax incurred where the dividends were from the EU can be made back to 1973.
The tentative conclusion reached by the High Court would, if upheld, produce an estimated receivable of about 1.2 billion for British American Tobacco.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 128 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information 6 Taxation on ordinary activities continued The case was heard by the Court of Appeal in October 2009 and the judgment handed down on 23 February 2010.
The Court of Appeal has determined that various questions should be referred back to the ECJ for further clarification.
In addition, the Court determined that the claim should be restricted to six years and not cover claims dating back to 1973.
This time restriction would, if upheld, reduce the value of the claim to between zero and 10 million.
Based on advice received, the Company believes it has realistic prospects of success on further appeal.
The Company sought leave to appeal from the Supreme Court in the UK and the Supreme Court agreed to hear the appeal on time limits in February 2012.
Several questions were referred back to the ECJ for further clarification and a hearing took place in February 2012 at the ECJ.
The courts decisions are awaited.
No potential receipt has been recognised in the current year or the prior year, in the results of the Group, due to the uncertainty of the amounts and eventual outcome.
c Factors affecting the taxation charge The taxation charge differs from the standard 26 per cent 2010: 28 per cent rate of corporation tax in the UK.
The major causes of this difference are listed below: 2011 2010 m % m % Profit before tax 4,931 4,388 Less: share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 670 550 4,261 3,838 Tax at 26% 2010: 28% on the above 1,108 26.0 1,075 28.0 Factors affecting the tax rate: Tax at standard rates other than UK corporation tax rate 80 1.8 4 0.1 Other national tax charges 67 1.6 77 2.1 Permanent differences 155 3.6 10 0.3 Overseas withholding taxes 143 3.4 123 3.2 Double taxation relief on UK profits 14 0.3 16 0.4 Unutilised tax losses 2 0.1 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 21 0.5 8 0.2 Net deferred tax credits at other tax rates 4 0.1 3 0.1 1,556 36.5 1,248 32.5 Following the goodwill impairment in Turkey as explained in note 3 g and the uncertainty of future taxable profits, the Group has written off deferred tax assets of 43 million in Turkey in 2011 2010: 35 million.
This has been treated as an adjusting item in the adjusted earnings per share calculation as set out in note 7. d Tax on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income 2011 2010 m m Current tax 15 23 Deferred tax 5 24 Credited to other comprehensive income 20 1 The tax relating to each component of other comprehensive income is disclosed in note 20.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 129 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information Notes on the accounts continued 7 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share are based on profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders of 3,095 million 2010: 2,879 million and 1,970 million 2010: 1,983 million ordinary shares of 25p each, being the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year excluding shares held as treasury shares.
For the calculation of diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of shares in issue is increased to 1,982 million 2010: 1,994 million to reflect the potential dilutive effect of employee share schemes.
2011 2010 Weighted Weighted average average number of Earnings number of Earnings Earnings shares per share Earnings shares per share m m pence m m pence Basic earnings per share 3,095 1,970 157.1 2,879 1,983 145.2 Share options 12 0.9 11 0.8 Diluted earnings per share 3,095 1,982 156.2 2,879 1,994 144.4 Earnings have been affected by a number of adjusting items, which are described in notes 3, 5 and 6.
To illustrate the impact of these items, an adjusted earnings per share calculation is shown below.
Adjusted earnings per share calculation Diluted Basic 2011 2010 2011 2010 Earnings Earnings Earnings Earnings Earnings per share Earnings per share Earnings per share Earnings per share Notes m pence m pence m pence m pence Unadjusted earnings per share 3,095 156.2 2,879 144.4 3,095 157.1 2,879 145.2 Effect of restructuring and integration costs 3 e 193 9.7 311 15.6 193 9.8 311 15.7 Tax and non-controlling interests on restructuring and integration costs 45 2.3 75 3.8 45 2.3 75 3.8 Effect of impairment of goodwill and trademarks 3 g 273 13.8 293 14.7 273 13.9 293 14.8 Tax on impairment of goodwill and trademarks 10 0.5 58 2.9 10 0.5 58 2.9 Effect of deferred tax asset written off 6 c 43 2.2 35 1.8 43 2.2 35 1.8 Effect of amortisation of trademarks 3 f 58 2.9 62 3.1 58 2.9 62 3.1 Tax on amortisation of trademarks 13 0.7 15 0.8 13 0.7 15 0.8 Effect of Fox River 3 h 274 13.8 274 13.9 Effect of associates adjusting items 5 11 0.5 72 3.6 11 0.5 72 3.6 Adjusted earnings per share 3,857 194.6 3,504 175.7 3,857 195.8 3,504 176.7 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 130 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information 7 Earnings per share continued Headline earnings per share as required by the JSE Limited The presentation of headline earnings per share, as an alternative measure of earnings per share, is mandated under the JSE Listing Requirements.
It is calculated in accordance with Circular 3 2009 Headline Earnings, as issued by the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Headline earnings per share are calculated as shown below: Diluted Basic 2011 2010 2011 2010 Earnings Earnings Earnings Earnings Earnings per share Earnings per share Earnings per share Earnings per share m pence m pence m pence m pence Unadjusted earnings per share 3,095 156.2 2,879 144.4 3,095 157.1 2,879 145.2 Effect of impairment of intangibles and property, plant and equipment 301 15.2 393 19.7 301 15.3 393 19.8 Tax and non-controlling interests on impairment of intangibles and property, plant and equipment 15 0.8 81 4.1 15 0.8 81 4.1 Effect of gains on disposal of non-current assets held-for-sale 15 0.8 16 0.8 15 0.8 16 0.8 Tax and non-controlling interests on disposal of non-current assets held-for-sale 5 0.3 3 0.1 5 0.3 3 0.1 Effect of disposal of businesses and trademarks 5 0.3 5 0.3 Tax and non-controlling interests on disposal of businesses and trademarks 2 0.1 2 0.1 Effect of gains reclassified from the available-for-sale reserve 1 0.1 1 0.1 Share of associates trademark and other asset impairments net of tax 7 0.4 7 0.4 7 0.4 7 0.4 Share of associates gains on disposal of assets heldfor-sale net of tax 26 1.3 26 1.3 Issue of shares and change in shareholding in associate 28 1.4 9 0.5 28 1.4 9 0.5 Headline earnings per share 3,323 167.7 3,191 160.0 3,323 168.7 3,191 160.9 An alternative measure of headline earnings per share has been presented below to take account of the effect of Fox River note 3 h : this measure is in addition to that mandated by the JSE Listing Requirements.
Headline earnings per share amended for Fox River 3,597 181.5 3,191 160.0 3,597 182.6 3,191 160.9 8 Dividends and other appropriations 2011 2010 Pence Pence per share m per share m Ordinary shares Interim 2011 paid 28 September 2011 38.1 738 2010 paid 29 September 2010 33.2 662 Final 2010 paid 5 May 2011 81.0 1,620 2009 paid 6 May 2010 71.6 1,431 119.1 2,358 104.8 2,093 The Directors have recommended to shareholders a final dividend of 88.4 pence per share for the year ended 31 December 2011.
If approved, this dividend will be paid to shareholders on 3 May 2012.
This dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and therefore, in accordance with IAS 10, it has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
The total estimated dividend to be paid is 1,741 million, which takes the total dividends declared in respect of 2011 to 2,479 million 2010: 2,282 million representing 126.5 pence per share 2010: 114.2 pence per share.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 131 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information Notes on the accounts continued 9 Intangible assets Trademarks Assets in Computer and the course of Goodwill software licences development Total m m m m m 1 January 2011 Cost 11,656 551 802 83 13,092 Accumulated amortisation and impairment 417 217 634 Net book value at 1 January 2011 11,656 134 585 83 12,458 Differences on exchange 397 4 30 3 434 Additions internal development 13 97 110 acquisition of subsidiaries see note 26 a 134 121 255 separately acquired 16 6 22 Reallocations 68 1 69 Amortisation charge 88 58 146 Impairment 273 273 31 December 2011 Cost 11,120 617 883 108 12,728 Accumulated amortisation and impairment 478 258 736 Net book value at 31 December 2011 11,120 139 625 108 11,992 1 January 2010 Cost 11,331 502 806 63 12,702 Accumulated amortisation and impairment 361 109 470 Net book value at 1 January 2010 11,331 141 697 63 12,232 Differences on exchange 574 1 9 1 567 Additions internal development 4 60 64 separately acquired 12 5 7 24 Reallocations 48 48 Amortisation charge 64 64 128 Impairment 249 7 44 300 Disposals 1 1 31 December 2010 Cost 11,656 551 802 83 13,092 Accumulated amortisation and impairment 417 217 634 Net book value at 31 December 2010 11,656 134 585 83 12,458 Included in computer software and assets in the course of development are internally developed assets with a carrying value of 203 million 2010: 150 million.
The costs of internally developed assets include capitalised expenses of employees working full time on software development projects, third party consultants, as well as software licence fees from third party suppliers.
Acquisitions of subsidiaries relate to the acquisition of Protabaco as explained in note 26 a.
Included in the net book value of trademarks and licences are trademarks relating to the acquisition of ST 367 million 2010: 412 million, Tekel 45 million 2010: 61 million and Bentoel 80 million 2010: 94 million, as well as 119 million from the acquisition of Protabaco in 2011.
As a result of a loss of volumes in 2010, the Tekel trademarks were impaired by 44 million as explained in note 3 g. The recoverable amounts of the Tekel trademarks was determined on a value-in-use basis over their remaining useful economic lives applying the same assumptions used to determine the recoverable amount of the Groups Turkey cash-generating unit as described below.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 132 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information 9 Intangible assets continued Impairment testing for intangible assets with indefinite lives including goodwill Goodwill of 11,120 million 2010: 11,656 million is included in intangible assets in the balance sheet of which the following are the significant acquisitions: Rothmans Group 4,947 million 2010: 5,176 million : Imperial Tobacco Canada 2,533 million 2010: 2,576 million : ETI Italy 1,377 million 2010: 1,412 million : ST principally Scandinavia 1,038 million 2010: 1,062 million and Tekel Turkey nil million 2010: 333 million.
The principal allocations of goodwill in the Rothmans acquisition are to the cash-generating units of Eastern Europe, Western Europe and South Africa, with the remainder mainly relating to operations in the domestic and export markets in the United Kingdom and operations in Asia-Pacific.
As a consequence of the Groups new regional structure and the integrated nature of the activities, goodwill associated with the additional markets now part of the Western Europe region has been allocated to the Western Europe cash-generating unit, which was effective from 1 January 2011.
Goodwill associated with markets now part of the new EEMEA region remains in the Eastern Europe cash-generating unit.
Due to initiatives to improve the effectiveness and the efficiency of the Group as a globally integrated enterprise and the integrated nature of the activities, the goodwill arising from the ST acquisition principally Scandinavia and ETI Italy have been transferred to the Western Europe cashgenerating unit with effect from 1 January 2011.
In 2011, goodwill has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to 15 individual cash-generating units five in Asia-Pacific, five in the Americas, two in Western Europe and three in EEMEA.
In 2010, goodwill was allocated for impairment testing purposes to 16 individual cash-generating units five in Asia-Pacific, four in the Americas, four in Western Europe and three in EEMEA.
The carrying amounts of goodwill allocated to the cash-generating units of Canada 2,533 million 2010: 2,576 million, Western Europe includes Rothmans and other acquisitions 3,646 million 2010: 3,726 million restated, Eastern Europe includes Rothmans and other acquisitions 914 million 2010: 931 million restated, South Africa 883 million 2010: 1,069 million, Australia includes Rothmans and other acquisitions 884 million 2010: 877 million, Singapore 530 million 2010: 532 million and Malaysia 478 million 2010: 488 million are considered significant in comparison with the total carrying amount of goodwill.
As explained below, the goodwill in respect of Turkey, which was 333 million at 31 December 2010, has been fully impaired in 2011.
The recoverable amount of all cash-generating units has been determined on a value-in-use basis.
The key assumptions for the recoverable amount of all units are the long-term growth rate and the discount rate.
The long-term growth rate used is purely for the impairment testing of goodwill under IAS 36 Impairment of Assets and does not reflect long-term planning assumptions used by the Group for investment proposals or for any other assessments.
The discount rate is based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital, taking into account the cost of capital and borrowings, to which specific market-related premium adjustments are made.
These adjustments are derived from external sources and are based on the spread between bonds or credit default swaps, or similar indicators issued by the US or comparable governments and by the local government, adjusted for the Groups own credit market risk.
For ease of use and consistency in application, these results are periodically calibrated into bands based on internationally recognised credit ratings.
These assumptions have been applied to the individual cash flows of each unit as compiled by local management in the different markets.
The valuations use cash flows based on detailed financial budgets prepared by management covering a one year period, with growth in year 2 of 6 per cent.
Cash flows for the years 3 to 10 are extrapolated from year 2 cash flows at 5 per cent per annum, including 2 per cent inflation, whereafter a total growth rate of 2 per cent per annum including 2 per cent inflation has been assumed.
The extrapolated growth rates are considered conservative given the Groups history of profit and cash growth, its well balanced portfolio of brands and the industry in which it operates.
The long-term real growth does not exceed the expected long-term average growth rate for the combined markets in which the cash-generating units operate.
In some instances, such as recent acquisitions or start-up ventures, the valuation is expanded to reflect the medium-term plan of management, spanning five years or beyond.
The recoverable amount of the Turkey cash-generating unit has been determined on a value-in-use basis using a 10 year cash flow forecast with cash flows after year 10 extrapolated as described above.
The impairment recognised in 2010 was calculated on the basis of no further significant excise increases.
However, the Turkish government announced a further excise increase effective from October 2011 with an additional increase effective from January 2013.
A ten year forecast is considered appropriate as this takes account of the expectation of sharp declines in volumes in 2012 and 2013, followed by gradual stabilisation and recovery.
In addition, the forecast assumes no further increases in excise.
As explained in note 3 g, although cost saving initiatives in the acquisition plan have been delivered successfully, as a direct result of the above, the remaining goodwill balance has been impaired by 273 million in 2011 2010: 249 million.
In 2011, there was no impairment of the trademarks in Turkey 2010: 44 million.
Other than the impairment charge recognised in respect of Tekel goodwill, no other goodwill impairment charges were recognised in 2011 or 2010.
Pre-tax discount rates of between 7.2 per cent and 18.0 per cent 2010: 7.8 per cent to 18.7 per cent were used, based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital, together with any premium applicable for economic and political risks.
The pre-tax discount rates used for the cash-generating units which are significant in comparison with the total carrying amount of goodwill are 8.8 per cent for Canada 2010: 9.7 per cent, 8.6 per cent for Western Europe 2010: 9.3 per cent, 10 per cent for Eastern Europe 2010: 10.6 per cent, 10.8 per cent for South Africa 2010: 11.5 per cent, 8.6 per cent for Australia 2010: 9.3 per cent, 7.2 per cent for Singapore 2010: 7.8 per cent, 9.3 per cent for Malaysia 2010: 10.0 per cent and 11.3 per cent for Turkey 2010: 11.9 per cent.
If discounted cash flows for cash-generating units should fall by 10 per cent, or the discount rate was increased at a post-tax rate of 1 per cent, there would be no further impairment.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 133 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information Notes on the accounts continued 10 Property, plant and equipment Assets in the Freehold Leasehold Plant and course of property property equipment construction Total m m m m m 1 January 2011 Cost 1,144 250 4,820 369 6,583 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 467 109 2,890 3,466 Net book value at 1 January 2011 677 141 1,930 369 3,117 Differences on exchange 35 5 120 23 183 Additions separately acquired 16 6 132 348 502 acquisition of subsidiaries see note 26 a 22 32 54 Reallocations 16 11 287 314 Depreciation 26 12 316 354 Impairment 8 19 27 Disposals 8 1 32 41 Net reclassifications as held-for-sale 18 3 21 31 December 2011 Cost 1,069 256 4,588 380 6,293 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 433 116 2,697 3,246 Net book value at 31 December 2011 636 140 1,891 380 3,047 1 January 2010 Cost 1,101 237 4,466 336 6,140 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 421 95 2,614 3,130 Net book value at 1 January 2010 680 142 1,852 336 3,010 Differences on exchange 34 3 80 21 138 Additions separately acquired 20 6 137 354 517 Reallocations 30 5 307 342 Depreciation 30 7 344 381 Impairment 30 64 94 Disposals 3 8 37 48 Net reclassifications as held-for-sale 24 1 25 31 December 2010 Cost 1,144 250 4,820 369 6,583 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 467 109 2,890 3,466 Net book value at 31 December 2010 677 141 1,930 369 3,117 Assets held under finance leases 31 December 2011 Cost 35 35 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 28 28 Net book value at 31 December 2011 7 7 31 December 2010 Cost 3 72 75 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 2 56 58 Net book value at 31 December 2010 1 16 17 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 134 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information 10 Property, plant and equipment continued The Groups finance lease arrangements relate principally to the lease of vending machines by the Groups Japanese subsidiary.
Assets held under finance leases are secured under finance lease obligations included in note 21.
2011 2010 m m Cost of freehold land within freehold property on which no depreciation is provided 84 98 Leasehold property comprises net book value of long leasehold 106 106 net book value of short leasehold 34 35 140 141 Contracts placed for future expenditure 1 7 Bank borrowings are secured by property, plant and equipment to the value of 6 million 2010: 24 million.
11 Investments in associates and joint ventures 2011 2010 m m 1 January 2,666 2,521 Differences on exchange 109 105 Differences on exchange reclassified and reported in share of profit after taxation 4 2 Share of profit after taxation note 5 670 550 Dividends note 5 486 466 Actuarial losses relating to pensions and other post-retirement benefits note 20 67 54 Share buy-backs note 25 71 Other equity movements 14 12 31 December 2,613 2,666 Non-current assets 4,119 4,278 Current assets 1,705 1,774 Non-current liabilities 1,656 1,801 Current liabilities 1,555 1,585 2,613 2,666 Reynolds American Inc. Groups share of market value 6,456 million 2010: 5,105 million 1,831 1,872 ITC Ltd. Groups share of market value 5,886 million 2010: 6,020 million 735 747 Other listed associates Groups share of market value 65 million 2010: 44 million 12 13 Unlisted 35 34 2,613 2,666 The Groups share of non-current assets above include 1,503 million 2010: 1,508 million of goodwill and 493 million 2010: 500 million of trademarks arising from the Reynolds American transaction in 2004.
As a result of the disposal of the Lane business in 2011, 17 million of goodwill arising from the Reynolds transaction in 2004 has been reported in the income statement.
In addition, the non-current assets above include 669 million 2010: 664 million of goodwill and 310 million 2010: 310 million of trademarks arising from the acquisition of Conwood by Reynolds American in 2006.
Details of the Groups contingent liabilities are set out in note 30.
In addition to US litigation involving Group companies, which is covered by the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company RJRT indemnity referred to in note 30, Reynolds American Inc. RAI group companies are named in litigation which does not involve Group companies.
While it is impossible to be certain of the outcome of any particular case or of the amount of any possible adverse verdict, it is not impossible that the results of operations or cash flows of RAI, in particular quarterly or annual periods, could be materially affected by this and by the final outcome of any particular litigation.
However, having regard to the contingent liability disclosures on litigation made by RAI in its public financial reports, the Directors are satisfied with the carrying value included above for RAI.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 135 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information Notes on the accounts continued 11 Investments in associates and joint ventures continued The Groups share of the RAI results for the year to 31 December 2011 includes 42 million 2010: 50 million in respect of external legal fees and other external product liability defence costs.
Additional information on associates is provided in the principal associate undertaking sections to the Annual Report.
12 Retirement benefit schemes The Groups subsidiary undertakings operate around 175 retirement benefit arrangements worldwide.
These arrangements have been developed in accordance with local practices in the countries concerned.
The majority of scheme members belong to defined benefit schemes, most of which are funded externally and many of which are closed to new entrants.
The Group also operates a number of defined contribution schemes.
The liabilities arising in the defined benefit schemes are determined in accordance with the advice of independent, professionally qualified actuaries, using the projected unit credit method.
All schemes are formally valued at least every three years.
The principal pension schemes are in the UK, Germany, Canada, the Netherlands and Switzerland.
Together these schemes account for over 85 per cent of the total obligations of the Groups defined benefit schemes.
In addition, the Group operates significant schemes in Canada which provide employees with certain other retirement benefits, such as healthcare.
The liabilities in respect of these benefits are also assessed by qualified independent actuaries, applying the projected unit credit method.
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows: Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m m m Present value of funded scheme liabilities 5,652 5,338 23 27 5,675 5,365 Fair value of funded scheme assets 5,184 5,114 16 20 5,200 5,134 468 224 7 7 475 231 Minimum funding obligations 2 29 2 29 Unrecognised funded scheme surpluses 75 51 75 51 545 304 7 7 552 311 Present value of unfunded scheme liabilities 197 174 149 163 346 337 742 478 156 170 898 648 The above net liability is recognised in the balance sheet as follows retirement benefit scheme liabilities 847 600 156 170 1,003 770 retirement benefit scheme assets 105 122 105 122 742 478 156 170 898 648 The total accumulated net actuarial losses taken through other comprehensive income at 31 December 2011 were 1,155 million 2010: 693 million for subsidiaries, and 417 million 2010: 350 million net of tax for associates and joint ventures.
In Jamaica, the pension scheme holds shares in Carreras Group Ltd a Group subsidiary with a fair value of 6 million 2010: 6 million.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 136 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information 12 Retirement benefit schemes continued The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m m m Defined benefit schemes current service cost 71 69 1 1 72 70 interest cost 285 300 11 11 296 311 expected return on scheme assets 316 298 2 2 318 300 past service cost 9 4 9 4 settlements and curtailments 3 2 2 3 4 46 73 10 8 56 81 Defined contribution schemes 42 38 42 38 Total amount recognised in the income statement note 3 a 88 111 10 8 98 119 The above charges are recognised within employee benefit costs in 2011 and 2010 in note 3 a and include a charge of 7 million in 2011 2010: 2 million credit in respect of pension costs reported as part of the restructuring costs charged in arriving at profit from operations see note 3 e. The movements in scheme liabilities are as follows: Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m m m Present value at 1 January 5,512 5,370 190 162 5,702 5,532 Differences on exchange 89 104 7 13 96 117 Current service cost 72 72 1 1 73 73 Interest cost 281 304 10 11 291 315 Past service costs vested 8 4 8 4 Contributions by scheme members 3 3 3 3 Benefits paid 336 327 9 9 345 336 Settlements and curtailments 5 5 2 5 7 Acquisition of subsidiaries 1 1 Actuarial losses gains 402 13 13 14 389 1 Present value at 31 December 5,849 5,512 172 190 6,021 5,702 Funded schemes 5,652 5,338 23 27 5,675 5,365 Unfunded schemes 197 174 149 163 346 337 5,849 5,512 172 190 6,021 5,702 The actuarial losses and gains in 2011 principally relate to changes in assumptions regarding discount rates and mortality, while in 2010 the actuarial gains and losses were offset by net experience gains.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 137 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information Notes on the accounts continued 12 Retirement benefit schemes continued The movements in funded scheme assets are as follows: Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m m m Fair value of scheme assets at 1 January 5,114 4,618 20 16 5,134 4,634 Differences on exchange 90 93 5 3 95 96 Expected return on scheme assets 311 302 2 2 313 304 Company contributions 242 218 7 7 249 225 Contributions by scheme members 5 5 5 5 Benefits paid 323 316 8 8 331 324 Settlements 2 2 Actuarial losses gains 73 194 73 194 Fair value of scheme assets at 31 December 5,184 5,114 16 20 5,200 5,134 The actuarial gains and losses in both years principally relate to movements in the market value of scheme assets.
Contributions to defined benefit schemes are determined after consultation with the respective trustees and actuaries of the individual externally funded schemes and taking into account regulatory requirements.
Contributions in 2012 are expected to be 295 million for pension schemes and 7 million for healthcare schemes, compared to 242 million and 7 million, respectively, in 2011.
Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m m m Actual return on scheme assets 238 496 2 2 240 498 The movements in the unrecognised funded scheme surpluses are as follows: Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m m m Unrecognised funded scheme surpluses at 1 January 51 52 51 52 Differences on exchange 1 4 1 4 Movement in year 25 5 25 5 Unrecognised funded scheme surpluses at 31 December 75 51 75 51 The movement in minimum funding obligations are as follows: Pension schemes Healthcare schemes Total 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m m m Minimum funding obligations at 1 January 29 75 29 75 Differences on exchange 7 7 Movement in year 27 53 27 53 Minimum funding obligations at 31 December 2 29 2 29 Movements in unrecognised scheme surpluses and minimum funding obligations are recognised in other comprehensive income.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 138 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information 12 Retirement benefit schemes continued The principal actuarial assumptions weighted to reflect individual scheme differences used in the following principal countries are as follows: UK Germany Canada Netherlands Switzerland % % % % % 31 December 2011 Rate of increase in salaries 4.5 2.5 3.5 3.1 1.5 Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.0 1.7 Nil 1.5 Nil Rate of increase in deferred pensions 2.5 Nil Nil 1.5 Discount rate 4.7 5.0 4.0 4.7 3.0 General inflation 3.0 1.7 2.5 1.5 Nil For healthcare inflation in Canada, the assumption is 8.5 per cent reducing to 5.0 per cent by 2018.
For the remaining pension schemes, typical assumptions are that real salary increases will be from 0 per cent to 4.5 per cent per annum and discount rates will be from 0 per cent to 5.25 per cent above inflation.
Pension increases, where allowed for, were generally assumed to be in line with inflation.
UK Germany Canada Netherlands Switzerland % % % % % 31 December 2010 Rate of increase in salaries 4.9 2.5 3.5 3.1 1.5 Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.4 1.5 1.3 1.9 Nil Rate of increase in deferred pensions 2.9 Nil Nil 1.9 Discount rate 5.4 4.8 4.7 5.1 3.0 General inflation 3.4 1.5 2.5 1.9 0.4 For healthcare inflation in Canada, the assumption was 9.0 per cent reducing to 5.0 per cent by 2018.
For the remaining pension schemes, typical assumptions were that real salary increases will be from 0 per cent to 4 per cent per annum and discount rates will be from 1 per cent to 8 per cent above inflation.
Pension increases, where allowed for, are generally assumed to be in line with inflation.
Discount rates are determined by reference to normal yields on high quality corporate bonds at the balance sheet date.
For countries where there is not a deep market in such corporate bonds, the yield on government bonds is used.
Mortality assumptions are subject to regular review.
In Canada, Germany, Switzerland and the Netherlands the same tables were used for both years.
In Canada UP94 tables, in Germany Heubeck tables 2005G, in Switzerland EVK 2000 mortality tables and in the Netherlands AG Prognosetafel 2010-2060 mortality tables have been used.
In the UK the S1NA year of birth table with the Continuous Mortality Investigation 2009 model with a 1.5 per cent long term improvement rate, has been used.
In 2010 the PXA92 year of birth table rated up two years for active and deferred members, with a 1.2 per cent underpin on future improvements and the PXA92 year of birth table rated up three years for current pensioners with no underpin on future improvements, all with the medium cohort effect were used.
Based on the above, the weighted average life expectancy, in years, for mortality tables used to determine benefit obligations is as follows: UK Germany Canada Netherlands Switzerland Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female 31 December 2011 Member age 65 current life expectancy 22.5 24.7 18.5 22.6 19.7 22.1 19.9 24.6 18.9 21.4 Member age 45 life expectancy at age 65 24.7 27.1 21.2 25.1 21.2 22.9 21.3 24.8 21.7 23.9 31 December 2010 Member age 65 current life expectancy 19.6 22.4 18.3 22.4 19.7 22.1 19.7 24.5 17.8 20.6 Member age 45 life expectancy at age 65 23.3 26.7 21.0 25.0 21.2 22.9 21.3 24.8 20.6 23.3 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 139 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information Notes on the accounts continued 12 Retirement benefit schemes continued The expected rates of return on scheme assets in the following principal countries are as follows: UK Germany Canada Netherlands Switzerland % % % % % 31 December 2011 Equities 6.0 8.0 9.0 7.2 6.5 Bonds 3.8 5.0 4.0 3.7 2.4 Property 5.5 5.6 5.4 Other assets 6.0 Nil 4.0 5.2 For the remaining pension schemes, typical expected long-term real rates of return ranged from 0 per cent to 11 per cent.
UK Germany Canada Netherlands Switzerland % % % % % 31 December 2010 Equities 7.2 8.0 9.0 7.6 7.2 Bonds 4.8 5.0 4.0 4.2 2.7 Property 7.2 5.5 6.1 5.3 Other assets 7.2 Nil 4.0 1.7 For the remaining pension schemes, typical expected long-term real rates of return ranged from 1 per cent to 11 per cent.
Expected rates of return are determined taking into account the current level of expected returns on risk free investments, the historical level of risk premium associated with other invested assets, and the expectations for future returns on such assets.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 140 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information 12 Retirement benefit schemes continued Valuation of post-retirement schemes involves judgments about uncertain future events.
Sensitivities in respect of the key assumptions used to measure the principal pension schemes as at 31 December 2011 are set out below.
These sensitivities show the hypothetical impact of a change in each of the listed assumptions in isolation, with the exception of the sensitivity to inflation which incorporates the impact of certain correlating assumptions such as salary increases.
While each of these sensitivities holds all other assumptions constant, in practice such assumptions rarely change in isolation and the impacts may offset to some extent.
0.25 0.25 1 year 1 year percentage percentage increase decrease point increase point decrease m m m m Rate of mortality decrease increase in profit before taxation 6 7 increase decrease of scheme liabilities 133 134 Rate of inflation decrease increase in profit before taxation 9 9 increase decrease of scheme liabilities 134 129 Discount rate increase decrease in profit before taxation 2 2 decrease increase of scheme liabilities 152 166 Expected return on scheme assets increase decrease in profit before taxation 11 11 2.5 percentage 2.5 percentage point increase point decrease m m Market value of scheme assets increase decrease in profit before taxation 6 6 increase decrease of scheme assets 105 105 The effect on the profit before taxation reflects the impact on current service cost, interest cost and expected return on scheme assets where relevant, for 2012.
The effect on scheme assets and liabilities is as at 31 December 2011.
A one percentage point change in healthcare inflation would have the following effects: 1 percentage 1 percentage point increase point decrease m m 31 December 2011 Effect on total of current service cost and interest cost 2 1 Effect on healthcare scheme liabilities 22 18 The history of the present value of the scheme liabilities, fair value of the scheme assets, the scheme net deficits and experience gains and losses are as follows: 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 m m m m m Historical information Scheme liabilities 6,021 5,702 5,532 4,895 4,497 Scheme assets 5,200 5,134 4,634 4,182 4,223 Scheme net deficits 821 568 898 713 274 Experience losses gains on scheme liabilities 6 191 75 156 6 Experience losses gains on scheme assets 73 194 358 857 94 Experience losses and gains on scheme liabilities are presented as part of actuarial gains and losses.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 141 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information Notes on the accounts continued 13 Deferred tax Deferred tax assets comprise: Excess of depreciation Other Stock over capital Tax Retirement Fair value temporary relief allowances losses benefits losses gains differences Total m m m m m m m At 1 January 2011 31 70 42 117 4 313 577 Differences on exchange 1 7 5 3 1 9 26 Charged credited to the income statement 1 36 20 7 9 49 102 Credited charged to other comprehensive income 1 19 7 3 14 Subsidiaries acquired note 26 a 1 2 3 Other 1 1 At 31 December 2011 32 27 16 128 5 259 467 At 1 January 2010 33 62 51 109 6 268 529 Differences on exchange 1 2 6 1 13 21 Credited charged to the income statement 2 28 15 20 13 4 Write-off of unutilised losses in Turkey note 6 c 35 35 Credited charged to other comprehensive income 2 14 19 9 22 Other 3 8 3 28 36 At 31 December 2010 31 70 42 117 4 313 577 Deferred tax liabilities comprise: Excess of capital Undistributed allowances earnings of Other Stock over associates and Retirement Fair value temporary relief depreciation subsidiaries benefits losses gains differences Total m m m m m m m At 1 January 2011 12 195 166 117 2 183 675 Differences on exchange 13 16 4 1 32 Credited charged to the income statement 10 6 8 3 37 16 Charged to other comprehensive income 7 2 9 Subsidiaries acquired note 26 a 5 40 45 Other 1 1 At 31 December 2011 21 193 158 117 2 189 680 At 1 January 2010 8 215 161 117 1 204 706 Differences on exchange 1 7 6 3 1 12 Credited charged to the income statement 6 38 7 7 28 60 Credited to other comprehensive income 2 2 Other 3 11 6 2 1 6 19 At 31 December 2010 12 195 166 117 2 183 675 2011 2010 m m Net deferred tax liabilities 213 98 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 142 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information 13 Deferred tax continued The net deferred tax liabilities are reflected in the Group balance sheet as follows, after offsetting assets and liabilities where there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities and where the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
2011 2010 m m Deferred tax assets 343 411 Deferred tax liabilities 556 509 213 98 Deferred tax expected to be recovered within 12 months: 2011 2010 m m Deferred tax assets 136 162 Deferred tax liabilities 136 121 41 At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused tax losses of 360 million 2010: 421 million which have no expiry date and unused tax losses of 561 million 2010: 538 million which will expire within the next 10 years.
No amount of deferred tax has been recognised in respect of these unused losses.
At the balance sheet date, the Group has not recognised a deferred tax asset in respect of deductible temporary differences of 1,184 million 2010: 795 million, which have no expiry date and 128 million, which will expire within the next 10 years.
At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused tax credits of 80 million 2010: 80 million which have no expiry date.
No amount of deferred tax has been recognised in respect of these unused tax credits.
At the balance sheet date, the aggregate amount of undistributed earnings of subsidiaries which would be subject to dividend withholding tax was 2 billion 2010: 2 billion.
No liability has been recognised in respect of this withholding tax because the Group is in a position to control the timing of these distributions and it is probable that these distributions will not be made in the foreseeable future.
14 Trade and other receivables 2011 2010 m m Trade receivables 1,857 1,831 Loans and other receivables 690 644 Prepayments and accrued income 181 206 2,728 2,681 Current 2,423 2,409 Non-current 305 272 2,728 2,681 Amounts receivable from related parties including associated undertakings are shown in note 29.
Trade and other receivables have been reported in the balance sheet net of allowances as follows: 2011 2010 m m Gross trade and other receivables 2,777 2,741 Allowance account 49 60 Net trade and other receivables per balance sheet 2,728 2,681 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 143 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information Notes on the accounts continued 14 Trade and other receivables continued The movements in the allowance account are as follows: 2011 2010 m m 1 January 60 71 Differences on exchange 5 3 Provided in the year 11 8 Amounts reversed during the year 3 8 Amounts in respect of receivables written-off 14 14 31 December 49 60 Impairment of trade receivables, including write offs and allowances, charged during the year is included as part of other operating expenses.
For 2011, the net impairment charged was 11 million 2010: 3 million of which 8 million 2010: nil, is reflected in the above table.
As at 31 December 2011, trade and other receivables of 42 million 2010: 58 million were past their contractual payment date but not impaired.
These relate to a number of external parties where there is no expectation of default.
The aged analysis of these trade receivables is as follows: 2011 2010 m m Less than three months 34 52 Between three and six months 3 4 Between six months and one year 3 2 Greater than one year 2 The Group holds bank guarantees, other guarantees and credit insurance in respect of some of the past due debtor balances.
Trade and other receivables are predominantly denominated in the functional currencies of subsidiary undertakings apart from the following: 2011 2010 m m US dollar 127 126 UK sterling 112 108 Euro 32 29 Other currencies 36 39 Trade and other receivables also include certain interest bearing amounts and their effective interest rates are as follows: 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m % % Euro 3 3 4.0 4.0 Other currencies 11 11 5.7 7.4 There is no material difference between the above amounts for trade and other receivables and their fair value due to the short-term duration of the majority of trade and other receivables.
There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables as the Group has a large number of internationally dispersed customers.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 144 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information 15 Available-for-sale investments 2011 2010 m m 1 January 87 83 Differences on exchange 1 1 Additions and advances 55 1 Revaluations 13 4 Disposals and repayments 57 31 December 97 87 Current 57 58 Non-current 40 29 97 87 The classification of these investments under the IFRS 7 fair value hierarchy is given in note 24.
Investments have the following maturities: As per balance sheet 2011 2010 m m Equity investments 40 30 Non-equity investments within one year 46 44 beyond one year and within two years 10 11 beyond two years and within three years 1 beyond five years 1 1 97 87 There is no material difference between the maturity profile of investments in the table above and the maturity profile on a gross contractual basis where the values in each year include the investments maturing in that year together with forecast interest receipts on all investments which are due for all or part of that year.
Investments are denominated in the functional currency of the subsidiary undertaking or other currencies as shown below: 2011 2010 m m Functional currencies 82 83 US dollar 1 2 Other currencies 14 2 97 87 Non-equity investments of 57 million 2010: 57 million are principally denominated in UK sterling and have an effective interest rate of 5.1 per cent 2010: 1.4 per cent.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 145 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information Notes on the accounts continued 16 Derivative financial instruments The fair values of derivatives are determined based on market data primarily yield curves, implied volatilities and exchange rates to calculate the present value of all estimated flows associated with each derivative at the balance sheet date.
In the absence of sufficient market data, fair values would be based on the quoted market price of similar derivatives.
The classification of these derivative assets and liabilities under the IFRS 7 fair value hierarchy is given in note 24.
2011 2010 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Fair value hedges interest rate swaps 186 22 139 8 cross-currency swaps 6 42 5 51 Cash flow hedges cross-currency swaps 4 forward foreign currency contracts 44 85 36 96 Net investment hedges forward foreign currency contracts 59 34 52 60 Cash flow hedges and net investment hedges bifurcated cross-currency swaps 11 Held-for-trading forward foreign currency contracts 34 63 21 92 others 9 14 9 12 Total 338 264 273 319 Current 159 177 145 227 Non-current 179 87 128 92 338 264 273 319 Derivatives in respect of net debt 223 126 171 149 other 115 138 102 170 338 264 273 319 As explained in note 4, some derivative financial instruments are not designated as hedges and so are required to be classified as held-for-trading.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 146 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information 16 Derivative financial instruments continued For cash flow hedges, including bifurcated derivatives, the timing of expected cash flows is as follows: 2011 2010 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Within one year 41 82 75 77 Between one and two years 3 11 2 18 Between two and three years 4 1 44 97 77 96 Less: bifurcated derivatives designated as net investment hedges 8 30 44 89 47 96 The Groups cash flow hedges are principally in respect of sales or purchases of inventory and certain debt instruments.
The timing of expected cash flows in respect of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges is broadly expected to be comparable to the time periods when the hedged item will affect profit or loss.
At 31 December 2010, the Group had a receive 465 million fixed rate, pay DKK 3,468 million fixed rate cross-currency swap which was bifurcated into a receive 465 million fixed rate pay 368 million fixed rate cross-currency swap designated as a cash flow hedge and a receive 368 million fixed rate pay DKK 3,468 million fixed rate cross-currency swap designated as a net investment hedge.
Following the maturity of the swap in 2011, the Group entered into a receive 467 million, pay DKK 3,470 million foreign exchange forward contract which has been bifurcated into a receive 467 million, pay 398 million foreign exchange forward contract designated as a cash flow hedge and a receive 398 million, pay DKK 3,470 million foreign exchange forward contract designated as a net investment hedge.
The above table includes the timing of expected cash flows on the bifurcated foreign exchange forward contract designated as a cash flow hedge and the cross-currency swap designated as a cash flow hedge for 2011 and 2010, respectively.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 147 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information Notes on the accounts continued 16 Derivative financial instruments continued The tables below set out the maturities of the Groups derivative financial instruments on an undiscounted contractual basis, based on spot rates.
The maturity dates of all gross-settled derivative financial instruments are as follows: 2011 2010 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Inflow Outflow Inflow Outflow Inflow Outflow Inflow Outflow m m m m m m m m Within one year forward foreign currency contracts 4,297 4,177 6,626 6,788 4,182 4,075 6,987 7,219 cross-currency swaps 1 39 26 430 419 18 8 other 1,188 1,175 1,174 1,189 1,379 1,373 1,371 1,381 Between one and two years forward foreign currency contracts 293 277 348 358 167 164 364 378 cross-currency swaps 1 68 56 1 18 9 Between two and three years forward foreign currency contracts 6 6 55 54 39 40 cross-currency swaps 1 183 177 1 18 14 Between three and four years cross-currency swaps 1 36 27 1 1 18 16 Between four and five years cross-currency swaps 1 361 422 1 1 18 18 Beyond five years cross-currency swaps 19 15 592 634 20 16 343 419 5,808 5,650 9,482 9,731 6,182 6,049 9,194 9,502 The maturity dates of net-settled derivative financial instruments are as follows: 2011 2010 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Inflow Inflow Inflow Inflow Outflow Outflow Outflow Outflow m m m m Within one year 59 15 54 1 Between one and two years 58 10 40 7 Between two and three years 35 6 19 2 Between three and four years 14 3 15 1 Between four and five years 12 1 8 3 Beyond five years 18 1 22 32 196 34 158 26 The above analysis of derivatives settled on a net basis primarily relates to the Groups interest rate swaps.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is summarised as follows: 2011 2010 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Interest rate swaps 186 22 139 8 Cross-currency swaps 6 46 16 51 Forward foreign currency contracts 137 182 109 248 Others 9 14 9 12 338 264 273 319 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 148 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information 16 Derivative financial instruments continued a Interest rate swaps 2011 Interest rate % Maturity Principal Assets Liabilities date currency m m Original Swapped m m Fixed to floating 2012 EUR 337 281 3.6 note a 7 2013 EUR 400 334 5.1 note a 24 2013 GBP 150 150 5.8 note a 10 2014 GBP 500 500 6.0 note a 29 2014 GBP 250 250 6.0 note a 22 2019 GBP 250 250 6.4 note a 64 2020 EUR 600 501 4.0 note a 30 Floating to fixed 2017 EUR 600 501 note a 3.7 22 186 22 2010 Interest rate % Maturity Principal Assets Liabilities date currency m m Original Swapped m m Fixed to floating 2012 EUR 337 289 3.6 note a 14 2013 EUR 400 343 5.1 note a 31 2013 GBP 150 150 5.8 note a 12 2014 GBP 500 500 6.0 note a 20 2014 GBP 250 250 6.0 note a 20 2019 GBP 250 250 6.4 note a 39 2020 EUR 600 514 4.0 note a 8 Floating to fixed 2017 EUR 600 514 note a 3.7 3 139 8 Note a : The floating rate interest rates are based on LIBOR or local equivalent plus a margin ranging between 35 and 268 basis points.
These swaps have been used to manage the interest rate profile of external borrowings and are reflected in the repricing table in note 21. b Cross-currency swaps 2011 Principal Principal Interest original Interest swapped Maturity Original rate currency Swapped rate currency Assets Liabilities date currency % m m currency % m m m m Fixed to floating 2016 GBP 5.5 325 325 EUR note b 473 395 30 2019 EUR 4.6 20 17 USD note b 22 14 6 2021 EUR 3.6 600 501 GBP note b 518 518 12 Floating to fixed 2014 USD note b 261 168 COP 7.2 504,158 167 4 6 46 2010 Principal Principal Interest original Interest swapped Maturity Original rate currency Swapped rate currency Assets Liabilities date currency % m m currency % m m m m Fixed to fixed 2011 EUR 5.9 465 398 DKK 6.2 3,468 399 11 Fixed to floating 2016 GBP 5.5 325 325 EUR note b 473 405 51 2019 EUR 4.6 20 17 USD note b 22 14 5 16 51 Note b : The floating rate interest rates are based on LIBOR or local equivalent plus a margin ranging between 82 and 250 basis points 2010: between 82 and 83 basis points.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 149 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information Notes on the accounts continued 16 Derivative financial instruments continued c Forward foreign currency contracts Forward foreign currency contracts are denominated in the following currencies: Fair values of assets 2011 2010 Currencies purchased forward Currencies purchased forward GBP USD EUR BRL Others Total GBP USD EUR Others Total m m m m m m m m m m m Currencies sold forward CHF 12 1 13 EUR 38 21 1 60 11 10 4 25 GBP 9 5 14 5 10 14 29 HUF 4 2 6 PLN 1 5 6 RUR 1 3 4 USD 2 2 36 2 7 45 ZAR 19 1 1 21 Other currencies 6 4 1 11 6 1 2 1 10 83 38 9 7 137 53 16 14 26 109 Fair values of liabilities 2011 2010 Currencies purchased forward Currencies purchased forward GBP USD EUR BRL Others Total GBP USD EUR Others Total m m m m m m m m m m m Currencies sold forward AUD 28 1 29 37 6 1 44 BRL 4 4 CAD 5 2 7 15 2 17 CHF 2 4 6 24 9 33 EUR 2 8 10 27 6 1 34 GBP 1 10 11 6 2 8 JPY 41 41 52 52 NOK 2 2 4 4 SEK 5 5 2 2 USD 41 7 11 2 61 13 1 14 ZAR 3 3 22 1 23 Other currencies 4 1 2 7 8 2 2 1 13 85 43 31 11 12 182 146 78 22 2 248 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 150 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information 16 Derivative financial instruments continued c Forward foreign currency contracts Forward foreign currency contracts have been used to hedge both internal and external forecast transactions as well as the hedging of internal and external assets and liabilities.
Certain contracts were used to manage the currency profile of external borrowings and are reflected in the currency table in note 21, and their nominal values are as follows: 2011 2010 Purchase Sell Purchase Sell m m m m Forward contracts to purchase GBP, sell CHF 89 86 181 189 Forward contracts to purchase GBP, sell CAD 290 294 292 299 Forward contracts to purchase GBP, sell AUD 1,092 1,121 1,074 1,048 Forward contracts to purchase GBP, sell USD 268 272 Forward contracts to purchase EUR, sell DKK 390 390 Forward contracts to purchase EUR, sell SEK 126 130 130 132 Forward contracts to purchase EUR, sell NOK 160 162 160 164 Forward contracts to purchase EUR, sell GBP 75 77 372 367 d Others 2011 2010 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Others: Bund forwards note i 9 11 5 7 Interest derivative note ii 3 5 Sinking fund policy note iii 4 9 14 9 12 Notes: i Forward contracts to purchase and sell German government securities with a nominal value of 1.4 billion 2010: 1.6 billion taken out to manage internal financing arrangements and maturing within one year.
ii Remaining impact of an interest derivative with a nominal value of 1 billion maturing in 2013. iii Investment in sinking fund policy with a nominal value of ZAR1 million 2010: ZAR33 million.
17 Inventories 2011 2010 m m Raw materials and consumables 1,797 1,893 Finished goods and work in progress 1,477 1,531 Goods purchased for resale 224 184 3,498 3,608 Inventories pledged as security for liabilities amount to 13 million 2010: 17 million.
Write-offs taken to other operating expenses in the Group income statement comprise 38 million 2010: 45 million, including amounts relating to restructuring costs.
18 Income tax receivable and payable Income tax balances shown on the Group balance sheet as current assets and current liabilities, while subject to some uncertainty as to the extent and timing of cash flows, are largely expected to be received or paid within 12 months at the balance sheet date for both 2011 and 2010.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 151 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information Notes on the accounts continued 19 Cash and cash equivalents 2011 2010 m m Cash and bank balances 970 943 Cash equivalents 1,224 1,386 2,194 2,329 Cash equivalents mainly comprise short-term deposits and investments in money market funds with an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents approximates their fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents are denominated in the functional currency of the subsidiary undertaking or other currencies as shown below: 2011 2010 m m Functional currency 1,404 2,131 US dollar 678 102 UK sterling 14 10 Euro 30 14 Other currencies 68 72 2,194 2,329 At 31 December 2011, cash and cash equivalents of 1 million 2010: nil were pledged as collateral.
In the Group cash flow statement, net cash and cash equivalents are shown after deducting bank overdrafts and accrued interest, as follows: 2011 2010 m m Cash and cash equivalents as above 2,194 2,329 Less accrued interest 1 overdrafts 252 145 Net cash and cash equivalents 1,942 2,183 Cash and cash equivalents include restricted amounts of 146 million 2010: 82 million, principally due to exchange control regulations in certain countries.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 152 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information 20 Capital and reserves reconciliation of movement in total equity Attributable to owners of the parent Share premium, capital Total redemption attributable to NonShare and merger Other Retained owners of the controlling Total capital reserves reserves earnings parent interests equity m m m m m m m January 2011 506 3,910 1,600 3,190 9,206 342 9,548 Comprehensive income and expense Profit for the year 3,095 3,095 280 3,375 Differences on exchange subsidiaries 377 377 34 411 associates 109 109 109 Differences on exchange reclassified and reported in profit for the year 4 4 4 Cash flow hedges net fair value losses 19 19 2 21 reclassified and reported in profit for the year 38 38 38 reclassified and reported in net assets 5 5 5 Available-for-sale investments net fair value gains 26 26 26 reclassified and reported in profit for the year 1 1 1 Net investment hedges net fair value gains 62 62 62 differences on exchange on borrowings 104 104 104 Retirement benefit schemes actuarial losses in respect of subsidiaries note 12 461 461 1 462 surplus recognition and minimum funding obligations in respect of subsidiaries note 12 3 3 1 2 actuarial losses in respect of associates net of tax note 11 67 67 67 Tax on other items recognised directly in other comprehensive income note 6 d 5 12 17 3 20 Other changes in equity Employee share options value of employee services 76 76 76 proceeds from shares issued 3 2 5 5 Dividends and other appropriations ordinary shares 2,358 2,358 2,358 to non-controlling interests 279 279 Purchase of own shares held in employee share ownership trusts 123 123 123 share buy-back programme 755 755 755 Non-controlling interests acquisitions 10 10 10 Other movements 32 32 1 31 31 December 2011 506 3,913 1,112 2,636 8,167 307 8,474 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 153 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information Notes on the accounts continued 20 Capital and reserves reconciliation of movement in total equity continued Attributable to owners of the parent Share premium, capital Total redemption attributable to NonShare and merger Other Retained owners of the controlling Total capital reserves reserves earnings parent interests equity m m m m m m m 1 January 2010 506 3,907 1,032 2,168 7,613 299 7,912 Comprehensive income and expense Profit for the year 2,879 2,879 261 3,140 Differences on exchange subsidiaries 484 484 18 502 associates 105 105 105 Differences on exchange reclassified and reported in profit for the year 3 3 3 Cash flow hedges net fair value losses 106 106 106 reclassified and reported in profit for the year 55 55 55 reclassified and reported in net assets 3 3 3 Available-for-sale investments net fair value gains 4 4 4 Net investment hedges net fair value losses 31 31 31 differences on exchange on borrowings 71 71 3 74 Retirement benefit schemes actuarial gains losses in respect of subsidiaries note 12 198 198 5 193 surplus recognition and minimum funding obligations in respect of subsidiaries note 12 57 57 1 58 actuarial losses in respect of associates net of tax note 11 54 54 54 Tax on other items recognised directly in other comprehensive income note 6 d 14 16 2 1 1 Other changes in equity Employee share options value of employee services 67 67 67 proceeds from shares issued 3 4 7 7 Dividends and other appropriations ordinary shares 2,093 2,093 2,093 to non-controlling interests 234 234 Purchase of own shares held in employee share ownership trusts 66 66 66 Non-controlling interests acquisitions 12 12 12 Other movements 26 26 26 31 December 2010 506 3,910 1,600 3,190 9,206 342 9,548 Details relating to the allotted share capital, and movements therein, are included in note 4 of the Parent Company financial statements.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 154 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information 20 Capital and reserves reconciliation of movement in total equity continued Share premium account, capital redemption reserves and merger reserves comprise: Share Capital premium redemption Merger account reserves reserves Total m m m m 1 January 2010 58 101 3,748 3,907 31 December 2010 61 101 3,748 3,910 31 December 2011 64 101 3,748 3,913 The share premium account includes the difference between the value of shares issued and their nominal value.
The increase of 3 million 2010: 3 million relates solely to ordinary shares issued under the Companys share option schemes.
These schemes are described in the remuneration report.
On the purchase of own shares as part of the share buy-back programme for shares which are cancelled, a transfer is made from retained earnings to the capital redemption reserve equivalent to the nominal value of shares purchased.
Purchased shares which are not cancelled are classified as treasury shares and presented as a deduction from total equity.
Total equity attributable to owners of the parent is stated after deducting the cost of treasury shares which include 1,278 million 2010: 523 million for shares repurchased and not cancelled and 261 million 2010: 227 million in respect of the cost of own shares held in employee share ownership trusts.
Transaction costs deducted from equity for the year ended 31 December 2011 were 5 million 2010: nil.
In 1999, shares were issued for the acquisition of the Rothmans International B. V. Group, and the difference between the fair value of shares issued and their nominal value was credited to merger reserves.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 155 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information Notes on the accounts continued 20 Capital and reserves reconciliation of movement in total equity continued Movements in other reserves and retained earnings which is after deducting treasury shares shown above comprise: Retained earnings AvailableTranslation Hedging for-sale Revaluation Total other Treasury reserve reserve reserve reserve Other reserves shares Other m m m m m m m m 1 January 2011 868 35 15 179 573 1,600 750 3,940 Comprehensive income and expense Profit for the year 3,095 Differences on exchange subsidiaries 377 377 associates 109 109 Differences on exchange reclassified and reported in profit for the year 4 4 Cash flow hedges net fair value losses 19 19 reclassified and reported in profit for the year 38 38 reclassified and reported in net assets 5 5 Available-for-sale investments net fair value gains 26 26 reclassified and reported in profit for the year 1 1 Net investment hedges net fair value gains 62 62 differences on exchange on borrowings 104 104 Retirement benefit schemes actuarial losses in respect of subsidiaries note 12 461 surplus recognition and minimum funding obligations in respect of subsidiaries note 12 3 actuarial losses in respect of associates net of tax note 11 67 Tax on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income note 6 d 13 8 5 12 Other changes in equity Employee share options value of employee services 76 proceeds from shares issued 2 Dividends and other appropriations ordinary shares 2,358 Purchase of own shares held in employee share ownership trusts 123 share buy-back programme 755 Non-controlling interests acquisitions 10 Other movements 87 55 31 December 2011 349 29 40 179 573 1,112 1,539 4,175 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 156 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information 20 Capital and reserves reconciliation of movement in total equity continued Retained earnings AvailableTranslation Hedging for-sale Revaluation Total other Treasury reserve reserve reserve reserve Other reserves shares Other m m m m m m m m 1 January 2010 275 6 11 179 573 1,032 772 2,940 Comprehensive income and expense Profit for the year 2,879 Differences on exchange subsidiaries 484 484 associates 105 105 Differences on exchange reclassified and reported in profit for the year 3 3 Cash flow hedges net fair value losses 106 106 reclassified and reported in profit for the year 55 55 reclassified and reported in net assets 3 3 Available-for-sale investments net fair value gains 4 4 Net investment hedges net fair value losses 31 31 differences on exchange on borrowings 71 71 Retirement benefit schemes actuarial gains in respect of subsidiaries note 12 198 surplus recognition and minimum funding obligations in respect of subsidiaries note 12 57 actuarial losses in respect of associates net of tax note 11 54 Tax on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income note 6 d 33 19 14 16 Other changes in equity Employee share options value of employee services 67 proceeds from shares issued 4 Dividends and other appropriations ordinary shares 2,093 Purchase of own shares held in employee share ownership trusts 66 Non-controlling interests acquisitions 12 Other movements 84 58 31 December 2010 868 35 15 179 573 1,600 750 3,940 The translation reserve is as explained in the accounting policy on foreign currencies in note 1.
The hedging reserve and the available-for-sale reserve are as explained in the accounting policy on financial instruments in note 1.
The revaluation reserve relates to the acquisition of the cigarette and snus business of ST in 2008.
Of the amounts released from the hedging reserve during the year, losses of 5 million 2010: 4 million and losses of 26 million 2010: 38 million were reported within revenue and raw materials and consumables respectively, together with a gain of 2 million 2010: 3 million reported in other operating expenses and a loss of 9 million 2010: 16 million reported within net finance costs.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 157 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information Notes on the accounts continued 20 Capital and reserves reconciliation of movement in total equity continued Other reserves comprise: a 483 million which arose in 1998 from merger accounting in a Scheme of Arrangement and Reconstruction whereby British American Tobacco p. l. c. acquired the entire share capital of B.
A. T Industries p. l. c. and the share capital of that companys principal financial services subsidiaries was distributed, so effectively demerging them: and b In the Rothmans transaction, convertible redeemable preference shares were issued as part of the consideration.
The discount on these shares was amortised by crediting other reserves and charging retained earnings.
The 90 million balance in other reserves comprises the accumulated balance in respect of the preference shares converted during 2004.
The tax attributable to components of other comprehensive income is as follows: 2011 2010 m m Translation reserve Differences on exchange 7 4 Net investment hedges difference on exchange on borrowings 6 29 13 33 Hedging reserve Cash flow hedges net fair value losses 8 27 reclassified and reported in profit for the year 16 8 8 19 Retained earnings actuarial losses gains in respect of subsidiaries 13 31 surplus recognition and minimum funding obligations in respect of subsidiaries 1 15 12 16 Owners of the parent 17 2 Non-controlling interests 3 1 Total tax recognised in other comprehensive income for the period note 6 d 20 1 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 158 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information 21 Borrowings 2011 2010 Currency Maturity dates Interest rates m m Eurobonds Euro 2011 to 2021 3.6% to 5.9% 4,985 5,064 UK sterling 2013 to 2040 5.5% to 7.3% 2,675 2,626 Bonds issued pursuant to Rule 144A and RegS under the US Securities Act as amended US dollar 2013 to 2018 8.1% to 9.5% 643 637 Other notes Malaysian ringgit 2012 to 2014 4.1% to 4.5% 134 136 Indonesian rupiah 2012 10.5% 96 96 Other currencies 26 26 Syndicated bank loans US dollar 2012 floating rate 444 442 Euro 2013 floating rate 374 382 Commercial paper 85 Bank loans 497 629 Other loans 57 47 Finance leases 8 20 Overdrafts 252 145 10,276 10,250 The floating interest rates referred to in the table above are based on EURIBOR or USD LIBOR plus a margin ranging between 28 and 105 basis points 2010: 28 and 105 basis points.
Included within borrowings are 3,066 million 2010: 2,595 million of borrowings subject to fair value hedges where their amortised cost has been increased by 189 million 2010: 150 million in the table above.
The fair value of borrowings is estimated to be 11,263 million 2010: 10,963 million and has been determined using quoted market prices or discounted cash flow analysis.
2011 2010 m m Amounts secured on Group assets 27 61 Amounts secured on Group assets include finance leases of 8 million 2010: 20 million.
The remaining amounts are secured on certain property and inventory of the Group note 10 and note 17.
Borrowings are repayable as follows: Contractual Per balance sheet gross maturities 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m Within one year 1,766 1,334 1,922 1,389 Between one and two years 1,228 1,057 1,602 1,382 Between two and three years 665 1,232 1,086 1,740 Between three and four years 1,042 617 1,417 1,021 Between four and five years 454 1,067 767 1,430 Beyond five years 5,121 4,943 6,978 7,061 10,276 10,250 13,772 14,023 The contractual gross maturities in each year include the borrowings maturing in that year together with forecast interest payments on all borrowings which are outstanding for all or part of that year.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 159 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information Notes on the accounts continued 21 Borrowings continued Borrowings are denominated in the functional currency of the subsidiary undertaking or other currencies as shown below: Functional US UK Canadian Australian Other currency dollar sterling Euro dollar dollar currencies Total m m m m m m m m 31 December 2011 Total borrowings 5,213 1,264 329 3,431 1 38 10,276 Effect of derivative financial instruments cross-currency swaps 1,080 154 325 518 83 forward foreign currency contracts 1,662 272 751 294 1,121 768 42 4,631 1,382 4 2,162 295 1,121 806 10,401 31 December 2010 Total borrowings 5,111 1,277 329 3,524 1 8 10,250 Effect of derivative financial instruments cross-currency swaps 14 325 10 399 78 forward foreign currency contracts 1,180 662 299 1,048 485 10 3,931 1,291 4 2,852 300 1,048 892 10,318 Details of the derivative financial instruments included in these tables are given in note 16.
The exposure to interest rate changes when borrowings are repriced is as follows Within Between Between Between Between Beyond 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Total m m m m m m m 31 December 2011 Total borrowings 2,373 848 598 1,042 324 5,091 10,276 Effect of derivative financial instruments interest rate swaps 1,484 484 750 250 cross-currency swaps 759 167 325 518 83 4,616 364 15 1,042 1 4,323 10,359 31 December 2010 Total borrowings 2,179 616 851 617 1,067 4,920 10,250 Effect of derivative financial instruments interest rate swaps 1,782 289 493 750 250 cross-currency swaps 419 342 77 4,380 327 358 133 1,067 4,328 10,327 Details of the derivative financial instruments included in these tables are given in note 16.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 160 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information 21 Borrowings continued Finance lease liabilities per the balance sheet and on a contractual gross maturity basis are payable as follows: 2011 2010 Principal Interest Total Principal Interest Total m m m m m m Within one year 4 4 11 1 12 Between one and two years 1 1 5 5 Between two and three years 1 1 2 2 Between three and four years 1 1 1 1 Between four and five years 1 1 Beyond five years 1 1 8 8 20 1 21 Borrowings facilities undrawn committed facilities expire as follows: 2011 2010 m m Within one year 194 282 Between one and two years 10 Between two and three years Between three and four years 2,000 Between four and five years 2,000 2,204 2,282 In December 2010 the Group negotiated a new central banking facility of 2 billion with a final maturity date of December 2015.
The existing central banking facility of 1.75 billion, with a final maturity date of March 2012, was cancelled at the same time.
The Group defines net debt as follows: 2011 2010 m m Borrowings note 21 10,276 10,250 Derivatives in respect of net debt: assets note 16 223 171 liabilities note 16 126 149 Cash and cash equivalents note 19 2,194 2,329 Current available-for-sale investments note 15 57 58 7,928 7,841 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 161 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information Notes on the accounts continued 22 Other provisions for liabilities and charges Restructuring Employee of existing related Other businesses benefits Fox River provisions Total m m m m m 1 January 2011 207 48 214 469 Differences on exchange 8 2 16 26 Subsidiaries acquired 5 9 14 Provided in respect of the year 52 5 274 61 392 Utilised during the year 91 6 48 145 Other movements 11 1 10 31 December 2011 149 50 274 221 694 Analysed on the Balance Sheet as current 77 22 137 236 non-current 72 28 274 84 458 149 50 274 221 694 The restructuring provisions relate to the restructuring and integration costs incurred and reported as adjusting items in the income statement.
The principal restructuring activities in 2011 and 2010 are as described in note 3 e. While some elements of the non-current provisions of 72 million will unwind over several years, as termination payments are made over extended periods in some countries, it is estimated that one-third will unwind in 2013 and over 80 per cent within five years.
Employee related benefits mainly relate to long-term employee benefits other than post-retirement benefits.
As the principal components of these provisions are long service awards and jubilee payments due after a certain service period, they will unwind over several years.
It is estimated that approximately 50 per cent of the non-current provisions of 28 million will unwind within five years.
A provision of 274 million has been made for a potential claim under a 1998 settlement agreement entered into by a Group subsidiary in respect of the clean up of sediment in the lower Fox River.
Other provisions comprise balances set up in the ordinary course of general business that cannot be classified within the other categories, such as sales returns, onerous contracts, together with amounts in respect of supplier, excise and other disputes.
The nature of the amounts provided in respect of disputes is such that the extent and timing of cash flows is difficult to estimate, and the ultimate liability may vary from the amounts provided.
Amounts provided above are shown net of reversals of unused provisions which include 1 million for restructuring of existing businesses, 1 million for employee benefits and 17 million for other provisions.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 162 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information 23 Trade and other payables 2011 2010 m m Trade payables 668 712 Duty, excise and other taxes 3,085 3,306 Accrued charges and deferred income 1,168 1,088 Social security and other taxation 8 15 Sundry payables 429 407 5,358 5,528 Current 5,174 5,335 Non-current 184 193 5,358 5,528 Accrued charges and deferred income include 8 million 2010: 30 million in respect of interest payable.
Amounts payable to related parties including associated undertakings are shown in note 29.
There is no material difference between the above amounts for trade and other payables and their fair value due to the short-term duration of the majority of trade and other payables.
Trade and other payables are predominantly denominated in the functional currencies of subsidiary undertakings with less than 5 per cent in other currencies.
24 Financial instruments and risk management Management of financial risks One of the principal responsibilities of Treasury is to manage the financial risks arising from the Groups underlying operations.
Specifically, Treasury manages, within an overall policy framework set by the Groups Main Board and Corporate Finance Committee CFC, the Groups exposure to funding and liquidity, interest rate, foreign exchange and counterparty risks.
The Groups treasury position is monitored by the CFC which meets regularly throughout the year and is chaired by the Group Finance Director.
The approach is one of risk reduction within an overall framework of delivering total shareholder return.
The Group defines capital as net debt see note 21 and equity see note 20.
The only externally imposed capital requirement for the Group is interest cover as described under Interest rate risk below.
The Group assesses its financial capacity by reference to cash flow, net debt and interest cover.
Group policies include a set of financing principles and key performance indicators including the monitoring of credit ratings, interest cover and liquidity.
These provide a framework within which the Groups capital base is managed and, in particular, the policies on dividends as a percentage of long-term sustainable earnings and share buy-back are decided.
The key objective of the financing principles is to appropriately balance the interests of equity and debt holders in driving an efficient financing mix for the Group.
The Group manages its financial risks in line with the classification of its financial assets and liabilities in the Groups balance sheet and related notes.
The Groups management of specific risks is dealt with as follows: Liquidity risk It is the policy of the Group to maximise financial flexibility and minimise refinancing risk by issuing debt with a range of maturities, generally matching the projected cash flows of the Group and obtaining this financing from a wide range of providers.
The Group has a target average centrally managed debt maturity of at least 5 years with no more than 20 per cent of centrally managed debt maturing in a single rolling year.
As at 31 December 2011, the average centrally managed debt maturity was 7.0 years 2010: 7.4 years and the highest proportion of centrally managed debt maturing in a single rolling year was 18.3 per cent 2010: 12.5 per cent.
In June 2011, the Group established an US$2 billion commercial paper programme.
It is Group policy that short-term sources of funds including drawings under both the US$ programme and the existing Group 1 billion euro commercial paper ECP programme are backed by undrawn committed lines of credit and cash.
At 31 December 2011 85 million of commercial paper was outstanding 2010: undrawn.
In November 2011, the Group issued a new 600 million bond with a maturity of November 2021.
In September 2011, the Group repaid a Mexican peso 1,444 million borrowing which was due in September 2011 with a new Mexican peso 1,444 million borrowing due 2014.
In August 2011, the Group extended the maturity date of a US$200 million facility from 2011 to 2016, and simultaneously increased the size of the facility to US$240 million.
This facility is drawable in Chilean peso and was drawn to the value of US$225 million at 31 December 2011.
The undrawn element of US$15 million is available for drawing until February 2013.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 163 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information Notes on the accounts continued 24 Financial instruments and risk management continued In June 2011, the Group repaid a 530 million bond with the repayment financed from Group cash balances.
During the year, the Groups subsidiary in Brazil received proceeds of 401 million 2010: 410 million from short-term borrowings in respect of advance payments on leaf export contracts and repaid 519 million 2010: 297 million.
In December 2010, the Group negotiated a new central banking facility of 2 billion with a final maturity date of December 2015.
This facility is provided by 22 banks.
The existing central banking facility of 1.75 billion, with a final maturity date of March 2012 was cancelled at the same time.
The facility was undrawn at both 31 December 2011 and 2010.
On 25 June 2010, the terms of 470 million of the 1 billion bond maturing in 2011 were modified by extending the maturity to 2020: at the same time, the Group issued an additional 130 million bond with a maturity of 2020.
In addition, 413 million of the Groups 750 million bond maturing in 2012 was purchased and cancelled.
At the same time, the Group issued a new 275 million bond with a maturity of 2040.
In May 2010, the Group repaid a 525 million bond.
The repayment was financed from debt issued in November 2009.
The Group utilises cash pooling and zero balancing bank account structures in addition to intercompany loans and borrowings to ensure that there is the maximum mobilisation of cash within the Group.
The key objectives of Treasury in respect of cash and cash equivalents are to protect the principal value of cash and cash equivalents, to concentrate cash at the centre to minimise the required long-term debt issuance, and to optimise the yield earned.
The amount of debt issued by the Group is determined by forecasting the net debt requirement after the mobilisation of cash.
The Group continues to target investment-grade credit ratings: as at 31 December 2011 the ratings from Moodys and S&P were Baa1 stable outlook BBB positive outlook 2010: Baa1 BBB and these ratings were maintained throughout the year.
The S&P outlook switched from stable to positive on 30 November 2011.
The strength of the ratings has underpinned the debt issuance during 2011 and 2010 and, despite the impact of the turbulence in financial markets, the Group is confident of its ability to successfully access the debt capital markets, as demonstrated with the issue of bonds in the euro and sterling markets in 2011 and 2010.
As part of its short-term cash management, the Group invests in a range of cash and cash equivalents, including money market funds, which are regarded as highly liquid and are not exposed to significant changes in fair value.
These are kept under continuous review as described in the credit risk section below.
At 31 December 2011, cash and cash equivalents include 558 million invested in money market funds 2010: 642 million.
Subsidiary companies are funded by share capital and retained earnings, loans from the central finance companies on commercial terms, or through local borrowings by the subsidiaries in appropriate currencies.
All contractual borrowing covenants have been met and none of them is expected to inhibit the Groups operations or funding plans.
Currency risk The Group is subject to exposure on the translation of the net assets of foreign currency subsidiaries and associates into its reporting currency, sterling.
The Groups primary balance sheet translation exposures are to the US dollar, Canadian dollar, euro, Danish krone, Turkish lira, South African rand, Russian rouble, Brazilian real, Australian dollar and Japanese yen.
These exposures are kept under continuous review.
The Groups policy on borrowings is to broadly match the currency of these borrowings with the currency of cash flows arising from the Groups underlying operations.
Within this overall policy, the Group aims to minimise all balance sheet translation exposure where it is practicable and cost-effective to do so through matching currency assets with currency borrowings.
The main objective of these policies is to protect shareholder value by increasing certainty and minimising volatility in earnings per share.
At 31 December 2011, the currency profile of the Groups gross debt, after taking into account derivative contracts, was 14 per cent 2010: 13 per cent US dollar, 43 per cent 2010: 47 per cent euro, 3 per cent 2010: 3 per cent Canadian dollar, 12 per cent 2010: 11 per cent sterling, 11 per cent 2010: 10 per cent Australian dollar and 17 per cent 2010: 16 per cent other currencies.
The Group faces currency exposures arising from the translation of profits earned in foreign currency subsidiaries and associates and joint ventures: these exposures are not normally hedged.
Exposures also arise from: i foreign currency denominated trading transactions undertaken by subsidiaries.
These exposures comprise committed and highly probable forecast sales and purchases, which are offset wherever possible.
The remaining exposures are hedged within the Treasury policies and procedures with forward foreign exchange contracts and options, which are designated as hedges of the foreign exchange risk of the identified future transactions: and ii forecast dividend flows from subsidiaries to the centre.
To ensure cash flow certainty, the Group hedges such flows using forward foreign exchange contracts designated as net investment hedges of the foreign exchange risk arising from the investments in these subsidiaries.
IFRS 7 requires a sensitivity analysis that shows the impact on the income statement and on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income of hypothetical changes of exchange rates in respect of non-functional currency financial assets and liabilities held across the Group.
All other variables are held constant although, in practice, market rates rarely change in isolation.
Financial assets and liabilities held in the functional currency of the Groups subsidiaries, as well as non-financial assets and liabilities and translation risk, are not included in the analysis.
The Group considers a 10 per cent strengthening or weakening of the functional currency against the non-functional currency of its subsidiaries as a reasonably possible change.
The impact is calculated with reference to the financial asset or liability held as at the year end, unless this is unrepresentative of the position during the year.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 164 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information 24 Financial instruments and risk management continued A 10 per cent strengthening of functional currencies against non-functional currencies would result in pre-tax profit being 16 million higher 2010: 36 million higher and items recognised directly in other comprehensive income being 227 million higher 2010: 273 million higher.
A 10 per cent weakening of functional currencies against non-functional currencies would result in pre-tax profit being 23 million lower 2010: 44 million lower and items recognised directly in other comprehensive income being 277 million lower 2010: 333 million lower.
The exchange sensitivities on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income relate to hedging of certain net asset currency positions in the Group as well as on cash flow hedges in respect of future transactions, but does not include sensitivities in respect of exchange on non-financial assets or liabilities.
Interest rate risk The objectives of the Groups interest rate risk management policy are to lessen the impact of adverse interest rate movements on the earnings, cash flow and economic value of the Group and to safeguard against any possible breach of its financial covenants.
Additional objectives are to minimise the cost of hedging and the associated counterparty risk.
The Group targets an interest cover ratio, as calculated under its key central banking facilities, of greater than 5 and for 2011 it is 12.5 times 2010: 11.2 times.
The only externally imposed capital requirement the Group has is in respect of its centrally managed banking facilities, which require a gross interest cover of 4.5.
In order to manage its interest rate risk, the Group maintains both floating rate and fixed rate debt.
The Group sets targets within overall guidelines for the desired ratio of floating to fixed rate debt on both a gross and net basis at least 50 per cent fixed on a net basis in the short to the medium-term as a result of regular reviews of market conditions and strategy by the Corporate Finance Committee and the board of the main central finance company.
At 31 December 2011, the relevant ratios of floating to fixed rate borrowings were 38:62 2010: 33:67 on a gross basis and 17:83 2010: 9:91 on a net basis.
Underlying borrowings are arranged on both a fixed rate and a floating rate basis and, where appropriate, the Group uses derivatives, primarily interest rate swaps, to vary the fixed and floating mix.
The interest rate profile of liquid assets is taken into account in determining the net interest rate exposure.
IFRS 7 requires a sensitivity analysis that shows the impact on the income statement and on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income of hypothetical changes of interest rates in respect of financial assets and liabilities of the Group.
For the purposes of this sensitivity analysis, financial assets and liabilities with fixed interest rates are not included.
The Group considers a 100 basis point change in interest rates a reasonably possible change except where rates are less than 100 basis points.
In these instances it is assumed that the interest rates increase by 100 basis points and decrease to zero for the purpose of performing the sensitivity analysis.
A 100 basis point increase in interest rates would result in pre-tax profit being 18 million lower 2010: 12 million lower.
A 100 basis point decrease in interest rates, or less where applicable, would result in pre-tax profit being 21 million higher 2010: 8 million higher.
The effect of these interest rate changes on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income is not material in either year.
Credit risk The Group has no significant concentrations of customer credit risk.
Subsidiaries have policies in place requiring appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales commence.
The process for monitoring and managing credit risk once sales to customers have been made varies depending on local practice in the countries concerned.
Certain territories have bank guarantees, other guarantees and credit insurance provided in the Groups favour in respect of Group trade receivables, the issuance and terms of which are dependent on local practices in the countries concerned.
All derivatives are subject to ISDA agreements or equivalent documentation.
Cash deposits and other financial instruments give rise to credit risk on the amounts due from the related counterparties.
Generally the Group targets a long-term counterparty credit rating of at least A A2.
However the Group recognises that due to the need to operate over a large geographic footprint, sovereign risk can be the determining factor on the suitability of a counterparty.
From time to time the Group may invest in short-dated corporate commercial paper and for this, the Group identifies specific counterparties with a minimum short-term rating of A1 P1.
Counterparty credit risk is managed on a global basis by limiting the aggregate amount and duration of exposure to any one counterparty, taking into account its credit rating.
The credit ratings of all counterparties are reviewed regularly.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 165 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information Notes on the accounts continued 24 Financial instruments and risk management continued The Group ensures that it has sufficient counterparty credit capacity of requisite quality to undertake all anticipated transactions throughout its geographic footprint, while at the same time ensuring that there is no geographic concentration in the location of counterparties.
The maximum exposure to the credit risk of financial assets at the balance sheet date is reflected by the carrying values included in the Groups balance sheet.
In addition, the Group has issued guarantees to third parties, part of which has been recognised on the balance sheet in accordance with IAS 39.
The unrecognised portion of these guarantees amounts to 28 million 2010: 64 million.
Price risk The Group is exposed to equity price risk on equity investments held by the Group, which are included in available-for-sale investments on the consolidated balance sheet, but the quantum of such is not material.
Hedge accounting In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required to document prospectively the relationship between the item being hedged and the hedging instrument.
The Group is also required to demonstrate an assessment of the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, which shows that the hedge will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness testing is reperformed periodically to ensure that the hedge has remained, and is expected to remain highly effective.
Fair value estimation The fair values of financial assets and liabilities with maturities of less than one year, other than derivatives, are assumed to approximate their book values.
For other financial instruments which are measured at fair value in the balance sheet, the basis for fair values is described below.
Fair value hierarchy The following table presents the Groups financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value in accordance with the IFRS 7 classification hierarchy: 2011 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m Assets at fair value Available-for-sale investments note 15 17 42 38 97 Derivatives relating to interest rate swaps note 16 186 186 cross-currency swaps note 16 6 6 forward foreign currency contracts note 16 137 137 others note 16 9 9 Assets at fair value 17 380 38 435 Liabilities at fair value Derivatives relating to interest rate swaps note 16 22 22 cross-currency swaps note 16 46 46 forward foreign currency contracts note 16 182 182 others note 16 14 14 Liabilities at fair value 264 264 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 166 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information 24 Financial instruments and risk management continued 2010 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m Assets at fair value Available-for-sale investments note 15 6 55 26 87 Derivatives relating to interest rate swaps note 16 139 139 cross-currency swaps note 16 16 16 forward foreign currency contracts note 16 109 109 others note 16 4 5 9 Assets at fair value 10 324 26 360 Liabilities at fair value Derivatives relating to interest rate swaps note 16 8 8 cross-currency swaps note 16 51 51 forward foreign currency contracts note 16 248 248 others note 16 12 12 Liabilities at fair value 319 319 Level 1 financial instruments are traded in an active market and fair value is based on quoted prices at the year end.
This category includes listed equity shares of 2 million 2010: 9 million.
Level 2 financial instruments are not traded in an active market, but the fair values are based on quoted market prices, broker dealer quotations, or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency.
The Groups level 2 financial instruments include certain money market securities and most OTC derivatives.
The fair values of level 3 financial instruments have been determined using a valuation technique where at least one input which could have a significant effect on the instruments valuation is not based on observable market data.
The Groups level 3 financial instruments primarily consist of an equity investment in an unquoted entity which is valued using the discounted cash flows of estimated future dividends.
The valuation assumes the following: future dividends grow by 1.7 per cent 2010: 2 per cent and a 100 basis points decrease in the growth rate would result in the valuation being 6 million lower 2010: 2 million lower : and discount rate of 7 per cent 2010: 8 per cent and a 100 basis points decrease in the discount rate would result in the valuation being 9 million higher 2010: 4 million higher.
The following table presents the changes in level 3 financial instruments: 2011 2010  sale investments investments m m 1 January 26 24 Gains included in other comprehensive income 13 3 Differences on exchange 1 1 31 December 38 26 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 167 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information Notes on the accounts continued 25 Cash flow Cash generated from operations 2011 2010 m m Profit from operations 4,721 4,318 Adjustments for amortisation and impairment of trademarks 58 106 amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 365 322 gains on disposal of businesses 5 depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 394 469 increase in inventories 47 280 increase in trade and other receivables 87 127 increase in trade and other payables 46 497 decrease in net retirement benefit liabilities 208 153 increase in provisions for liabilities and charges 232 17 other non-cash items 63 43 Cash generated from operations 5,537 5,207 Profit from operations includes charges in respect of Group restructuring and integration costs referred to in note 3 e. These are also reflected in the movements in depreciation, amortisation, impairment, inventories, receivables, payables and provisions above and in the proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment shown in the Group cash flow statement.
The net cash outflow in respect of the Groups restructuring costs was 207 million 2010: 193 million, of which 217 million 2010: 219 million is included in cash generated from operations above.
Cash flows from investing activities a Purchases and proceeds on disposals of investments The purchases and disposals of investments which comprise available-for-sale investments and loans and receivables comprises a net cash inflow in respect of current investments of 3 million 2010: 1 million outflow.
b Proceeds from associates share buy-backs In 2011, the proceeds from associates share buy-backs reflect proceeds of 71 million in respect of the Groups participation in the share buy-back programme conducted by Reynolds American Inc. c Purchase of other subsidiaries and associates In 2011, the net cash outflow of 295 million on the purchase of Protabaco reflects the settlement of the purchase consideration of 298 million less the acquired net cash and cash equivalents of 3 million, as explained in note 26 a. d Proceeds on disposal of subsidiaries In 2010, the proceeds on disposal of subsidiaries reflects the consideration received, less cash and cash equivalents disposed of, from the sale of the Groups Belgium distribution business, Lyfra NV, as explained in note 26 b.
Cash flows from financing activities a Cash flows from borrowings During the year, the Group established an US$2 billion commercial paper programme.
In September 2011, the Group repaid a Mexican Peso 1,444 million borrowing which was due in September 2011 with a new Mexican peso 1,444 million borrowing due 2014.
In June 2011, the Group repaid a 530 million bond.
The repayment was financed from Group cash balances.
During the year the Groups subsidiary in Brazil received proceeds of 401 million 2010: 410 million from short-term borrowings in respect of advance payments on leaf export contracts and repaid 519 million 2010: 297 million.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 168 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information 25 Cash flow continued On 25 June 2010, the terms of 470 million of the 1 billion bond maturing in 2011 were modified by extending the maturity to 2020: at the same time, the Group issued an additional 130 million bond with a maturity of 2020.
The repayment was financed from debt issued in November 2009. b Movements relating to derivative financial instruments The movement relating to derivative financial instruments is in respect of derivatives taken out to hedge cash and cash equivalents and external borrowings, derivatives taken out to hedge inter company loans and borrowings and derivatives treated as net investment hedges.
Derivatives taken out as cash flow hedges in respect of financing activities are also included in the movement relating to derivative financial instruments, while other such derivatives in respect of operating and investing activities are reflected along with the underlying transactions.
c Purchase of non-controlling interests In 2011, the cash outflow of 10 million arises from the acquisition of non-controlling interests in Chile.
The cash outflow of 12 million in 2010 arises from the acquisition of non-controlling interests in Bentoel of shareholders who did not wish to participate in the merger of Bentoel and BAT Indonesia as well as non-controlling interests in subsidiaries in the EEMEA region.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 169 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information Notes on the accounts continued 26 Business combinations and disposals a Productora Tabacalera fide Colombia, S. A. S. Protabaco On 11 October 2011, the Group acquired from Flentex Holdings Limited and Trioumvir Enterprises Limited, both private investor shareholders, a 100 per cent stake in Productora Tabacalera fide Colombia, S. A. S. Protabaco, the second largest cigarette company in Colombia, for US$461 million 298 million.
The purchase price is subject to the final agreement of adjustments for working capital and net debt with the vendors.
The completion follows earlier approval by Colombias competition authority, the Superintendence of Industry and Commerce, on 2 August 2011.
The goodwill of 134 million on the acquisition of the cigarette business of Protabaco, stated at the exchange rates ruling at the date of the transaction, arises as follows: Provisional values: Fair value Book value adjustments Fair value m m m Intangible assets 121 121 Property, plant and equipment 37 17 54 Deferred tax asset 1 1 Inventories 42 4 38 Trade and other receivables 19 19 Cash and cash equivalents 3 3 Retirement benefit liabilities 1 1 Deferred tax liabilities 42 42 Provisions 5 9 14 Trade and other payables 11 3 14 Net assets acquired 85 79 164 Goodwill 134 Total consideration note 25 c 298 Acquisition costs of 3 million have been expensed as part of other operating expenses within restructuring and integration costs note 3 e. The goodwill of 134 million on the acquisition of the business represents a strategic premium to strengthen the Groups position in Latin Americas fourth largest market by building on the Groups existing business, and anticipated synergies that will arise from combining the businesses in Colombia, post-acquisition.
In the period from 11 October 2011 to 31 December 2011 the acquired business contributed revenue of 9 million and a loss from operations of 13 million after charging 2 million for amortisation of acquired intangibles and 10 million in respect of restructuring and integration costs.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2011, before accounting for anticipated synergies and restructuring benefits, it is currently estimated that Group revenue would have been 15,452 million and Group profit from operations would have been 4,714 million for the 12 months to 31 December 2011.
These amounts have been estimated based on Protabacos results for the period prior to acquisition, adjusted to reflect changes arising from differences in accounting policies and the anticipated effect of fair value adjustments.
The amounts reported for profit from operations are after charging 9 million for the amortisation of acquired intangibles for the period to 11 October 2011. b Lyfra NV On 7 April 2010, the Group announced that it had agreed to sell its Belgium distribution business, Lyfra NV, to Landewyck Group S. a. r. l. The transaction was completed on 25 June 2010 for a consideration of 16 million and resulted in a gain of 5 million.
Lyfra contributed 215 million to revenue and 1 million to profit from operations to 25 June 2010 in the Western Europe region.
c Items classified as held-for-sale At 31 December 2011, held-for-sale assets comprise mainly land and buildings in Turkey and Denmark which are being actively marketed for sale.
At 31 December 2010, the held-for-sale assets included amounts in relation to land and buildings in Canada which were sold in early 2011. d Gauloises licence agreement termination With effect from the end of the first quarter in 2010, the Gauloises licence agreement applicable in Germany, was terminated.
The agreement resulted in a revenue contribution of 37 million and a profit contribution of 5 million to the 2010 results in the Western Europe region.
e Phone card distribution business in Brazil During 2010, the Group made the decision to withdraw from distributing phone cards in Brazil.
The phone card distribution business contributed 134 million to revenue and 3 million to profit from operations in the Americas region in 2010.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 170 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information 26 Business combinations and disposals continued f Termination of distributor arrangement With effect from 1 July 2011, the arrangement by which the Group acted as a distributor for a third party in Norway was terminated.
This arrangement contributed 57 million to revenue and less than 1 million to profit from operations in the Western Europe region in 2010.
For the six months ended 30 June 2011, it contributed 25 million to revenue and less than 1 million to profit from operations.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 171 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information Notes on the accounts continued 27 Share-based payments The Group operates a number of share-based payment arrangements of which the two principal ones are: Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Nil-cost options exercisable after three years from date of grant with a contractual life of ten years.
Payout is subject to performance conditions based on earnings per share relative to inflation 50 per cent of grant and total shareholder return, combining the share price and dividend performance of the Company by reference to two comparator groups 50 per cent of grant.
Participants are not entitled to dividends prior to the exercise of the options.
A cash equivalent dividend accrues through the vesting period and is paid on vesting.
Both equity and cash-settled LTIPs are granted in March each year.
In 2011 the Management Board LTIP award was made in May.
Deferred Share Bonus Scheme DSBS Free ordinary shares released three years from date of grant and may be subject to forfeit if participant leaves employment before the end of the three year holding period.
Participants receive a separate payment equivalent to a proportion of the dividend payment during the holding period.
Both equity and cash-settled grants are granted in March each year.
The Group also has a number of other arrangements which are not material for the Group and these are as follows: Share Option Scheme ESOS Options exercisable three years from date of grant with a contractual life of ten years, subject to earnings per share performance condition relative to inflation.
Participants are not entitled to receive dividends in the period prior to the exercise of the options.
The granting of options under this scheme ceased with the last grant made in March 2004 and final outstanding awards must be exercised by March 2014.
The awards were both equity and cash-settled.
Sharesave Scheme SAYE Options granted in March each year from 2011 onwards previously November until 2009 and no options were granted during 2010 by invitation at a 20 per cent discount to the market price.
Options to this equity-settled scheme are exercisable at the end of a three year or five year savings contract.
The maximum amount that can be saved by a participant in this way is 3,000 in any tax year.
Share Reward Scheme SRS and International Share Reward Scheme ISRS Free shares granted in April each year maximum 3,000 in any year under the equity-settled scheme are subject to a three year holding period.
Participants receive dividends during the holding period which are reinvested to buy further shares.
Partnership Share Scheme Open to all eligible employees, where employees can allocate part of their pre-tax salary to purchase shares in British American Tobacco p. l. c. The maximum amount that can be allocated in this way to any individual is 1,500 in any tax year.
The shares purchased are held in a UK-based trust and are normally capable of transfer to participants tax free after a five year holding period.
Further details on the operation of share-based payment arrangements can be found in the remuneration report.
Share-based payment expense The amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of share-based payments were as follows: 2011 2010 Equity-settled Cash-settled Equity-settled Cash-settled m m m m LTIP note a 28 9 30 9 DSBS note b 43 12 33 10 ESOS note c 1 SAYE note c 1 1 SRS note c 4 3 Total recognised in the income statement note 3 a 76 21 67 20 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 172 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information 27 Share-based payments continued Share-based payment liability The Group issues to certain employees cash-settled share-based payments that require the Group to pay the intrinsic value of these share-based payments to the employee at the date of exercise.
The Group has recorded liabilities in respect of vested and unvested grants at the end of 2011 and 2010: 2011 2010 Vested Unvested Vested Unvested m m m m LTIP 3.7 11.4 2.1 11.1 DSBS 17.1 0.6 12.4 ESOS 0.6 1.0 Total liability 4.3 28.5 3.7 23.5 a Long-Term Incentive Plan Details of the movements for the equity and cash-settled LTIP scheme during the years ended 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010, were as follows: 2011 2010 Equity-settled Cash-settled Equity-settled Cash-settled Number Number Number Number of options of options of options of options in thousands in thousands in thousands in thousands Outstanding at start of year 7,292 960 7,560 1,283 Granted during the period 2,256 252 2,383 272 Exercised during the period 2,335 299 2,202 538 Forfeited during the period 624 84 449 57 Outstanding at end of year 6,589 829 7,292 960 Exercisable at end of year 374 135 392 104 The weighted average British American Tobacco p. l. c. share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was 25.52 2010: 22.44 for equity-settled and 25.86 2010: 22.63 for cash-settled options.
The outstanding shares for the year ended 31 December 2011 had a weighted average contractual life of 8.0 years 2010: 8.2 years for the equity-settled scheme, and 7.5 years 2010: 7.8 years for the cash-settled share-based payment arrangements.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 173 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information Notes on the accounts continued 27 Share-based payments continued b Deferred Share Bonus Scheme Details of the movements for the equity and cash-settled DSBS scheme during the years ended 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010, were as follows: 2011 2010 Equity-settled Cash-settled Equity-settled Cash-settled Number Number Number Number of options of options of options of options in thousands in thousands in thousands in thousands Outstanding at start of year 5,482 911 5,696 910 Granted during the period 2,474 388 1,961 320 Exercised during the period 1,780 295 2,138 291 Forfeited during the period 67 50 37 28 Outstanding at end of year 6,109 954 5,482 911 Exercisable at end of year 3 3 2 The weighted average British American Tobacco p. l. c. share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was 25.08 2010: 22.40 for equity-settled and 25.65 2010: 22.52 for cash-settled options.
The outstanding shares for the year ended 31 December 2011 had a weighted average contractual life of 1.3 years 2010: 1.4 years for the equitysettled scheme, and 1.2 years 2010: 1.3 years for the cash-settled scheme.
c Other schemes ESOS The number of outstanding equity-settled options at the end of the year were 385,451 2010: 629,598 and cash-settled options were 24,870 2010: 60,092.
SAYE The number of outstanding options at the end of the year for the three year scheme were 317,484 2010: 297,415 and for the five year scheme were 564,484 2010: 584,566.
SRS and ISRS The number of outstanding shares at the end of the year for the Share Reward Scheme were 591,204 2010: 607,228 and for the International Share Reward Scheme were 76,213 2010: 85,762.
Valuation assumptions Assumptions used in the Black-Scholes models to determine the fair value of share options at grant date were as follows: 2011 2010 LTIP DSBS LTIP DSBS Expected volatility % 25 25 25 25 Average expected term to exercise years 3.5 3.0 3.5 3.0 Risk-free rate % 2.0 1.6 1.8 2.1 1.8 Expected dividend yield % 4.8 4.2 4.8 4.4 4.4 Share price at date of grant 23.77 27.15 23.77 22.58 22.58 Fair value at grant date 15.60 18.60 20.58 15.62 19.78 Where two figures have been quoted for the Long-term incentive plan, the first number represents the March award and the second number the May award.
Market condition features were incorporated into the Monte Carlo models for the total shareholder return elements of the LTIP, in determining fair value at grant date.
Assumptions used in these models were as follows: 2011 2010 % % Average share price volatility FTSE 100 comparator group 40 39 38 Average share price volatility FMCG comparator group 26 26 25 Average correlation FTSE 100 comparator group 39 21 37 Average correlation FMCG comparator group 35 35 33 Where two figures have been quoted for the Long-term incentive plan, the first number represents the March award and the second number the May award.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 174 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information 27 Share-based payments continued Fair values determined from the Black-Scholes and Monte Carlo models use assumptions revised at the end of each reporting period for cash-settled share-based payment arrangements.
The expected British American Tobacco p. l. c. share price volatility was determined taking account of the return index, the share price index plus the dividend reinvested over a five year period.
The respective FMCG and FTSE 100 share price volatility and correlations were also determined over the same periods.
The average expected term to exercise used in the models has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural conditions, forfeiture and historical experience.
The risk-free rate has been determined from market yield curves for government gilts with outstanding terms equal to the average expected term to exercise for each relevant grant.
The expected dividend yield was determined by calculating the yield from the last two declared dividends divided by the grant share price.
In addition to these valuation assumptions, LTIP awards contain earnings per share performance conditions.
As these are non-market performance conditions they are not included in the determination of fair value of share options at the grant date, however they are used to estimate the number of awards expected to vest.
This payout calculation is based on expectations published in analysts forecasts.
28 Group employees The average number of persons employed by the Group and its associates during the year, including Directors, was 87,813 2010: 92,285.
Restated 2011 2010 Number Number Asia-Pacific 15,351 15,848 Americas 16,661 16,423 Western Europe 12,138 15,122 EEMEA 12,115 13,038 Subsidiary undertakings 56,265 60,431 Associates 31,548 31,854 87,813 92,285 Details of Directors remuneration, share options and retirement benefits are given in the remuneration report.
Included within the employee numbers for Western Europe are certain employees in the UK in respect of central functions.
Some of the costs of these employees are allocated or charged to the various regions and markets in the Group.
The number of Group employees for 2010 has been restated as a result of the reduction in the number of regions, as explained in note 2.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 175 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information Notes on the accounts continued 29 Related party disclosures The Group has a number of transactions and relationships with related parties, as defined in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures, all of which are undertaken in the normal course of business.
Transactions and balances with associates relate mainly to the sale and purchase of cigarettes and tobacco leaf.
Amounts receivable from associates in respect of dividends included in the table below were 87 million 2010: 77 million.
The Groups share of dividends from associates, included in other net income in the table below, was 486 million 2010: 466 million.
Legal fees recovered from Reynolds American Inc. included in other net income amounted to nil 2010: 1 million.
2011 2010 m m Transactions revenue 28 38 purchases 342 442 other net income 487 460 Amounts receivable at 31 December 97 99 Amounts payable at 31 December 40 21 On 26 May 2010, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group, BATUS Japan Inc. entered into an American blend Cigarette Manufacturing Agreement referred to as the 2010 Agreement with a wholly-owned subsidiary of Reynolds American, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company referred to as RJRTC, with an effective date of 1 January 2010.
Under this Agreement, RJRTC has been appointed as BATUS Japans exclusive manufacturer of all BATUS Japans requirements for certain American-blend cigarettes intended to be distributed and sold in Japan for the five year period expiring on 31 December 2014, subject to the early termination and extension provisions set out in the agreement.
The 2010 Agreement is based on arms length terms and conditions.
On the same date, RJRTC and BATUS Japan entered into a letter agreement terminating the existing Contract Manufacturing Agreement dated 30 July 2004 referred to as the 2004 Agreement, as amended between the parties, with effect from midnight on 31 December 2009.
The 2004 Agreement was scheduled to expire on 31 December 2014, subject to early termination and extension provisions.
Under the terms of the letter agreement, certain sections and sub-sections of the 2004 Agreement will survive the termination, and, in consideration for RJRTC agreeing to terminate the agreement and in settlement of all disputes at issue between the parties, BATUS Japan agreed to pay RJRTC US$21 million.
The payment has been presented as an adjusting item and is included within the Groups restructuring and integration costs in note 3 e. The Groups share of the income net of tax included within the post-tax results of Reynolds American is also presented as an adjusting item and is credited against other see note 5.
In 2011, the Group acquired non-controlling interests of shareholders in Chile for 10 million.
This transaction is shown as a 10 million reduction to reserves in note 20.
In 2010, the Group acquired non-controlling interests of shareholders in Indonesia and eastern Europe for 3 million and 9 million respectively.
These transactions are shown as a 12 million reduction to reserves in note 20.
As explained in note 26 b, the Group sold its Belgium distribution business, Lyfra NV, to Landewyck Group S. a. r. l in 2010 for a consideration of 16 million.
The Groups German subsidiary has an available-for-sale investment in Landewyck Group S. a. r. l. The key management personnel of British American Tobacco consist of the members of the Board of Directors of British American Tobacco p. l. c. and the members of the Management Board.
No such person had any material interest during the year in a contract of significance other than a service contract with the Company or any subsidiary company.
The term key management personnel in this context includes the respective members of their households.
2011 2010 m m The total compensation for key management personnel, including Directors, was: salaries and other short-term employee benefits 21 22 post-employment benefits 3 3 share-based payments 8 12 32 37 There were no other long-term benefits applicable in respect of key personnel other than those disclosed in the remuneration report in the Annual Report.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 176 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information Notes on the accounts continued x B&W discontinued the active conduct of any tobacco business 30 Contingent liabilities and in the United States: financial commitments x B&W contributed to RJRT all of its assets other than the capital The Group is subject to contingencies pursuant to requirements stock of certain subsidiaries engaged in non-US businesses and other limited categories of assets: that it complies with relevant laws, regulations and standards.
Failure to comply could result in restrictions in operations, x RJRT assumed all liabilities of B&W except liabilities to the damages, fines, increased tax, increased cost of compliance, extent relating to businesses and assets not contributed interest charges, reputational damage or other sanctions.
by B&W to RJRT and other limited categories of liabilities and These matters are inherently difficult to quantify.
contributed subsidiaries or otherwise to the extent related to In cases where the Group has an obligation as a result of a B&Ws tobacco business as conducted in the United States on past event existing at the balance sheet date, it is probable or prior to 30 July 2004: and that an outflow of economic resources will be required to settle x RJRT agreed to indemnify B&W and each of its associates the obligation and the amount of the obligation can be reliably other than Reynolds American Inc. and its subsidiaries estimated, a provision will be recognised based on best estimates against, among other matters, all losses, liabilities, damages, and management judgment.
expenses, judgments, attorneys fees, etc.
to the extent There are, however, contingent liabilities in respect of litigation, relating to or arising from such assumed liabilities or the taxes in some countries and guarantees for which no provisions assets contributed by B&W to RJRT the RJRT Indemnification.
The scope of the RJRT Indemnification includes all expenses and The Group has exposures in respect of the payment or recovery contingent liabilities in connection with litigation to the extent of a number of taxes.
The Group is and has been subject to a relating to or arising from B&Ws US tobacco business as conducted number of tax audits covering, amongst others, excise tax, value on or prior to 30 July 2004, including smoking and health tobacco added taxes, sales taxes, corporate taxes, withholding taxes and litigation, whether the litigation is commenced before or after payroll taxes.
The estimated costs of known tax obligations have been provided in Pursuant to the terms of the RJRT Indemnification, RJRT is liable for these accounts in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
any possible judgments, the posting of appeal bonds or security, In some countries, tax law requires that full or part payment of and all other expenses of and responsibility for managing the disputed tax assessments be made pending resolution of the defence of the Tobacco Litigation.
RJRT has assumed control of the dispute.
To the extent that such payments exceed the estimated defence of the Tobacco Litigation involving B&W, to which RJRT is obligation, they would not be recognised as an expense.
In some also a party in most but not all of the same cases.
Accordingly, cases disputes are proceeding to litigation.
RJRT uses or plans to use the same law firm or firms to represent both B&W and RJRT in any single or similar case except in certain While the amounts that may be payable or receivable could limited circumstances as RJRTs interests are typically aligned with be material to the results or cash flows of the Group in the B&Ws interests, as RJRT has substantial experience in managing period in which they are recognised, the Board does not recognised external legal counsel in defending the Tobacco expect these amounts to have a material effect on the Groups Litigation and external counsel have independent professional financial condition.
responsibilities to represent the interests of B&W.
In addition, in accordance with the terms of the RJRT Indemnification, associates Product liability litigation Group companies, notably Brown & Williamson Holdings, Inc. of B&W have retained control of the defence in certain Tobacco Litigation cases with respect to which such associates are entitled formerly Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation B&W as well as other leading cigarette manufacturers, are defendants, to indemnification.
principally in the United States, in a number of product liability Included in the US litigation section below are all significant cases cases.
In a number of these cases, the amounts of compensatory where B&W and or a UK company is named as a defendant and all and punitive damages sought are significant.
cases where RJRT is named as a defendant as a successor to B&W the RJRT Successor Cases.
The RJRT Successor Cases are covered Indemnity In 2004, B&W completed the combination of the assets, liabilities by the RJRT Indemnification.
Of the RJRT Successor Cases, the section below includes details of all cases where there has been and operations of its US tobacco business with R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company RJRT, a wholly-owned subsidiary of an adverse judgment and also notes favourable judgments.
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings, Inc. pursuant to which Reynolds US litigation American Inc. was formed the Business Combination.
As part The total number of US product liability cases pending at of the Business Combination, B&W contributed to RJRT all of 31 December 2011 naming B&W was approximately 8,688 the assets and liabilities of its US cigarette and tobacco business, 2010: approximately 9,458.
Of these, 5,588 cases are RJRT subject to specified exceptions, in exchange for a 42 per cent equity Successor Cases.
For all of these cases, British American Tobacco ownership interest in Reynolds American Inc. As a result of the Group companies have the protection of the RJRT Indemnification.
Business Combination: British American Tobacco Investments Limited Investments has been served as a co-defendant in three of those cases 2010: five.
No other UK based Group company has been served as British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 177 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information Notes on the accounts continued certified.
If the classes are or remain certified and the possibility 30 Contingent liabilities and of class-based liability is eventually established, it is likely that financial commitments continued individual trials will be necessary to resolve any claims by individual plaintiffs.
Class action suits have been filed in a a co-defendant in any US product liability case pending as at number of states against individual cigarette manufacturers 31 December 2011.
In 2011, there was one US product liability and their parent corporations, alleging that the use of the case tried to verdict against B&W and Investments City of St. Louis terms lights and ultralights constitutes unfair and deceptive see below.
There is one case Daric Smith see below against trade practices.
B&W and Investments scheduled for trial on 16 July 2012.
Since The Cleary putative class action complaint was filed in state many of these pending cases seek unspecified damages, it is not court in Chicago, Illinois on 3 June 1998 against several defendants, possible to quantify the total amounts being claimed, but the including B&W, B.
A. T Industries p. l. c. Industries and Investments.
aggregate amounts involved in such litigation are significant, Industries was dismissed on jurisdictional grounds by an possibly totalling billions of US dollars.
The cases fall into four intermediate appellate court on 17 March 2000.
The case was broad categories: medical reimbursement cases: class actions: removed to the federal district court on 13 March 2009.
After individual cases and other claims.
certain discovery and motion practice, the plaintiffs motion for leave to file a Fourth Amended Complaint was granted on 22 April a Medical reimbursement cases 2010.
The Fourth Amended Complaint alleged that all defendants These civil actions seek to recover amounts spent by government fraudulently concealed facts regarding the addictive nature of entities and other third party providers on healthcare and welfare nicotine and that defendant Philip Morris fraudulently marketed costs claimed to result from illnesses associated with smoking.
Marlboro Lights cigarettes, and sought disgorgement of profits.
Although B&W continues to be a defendant in one healthcare The defendants motion to dismiss the Fourth Amended Complaint cost recovery case involving a Native American tribe see below, was granted on 22 June 2010.
The plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal the vast majority of such cases have been dismissed on in the US Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit on 20 August legal grounds.
In an order entered on 25 August 2011, the Seventh Circuit Further, on 23 November 1998, the major US cigarette affirmed the federal district courts order dismissing the case.
The manufacturers including B&W and RJRT and the attorneys plaintiffs petition for rehearing with suggestion for rehearing en general of 46 US states and five US territories executed the banc was denied by the Seventh Circuit on 15 November 2011.
Master Settlement Agreement MSA, which settled medical The plaintiffs have not sought further review of this decision.
reimbursement lawsuits that had been brought by these states In a medical monitoring class action brought on behalf of and territories.
Under the terms of the MSA, the settling cigarette Louisiana smokers Scott the jury returned a verdict on 28 July manufacturers agreed, among other things, to pay approximately 2003 in favour of the defendants on the plaintiffs claim for medical US$246 billion to the settling states and territories and to monitoring and found that cigarettes were not defectively designed.
four states that reached separate settlements of their medical However, the jury also made certain findings against the defendants reimbursement actions over 25 years, and agreed to various on claims relating to fraud, conspiracy, marketing to minors and restrictions on US tobacco advertising and marketing.
Notwithstanding these findings, this portion of MSA includes a credit for any amounts paid by participating the trial did not determine liability as to any individual class member manufacturers in subsequent suits brought by the states or class representative.
On 21 May 2004, the jury returned a verdict political subdivisions.
in the amount of US$591 million, requiring the defendants to At 31 December 2011, one US medical reimbursement suit fund a cessation programme to help eligible class members was pending against B&W 2010: three.
This suit has been stop smoking.
On 29 September 2004, the defendants posted a brought by an Indian tribe in the Indian Tribal Court in US$50 million bond, pursuant to legislation that limits the amount South Dakota.
of the bond to US$50 million collectively for MSA signatories, and noticed their appeal.
RJRT posted US$25 million the portions Two additional reimbursement cases pending against Group for RJRT and B&W towards the bond.
On 7 February 2007, the companies as at 31 December 2010 have recently been dismissed.
Louisiana Court of Appeals upheld the class certification and found The Natl Committee to Preserve Social Security & Medicare case the defendants responsible for funding smoking cessation for against B&W and other defendants was dismissed by the district eligible class members.
The appellate court also ruled, however, court on 22 December 2010 and judgment was entered in that no class member who began smoking after 1 September 1988 defendants favour on 23 December 2010.
The City of St. Louis could receive any relief and that only those smokers whose claims case against B&W, Investments and several other defendants accrued on or before 1 September 1988 would be eligible for the was dismissed following a jury verdict in defendants favour on smoking cessation programme.
In addition, the appellate court 29 April 2011.
Final judgment was entered in defendants favour rejected the award of prejudgment interest, and struck eight of on 10 June 2011 and the plaintiffs waived all rights to appeal the 12 components of the smoking cessation programme.
The defendants application to the Louisiana Supreme Court for a b Class actions writ of certiorari was denied on 7 January 2008.
The defendants At 31 December 2011, B&W was named as a defendant in some petition to the US Supreme Court for a writ of certiorari was denied eight 2010: eight separate actions attempting to assert claims on on 10 June 2008.
On 21 July 2008, the trial court entered an behalf of classes of persons allegedly injured or financially impacted amended judgment in the case.
The court found that the through smoking or where classes of tobacco claimants have been defendants are jointly and severally liable for funding the cost British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 178 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information or can demonstrate, standing.
On 10 March 2010, the California 30 Contingent liabilities and Superior Court found that the plaintiffs lights claims were not financial commitments continued pre-empted by the Federal Cigarette Labelling and Advertising Act, held the courts 30 September 2004 ruling on the issue no of a court-supervised smoking cessation programme and ordered longer viable and denied the defendants second motion for the defendants to deposit approximately US$263 million together summary judgment.
The defendants filed a motion on 9 January with interest from 30 June 2004, into a trust for the funding of the 2012 requesting that the class be decertified because the class programme.
On 23 April 2010, the Louisiana Court of Appeals representatives do not meet the requisites of standing, adequacy, amended but largely affirmed the trial courts amended judgment.
or typicality needed to represent the class.
Trial is scheduled to Pursuant to the judgment, the defendants are required to deposit begin on 5 October 2012.
US$242 million with the court, with interest from 21 July 2008 until Howard is a lights class action filed in February 2000 in the paid.
In September 2010, the defendants application for writ of Circuit Court, Madison County, Illinois.
A judge certified a class certiorari or review by the Supreme Court of Louisiana along with on 18 December 2001.
On 6 June 2003, the trial judge issued an the defendants motion to stay execution of the judgment was order staying all proceedings pending resolution of Price v. Philip denied.
On 24 September 2010, the US Supreme Court granted Morris, Inc. a lights class action against Philip Morris, Inc. in the the defendants motion to stay the judgment pending the US Illinois state court.
The plaintiffs appealed this stay order to the Supreme Courts disposition of the defendants petition for a writ Illinois Fifth District Court of Appeals, which affirmed the Circuit of certiorari.
The defendants petition for writ of certiorari in the Courts stay order on 19 August 2005.
There is currently no activity US Supreme Court was denied on 27 June 2011.
RJRT paid US$139 million the portion of the judgment allocated to RJRT and B&W into the trust.
On 31 October 2011, the plaintiffs Jones is a case filed in December 1998 in the Circuit Court, Jackson requested that defendants pay attorneys fees and litigation costs County, Missouri.
The defendants removed the case to the US to plaintiffs counsel.
The defendants filed their opposition to District Court for the Western District of Missouri on 16 February the plaintiffs request for attorneys fees on 6 January 2012.
The action was brought by tobacco product users and Discovery on this issue is currently continuing.
purchasers on behalf of all similarly situated Missouri consumers.
The plaintiffs allege that their use of the defendants tobacco Black is a lights class action filed in November 2000 in the products has caused them to become addicted to nicotine.
The Circuit Court, City of St. Louis, Missouri.
B&W removed the case plaintiffs seek to recover an unspecified amount of compensatory to the US District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri on and punitive damages.
The case was remanded to the Circuit 23 September 2005.
On 25 October 2005, the plaintiffs filed a Court on 17 February 1999.
There has been limited activity in motion to remand, which was granted on 17 March 2006.
16 April 2008, the court stayed the case pending US Supreme Court review in Good v. Altria Group, Inc. On 28 June 2011, Parsons is a case filed in February 1998 in the Circuit Court, Ohio the court issued a memorandum removing the case from the County, West Virginia.
The plaintiff sued asbestos manufacturers, trial docket.
A status conference is currently scheduled for US cigarette manufacturers, including B&W, among other 4 February 2013. defendants, seeking to recover US$1 million in compensatory and punitive damages individually and an unspecified amount for the Brown is a case filed in June 1997 in the Superior Court, San Diego class in both compensatory and punitive damages.
The action was County, California.
On 11 April 2001, the court granted in part the brought on behalf of a class of persons who allegedly have personal plaintiffs motion for certification of a class composed of residents of injury claims arising from their exposure to respirable asbestos fibres California who smoked at least one of the defendants cigarettes and cigarette smoke.
The case has been stayed pending a final from 10 June 1993 through 23 April 2001, and who were exposed resolution of the plaintiffs motion to refer tobacco litigation to to the defendants marketing and advertising activities in California.
the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation filed in In Re: Tobacco The plaintiffs seek to recover restitution, disgorgement of profits Litigation in the Supreme Court of Appeals of West Virginia.
and other equitable relief under the California Business and On 26 December 2000, three defendants, Nitral Liquidators, Inc.
Certification was granted as to the plaintiffs Desseaux Corporation of North American and Armstrong World claims that the defendants violated the section of the California Industries, filed bankruptcy petitions in the US Bankruptcy Court for Business and Professions Code pertaining to unfair competition.
Pursuant to the Bankruptcy Code, Parsons The court, however, refused to certify the class under the California is automatically stayed with respect to all defendants.
Legal Remedies Act and on the plaintiffs common law claims.
On 7 March 2005, the court granted the defendants motion to Young is a case filed in November 1997 in the Circuit Court, Orleans decertify the class.
On 5 September 2006, the California Court Parish, Louisiana.
The plaintiffs brought an Environmental Tobacco of Appeal affirmed the judges order decertifying the class.
On Smoke ETS class action on behalf of all residents of Louisiana who, 1 November 2006, the plaintiffs petition for review with the though not themselves cigarette smokers, have been exposed to California Supreme Court was granted.
On 18 May 2009, the second-hand smoke from cigarettes which were manufactured California Supreme Court reversed the decision issued by the by the defendants, and who allegedly suffered injury as a result trial court and affirmed by the California Court of Appeal that of that exposure.
The plaintiffs seek to recover an unspecified decertified the class to the extent that it was based upon the amount of compensatory and punitive damages.
On 13 October conclusion that all class members were required to demonstrate 2004, the trial court stayed this case pending the outcome of standing, and remanded the case to the trial court for further appellate review in the Scott class action in Louisiana proceedings regarding whether the class representatives have, discussed above.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 179 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information Notes on the accounts continued approximately US$15.2 million on 18 June 2010.
On 21 June 2010, 30 Contingent liabilities and the court entered an order discharging the supersedeas bonds financial commitments continued posted by the defendants.
As at 31 December 2011, approximately 22 additional phase three In Engle a case in Florida, a jury awarded a total of US$12.7 million Engle trials naming RJRT as successor to B&W have proceeded to to three class representatives, and in a later stage of the three-phase verdict.
There have been no additional phase three Engle progeny trial procedure adopted in this case, a jury assessed US$17.6 billion trials naming B&W individually.
Of these 22 trials, approximately in punitive damages against B&W.
On 21 May 2003, the 11 resulted in plaintiffs verdicts.
Total damages awarded against intermediate appellate court reversed the trial courts judgment and RJRT as successor to B&W in final judgments in these cases are remanded the case to the trial court with instructions to fide-certify approximately US$21,493,351.
This number is comprised of the class.
On 16 July 2003, the plaintiffs filed a motion for rehearing approximately US$10,593,351 in compensatory damages and which was denied on 22 September 2003.
On 12 May 2004, the approximately US$10,900,000 in punitive damages.
As of Florida Supreme Court agreed to review this case and, on 6 July 31 December 2011, RJRT had appealed 10 of these adverse 2006, it upheld the intermediate appellate courts decision to judgments and all of these appeals remained pending.
As of fide-certify the class and vacated the jurys punitive damages verdict.
31 December 2011, RJRTs time to file a notice of appeal from the Further, the Florida Supreme Court permitted the judgments eleventh of these final judgments had not expired.
entered for two of the three Engle class representatives to stand, but dismissed the judgment entered in favour of the third Engle In June 2009, the Florida legislature amended its existing bond cap class representative.
Finally, the Florida Supreme Court has statute by adding a US$200 million bond cap that applies to all permitted putative Engle class members to file individual lawsuits phase three Engle progeny cases in the aggregate and establishing against the Engle defendants within one year of the courts decision individual bond caps for individual cases in amounts that vary subsequently extended to 11 January 2008.
The courts order depending on the number of judgments in effect at a given time.
precludes defendants from litigating certain issues of liability against In May 2011, Florida removed the provision in this legislation that the putative Engle class members in these individual actions.
would have permitted this bond cap to expire on 31 December On 7 August 2006, the defendants filed a motion for rehearing 2012.
Plaintiffs in several Engle progeny cases have challenged before the Florida Supreme Court, which was granted in part and the constitutionality of the bond cap.
The Florida appellate courts denied in part, on 21 December 2006.
The Florida Supreme Courts upheld the constitutionality of the bond cap in each of these cases.
21 December 2006 ruling did not amend any of the earlier One of these appellate courts has since certified to the Florida decisions major holdings, which included decertifying the class, Supreme Court the question of whether the bond cap violates vacating the punitive damages judgment, and permitting individual the Florida Constitution.
The Florida Supreme Court accepted members of the former class to file separate suits.
Instead, the ruling jurisdiction over the issue of the constitutionality of the bond cap addressed the claims on which the Engle jurys phase one verdict on 23 January 2012. will be applicable to the individual lawsuits that were permitted to c Individual cases stand.
On 1 October 2007, the United States Supreme Court denied Approximately 3,091 cases were pending against B&W at the defendants request for certiorari review of the Florida Supreme 31 December 2011 2010: 3,161, which were filed by or on behalf Courts decision.
of individuals and in which it is contended that diseases or deaths As at 31 December 2011, B&W has been served in approximately have been caused by cigarette smoking or by exposure to ETS.
47 Engle progeny cases in both state and federal courts in Florida.
Of these cases, approximately: a 2,586 are ETS cases brought by These cases include approximately 103 plaintiffs.
RJRT as a successor flight attendants who were members of a class action Broin that to B&W is named in approximately 5,572 Engle progeny cases.
was settled on terms that allow compensatory but not punitive These 47 B&W cases and 5,572 RJRT have the benefit of the damages claims by class members: b 411 are cases brought in RJRT Indemnification.
consolidated proceedings in West Virginia, where the first phase of the trial began on 19 October 2011 but ended in a mistrial on In the first phase three trial of an individual Engle class member 8 November 2011: c 47 are Engle progeny cases that have Lukacs, the jury awarded the plaintiff US$37.5 million in been filed directly against B&W: and d 47 are cases filed by compensatory damages B&Ws share: US$8.4 million on 11 June other individuals.
On 1 April 2003, the jury award was reduced to US$25.1 million B&Ws share: US$5.6 million but no final judgment was As mentioned above there are a further 5,572 Engle progeny cases entered into because the trial court postponed the entry of final which name RJRT as successor to B&W.
In addition, there are 16 judgment until the Engle appeal was fully resolved.
The trial court, cases filed by other individuals naming RJRT as successor to B&W.
on 14 August 2008, issued an order entering judgment for the These cases are subject to the RJRT Indemnification and are not plaintiff that awarded US$24.8 million to the plaintiff plus interest, detailed here.
for which the defendants would be jointly and severally liable.
On 17 October 2008, the plaintiff withdrew her request for punitive damages.
On 12 November 2008, the trial court entered final judgment.
On 1 December 2008, the defendants filed a notice of appeal.
On 17 March 2010, the Third District Court of Appeal affirmed the ruling of the trial court.
The defendants motion for rehearing and petition for rehearing en banc was denied on 18 May 2010.
RJRT expensed and paid the final judgment in the amount of British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 180 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information case back to the trial court for a new trial on punitive damages.
30 Contingent liabilities and Following a new trial, on 20 August 2009, a Missouri jury returned financial commitments continued a verdict awarding US$1.5 million in punitive damages against B&W.
On 24 September 2009, B&W filed a motion for a new trial Of the individual cases that remain pending as of 31 December and a motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict.
On the 2011, two resulted in verdicts against B&W: same date, the plaintiffs filed a motion for additur, asking the court to increase the amount of punitive damages from US$1.5 million to In December 2003, a New York jury Frankson awarded US$20 million, and a motion to vacate, modify or set aside US$350,000 in compensatory damages against B&W and two judgment, or in the alternative, for a new trial.
In January 2004, the same jury awarded 2009, the court denied the plaintiffs and B&Ws post-trial motions.
US$20 million in punitive damages.
On 22 June 2004, the trial On 30 December 2009, B&W filed a notice of appeal.
On judge granted a new trial unless the parties agreed to an increase in 31 December 2009, the plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal.
The compensatory damages to US$500,000 and a decrease in punitive appeals were consolidated and oral argument was held with respect damages to US$5 million, of which US$4 million would be awarded to both appeals on 28 September 2011.
The plaintiff agreed to a decrease in punitive damages but B&W has not agreed to an increase in compensatory damages.
d Other claims On 25 January 2005, B&W appealed to an intermediate New York The Flintkote Company Flintkote, a US asbestos production and State appellate court.
Oral argument was heard on 8 May 2006. sales company, was included in the acquisition of Genstar The appellate court affirmed the judgment on 5 July 2006, except Corporation by Imasco Limited in 1986 and became a Group insofar as it dismissed the plaintiffs design defect claims.
The subsidiary following the restructuring of Imasco Limited now intermediate appellate court denied B&Ws motion for leave to Imperial Tobacco Canada Limited Imperial, the Groups operating reargue, or in the alternative, for leave to appeal to the New York company in Canada in 2000.
Soon after this acquisition, and as Court of Appeals on 5 October 2006.
On 8 December 2006, the trial part of the acquisition plan, Genstar Corporation began to sell most judge granted the plaintiffs application for entry of judgment in the of its assets, including the non-asbestos related operations and amounts of US$5 million in punitive damages and US$175,000 in subsidiaries of Flintkote.
The liquidation of Flintkote assets produced compensatory damages.
The trial court also granted the plaintiffs cash proceeds and, having obtained advice from the law firm of motion to vacate that part of the 2004 order granting a new trial Sullivan & Cromwell LLP S&C and other advice that sufficient unless the parties agreed to an increase in compensatory damages assets would remain to satisfy liabilities, Flintkote and Imasco to US$500,000.
RJRT posted a bond in the approximate amount of Limited authorised the payment of a dividend of US$170.2 million US$8.018 million on 3 July 2007.
B&W appealed from final in 1986 and a further dividend of US$355 million in 1987.
In 2003, judgment on 3 July 2007 to an intermediate New York State Imperial divested Flintkote and then, in 2004, Flintkote filed for appellate court.
Oral argument was heard on 28 January 2009.
On bankruptcy in the United States Bankruptcy court for the District of 29 September 2009, the appellate court issued a decision modifying Delaware.
In 2006, Flintkote, representatives of both the present the final judgment by deleting the award of punitive damages, and and future asbestos claimants, and individual asbestos claimants remanding the case to the trial court for a new trial on the issue of were permitted by the bankruptcy court to file a complaint against punitive damages.
On 15 January 2010, the appellate court denied Imperial and numerous other defendants including S&C, for the the plaintiffs motion for additional time to seek leave to appeal to recovery of the dividends and other compensation under various the New York Court of Appeals, but granted the plaintiff more time legal and equitable theories.
S&C and Imperial filed cross to file a motion for leave to reargue to the appellate court.
The complaints against each other.
The case remains in the discovery plaintiffs motion for leave to reargue was denied by the appellate phase, but over the last 18 months the court has resolved multiple court on 12 March 2010.
As at 31 December 2011, no date has issues that will narrow the case.
Firstly, following a multi-day bench been set for a new trial on the issue of punitive damages.
trial, the court issued a preliminary decision dismissing S&C.
Flintkote settled with S&C for a nominal sum before the decision On 1 February 2005, a Missouri jury Lincoln Smith awarded was made final.
The settlement is subject to bankruptcy court US$500,000 in compensatory damages against B&W and then, on approval but is expected to become final.
Secondly, after a series of 2 February 2005, awarded US$20 million in punitive damages, also bench trials, on 5 October 2011, the court issued orders deciding against B&W.
On 1 June 2005, B&W filed its notice of appeal.
Oral multiple preliminary issues regarding Flintkotes claims to recover argument was heard on 31 August 2006.
On 31 July 2007, an the dividends and Flintkotes claim that Imperial is its alter ego for intermediate Missouri appellate court affirmed the compensatory purposes of asbestos liabilities.
Among other things, the courts damages award but it reversed the punitive damages award, rulings largely remove Flintkotes claim to the US$355 million 1987 reasoning that the plaintiffs failed to produce sufficient evidence to dividend.
The court also concluded that Flintkote cannot pursue its justify the verdict.
The majority of the court would have remanded alter ego claim such claims must instead be pursued by individual the case for a second trial, limited to punitive damages, but a asbestos plaintiffs.
These rulings were made final on 6 January dissenting judge transferred the case to the Missouri Supreme 2012.
The remaining preliminary issue pending is whether Flintkote Court, as permitted by Missouri law.
Oral argument was heard by is stopped from pursuing certain fraudulent conveyance remedies the Missouri Supreme Court on 13 February 2008.
On 31 July 2008, as a result of contrary statements it made early in the litigation.
the Missouri Supreme Court transferred the case back to the Discovery is ongoing and is likely to continue throughout 2012. intermediate appellate court for further proceedings.
In a decision Flintkote intends to press the court to set a trial date in mid-2012 entered on 16 December 2008, the intermediate appellate court but it appears unlikely that a trial could be held before late 2012 or again upheld the award of compensatory damages and reversed the early 2013. jurys award of US$20 million in punitive damages, sending the British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 181 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information Notes on the accounts continued Industries believes it has been granted.
Appletons own accounts 30 Contingent liabilities and indicate limited financial resources.
financial commitments continued In December 2011, Windward asserted that it did not indemnify Industries pursuant to the terms of the 1990 Demerger Agreement In Wisconsin, the authorities have identified potentially responsible in respect of Industries obligations under the Settlement parties PRPs to fund the clean up of river sediments in the lower Agreement.
Industries disputes Windwards position and has Fox River.
The pollution was caused by discharges of commenced proceedings.
Polychlorinated Biphenyls PCBs from paper mills and other facilities operating close to the river.
The cost of the clean up work While Industries believes it may have defences to claims by NCR has been estimated to be in excess of US$900 million.
Among the against it under the Settlement Agreement and arbitration award potentially responsible parties is NCR Corporation NCR which is and remains hopeful that Appleton and the AWA Entities will satisfy liable for the clean up costs in a large portion of the river under the their obligations with respect to the Fox River cleanup, taking into terms of a consent decree and a unilateral administrative order account court decisions, sums paid to date on the clean-up and issued by the United States Environmental Protection Agency.
other available information, Industries believes it may have an exposure of some US$426 million equivalent to 274 million in In 1978, a subsidiary of Industries, later known as Appleton Papers clean up related costs.
Accordingly, Industries has made a provision Inc. Appleton, purchased what was then NCRs Appleton Papers of 274 million, which has been treated as an adjusting item in the Division from NCR.
In 1978, Industries also incorporated a US entity income statement.
This figure is necessarily subject to uncertainty.
by the name of BATUS, Inc. BATUS, which in 1980 became the holding company for all of Industries US subsidiaries, including Industries has become aware that NCR is also being pursued by Appleton.
As the holding company, BATUS obtained insurance Georgia-Pacific LLC Georgia-Pacific, the owner of a facility on the policies for itself and its subsidiaries that included coverage for Kalamazoo River in South-West Michigan which released PCBs into certain environmental liabilities.
Industries BATUS spun off the that river.
Georgia-Pacific has been designated as a PRP in respect of Appleton business in 1990 via a Demerger Agreement with Wiggins that river.
Georgia-Pacific contends that NCR is responsible for, or Teape Appleton p. l. c. now known as Windward Prospects Ltd should contribute to, the clean-up costs, because i a predecessor Windward, and Wiggins Teape Appleton Holdings p. l. c. now to NCRs Appleton Paper Division sold broke containing PCBs to known as Arjo Wiggins US Holdings Ltd together, the AWA Georgia Pacific or others for recycling: ii NCR itself sold paper Entities, obtaining what Industries believes were full indemnities containing PCBs to Georgia Pacific or others for recycling: and or from the AWA Entities and Appleton for past and future iii NCR is liable for sales to Georgia Pacific or others of PCB environmental claims.
containing broke by Mead Corporation, which, like the predecessor to NCRs Appleton Papers Division, coated paper with the PCBDisputes between NCR, Appleton, and Industries as to the containing emulsion manufactured by NCR.
Industries understands indemnities given and received under the original purchase that NCR does not believe that NCR has any liability in relation to agreement in 1978 have been the subject of litigation that was the Kalamazoo River and that it will vigorously contest Georgiacommenced in 1995, a settlement agreement executed in 1998 the Pacifics claim.
Industries itself believes that Industries only has Settlement Agreement, and an arbitration award in 2005.
Under potential exposure under the Settlement Agreement or arbitration the terms of the Settlement Agreement and the arbitration award, award if NCR is unsuccessful in its defence of the claim and it Industries and Appleton generally have an obligation to share the is found that PCB contamination in the Kalamazoo River is due costs of Fox River environmental claims with NCR 60:40, but to broke supplied by a predecessor of NCRs Appleton Industries has never been required to pay any sums in this regard Papers Division.
because Appleton and the AWA Entities have paid the non NCR 60 per cent share of the clean up costs to date, and the Industries is taking active steps to protect its interests, including governmental authorities have not identified Industries or BATUS seeking to confirm its indemnities and to procure the repayment as PRPs.
Windward also separately, and indirectly, indemnified of the Windward dividends, with a view to restoring value to Appleton in respect of the clean-up costs.
Windward and, accordingly, the indemnities it believes were granted to Industries.
A trial is currently scheduled to begin in Wisconsin on 21 February 2012 to determine whether NCR Appleton is liable for the clean-up UK-based Group companies costs in the upper portion of the Fox River.
This trial is expected to Investments has been served in the following US cases pending at address issues as to whether NCR Appleton is liable as a result of the 31 December 2011: one smoking and health class action Cleary sale, by a predecessor of NCRs Appleton Papers Division, of scrap see above : one class action alleging violations of Kansas antitrust paper, or broke, to other paper companies which in turn and consumer protection laws Daric Smith see below : and two discharged PCBs into the river in the course of recycling the broke.
individual actions Eiser and Perry.
Two other cases which had been pending against Investments as at 31 December 2010 were no Industries has become aware that Windward settled the majority longer pending as at 31 December 2011 City of St. Louis see of Appletons insurance claims over which it had control at what above, and the US Department of Justice case see below.
The Industries believes constituted a significant discount, and has made Company and Investments have been served in one individual dividend payments to its former and current shareholders of action alleging misappropriation of novel ideas and breach of approximately US$810 million, leaving it holding, according to contract Gero, although on 7 November 2011, the trial court its latest accounts, approximately US$100 million of net assets.
dismissed the Company and Investments from the case, which Accordingly, there may be a greater risk that the assets of Windward order the plaintiff appealed on 7 December 2011. are insufficient to meet its obligations under the indemnities British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 182 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information effects.
The governments cross-appeal seeking disgorgement of 30 Contingent liabilities and past profits and the funding of smoking education and cessation financial commitments continued programmes was denied.
Investments petition for panel rehearing and rehearing en banc was filed on 31 July 2009 and was denied on Conduct-based claims 22 September 2009 by the DC Circuit.
On 22 September 1999, the US Department of Justice brought an On 19 February 2010, the defendants and the government filed action in the US District Court for the District of Columbia against certiorari petitions with the US Supreme Court.
On 28 June 2010, various industry members, including RJRT, B&W, Industries and the US Supreme Court declined to grant certiorari on all petitions.
Industries was dismissed for lack of personal On 23 July 2010, Investments filed a petition for rehearing of its jurisdiction on 28 September 2000.
The government sought to certiorari petition before the US Supreme Court, on the basis of an recover federal funds expended in providing healthcare to smokers intervening decision by the US Supreme Court that invalidated the who have developed diseases and injuries alleged to be smokingeffects test the federal district court and DC Circuit both used in related, and, in addition, sought, pursuant to the Racketeer concluding that the RICO statute applied to Investments foreign Influenced and Corrupt Organisations Act RICO, disgorgement of conduct.
The US Supreme Court denied Investments rehearing profits the government contends were earned as a consequence of petition on 3 September 2010. a RICO enterprise.
On 28 September 2000, the federal district court dismissed the portion of the claim which sought recovery of On 7 July 2010, the DC Circuit issued its remand returning the case federal funds expended in providing healthcare to smokers who to the federal district court for further proceedings.
At a status have developed diseases and injuries alleged to be smoking-related.
conference on 20 December 2010, the CTR and the TI were The non-jury trial of the RICO portion of the claim began on dismissed by consent of the parties and B&W was deemed not to 21 September 2004, and ended on 9 June 2005.
On 17 November be a defendant and was therefore not subject to the Final 2004, the US Court of Appeals for the DC Circuit heard an appeal Judgment and Remedial Order.
by the defendants against an earlier district court decision that On 28 December 2010, the government filed a motion to compel disgorgement of profits is an appropriate remedy for the RICO Investments to comply with injunctive remedies being sought in the violations alleged by the government.
On 21 January 2011, Investments filed its brief in opposition Circuit allowed the appeal, ruling that the government could not and its motion for reconsideration of the liability judgment and claim disgorgement of profits.
On 17 October 2005, the US remedial relief against it based on intervening change in controlling Supreme Court declined to hear the appeal by the US government law governing the extraterritorial application of US statutes.
The in respect of the claim for disgorgement of US$280 billion of past government filed its reply in support of its motion to compel and profits from the defendants.
its opposition to Investments motion for reconsideration on On 17 August 2006, the federal district court issued its Final 7 February 2011.
Investments filed its reply in further support Judgment and Remedial Order, consisting of some 1,600 pages of of its motion for reconsideration on 21 February 2011. factual findings and legal conclusions.
The court found in favour of On 28 March 2011, the federal district court issued an opinion the government, and against certain defendants, including RJRT, granting Investments motion for reconsideration in part and B&W and Investments.
The court also ordered a wide array of denying it in part and granting the governments motion to compel injunctive relief, including a ban on the use of lights and other in part and denying it in part.
The district court determined that similar descriptors.
In addition, the Final Judgment and Remedial a decision by the US Supreme Court in an unrelated case issued Order ordered the defendants to pay the governments costs, which several years after the district courts 2006 Final Judgment and were US$1.9 million plus interest.
Remedial Order, rejected the effects test for extraterritorial On 10 August 2007, the defendants filed their initial appellate briefs application, and therefore invalidated the sole basis for to the Court of Appeals for the DC Circuit.
All defendants filed a [Investments] liability in this litigation.
As a result, the district joint appellate brief, and Investments also filed its own brief which court held that the Final Judgment and Remedial Order no longer raised the issue of whether Congress intended for RICO to apply to applied to Investments prospectively, and for this reason, extraterritorial conduct by a foreign defendant.
On 19 November Investments would not have to comply with any of the remaining 2007, the government filed its opposition and cross-appeal brief, injunctive remedies being sought by the government.
The district seeking to reinstate certain remedial relief, including its court determined, however, that there was no basis for it to disgorgement claims.
On 22 May 2009, a three-judge appellate retrospectively modify Investments obligation to pay the panel unanimously affirmed the federal district courts RICO liability governments costs as a prevailing party under the Final Judgment judgment against Investments, Altria, Philip Morris, RJRT and and Remedial Order, and therefore ordered Investments to Lorillard, ordered the dismissal of Counsel for Tobacco Research contribute its one-sixth share of the governments costs.
CTR and Tobacco Institute TI two defunct US trade associations Investments paid its share of the governments costs a total of that were not covered by the district courts injunctive remedies, US$404,243.88 inclusive of interest on 25 May 2011.
RJRT paid and remanded for further factual findings and clarification as to approximately US$782,000 in costs on behalf of itself and B&W on whether liability should be imposed against B&W, based on 28 September 2010. changes in the nature of B&Ws business operations.
The panel also remanded on four discrete issues relating to the injunctive remedies, including for the district court to reformulate the injunction on the use of low-tar descriptors to exempt foreign activities that have no substantial, direct, and foreseeable domestic British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 183 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information Notes on the accounts continued together with the merits of the case.
The case will now enter the 30 Contingent liabilities and evidentiary stage.
financial commitments continued Brazil In August 2007, the So Paulo Public Prosecutors office filed a The government did not appeal the 28 March 2011 opinion.
This medical reimbursement claim against Souza Cruz S. A. Souza Cruz.
means that Investments is no longer in the case and will not be A similar claim was lodged against Philip Morris.
Souza Cruzs subject to any injunctive relief that the court is expected to order motion to consolidate the two claims was rejected and instead this against the remaining US defendants.
case was removed to a different lower court.
Souza Cruz filed a In the Daric Smith case, purchasers of cigarettes in the state of motion to reconsider the refusal for consolidation and an Kansas brought a class action in the Kansas State Court against interlocutory appeal against assignment to the lower court.
At the B&W, Investments and certain other tobacco companies seeking same time, the Public Prosecutor filed a motion challenging the injunctive relief, treble damages, interest and costs.
The allegations connection between the two cases, which argument the State Court are that the defendants participated in a conspiracy to fix or of Appeals accepted in August 2010 and ordered the two cases to maintain the price of cigarettes sold in the US, including in the state progress independently.
On 4 October 2011, the court dismissed of Kansas, in violation of the Kansas Restraint of Trade Act.
the action against Souza Cruz, with a judgment on the merits.
The plaintiff filed an appeal on 9 January 2012.
Prior discovery disputes involving Investments have now been resolved by motion and fact discovery is now closed.
In late October Canada 2010, the parties participated in a court-ordered mediation but the In Canada there are four pending statutory actions for recovery of case was not resolved.
In late October and early November 2010, all healthcare costs arising from the treatment of smoking and health defendants, including Investments, moved for summary judgment.
These proceedings name various group On 13 May 2011, Investments supplemented its summary companies.
Legislation enabling provincial governments to recover judgment motion on the basis of its fide minimis market share the healthcare costs has been enacted in all 10 provinces and two of and the inapplicability of the Kansas Restraint of Trade Act to a three territories in Canada but has only been proclaimed into force nonresident such as Investments that did not purchase, sell in British Columbia, New Brunswick, Newfoundland and Labrador, or manufacture goods in the state of Kansas.
The defendants Ontario and Quebec.
Actions have begun against various Group summary judgment motions were heard on 18 January 2012 companies, including Imperial, in British Columbia, New Brunswick, and the Court reserved ruling.
Newfoundland and Labrador, and Ontario.
In Quebec, three Canadian manufacturers, including Imperial, are challenging the On 22 July 2011, the plaintiff filed his own summary judgment legislation and the Quebec government has yet to issue a statement motions.
These will be briefed and argued, if necessary, after a of claim.
decision on the defendants summary judgment motions is issued.
If the case is not dismissed on summary judgment, trial of the The government of British Columbia brought a claim pursuant to matter is scheduled to begin on 16 July 2012. the provisions of the Tobacco Damages and Health Care Costs Recovery Act 2000 the Recovery Act against domestic and foreign In December 2011, the plaintiff filed a motion to file a second manufacturers seeking to recover the plaintiffs costs of healthcare amended petition.
The defendants arguments in opposition benefits.
Imperial, Investments, Industries and other former to this motion were heard on 18 January 2012 and the Court Rothmans Group companies are named as defendants.
constitutionality of the Recovery Act was challenged by certain Product liability outside the United States defendants and, on 5 June 2003, the British Columbia Supreme At 31 December 2011, active claims against the Groups companies Court found the Recovery Act to be beyond the competence existed in 17 markets outside the US 2010: 22 but the only of the British Columbia legislature and, accordingly, dismissed markets with more than five claims were Argentina, Brazil, Canada, the governments claim.
The government appealed the decision Italy, Nigeria, and the Republic of Ireland 2010: seven.
Medical to the British Columbia Court of Appeal which, on 20 May 2004, reimbursement actions are being brought in Canada, Argentina, overturned the lower courts decision and declared the Recovery Brazil, Israel, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia and Spain.
Act to be constitutionally valid.
The defendants appealed to the Supreme Court of Canada in June 2005 and the court gave its a Medical reimbursement cases judgment in September 2005 dismissing the appeals and declaring Argentina the Act to be constitutionally valid.
In 2007, the non-governmental organisation the Argentina Tort Law Association ATLA brought a reimbursement action against Nobleza The federal government was enjoined by a Third Party Notice and Piccardo S. A. I. C. y. F. Nobleza and Massaln Particulares.
A defence presented a motion to strike out the claim.
The hearing took place was filed by Nobleza on 1 October 2009.
Nobleza and the federal during the week of 3 March 2008 and the court found in favour of governments preliminary objections were considered by the Civil the federal government.
The defendants appealed that decision Court in late 2009 and, on 23 December 2009, the Civil Court and the hearing was held during the week of 1 June 2009.
On declared its lack of jurisdiction to hear the claim.
On 11 March 2010, 8 December 2009, the British Columbia Court of Appeal handed the case was sent to the  Court, which down its decision in both this case and the Knight class action determined that it had jurisdiction over the case.
This appeal was granted in part.
The Court of the  Court issued an Order stating that it Appeal held that it was not plain and obvious that the federal would decide defendants outstanding procedural objections government did not owe a duty of care to tobacco manufacturers or consumers when it implemented its tobacco control strategy.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 184 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information dismissed by the Supreme Court of Canada on 13 October 2011.
30 Contingent liabilities and No damages have yet been quantified by the plaintiff.
The UK financial commitments continued Companies filed demands for particulars on 15 November 2011.
The government of the Province of Ontario has also filed a On 8 February 2010, the federal government sought leave to C$50 billion medical reimbursement claim against domestic and appeal this decision to the Supreme Court of Canada.
On foreign tobacco manufacturers, pursuant to the provisions of the 10 March 2010, the defendant filed response materials and a cross Tobacco Damages and Health Care Costs Recovery Act 2009.
The government of British Columbia sought leave to UK Companies have all been named as defendants.
Imperial was oppose the defendants cross appeal in part.
On 20 May 2010, the served on 30 September 2009 and the UK Companies were served Supreme Court of Canada granted leave to appeal both in respect on 8 October 2009.
A case management judge has been appointed of the federal governments application and the defendants and the hearing on the UK Companies jurisdiction motions conditional cross applications.
The appeal was heard on commenced on 23 November 2011.
On 29 July 2011, the Supreme Court of Canada was heard in November 2011.
Judgment was handed down on delivered its opinion, which struck out the third party claims against 4 January 2012 in favour of the plaintiff in respect of all the UK the federal government.
The effect of this order is that the court has determined The underlying medical reimbursement action remains at a that it has jurisdiction to hear the claim against the UK Companies.
Damages have not yet been There is however an automatic right to appeal the judgment to the quantified by the plaintiff.
Given the prior pendency of the Supreme Court of Appeals.
Court application, and a number of other factors including delay on The government of the Province of Newfoundland and Labrador the part of the plaintiff in producing damages modelling materials, filed a health care reimbursement claim in February 2011 against the trial date has been postponed and no trial date is currently set.
domestic and foreign tobacco manufacturers, pursuant to the Non-Canadian defendants challenged the personal jurisdiction of provisions of the Tobacco Health Care Costs Recovery Act enacted the British Columbia Court and those motions were heard in the in that Province.
The UK Companies have all been named as Supreme Court of British Columbia.
On 23 June 2006, the court defendants.
Imperial was served on 1 April 2011, and the UK dismissed all defendants motions, finding that there is a real and Companies were served on 22 March 2011.
A case management substantial connection between British Columbia and the foreign judge has been appointed.
The UK Companies have challenged defendants.
Subsequently, the defendants were granted leave to the personal jurisdiction of the Newfoundland and Labrador court.
appeal that ruling to the Court of Appeal of British Columbia.
The These jurisdictional challenges are currently scheduled for hearing appeal was dismissed on 15 September 2006.
The defendants filed in May 2012. leave to appeal to the Supreme Court on 10 November 2006, and Colombia that application was denied on 5 April 2007.
A medical reimbursement action pending as at 31 December 2010 The government of New Brunswick has brought a medical against British American Tobacco South America Limited in reimbursement claim against domestic and foreign tobacco Colombia was dismissed on 10 June 2011. manufacturers, pursuant to the provisions of the Recovery Act Israel passed in that Province in June 2006.
The Company, Investments, In Israel, a medical reimbursement claim was brought against Industries, Carreras Rothmans Limited the UK Companies and Industries, B&W, Investments and B.
A. T U. K. and Export Limited Imperial have all been named as defendants.
The government filed a BATUKE, amongst others, by Clalit Health Services.
The plaintiff statement of claim on 13 March 2008.
The Group defendants were claimed damages of NIS7.6 billion and sought injunctive relief.
served with the Notice of Action and Statement of Claim on 2 June On 13 July 2011, the Israeli Supreme Court reversed the trial courts 2008.
A case management conference was held on 8 January 2009 ruling and dismissed the lawsuit on the grounds of remoteness.
so that other defendants could challenge the use of a contingent fee On 28 August 2011, the plaintiff filed a petition for the holding of arrangement CFA for the plaintiffs lawyer.
This challenge was an additional hearing before an expanded bench of the Supreme refused at first instance.
Leave to appeal was granted on limited Court.
A response on behalf of the Group company defendants grounds.
These grounds, upon which leave was denied, were was filed by 27 November 2011.
The Supreme Court denied the appealed directly to the Supreme Court of Canada.
On 13 May 2010, plaintiffs petition for an additional hearing on 28 January 2012. the New Brunswick Court of Appeal dismissed Imperials appeal.
The The case is now closed.
Supreme Court of Canada subsequently denied leave on all aspects of the CFA challenge, thus ending this preliminary challenge.
The appeal Nigeria was dismissed and an application to appeal to the Supreme Court Medical reimbursement actions have also been brought by eight was denied on 21 October 2010.
Nigerian states Lagos, Kano, Gombe, Oyo, Akwa Ibom, Ogun, Ondo and Ekiti and by the federal government of Nigeria, each The UK Companies challenge to the New Brunswick courts seeking the equivalent of billions of pounds sterling for costs jurisdiction was heard in June 2010.
The court of Queens allegedly incurred by the state and federal governments in treating Bench dismissed the UK Companies jurisdictional motions on smoking-related illnesses.
British American Tobacco Nigeria 15 November 2010.
The UK Companies sought leave to appeal this Limited BAT Nigeria has been named as a defendant in each of decision in the Court of Appeal of New Brunswick, which leave was the cases: the Company and Investments have been named as denied on 11 April 2011 by a single judge of the Court of Appeal.
defendants in seven of the cases.
The UK Companies applications for leave to appeal the 11 April 2011 decision of the Court of Appeal of New Brunswick were British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 185 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information Notes on the accounts continued relief.
BAT Nigeria, the Company and Investments filed notices of 30 Contingent liabilities and preliminary objection in the renewed action.
On 10 February 2011, financial commitments continued the High Court denied the preliminary objections filed by the Company and Investments and the companies appealed the courts On 9 October 2009, the actions that had been filed by the Attorneys ruling on 24 February 2011.
The companies also filed motions to General of Ondo State and of Ekiti State were voluntarily stay proceedings in the High Court pending the appeals, and discontinued by the plaintiffs without prejudice to refile by notices on 19 December 2011 the High Court adjourned sine die pending dated 5 October 2009 and 18 June 2009, respectively.
The action resolution of the defendants appeals.
On 8 July 2011, the filed by the Attorney General of Akwa Ibom was struck out without Company and Investments filed their respective appeal briefs prejudice on 19 October 2009 for lack of prosecution.
and their appeals remain pending as at 31 December 2011.
On 21 February 2008, the Lagos action was voluntarily Oyo State seeks approximately 1.5 billion in damages, including discontinued by the plaintiffs.
On 13 March 2008, the Lagos special, anticipatory and punitive damages, restitution and Attorney General filed a substantially similar action which was disgorgement of profits, as well as declaratory and injunctive relief.
marked as qualified under Lagos States Fast-Track system, The High Court partially granted the preliminary objections filed by seeking approximately 10.9 billion in damages, including special, the Company and Investments on 22 June 2010 and set aside the anticipatory and punitive damages, restitution and disgorgement of service of the writ of summons.
The Company and Investments profits, as well as declaratory and injunctive relief.
The Fast-Track appealed the courts order insofar as it denied the remainder of the system provides for resolution of the dispute within an eight-month relief requested, including the High Courts decision not to set aside time-period after filing.
BAT Nigeria, the Company and Investments the issuance of the writ.
As at 31 December 2011, the Court of have all been served in the new action, and have filed preliminary Appeal has yet to set a date for hearing of the appeals.
At a hearing on 16 September 2008, the court directed In Kano, the plaintiff seeks approximately 7.6 billion in damages, that the case no longer qualified to be heard on the Fast Track including special, anticipatory and punitive damages, restitution because service was yet to be completed on other non-BAT and disgorgement of profits, as well as declaratory and injunctive defendants.
On 18 September 2009, the court issued a ruling relief.
Preliminary objections filed by the Company and Investments denying the preliminary objections filed by the Company and were dismissed on 16 April 2010.
The Company and Investments Investments on the basis that the court was competent to hear the have appealed the decision and sought a stay of proceedings in the case as it related to the Company and Investments, that the High Court pending appeal.
On 13 May 2010, the plaintiff filed a Company and Investments are necessary parties to the action and motion in the High Court for preliminary injunctive relief, seeking, that the suit therefore was not liable to be struck out as against the inter alia, orders to restrain the defendants from various alleged Company and Investments.
On 2 October 2009, the Company and marketing and distribution practices in Kano State including the sale Investments filed notices of appeal from the entirety of the courts of tobacco products within 1,000 metres of any public places that ruling as it related to their respective objections.
The Company and are predominately a location for minors.
On 3 February 2011, the Investments filed their appeal briefs and, on 8 February and 6 July Company and Investments filed motions in the Court of Appeal to 2011, respectively, the plaintiff filed responding briefs in these stay further proceedings in the High Court.
On 14 February 2011, appeals with motions for extensions of time.
As at 31 December the plaintiff moved to dismiss the stay motions filed by the 2011, the appeals and plaintiffs motions for extensions of time Company and Investments before the Court of Appeal.
The Court remain pending before the Court of Appeal.
On 15 October and of Appeal hearing on the stay motions filed by the Company and 19 October 2009, respectively, the Company and Investments filed Investments and the plaintiffs motions to dismiss was adjourned motions to stay all proceedings pending the resolution of their on 26 January 2012.
No new hearing date has been set.
As at appeals, which motion was granted by the High Court on 31 December 2011, no date has been set for continuation of 20 September 2010.
On 15 June 2011, the Lagos Attorney General proceedings in the High Court.
filed a notice of appeal from the High Courts order granting a stay of proceedings, which remains pending as at 31 December 2011.
In Ogun, the preliminary objections filed by BAT Nigeria, the Company and Investments were denied by the court on 20 May On 8 July 2008, the High Court of Gombe State issued a ruling on 2010.
All three BAT defendants have filed appeals and the Company the preliminary objections filed by the Company, Investments and and Investments have sought a stay of proceedings pending their other defendants in the case, setting aside the service on all appeals.
On 24 May 2010, the plaintiff filed a motion for defendants and striking out the Gombe suit.
In its decision, the preliminary injunctive relief in the High Court, seeking, inter alia, court held that the writs served on the defendants were invalid, the orders to restrain the defendants from committing various alleged plaintiff had failed to pay the requisite filing fees, and based on marketing and distribution practices in Ogun State, including the these filing defects, the court was not competent to assume sale of tobacco products within 1,000 metres of any public places jurisdiction.
The court also stated, however, that the plaintiff, that are predominately a location for minors.
On 21 October 2010, through its statement of claim and affidavit evidence filed in support the High Court adjourned proceedings sine die pending resolution of its ex parte motion for leave to serve outside the jurisdiction, had of the defendants stay motions before the Court of Appeal.
On satisfied the requirements for service outside the jurisdiction.
18 October 2011, the Court of Appeal set 8 May 2012 for hearing of Although the plaintiff has not appealed from the courts decision, the Companys appeal and reserved hearing of the Companys stay the plaintiff has filed a renewed action in the High Court of Gombe motion.
BAT Nigerias and Investments appeals stand adjourned to State.
The plaintiff seeks approximately 2.4 billion in damages, 30 May 2012 for hearing of the Ogun Attorney Generals motions including special, anticipatory and punitive damages, restitution for extensions of time to file responding briefs on appeal.
and disgorgement of profits, as well as declaratory and injunctive British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 186 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information decision of 2004, finding that the lower court had failed to provide 30 Contingent liabilities and the defendants with an opportunity to produce evidence.
financial commitments continued The case was returned to the lower court for production of evidence and a new judgment.
On 19 March 2009, the Lower The Attorney General of the Federation filed suit on 6 November Civil Court ordered designation of court-appointed medical and 2007 against the Company, Investments, BAT Nigeria and two other advertising experts.
The parties submitted questions to these courtdefendants, seeking approximately 21.3 billion in damages, appointed experts who subsequently delivered their reports.
Each including special, anticipatory and punitive damages, restitution party also provided expert reports commenting on the courtand disgorgement of profits, as well as declaratory and injunctive appointed experts conclusions.
On 16 May 2011, the court granted relief.
The Company, BAT Nigeria, and Investments, respectively, Souza Cruzs motion to dismiss the action in its entirety on the were served on 16, 18, and 19 December 2007, and filed merits.
Plaintiffs filed an appeal of the dismissal on 22 July 2011. preliminary objections.
On 27 January 2010, the Attorney General Souza Cruz filed its response on 5 October 2011.
On 10 November of the Federation filed a notice of discontinuance of the action as 2011, the case records were sent to the Public Prosecutor Office.
against another defendant, and the court struck out the action as On 20 December 2011, the Public Prosecutor Office presented a against that defendant.
non-binding, advisory opinion that rejected most of Souza Cruzs legal defence arguments.
The case records were sent to the So Saudi Arabia Paulo State Court of Appeals.
The appellate court has not yet In Saudi Arabia, in 2007 there were reports that the Ministry issued a ruling.
of Health was pursuing a medical reimbursement action in the Riyadh General Court against a number of distributors and agents.
The Brazilian Association for the Defense of Consumers Health According to these reports, the Ministry of Health would reportedly Saudecon filed a class action against Souza Cruz in the City of seek damages of at least 127 billion Saudi Riyals.
As at 31 December Porto Alegre, Brazil on 3 November 2008.
The plaintiff purports to 2011, no Group company has been served with process.
A separate represent all Brazilian smokers whom, it alleges, are unable to quit medical reimbursement action was reportedly filed by the King smoking and lack access to cessation treatments.
The plaintiff is Faisal Specialist Hospital in the Riyadh General Court, naming seeking an order requiring the named defendants to fund, BAT Company Limited as a defendant.
As at 31 December 2011, according to their market share, the purchase of cessation no Group company had been served with process in the action.
treatments for these smokers over a minimum period of two years.
Souza Cruz was served with this complaint on 19 November 2008.
Spain On 18 May 2009, the case was dismissed with judgment on the In early 2006, the Junta fide Andalucia, in Spain, filed a medical merits.
The plaintiffs appealed in August 2009 and Souza Cruz reimbursement action against the State and tobacco companies and Philip Morris both responded.
On 22 July 2011, the Public including BAT Espaa S. A. before the  Prosecution Office issued a non-binding opinion saying that courts.
The State filed preliminary objections to the Juntas claim, the favourable first instance ruling should be vacated based on with tobacco companies filing supporting briefs.
The court upheld procedural issues.
On 25 August 2011, the reporting justice of the these preliminary objections and dismissed the claim in November appellate court rejected the Public Prosecution Offices opinion, 2007.
The Juntas appeal of this ruling to the Supreme Court was finding that the trial court ruling should not be nullified.
However, in May 2009, the Junta 1 November 2011, the 9th Chamber of the Rio Grande do Sul State filed a new  claim with similar Court of Appeals granted the Public Prosecution Office special allegations.
The defendants filed procedural objections, which were appeal, ordering the remittance of the case records in the first rejected by the court.
The next procedural step is for the Junta to file instance to complete proper notification to the Public Prosecutor its exhibits to the claim which were not attached to the Writ.
On 14 December 2011, the Public b Class actions Prosecution Office filed a special appeal.
Souza Cruzs counterBrazil arguments were submitted on 10 February 2012.
There are currently four class actions being brought in Brazil.
One A class action was filed against Souza Cruz by the Association of class action recently ended in a final defence judgment see below.
Exploited Consumers of the federal District, requesting a court order One is also a medical reimbursement So Paulo, and is therefore to prevent Souza Cruz selling cigarettes in Brazil.
2006, the federal District Court of Appeals confirmed a favourable In 1995, the Associao fide Defesa da Sade do Fumante ADESF lower court decision which had found the claim groundless and class action was filed against Souza Cruz and Philip Morris in the unlawful.
The plaintiff appealed that ruling, but on 12 March 2009 So Paulo Lower Civil Court alleging that the defendants are liable the Superior Court affirmed the ruling and rejected the plaintiffs to a class of smokers and former smokers for failing to warn of appeal.
The plaintiff appealed again, but on 23 March 2009, in a cigarette addiction.
The case was stayed in 2004 pending the unanimous decision, the Superior Court rejected the plaintiffs defendants appeal from a decision issued by the lower civil court appeal.
On 25 November 2011, the Reporting Justice confirmed the on 7 April 2004.
That lower court decision held that the defendants Superior Court of Justice and the Federal District State Court of had not met their burden of proving that cigarette smoking was not Appeals favourable decisions.
addictive or harmful to health, notwithstanding an earlier interlocutory order that the So Paulo Court of Appeals had issued, which directed the trial court to allow more evidence to be taken before rendering its decision.
On 12 November 2008, the So Paulo Court of Appeals overturned the lower courts unfavourable British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 187 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information Notes on the accounts continued heard in June 2009 in conjunction with the British Columbia health 30 Contingent liabilities and care reimbursement claim.
The Court of Appeal went so far as to say financial commitments continued that it was not plain and obvious that the federal government did not owe a duty of care to manufacturers or indeed to the class itself In 2004, the State of Sergipe instigated a class action seeking and, therefore, the federal government could face potential liability compensation for smokers in Sergipe State who purportedly tried to to claims of product liability or misrepresentation.
The lower court denied the plaintiffs request for early government appealed the Court of Appeals decision.
On 29 July relief and determined ANVISA a federal government health agency 2011, the Supreme Court unanimously granted the federal be ordered to join the case as co-defendants.
As ANVISA is a federal governments appeal and dismissed the third party claim on the agency, the case was removed to the federal court where ANVISA basis that the federal governments impugned conduct constituted successfully argued that it lacked standing to be sued.
The claim valid policy benefiting public health and is therefore not subject to against ANVISA was dismissed and the federal court sent the case civil liability.
back to the lower state court for proceedings to continue.
However, On 9 December 2009, Imperial was served with a class action filed the action was stayed on 18 December 2009 pending a decision by by Ontario tobacco farmers and the Ontario Flue-Cured Tobacco the Superior Court on which court has jurisdiction.
On 26 March Growers Marketing Board the Growers Claim.
The plaintiffs 2010 the Superior Court determined that the civil court had allege that, during the timeframe, Imperial improperly paid lower jurisdiction of the matter.
On 19 October 2011, the court dismissed prices for tobacco leaf destined for duty-free products that was the action with judgment on the merits.
The plaintiff filed an appeal smuggled back into Canada and sold in the domestic market, as on 9 January 2012. opposed to the higher domestic leaf price.
Imperial deposited the Bulgaria amount owing to the government of Ontario pursuant to the In March 2008, Mr Nikolay Benchev Yochkolovski filed a smokingComprehensive Agreement into an escrow account, alleging that related consumer fraud class action in the Sofia City Court of the Comprehensive Agreement permitted Imperial to set-off that Bulgaria against 21 defendants, including the following British amount against costs incurred as a result of the claim including American Tobacco-affiliated companies: British-American Tobacco damages, if any.
In response, the Ontario government commenced Polska S. A. British-American Tobacco Romania Investments SRL, an application against Imperial, seeking the release of the funds the House of Prince A S, and Scandinavian Tobacco S. A.
No monetary damages are being claimed against September 2008, the claim was dismissed on procedural grounds Imperial by the government of Ontario.
and the plaintiff appealed this ruling.
On 11 November 2008, the On 26 July 2010, Imperial argued its preliminary motion in the Court of Appeal granted the plaintiffs appeal.
Imperial was successful in its application and the 2008, the Sofia City Court ordered the plaintiff to meet various court ordered that the Ontario claim be stayed in favour of the evidentiary and procedural conditions before proceeding further arbitration provisions stipulated in the Comprehensive Agreement with this claim.
The Sofia Court of Appeal upheld this decision.
and raised by Imperial in its Notice of Arbitration.
The Ontario Following a hearing before the Sofia City Court, the court denied government appealed this decision and the hearing date originally the plaintiffs request to allow a class action to proceed on scheduled for 4 January 2011 was heard by the Ontario Court of 26 November 2010.
The plaintiff appealed that decision and on Appeal on 17 February 2011.
The Canadian government intervened 20 January 2011, the Sofia Court of Appeal, rejected plaintiffs in the appeal to support the Ontario governments position.
appeal and affirmed termination of the proceedings.
Thereafter, the plaintiff appealed the decision to the Bulgarian Supreme Court On 20 July 2011, the Court of Appeal gave judgment in Imperials of Cassation.
The Court rejected this appeal on 3 May 2011. favour and held that the funds would remain in escrow pending a decision by an arbitrator on the issue pursuant to the Canada Comprehensive Agreement.
The court also ruled that the question There are 10 class actions being brought in Canada against of whether the Growers Claim constitutes a Released Claim under Group companies.
the Comprehensive Agreement must be determined by the courts, Knight is a lights class action in which the plaintiff alleges that the thereby splitting the issues.
In the meantime, Imperial will proceed marketing of light and mild cigarettes is deceptive because it with the arbitration.
As yet, no hearing date has been set.
conveys a false and misleading message that those cigarettes are Imperial was recently served with certification materials in the less harmful than regular cigarettes.
Although the claim arises from underlying Growers Claim.
This case remains at a very preliminary health concerns, it does not seek compensation for personal injury.
stage and no hearing date has been set.
Instead it seeks compensation for amounts spent on light and mild products and a disgorgement of profits from Imperial.
There are currently two class actions in Quebec.
On 21 February 2005, the Quebec Superior Court granted certification in two class The Supreme Court of British Columbia certified a class of all actions against Imperial and two domestic manufacturers, which consumers of cigarettes bearing light or mild descriptors since have a combined value of C$23 billion plus interest and costs.
The 1974 manufactured in British Columbia by Imperial.
Imperial filed court certified two classes, which include residents of Quebec who an appeal against the certification which was heard in February suffered from lung, throat and laryngeal cancer or emphysema as at 2006.
The appellate court confirmed the certification of the class but November 1998 or developed these diseases thereafter and who has limited any financial liability, if proven, to the period from 1997. smoked a minimum of fifteen cigarettes a day for at least five years, The motion of the federal government to strike out the third party and residents who were addicted to nicotine at the time the notice issued against them by Imperial was heard in February 2006 proceedings were filed and who have since remained addicted.
In and was granted but was appealed by Imperial.
The appeal was British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 188 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information c Individual personal injury claims 30 Contingent liabilities and Aside from the US there are approximately 353 individual smoking financial commitments continued cases pending world-wide as at 31 December 2011 against Group companies that are not detailed here.
Over three-quarters of these Quebec, there is no right of appeal for a defendant upon cases are in Brazil.
The plaintiffs have served a Statement of Claim.
The At 31 December 2011, there were only three compared to trial in this matter has been set for 5 March 2012. approximately 1,000 cases in July 2008, which decreased to 634 in In June 2009, four new smoking and health class actions were filed July 2009 individual lights cases in Italy pending against BAT Italia in Nova Scotia, Manitoba, Saskatchewan and Alberta, against before the justice of the peace courts and 43 lights cases on Canadian manufacturers and foreign companies, including the UK appeal.
In addition, in 2007, 2,230 cases were filed by a single Companies and Imperial.
In Saskatchewan, a number of UK plaintiffs counsel in one jurisdiction Pescopagano.
The court has companies have been released from the action.
In Nova Scotia the confirmed the withdrawal of all of these claims.
Because of the type proceedings have not progressed.
There are service issues in of court involved, the most that any individual plaintiff can recover relation to the UK Companies for Alberta and Manitoba.
in damages is 1,033, plus 1,000 in costs and an additional 3,000 for enforcement proceedings.
As at 31 December 2011, more than In June 2010, two further suits were filed in British Columbia.
4,000 cases including 2,230 Pescopagano cases had been Imperial was served with the British Columbia suits on 16 July 2010. withdrawn, suspended or resulted in decisions given in favour of The Bourassa claim is allegedly on behalf of all individuals who have BAT Italia.
suffered chronic respiratory disease and the McDermid claim proposes a class based on heart disease.
Both claims state that they As at 31 December 2011, there are 27 smoking and health cases have been brought on behalf of those who have smoked a pending before Italian first instance civil courts, filed by or on behalf minimum of 25,000 cigarettes.
The UK companies were served on of individuals in which it is contended that diseases or deaths have 20 July 2010.
The UK Companies and Imperial proceeded to been caused by cigarette smoking.
There are two labour cases for challenge jurisdiction.
alleged occupational exposure pending in Italy.
In addition, there are 12 cases on appeal, including two appeals that relate to the Italy same labour court decision Serafini but based on different In 2010, British American Tobacco Italia S. p. A BAT Italia was served grounds.
with notice of a class action suit filed by an Italian consumer association Codacons and three representative individuals.
The On 23 June 2003, an individual action was brought in the main allegations made in the class action relate to addiction claims Danish High Court against House of Prince A S and Skandinavisk and failure to warn.
In April 2011, the class action suit was declared Tobakskompagni A S seeking DKK485,450 currently approximately inadmissible by the First Instance Civil Court of Rome.
The Court of 65,215 for alleged smoking-related diseases and loss of earnings.
Rome considered the action to be manifestly without merit and held On 8 December 2011, the Court issued Judgment in favour of the that it was inadmissible on that basis as well as others.
Plaintiffs filed defendants and ordered costs against the plaintiff.
On 31 January an appeal against the decision issued by the Court of Rome, 2012, the plaintiff filed an appeal.
challenging the grounds of inadmissibility.
The parties presented On 14 September 2011, an individual action was brought in the their final arguments to the Court of Appeal on 25 January 2012.
Zheleznodorozhny District Court of Khabarovsk, Russia against On 27 January 2012, the Court of Appeal upheld the lower courts British American Tobacco-STF BAT-STF and British American decision confirming the inadmissibility of the case.
The plaintiff seeks to Venezuela compel defendants, including BAT-STF and BAT-Yava, to cease The Venezuelan Federation of Associations of Users and Consumers production and sale of tobacco products and to remove their filed a class action against the Venezuelan government seeking tobacco products from circulation within the Russian Federation.
regulatory controls on tobacco and recovery of medical expenses On 20 October 2011, a statement of defence was filed for BAT-STF for future expenses of treating smoking-related illnesses in and BAT-Yava.
The plaintiff filed to withdraw his claim and the court Venezuela.
On 19 January 2009, C. A Cigarrera Bigott Sucs.
accepted the withdrawal of the claim on 22 November 2011.
The Cigarrera Bigott notified the court of its intention to appear as a plaintiff did not file an appeal within the time permitted.
The court adjourned a public hearing, initially scheduled the plaintiff may still be allowed to file an appeal if he can show that for 28 July 2009, where Cigarrera Bigotts status as a third party there was a valid reason for missing the appeal deadline.
would be determined and parties would present evidence and make arguments.
On 16 September 2009, the Venezuelan Republic ordered the court to continue the judicial process.
A new date has yet to be scheduled by the court.
On 12 April 2011, however, the Constitutional Chamber of the Supreme Court of Justice issued decision number 494, which established the rules for class action procedures.
The court must therefore decide whether Cigarrera Bigotts intervention may be admitted under the new procedure prior to the public hearing.
This decision has not yet been issued.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 189 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information Notes on the accounts continued 30 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued Conclusion While it is impossible to be certain of the outcome of any particular case or of the amount of any possible adverse verdict, the Group believes that the defences of the Groups companies to all these various claims are meritorious on both the law and the facts, and a vigorous defence is being made everywhere.
If an adverse judgment is entered against any of the Groups companies in any case, an appeal will be made.
Such appeals could require the appellants to post appeal bonds or substitute security in amounts which could in some cases equal or exceed the amount of the judgment.
In any event, with regard to US litigation, the Group has the benefit of the RJRT Indemnification.
At least in the aggregate, and despite the quality of defences available to the Group, it is not impossible that the Groups results of operations or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods could be materially affected by this and by the final outcome of any particular litigation.
Having regard to all these matters, the Group i does not consider it appropriate to make any provision in respect of any pending litigation, save insofar as stated above and ii does not believe that the ultimate outcome of this litigation will significantly impair the Groups financial condition.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 190 Financial statements Business review Corporate governance Other information 30 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued Operating leases Total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases comprise leases where payments fall due: 2011 2010 m m Property Within one year 70 59 Between one and five years 183 149 Beyond five years 129 122 382 330 Plant and equipment Within one year 31 26 Between one and five years 47 25 78 51 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 191
