Please indicate with an X in the spaces provided how you wish your votes to be cast on the resolutions specified.
Resolution For Against Withheld Discretionary 1.
To receive and adopt the directors report, the annual accounts and the auditors report for the year ended 31 December 2011.
To approve the directors remuneration report.
To re-elect Richard Bernays as a director.
To re-elect Charles Berry as a director.
To re-elect Julia Le Blan as a director.
To re-elect Keith Niven as a director.
To re-elect William Rickett as a director.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors to the Company.
To authorise the directors to x the remuneration of the auditors.
To declare a final dividend of 0.9p per Ordinary Share.
To give authority to allot new shares.
To give authority for the Company to purchase own shares.
To give authority to allot new shares free from pre-emption rights.
To authorise calling general meetings other than annual general meetings on 14 clear days notice.
Subject to any voting instructions so given the proxy will vote, or may abstain from voting, on any resolution as he may think t. Signature........................................................
If any other proxy is preferred, strike out the words Chairman of the Meeting and add the name and address of the proxy you wish to appoint and initial the alteration.
The proxy need not be a member.
If the appointer is a corporation this form must be completed under its common seal or under the hand of some officer or attorney duly authorised in writing.
A vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes for or against a resolution 4.
The signature of any one of joint holders will be sufficient, but the names of all the joint holders should be stated.
To appoint more than one proxy you may photocopy this form.
Please indicate the proxy holders name and the number of shares in relation to which they are authorised to act as your proxy which, in aggregate, should not exceed the number of shares held by you.
Please also indicate if the proxy instruction is one of multiple instructions being given.
All forms must be signed and should be returned together in the same envelope.
To be valid, this form and the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed, or a notarially certied copy of such power must reach the registrars of the Company Capita Registrars, PXS, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, BR3 4TU not less than fortyeight hours before the time appointed for holding the General Meeting or adjournment as the case may be.
The completion of this form will not preclude a member from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
Any alteration of this form must be initialled.
: 10884 Proof Event: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Impax Project Title: Annual Report T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 Capita Registrars, PXS, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, BR3 4TU 56 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC Job No.
: 10884 Proof Event: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Impax Project Title: Annual Report T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 Impax Environmental Markets plc REPORT AND ACCOUNTS for the year ended 31 December 2011 Printed on recycled paper.
Registered in England and Wales No.
