STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare accounts for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom accounting standards and applicable law.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company as at the end of the year and of the net return for the year.
In preparing these accounts, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates which are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The accounts are published on the www.
com website which is maintained by the Companys Manager, Impax Asset Management Limited IAM.
The maintenance and integrity of the website maintained by IAM is, so far as it relates to the Company, the responsibility of IAM.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of this website and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the accounts since they were initially presented on the website.
The accounts are prepared in accordance with UK legislation, which may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
STATEMENT UNDER THE DISCLOSURE & TRANSPARENCY RULES 4.1.
12 The directors each confirm to the best of their knowledge that: a the accounts, prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company: and b this Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and position of the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
For and on behalf of the Board William Rickett Director 4 April 2012 31 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC Job No.
: 10884 Proof Event: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Impax Project Title: Annual Report T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
