ACCOUNTING POLICIES The accounts have been prepared in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards.
The particular accounting policies adopted are described below.
a Basis of Accounting The accounts are prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP and the Statement of Recommended Practice Financial statements of investment trust companies and venture capital trusts SORP, issued by the Association of Investment Companies in January 2009. b Investments Securities of companies quoted on regulated stock exchanges have been classied as fair value through profit or loss and are initially recognised on the trade date and measured at fair value.
Investments are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value by reference to their market bid prices.
Any unquoted investments are measured at fair value which is determined by the directors in accordance with the International Private Equity and Venture Capital guidelines.
Changes in fair value are included in the Income Statement as a capital item.
Transaction costs incurred on the acquisition and disposal of investments are charged to the Income Statement as a capital item.
c Income from Investments Investment income from shares is accounted for on the basis of ex-dividend dates.
Overseas income is grossed up at the appropriate rate of tax but UK dividend income is not grossed up for tax credits.
Special Dividends are assessed on their individual merits and may be credited to the Income Statement as a capital item if considered to be closely linked to reconstructions of the investee company or other capital transactions.
All other investment income is credited to the Income Statement as a revenue item.
Interest receivable is accrued on a time apportionment basis and reects the effective interest rate.
d Capital Reserves The Company is precluded by its articles from distributing its capital profit, except by way of redeeming or purchasing its own shares.
profits achieved in cash by selling investments and changes in fair value arising upon the revaluation of investments that remain in the portfolio are all charged to the capital column of the Income Statement and allocated to the capital reserve.
e Investment Management Fees In accordance with the Companys stated policy and the directors expectation of the split of future returns, three quarters of investment management fees, net of attributable tax, are charged as a capital item in the Income Statement.
If applicable, tax relief in respect of costs allocated to capital is credited to capital via the capital column of the Income Statement on the marginal basis.
f Deferred Taxation Provision is made for deferred taxation, using the liability method, on all timing differences to the extent that it is probable that a liability will crystallise.
Deferred tax is recorded in accordance with FRS19 Deferred tax.
Deferred tax is provided on all timing differences that have originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is only recognised to the extent that it is regarded as recoverable.
g Foreign currency translation All transactions and income in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange on the dates of such transactions or income recognition.
Foreign currency assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rates subsequent to the date of the transaction is included as an exchange gain or loss in the Income Statement as either a capital or revenue item depending on the nature of the gain or loss.
INVESTMENT COMPANY STATUS The Company is an investment company within the meaning of Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
38 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC Job No.
: 10884 Proof Event: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Impax Project Title: Annual Report T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
