GLOSSARY OF TeRMS Glossary of terms useful Definitions Description ADS American Depositary Share each ADS currently represents four ordinary shares of BSkyB Bonus channel A channel provided to a Tv customer in addition to one or more subscription channels, but at no incremental cost to the Tv customer BSkyB or the Company British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Churn The number of DTH customers over a given period that terminate their subscription in its entirety, net of former DTH customers who reinstated their subscription in that period where such reinstatement is within a 12-month period of the termination of their original subscription, expressed as an annualised percentage of total average DTH customers for the period DSl Digital Subscriber Line DtH Direct-to-Home: the transmission of satellite services and functionality with reception through a minidish.
DTH customer means a subscriber to one or more of our retailed packages of television channels made available via DTH Dtt Digital Terrestrial Television: digital signals delivered to homes through a conventional aerial, converted through a set-top box or integrated digital television set eBItDA earnings before joint ventures, interest, profit on disposal of available-for-sale investment, taxation, depreciation and amortisation is calculated as operating profit before depreciation, amortisation and impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets epG electronic Programme Guide eSop employee Share Ownership Plan eSpn entertainment and Sports Programming Network broadcasting the eSPN, eSPN Classic, eSPN America and eSPN HD Channels Fiscal year or fiscal Refers to the twelve months ended on the Sunday nearest to 30 June of the given year Freeview The free DTT offering available in the UK GAAp Generally Accepted Accounting Principles the Group BSkyB and its subsidiary undertakings HD High Definition Television HmrC Her Majestys Revenue and Customs IFrS International Financial Reporting Standards Ip Internet Protocol: the mechanism by which data packets may be routed between computers on a network IptV Internet Protocol Television llu Local Loop Unbundling: a process by which BTs exchange lines are physically disconnected from BTs network and connected to other operators networks.
This enables operators other than BT to use the BT local loop to provide services to customers minidish Satellite dish required to receive digital satellite television mpF Metallic Path Facilities which occur where a single communications provider uses the local loop to provide both broadband and voice services over its network multiroom Installation of an additional set-top box in the household of an existing DTH customer nVn New voice Network ofcom UK Office of Communications pl Premier League premium Channels The Sky Premium Channels and the Premium Sky Distributed Channels premium Sky Distributed eSPN & HD, Disney Cinemagic & HD, MUTv, Chelsea Tv and MGM HD Channels AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 124 Book 1. indb 124 12 10 11 20:47:17 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms GLOSSARY OF TeRMS pVr Personal video Recorder: satellite decoder which utilises a built-in hard disk drive to enable viewers to record without videotapes, pause live television and record one programme while watching another rCF Revolving Credit Facility Set-top box Digital satellite equipment, responsible for receiving, converting and sending the picture and sound of a broadcast to the associated television set Sky British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc and its subsidiary undertakings Sky Skys fully-integrated PvR and satellite decoder Sky HD High Definition box with PvR functionality Sky Active The brand name for Skys transactional interactive television services, including customer services, games, betting and messaging Sky Basic Channels Sky 1, Sky 2, Pick Tv, Challenge, Sky News, Sky Sports News, Sky Arts 1 and Sky Arts 2, Sky Bet, Sky Poker.
com, Sky Living, Sky Living Loves, Sky Living It and Sky Atlantic and their multiplex versions and their simulcast HD versions Sky Bet Skys betting services, provided through set-top boxes, the internet and via phone Sky Broadband Home broadband service previously provided exclusively for Sky digital customers but now extended to customers who do not take a television service from Sky Sky Box office Our pay-per-view service offering movies, sporting events and concerts Sky by wire Skys retailed packages of premium Sky channels made available on third party operators DSL and fibre platforms Sky Channels Television channels wholly owned by the Group, being the Sky Basic Channels and Sky Premium Channels Sky Distributed Channels Television channels owned and broadcast by third parties, retailed by the Group to Tv Customers Sky mobile Skys retailed packages of television channels made available to mobile devices via a wireless or 3G connection and our Sky Mobile Tv platform Sky player Skys retailed packages of television channels and on demand content made available via a broadband connection and our Sky Player platform Sky premium Channels Sky Sports 1, Sky Sports 2, Sky Sports 3, Sky Sport 4, Sky Movies Premier, Sky Movies Showcase, Sky Movies Comedy, Sky Movies Family, Sky Movies Action & Adventure, Sky Movies Modern Greats, Sky Movies SciFi & Horror, Sky Movies Drama & Romance, Sky Movies Crime & Thriller, Sky Movies Classics and Sky Movies Indie and their multiplex versions and their simulcast HD versions Sky talk Home telephony service provided for Sky digital subscribers and now extended to customers who do not take a television service from Sky SmAtV Satellite Master Antenna Television SmpF Shared Metallic Path Facility Standalone home Skys retailed packages of broadband, talk and line rental when taken without a television subscription communications package transponder Communication devices on satellites which send programming signals to minidishes tV Customer A subscriber to one or more of our DTH, Sky by Wire, Sky Player or Sky Mobile Tv services Viewing share Number of people viewing a channel as a percentage of total viewing audience Vm virgin Media wAn Wide Area Network: Companies link networks at different sites over the internet to form a secure WAN AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 125 Book 1. indb 125 12 10 11 20:47:17 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc AnnuAl RePORT 2011 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report 2011 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Grant Way, Isleworth Middlesex TW7 5QD Telephone 0333 100 0333 Facsimile 0333 100 0444 www.
com Registered in England No.
2247735 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc AnnuAl Review 2011 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Review 2011 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Grant Way, Isleworth Middlesex TW7 5QD Telephone 0333 100 0333 Facsimile 0333 100 0444 www.
2247735 Supercharging the customer experience Contents 2 Chairmans statement 3 The year at a glance 4 Chief Executives statement 8 S upercharging the customer experience 24 Developing our long-term capability Connecting people Page 20 36 Review of the year As the UKs fastest growing 42 Our performance broadband and home phone 44 Board of Directors provider, we are now about much 46 Summary Directors report more than TV.
47 Summary report on Fuelling passions Directors remuneration Page 10 56 Summary financial Giving customers the TV they love statement is at the heart of what we do.
62 Glossary of terms 63 Independent Auditors statement 64 Shareholder information Pushing boundaries Superserving Page 16 Page 22 We believe in always moving forward We never lose sight of the people with continuous innovation.
who matter most our customers.
Developing our long-term capability Seeing the bigger picture Building for the future Page 26 Page 34 We understand that a successful By investing in our infrastructure, and sustainable business is a we can continue to create responsible business.
high-quality programming long into the future.
Making talent shine Page 30 This report is printed on Heaven42 paper Our goal is to employ the best talent which is FSC Certified.
and make Sky a great place to work.
Designed and produced by Salterbaxter Printed by Fulmar Colour.
Fulmar Colour are ISO14001 certified, Carbon Neutral, Alcohol Free, FSC and PEFC chain of Custody certified.
The inks used are vegetable oil based.
W e want to be f irst choice for enter tainment and communications.
Sky is a valued part of everyday life in more than 10 million homes.
We entertain, excite and inspire customers with a great choice of high-quality television in high definition.
We make technology simple and put viewers in control.
We connect people to each other and to the world with our broadband and phone services.
Because we never forget that Sky is a choice, we put customers first and work hard to earn their trust.
We make our products affordable so millions can join in.
And we back it all up with a commitment to exceptional customer service.
Seeing the bigger picture is part and parcel of the way we do business.
Thats why were committed to doing the right thing and playing our part in the communities where we live and work.
We strive to be the best for our customers and our people, and to make a positive contribution to life in the UK and Ireland.
We believe that focusing on long-term sustainability is the best way to achieve lasting success and create value for shareholders.
Were always looking for ways to improve.
That spirit has made us what we are today, and it will drive us to become what we want to be tomorrow.
AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 1 Chairmans statement The relationships we have with our customers are the foundation on which our business has been built.
That is why reaching our long-term target of 10 million customers this year was an important milestone in the Companys progress, as well as an endorsement of the quality, value and choice that we offer to our customers.
But more important than any single target is the way that the Company continues to transform itself.
Since setting the goal of 10 million customers in 2004, we have moved from being largely a single-product company to become a leader in a much broader field of opportunity, with a diverse set of entertainment and communications products.
In parallel, we have further developed our high-quality content offering, set the pace of innovation across the industry and grown our capabilities as an organisation by developing a strong culture of continuous improvement.
Those achievements are the consequence of a clear, consistent plan and excellent execution over several years by a highly focused management team.
Today, more families are choosing Sky for a greater variety of products than ever.
As we look to deepen our relationships with those customers, we recognise also the importance of making a positive contribution to the community in which we operate.
Over the last year, we have continued to develop our work in three key areas of focus: helping to protect the environment: improving lives through sport: and opening up the arts to more people.
On 13 July 2011, News Corporation where I am an Executive Director withdrew its proposal to acquire the shares in Sky that it does not already own.
In doing so, News Corporation stated that it remains James Murdoch a committed, long-term shareholder in Sky, proud of the success Chairman that the Company has achieved over many years, and of News Corporations contribution to it.
The last year has again presented a As well as reiterating that commitment and support, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the excellent team at Sky and the challenging environment for consumer entire Board for the focus that they have shown throughout the last businesses, as families are squeezed by higher year.
It is because of their talent and dedication that the Company prices and lower disposable income.
Against continues to deliver for customers and to achieve such strong progress for shareholders.
that backdrop, Sky has continued to perform In reflection of the Companys continued strong performance, well, with a strong operational and financial and our confidence in the opportunity ahead, the Board proposes performance across the board.
Furthermore, a 20% increase in the full year dividend to 23.28 pence per share and intends to return 750 million to shareholders through a our business is well placed to continue to grow share buy-back programme over the next 12 months.
On behalf in the future, as we take advantage of the of the Board, I would like to thank all shareholders for their significant potential in the entertainment continued support.
AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 2 The year at a glance JULY AUGUST SEPTEMBER Sky becomes the home of HBO in the UK and Sky Sports News broadcasts in high More than 80,000 people cycle through Ireland paving the way for Sky Atlantic HD.
definition for the first time and launches traffic-free streets as part of The Mayor a dedicated iPad app.
OCTOBER NOVEMBER DECEMBER Sky 3D launches with live coverage of Sky reaches 10 million TV customers, Sky Anytime offers access to a library The 2010 Ryder Cup.
making it the choice of more than one of TV on demand.
in three British and Irish homes.
JANUARY FEBRUARY MARCH Sky announces acquisition of The Cloud, Sky News wins the RTS News Channel of the Launch of Sky News for iPad, a groundthe UKs leading public Wi-Fi network.
Year award for the seventh time in eight years.
breaking app that allows users to control their own news service.
APRIL MAY JUNE Launch of the Sky Arts Ignition Series, Flying Monsters 3D with Sir David Sky announces 50% increase in investment a new fund to support arts organisations Attenborough wins BAFTA for best in original British programmes.
AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 3 Chief Executives statement Our goal at Sky is to build a larger and more profitable business for the long term and, in doing so, to create the greatest sustainable value for shareholders.
We believe there is significant potential for value creation in the entertainment and communications marketplace in which we operate.
And, increasingly, we can grow in a variety of different ways: adding more customers: selling more products: and developing our other businesses.
The approach that we have taken over a number of years is designed to deliver the right balance between growth and returns.
We invest sensibly where we see attractive opportunities and where customers see value, while staying equally focused on the efficiency of our operations.
It is this approach that will best deliver sustainable growth in revenue, profit and cash flow over time.
Looking back at our performance during 2011, our results show that our strategy is working.
Against the backdrop of a challenging economic environment, Sky has continued to perform well on all fronts, with strong demand across the board, good progress on our priorities and excellent financial results.
More customers are choosing Sky than ever and they are taking a greater variety of products from us.
During the year, we added 3.8 million subscription products to take the total to more than 25 million.
Within that, more than 400,000 new customers Jeremy Darroch joined Sky, which means that we now have a direct subscription Chief Executive relationship with almost 10.3 million households in the UK and Ireland.
Importantly, we never forget that such success comes only when consumers choose to reward us with their business.
Customers always have a choice and we must walk to their drumbeat.
For us, that means serving them with a set of entertainment and communications products which meet their needs better than anyone else.
AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 4 The combination of great content and great innovation has been a driving force behind our growth over recent years: helping to build loyalty among existing customers: attracting new customers: and driving take-up of new products.
It was fundamental to us passing the milestone of 10 million homes this year and it will remain fundamental to our growth in the future.
These strengths have also proved durable in a tougher economic environment.
At a time when customers are facing pressure on household budgets, we have found that many are staying in more and are looking for better entertainment in the home.
So were investing sensibly in areas that play to our advantage and create The 2010 Ryder Cup, Sky Sports HD more reasons to choose Sky.
INVESTING IN CONTENT AND INNOVATION A key element of this approach is continued investment in standout content in order to differentiate further the pay-TV experience.
As part of this, we set out this year to create a step change in our entertainment offering to complement our existing strengths in sport, news and movies.
Our new channel, Sky Atlantic, has become the UK home of HBO and much-anticipated shows such as Game of Thrones and Boardwalk Empire.
The addition of Sky Living has further strengthened our entertainment line-up and we have stepped up our commitment to original British programmes with home-grown productions like Mad Dogs, Got To Dance and Music Room, Sky Arts HD The Runaway for Sky 1.
In sport, we marked the 20th anniversary of Sky Sports with an outstanding year including the Ashes series from Australia, more live Premier League matches, live coverage of the Ryder Cup and Masters in golf.
Sky Arts continues to provide an unrivalled range of arts programming to more than two million viewers a month, while Sky News has offered exceptional coverage of the years momentous events around the world.
Alongside a better choice of content, we are innovating to improve the experience of watching television, both at home and increasingly TOTAL SKY TV on the move.
Today, almost four million customers enjoy the superior CUSTOMERS picture and sound quality of our high definition HD service, which now offers more than 50 HD channels.
The capability and connectivity of the Sky HD box has also allowed us to open up new opportunities for customers, with the launch of Europes first 3D television channel and the introduction of our full video on demand service, Sky Anytime.
Beyond the living room, our new Sky Go service allows customers to get more value from their subscription by accessing live TV on 10.187m additional devices such as PCs, laptops, tablets and smartphones.
And our acquisition of The Cloud, the UKs leading public Wi-Fi network, will allow us to connect customers to our content in ADJUSTED ADJUSTED BASIC thousands of locations across the UK.
GROUP REVENUE EARNINGS PER SHARE FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS 6,597m 41.6p AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 5 CHIEF ExECUTIVES STATEMENT continued The Ashes, Sky Sports HD In a highly competitive environment, we have remained the DELIVERING ExCELLENT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE UKs fastest growing provider of home communications services This approach has delivered an excellent financial performance as customers respond to the value, reliability and simplicity of for the year, with double-digit growth across the board despite our offering.
We continue to benefit from the trend for customers the challenging consumer environment.
Group revenues from to take multiple products from a single, trusted provider, with continuing operations grew by 16% to 6,597 million, with strong more than one in four customers now choosing to take all performances in wholesale, advertising and Sky Bet as well as three of TV, broadband and telephony from Sky.
There remains our retail business.
Adjusted operating profit from continuing a significant opportunity for continued growth both within operations rose by 23% to 1,073 million and we delivered adjusted our existing customer base and beyond, following our decision basic EPS from continuing operations of 41.6 pence, an increase of to make our home communications services available on a 30% on the previous year.
Adjusted free cash flow from continuing standalone basis.
operations rose by 51% to 869 million.
Our ability to invest in areas of advantage, such as content These results represent the continuation of a trend in which we and innovation, is underpinned by a strong focus on operational have added almost 2 billion of revenue in the last three years, efficiency.
We have continued to drive down costs across the as well as growing adjusted basic EPS from continuing operations business in the last year, for example by simplifying processes at an annualised rate of 16% and more than doubling adjusted free in our customer operations teams, and this will remain a priority cash flow.
This sustained performance demonstrates that we are as we move forward.
balancing investment, growth and returns across both the economic and investment cycles.
AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 6 In a reflection of the Companys strong financial position, the Board in attitude towards learning.
As a leading investor in sport, we are has proposed a 20% increase in the full year dividend, continuing also extending our support for British and Irish talent with a new our track record of dividend growth.
Additionally, we have scheme to sponsor a number of athletes over the next 18 months.
announced our intention to return 750 million to shareholders In the arts, weve launched a major new programme, Sky Arts through a share buy-back programme over the next 12 months.
Ignition, which will work with arts organisations to support the News Corporation has agreed to participate in the buy-back.
The creation of new works, as well as providing five bursaries for young effect of that agreement is to provide that there will be no change artists each year.
And our Sky Arts channels have continued to open in News Corporations economic or voting interests in the Company up the arts to more people, by bringing, for example, coverage of as a result of the share buy-back programme.
some of the UK and Irelands best literary and music festivals to Looking ahead, with a clear plan and a consistent set of priorities, a wider audience.
we are confident in the long-term opportunity for the business.
Initiatives such as The Bigger Picture are grounded in a strong We expect our growth will benefit from being more broadly based, commercial rationale.
We believe strongly that building trust and with four key sources of growth in the future.
First, we will continue engagement among our customers, our people and the wider to grow the number of pay TV households in the UK and Ireland.
community is a vital foundation of long-term, sustainable success.
Second, we will increase penetration of our premium TV products, We will look to grow our contribution still further in the future.
such as HD, Sky Sports and Sky Movies.
Third, we will expand our Finally, throughout the year, Sky was the subject of a proposal from presence in home communications, building on the considerable News Corporation, our largest shareholder, about a possible offer success of the last year.
And finally, we will continue to grow our to take full ownership of Sky.
That proposal was subsequently other businesses, such as advertising, wholesale and Sky Bet.
We expect that the environment will remain challenging for all It is to the credit of the entire team at Sky that, throughout consumer businesses as government action to reduce the budget this period, the Company stayed focused on executing our plan deficit continues to take effect.
Against that backdrop, we intend and delivering for our customers.
I would like to thank all of our to maintain the same consistent approach that has served us well employees for their commitment, energy and creativity, and for the in recent years.
That means investing sensibly for the future and contribution that they make to our Companys success every day.
staying focused on delivering the financial returns from those investments.
At the same time, we will continue to focus hard on operational efficiency and stay flexible on costs.
MAKING A POSITIVE CONTRIBUTION At Sky, we recognise that our future success is based on valuable, long-term relationships with millions of families.
So we understand the importance of being a responsible business and making a positive contribution to life in the UK and Ireland.
We are committed to doing the right thing in our day-to-day business and to working with our people and our customers to play our part in the communities in which we operate.
Through our Bigger Picture programme, the focus of our work is on three areas where we believe we can make a positive difference: helping to tackle climate change: improving lives through sport: and opening up the arts to more people.
We have made good progress this year and we have an appetite to do more in the future.
Our Sky Rainforest Rescue campaign, a partnership with WWF, is progressing well towards its fundraising target of 4 million to help save one billion trees in the Amazon rainforest against the threat of deforestation.
To raise awareness of the campaign, we broadcast a week of environment-themed programming, including the specially commissioned series Rooftop Rainforest on Sky 1 HD.
In sport, our partnership with British Cycling is in its third year and on track to achieve our ambition of getting one million more people cycling regularly.
Over 200,000 people of all ages took part in our second summer of Sky Ride events across the UK and we have expanded the programme to include a total of 21 events in summer 2011.
Meanwhile, over a third of the UKs secondary schools have now joined in with the Sky Sports Living for Sport programme, which aims to inspire young people to be the best they can be.
Research among teachers shows that over 80% of young people taking A League of Their Own, Sky 1 HD part have shown increased self-confidence and improvements AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 7 Sky 1 HDs Mad Dogs was one of four UK-produced Sky entertainment programmes to be nominated for a BAFTA Television Award in 2011 SUPERCHARGING THE CUSTOMER ExPERIENCE At Sky, we believe our customers deserve the very best entertainment and communications experience.
So we work hard to get better every single year.
That means more high-quality content, faster innovation and great value, all backed up by a strong commitment to customer service.
AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 8 Sky 1 HDs Mad Dogs was one of four UK-produced Sky entertainment programmes to be nominated for a BAFTA Television Award in 2011 Alongside a great choice of high-quality programmes, we strive for the same price as taking a family out for a single meal.
And we to constantly improve the whole experience of watching television.
also offer great value home communications, giving our customers Thats why weve added more HD channels and launched Europes the potential to save hundreds of pounds when they switch to first 3D channel.
And because our customers lead busy lives, Sky Broadband and Sky Talk.
were helping to make TV fit around them.
Thanks to new services As youd expect, our whole offering is underpinned by our like Sky Anytime and Sky Go, they can watch what they want, commitment to service.
Were investing to make the customer when they want, where they want.
experience easier, more efficient and more enjoyable than ever.
In these tough times, its all the more important to offer customers outstanding value for money.
So all of this is available every month AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 9 SUPERCHARGING THE CUSTOMER ExPERIENCE continued Fuelling passions Giving customers a better choice of TV is key to the growth of our business.
We know people will only choose Sky if we provide something they value.
So we give customers programmes theyre really passionate about, whatever their interest.
Over the last year, weve continued to develop our traditional areas of strength in sport, movies and news.
To build on this solid foundation, were also strengthening our entertainment proposition by investing in more original British programmes, together with the best content from around the world.
This is good news for our customers because it means an ever greater choice of high-quality programmes.
And its good news for the creative economy too.
We now spend 380 million a year on the origination and production of British content, excluding our investment in sports rights.
And we expect that figure to increase by more than 50% to 600 million a year by 2014.
Game of Thrones, Sky Atlantic HD AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 10 ENTERTAINMENT Weve always provided a wide range of high-quality entertainment.
But our customers tell us they want even more choice.
So were taking our investment to an entirely different scale, allowing us to bring them more of the best drama, comedy and arts.
Home-grown content resonates strongly with our customers, so were making a significant push to create more original British entertainment.
In the last year, Sky 1 HD has continued to bring viewers new British drama including our adaptation of Martina Coles The Runaway and Thorne, a new crime thriller starring David Morrissey.
Another drama highlight was the psychological thriller, Little Crackers, Sky 1 HD Mad Dogs, which featured an outstanding cast including John Simm and Philip Glenister and was one of four UK-produced Sky entertainment programmes to be nominated for a BAFTA Television Award.
Alongside original drama, weve begun a major commitment to original British comedy.
Our first new British comedy, Little Crackers, aired last Christmas and featured some of the UKs best-loved comedy performers, including Catherine Tate, Dawn French and Stephen Fry.
There will be more original comedy to follow over the next year as several new productions reach the screen.
Other Sky 1 HD highlights have included a new series of the popular panel show, A League of Their Own, and the premiere of An Idiot Abroad An Idiot Abroad, Sky 1 HD starring Karl Pilkington, which achieved some of the channels best ever audiences.
We have maintained our commitment to offer the best US programmes.
Our new channel, Sky Atlantic HD, launched in February and is the new UK home of HBO, which is renowned as the creator of some of the best television ever made.
Sky Atlantic HD has offered outstanding new shows like Boardwalk Empire and Game of Thrones, as well as classics like The Sopranos and The Wire, and is already rated by nearly a quarter of customers as one of their top channels.
We have also added further breadth to our entertainment portfolio by acquiring and relaunching Sky Living HD, offering a strong appeal to female audiences with shows such as Britain & Irelands Next Top Model.
Britain & Irelands Next Top Model, Sky Living HD In addition to investment in our wholly-owned channels, we continue to support the channel partners which make a valued contribution to our content offering.
By investing more than 350 million a year with broadcasters such as Discovery, History, National Geographic and UKTV, we are able to bring customers breadth and depth of choice that they cant find on free-to-air TV.
Birth of Britain, Nat Geo HD AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 11 SUPERCHARGING THE CUSTOMER ExPERIENCE continued The South Bank Sky Arts Awards 2011 ARTS We want to provide everyone with content they love.
Millions of people love the arts, but arts programmes on television were traditionally few and far between and often shown only at the dead of night.
That was until Sky Arts came along.
Now broadcasting 48 hours of arts coverage every day, our four arts channels remain the only place on TV to enjoy the whole range of arts and culture, from ballet to rock concerts.
Our unique coverage is now enjoyed by over 2.4 million customers every month.
This year, weve increased the depth and breadth of our arts and culture programming.
The Book Show has gone on the road to five Songbook: KT Tunstall, Sky Arts HD literary festivals, including the Hay Festival.
Weve worked with Melvyn Bragg to give the South Bank Awards a new home after leaving ITV.
Weve beamed live music into millions of homes, including the first ever 3D music festival from the Isle of Wight.
Sky Arts At... went backstage to show viewers what its really like behind the scenes at a range of arts organisations.
Art of Survival is challenging four artistic adventurers to perform their way across Europe.
And not content with bringing live theatre back to British television last year, weve now broadcast the worlds first ever live 3D opera from ENO.
The next step is to build on this success.
And thanks to a planned tripling of the Sky Arts budget, well be able to offer our customers an even better range of arts and culture in the years to come.
The Book Show, Sky Arts HD AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 12 MOVIES Sky Movies aims to be the only movies service that youll ever need.
From Hollywood blockbusters and cult classics to independent films, we pride ourselves on the breadth of choice that our 12 dedicated movie channels offer, all in HD.
Sky Movies offers customers over 450 different movies a week including brand new premieres every Friday.
Over the past year, over 90% of the top 100 box office hits were shown on Sky Movies before any other TV channel.
As well as showing the widest range of the newest films, weve continued to offer great insider movie coverage.
We showed extensive live coverage from the Golden Globes and the Academy Nanny McPhee and the Big Bang, Sky Movies HD Awards.
And weve been there, with the stars on the red carpet, at the biggest premieres.
Building on the success of our online movies service, the launch of Sky Anytime brought on-demand to the main TV set, opening up a whole new way for our customers to watch hundreds of films at the touch of a button at no additional cost.
And, as an extra reward, we give away thousands of cinema tickets every week to Sky Movies customers.
Sky Movies has also taken its first significant step into original production by commissioning Neverland, a new prequel to the Peter Pan story.
With an outstanding cast including Rhys Ifans, Keira Knightley and Bob Hoskins, this mini-series will premiere later The Oscars 2011, Sky Movies Premiere HD this year exclusively on Sky Movies.
Avatar, Sky Movies HD AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 13 SUPERCHARGING THE CUSTOMER ExPERIENCE continued Sky News Special Correspondent, Alex Crawford NEWS The last 12 months have seen some of the biggest news stories of recent times and Sky News has been at the forefront of them.
Internationally, we have seen revolution across the Middle East, a tsunami in Japan and the death of Osama Bin Laden.
At home there have been major events in the shape of the Popes visit to the UK, demonstrations over tuition fees and a Royal Wedding.
Sky News delivered memorable coverage for all of them and was once again named the Royal Television Society RTS News Channel of the Year for a record eighth time.
Judges commented that it was a vintage year for Sky News which exhibited outstanding range and depth.
Live coverage of the Royal Wedding In addition, Sky News Special Correspondent, Alex Crawford, won the RTS Television Journalist of the Year accolade for an unprecedented third time and its coverage of the student riots won the award in the Home News category.
Two awards for Skys international coverage followed in June at the Monte Carlo Golden Nymph Awards both for the outstanding reporting of events during the Arab Spring.
The ground-breaking Sky News for iPad was also launched this year.
The app, supported by a dedicated editorial team, allows users to control their own interactive news service with live video, expert analysis and rich graphics.
Anna Botting presenting live from Japan AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 14 SPORTS Sky Sports marked its 20th anniversary this year by providing depth, breadth and quality of coverage to satisfy the most passionate sports fans.
With more than 1,000 outside broadcasts a year, we now offer 20 times the amount of live sport shown on terrestrial TV 20 years ago.
Among the many endorsements of Sky Sports broad contribution over two decades, former BBC1 controller Sir Paul Fox reflected: Sky has changed the history of sport and of sports broadcasting.
Highlights of the year on Sky Sports included Rory McIlroys triumph in the US Open golf and Europes unforgettable victory in the 2010 Womens Twenty20 cricket, Sky Sports HD Ryder Cup at Celtic Manor, which also marked the launch of our 3D channel to residential customers.
We also offered our first live coverage of The Masters from Augusta, with all four days shown live in HD and for the first time in 3D.
In our biggest ever season of football, an exciting finish to the Barclays Premier League helped to draw our best audiences for more than 10 years, while Sky Sports was chosen as host broadcaster for the UEFA Champions League final at Wembley.
In Rugby Union, we showed a live match every week of the year, including a classic Heineken Cup Final that attracted our highest ever audience for a domestic club match.
Englands victory in the Ashes series in Australia was part of a packed 49-week calendar of cricket, also including every match played in the ICC World Cup.
And Sky Sports continued to provide valuable exposure to sports Heineken Cup Final 2011, Sky Sports HD like netball, speedway and womens cricket.
All of our five sports channels can now be enjoyed in high definition following the launch of Sky Sports News HD, which coincided with a move to all-new studios in the Sky Studios complex.
While our investments have a big impact on screen, they make just as much difference off screen, providing vital funding and support for sport at all levels.
And our programmes supporting young people in schools, encouraging more people to cycle regularly and training more cricket coaches are all playing their part in helping to improve lives through the power of sport.
Rory McIlroy, US Open 2011, Sky Sports HD AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 15 SUPERCHARGING THE CUSTOMER ExPERIENCE continued Pushing boundaries At Sky, we believe in innovating both on and off the screen.
Its not just about the choice of programming that customers can watch its also about constantly improving the way they can watch it.
Thats why, this year, weve made it possible to watch more of our programmes in high definition and added a new dimension to television by bringing 3D into our customers homes.
And its why new services like Sky Anytime and Sky Go are making it possible for customers to watch what they want, when they want, where they want.
Flying Monsters 3D, Sky 3D AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 16 Sky Anytime opens up a library of TV on demand SETTING THE PACE OF CHANGE Sky has set the pace of change ever since we revolutionised British television by introducing satellite broadcasting back in 1989.
Along the way, weve found that continuous change doesnt just help keep existing customers satisfied, it also creates new reasons for people to join Sky and take more products from us.
One of those reasons has been our digital video recorder, Sky.
For 10 years, it has been allowing viewers to take control of their TV experience and, like all the best innovations, it is incredibly simple to use.
Today, more than 8 million of our homes use Sky to control their viewing and between them they use Sky a billion times a Sky HD offers more than 50 HD channels month.
If you added all that viewing together and thought of it as a channel in its own right, it would be the most popular channel on the entire Sky platform.
Another reason for our growth is HD.
When HD was first introduced, some were sceptical that it would ever take-off.
But we saw substantial potential for our customers to enjoy a higher quality viewing experience and for us to establish a new source of growth for our business.
That was why we took the decision to invest early and lead the HD revolution.
Today, more than 3.8 million customers have upgraded to our HD service and the technology is widely regarded as a new standard for quality.
As demand for HD continues to grow, weve continued to improve our market-leading service by introducing more HD content.
There are now more than 50 HD channels available to Sky customers far more than on any other platform.
AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 17 SUPERCHARGING THE CUSTOMER ExPERIENCE continued Technical trials for the launch of Skys 3D channel A NEW DIMENSION IN TELEVISION Following the success of HD, were now taking a similar approach with 3D.
One of the many great things about the Sky HD box is that it is 3D-ready.
And in October, we launched Europes first 3D channel into customers homes.
As well as bringing 3D movies like Avatar and the Toy Story trilogy from the big screen to the small screen, were also producing more of our own 3D content.
Weve now covered over 120 live sports events in 3D and our technological capability was one reason why UEFA chose Sky Sports as the host broadcaster for the Champions League Final in May 2011.
Weve also applied our skills Lucrezia Borgia, Sky 3D in 3D production to the worlds first live 3D opera: the ENOs production of Lucrezia Borgia, directed by Mike Figgis.
And there was another first this summer as we broadcast the worlds first 3D music festival live from the Isle of Wight.
This followed on from a spectacular 3D broadcast of Kylies Aphrodite tour at the O2.
Equally, our commitment to pushing boundaries in 3D opened up the opportunity to work for the first time with Sir David Attenborough, a distinguished broadcaster with a track record of using new technology.
Sir David worked with us to produce the natural history documentary, Flying Monsters 3D, which became the first 3D programme to win a BAFTA Television Award.
And he has a number of other exciting projects in the pipeline for Sky 3D.
Toy Story 3, Sky 3D AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 18 ANYTIME, ANYWHERE Of course, innovation isnt just about making the picture quality better.
People increasingly want to be able to watch their favourite programmes when and where it suits them.
And we have to make sure we can meet those expectations.
Following on from the success of Sky, weve launched Sky Anytime, our brand new video on demand service allowing customers to access a library of TV on demand at no extra monthly cost, including box sets and movies to watch whenever they like.
It takes advantage of Skys state-of-the-art broadband network, which is well suited to delivering high-bandwidth video services to Sky HD boxes.
Sky is now enjoyed on a range of devices Were also providing more convenience beyond the living room by connecting customers to our content wherever they are.
This summer, we launched Sky Go, which allows customers to watch their favourite channels on their laptops, tablets and smartphones.
And, following our acquisition this year of the leading public Wi-Fi network, The Cloud, customers will soon be able to enjoy easy access to our content on the move at thousands of hotspots across the UK.
Were also taking advantage of new platforms and devices to offer a different kind of content experience.
Sky is a leader in mobile content, with four of our apps featuring in the UKs 20 most popular.
Our Sky app provides customers with the Sky Electronic Programme Guide in their pocket, allowing them to remotely send Sky offers a range of mobile apps Sky recording requests to their boxes at home.
Earlier this year, we launched our most ambitious app yet: Sky News for iPad.
Designed specifically to make the most of the iPads functionality, the app gives users a new way to get their news by mixing live and on-demand video with expert analysis and rich interactive graphics.
It all makes for unprecedented control and flexibility that allows users to fully immerse themselves in the stories they choose.
So far, it has been downloaded 300,000 times.
The launch of Sky Go, summer 2011 AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 19 SUPERCHARGING THE CUSTOMER ExPERIENCE continued Connecting people Were always looking for new ways to bring our customers more value.
Sky Broadband and Sky Talk are two of the ways were doing so.
Sky is now about much more than TV.
More and more customers are taking advantage of the opportunity to save money and get a great quality service when they switch their broadband and home phone services to Sky.
With a total of over 9 million home communications products now sold, we are the fastest growing broadband and telephony provider in the UK.
More than 700,000 joined Sky Talk this year AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 20 SWITCH AND SAVE Sky Broadband enjoyed another great year.
In the current economic environment, our value proposition is resonating strongly.
And our simple, easy and reliable broadband service attracted over 700,000 new customers, bringing the overall total number of customers to 3.3 million.
This success has been driven by understanding what customers are looking for from their broadband service, and then making sure we deliver it.
Research told us that what broadband users want above all else is value for money and a consistent service.
So thats what weve worked hard to offer and to communicate through a marketing Truly unlimited broadband campaign which shows people how they can save money and get a great service when they switch to Sky.
Our award-winning broadband packages offer reliable services of up to 20Mb speeds from just 7.50 a month.
And our network maintains consistent and fast traffic speeds, even during busy times.
Whats more, weve added more value by making our video on demand service, Sky Anytime available to customers who take both broadband and TV from us.
Great value also describes the two call packages available through Sky Talk.
Our basic line rental package costs less than BTs monthly price and for an extra 5 a month, customers can get unlimited calls to UK landlines at any time of the day.
3.3 million Sky Broadband customers Our customers recognised this, with more than 700,000 switching to Sky Talk this year, bringing the total number of users to 3.1 million.
And independent surveys show they are delighted with the service.
Sky Talk virtually swept the board in the uSwitch Home Phone Customer Satisfaction Awards, earning the best scores in nine out of the ten categories and emerging as the service that customers were most likely to recommend to friends.
Over a quarter of our customers now take all three of TV, broadband and talk from us.
And our home communications products are also resonating with customers who dont yet take Sky TV.
We began offering Sky Broadband and Sky Talk as standalone products in summer 2010 and, so far, this has attracted more than 100,000 Sky Talk won nine uSwitch Awards new customers.
With millions more customers yet to make the switch, we see a big opportunity for continued growth.
AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 21 SUPERCHARGING THE CUSTOMER ExPERIENCE continued Superserving In a customer-focused business like Sky, we never lose sight of the people who matter most our customers.
Over the past year, weve invested substantially to make the customer experience easier, more efficient and more enjoyable than ever.
And weve spent a lot of time listening to and talking with our customers to understand how we can serve them better.
Our customer advisors are multi-skilled so they can resolve queries first time AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 22 PROVIDING GREAT SERVICE Our customers expect great service and we want to ensure we can provide it.
Thats why, this year, weve opened new contact centres in Stockport and Sheffield to work alongside our existing facilities in Scotland.
In part, theyre a natural response to our growing customer base and increased take-up of our different products.
But increasing our regional presence also means we will be able to develop specialist teams to deal with the most complex queries, as well as allowing more of our customers to speak to a UK-based advisor.
When they do call us, theres nothing more frustrating for customers than being passed around.
Thats why weve introduced smarter New contact centre in Stockport phone routing and provided 300,000 hours of training that empowers advisors to resolve an increasingly diverse range of queries, first time.
Over the past year, weve also run 120 road shows to ensure all our 12,000 contact centre advisors are up to speed with the latest developments when they deal with customer queries.
One such development has been our Home Movers service.
Moving house can be stressful, but weve lifted one burden from our customers shoulders by making transferring their Sky services as straightforward as we can.
With one call, our dedicated team will manage the whole process for customers and, best of all, theyll do it for free.
We appreciate that not everyone wants to call when they have We offer a free Home Movers service a problem.
Thats why customers can now also chat to an advisor through our website and we also have advisors on social media networks like Facebook and Twitter to deal quickly with questions.
Its never been easier to get in touch.
And the online Sky Help Forum even allows customers to help other customers.
Because were always looking for new ways to improve our products and service, we actively encourage people from all parts of our business to spend time listening to and talking with customers.
Through our Customer Closeness programme, our staff have the opportunity to accompany engineers on home visits, spend time listening in on calls to our contact centres and take part in customer focus groups.
As a result, over 4,500 Sky people have now gained new insights by taking part in at least one of our Customer One of our 2,500 Sky Engineers Closeness activities.
Its important to us that all our customers can enjoy our service to the full, so weve taken more steps to make our products more accessible.
More than 100 specialist advisors work in a dedicated service team for customers with disabilities.
On screen, we now provide over 400,000 hours of subtitling a year and this year we have also introduced the new Sky Talker.
Designed in partnership with RNIB, it makes it easier for visually impaired customers to choose what to watch by allowing them to hear some of the text that appears on screen and vocalising the programme synopsis and Sky functionality.
Sky Talker assists visually impaired customers AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 23 Sky Studios is the new home of Sky Sports News HD DEVELOPING OUR LONG-TERM CAPABILITY Building a sustainable business for the longer term means growing our capability as an organisation.
So, as well as delivering for customers with better content and more innovation, were investing sensibly for the long term in the key building blocks of our reputation, our people and our infrastructure.
AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 24 Sky Studios is the new home of Sky Sports News HD Customers choose Sky because of the great choice and value we Its just as important that we invest in our people.
They want a company which offers great products that now and in the future depends on our ability to continue to attract meet their needs, backed up by exceptional service.
talented people, help them to fulfil their potential and retain them by rewarding them for the work they do.
But, increasingly, our customers also expect more of us.
They are making careful choices about the companies they do business with And for our people to do their best work, they need the right and they want all those businesses to contribute positively to their infrastructure around them.
Thats why, this year, weve opened community.
So its crucial that we continue to build our reputation Sky Studios, our new 233 million state-of-the-art broadcasting as a company that acts responsibly in its day-to-day operations and production facility, which will change the way we work and and, through our Bigger Picture programme, makes a positive ensure we can create great content long into the future.
contribution to life in the UK and Ireland.
AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 25 DEVELOPING OUR LONG-TERM CAPABILITY continued Seeing the bigger picture Acting responsibly and doing the right thing is vital to earning the trust of our customers and achieving long-term, sustainable success.
As a media company reaching more than 10 million families, we have a unique opportunity to make a lasting contribution to the communities in which we live and work.
As well as striving to ensure that we always act responsibly in our day-to-day operations, were taking action through our Bigger Picture programme in three areas that we know are important to our customers and where we can make a difference: helping to protect the environment: improving lives through sport: and bringing the arts to more people.
Actress Gemma Arterton visits the Sky Rainforest Rescue project in Acre, Brazil, to see the impact of deforestation AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 26 Sky Rainforest Rescue Schools Challenge Sky Studios, Europes most sustainable broadcasting facility Rooftop Rainforest, Sky 1 HD PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT Were taking action to help tackle climate change by reducing our incentives to keep the trees alive, helping local communities gain environmental impact across all our operations.
And we have an access to fair prices and new markets for sustainable products.
opportunity to work with our 10 million customers to enable them Our fundraising appeal is already halfway towards the campaign to do the same.
Customers have donated 1 million, which weve matched pound for pound.
In 2006, we became the worlds first carbon neutral media company, and weve been working hard ever since to reduce our environmental Were also working to raise awareness and inspire customers to impact further.
In 2009, we set challenging targets to cut our carbon take action.
In April, we showed a week of rainforest programming emissions by a further 25% and make our buildings 20% more energy to inform viewers about the threats facing our planet and how we efficient by 2020.
We also plan to get 20% of our energy from can all play our part to help protect it.
One of those programmes renewable sources, which is something were already doing at Sky was Sky 1 HDs Rooftop Rainforest, a specially commissioned Studios, our new broadcasting and production facility in West documentary that saw a real-life rainforest constructed on London thats the most sustainable of its kind in Europe.
top of the Westfield London shopping centre.
Were looking to make an even bigger difference by working with Also this year, weve launched the Sky Rainforest Rescue Schools our customers to prevent deforestation in the Amazon rainforest.
Challenge to engage children in how to be more rainforest-friendly In partnership with WWF and the State Government of Acre, Brazil, and encourage them to get involved.
our Sky Rainforest Rescue campaign aims to help save a billion trees For more information about our environmental performance and an area roughly the same size as Belgium and protect the regions targets, visit www.
The key to the project is the development of AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 27 DEVELOPING OUR LONG-TERM CAPABILITY continued Sky Sports ECB Coach Education Programme Sky Ride offers free events for all ages Sky Sports Living for Sport IMPROVING LIVES THROUGH SPORT Sport has always been at the heart of what we do at Sky.
Our five-year partnership with British Cycling aims to get a million Our investment and coverage allows many sports to gain wider more people cycling regularly through a combination of inspiration audiences and helps to fund sport at all levels.
And weve teamed and increased opportunities to join in.
To support continued up with sporting bodies to encourage participation and to harness success at the highest levels, were providing funding across the the power of sport to improve lives.
breadth and depth of the GB team and helping new talent to shine.
Weve also created Team Sky, a professional road-racing team, with Now in its eighth year, the Sky Sports Living for Sport scheme aims the aim of inspiring a new generation of cyclists to get involved.
to inspire young people to be the best they can be and to overcome Alongside this, were helping people back in the saddle through our hurdles at school such as a lack of confidence or engagement in series of mass participation Sky Ride events.
Over the last year, we education.
This year, around 7,500 young people took part in the worked with 12 local authorities around Britain to open up their city programme, which is run in partnership with the Youth Sport Trust centres for more than 200,000 people of all ages to enjoy a day and supported by ambassadors such as Olympic gold medallist of traffic-free cycling.
Overall, were making good progress towards Darren Campbell.
Research has shown that young people taking our goal, with around 375,000 people becoming regular cyclists as part in the scheme achieved higher than average grades in English a result of our initiative.
and Maths, while more than 80% of participants showed improved self-confidence and an improved attitude towards learning at school.
Over the next 18 months, we are further extending our support for sport by sponsoring a number of British and Irish athletes.
In cricket, our comprehensive coverage of the domestic and We believe that our help can make a significant difference to their international game is helping to encourage more people to take training programme and, also by following their stories on Sky part and were also helping to ensure we have more coaches to Sports News HD and on skysports.
Since its launch in 2006, the Sky Sports ECB Coach Education programme has trained more than 33,000 coaches, with 10,000 of them coming through in the past year.
AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 28 BRINGING THE ARTS TO MORE PEOPLE Millions of people are passionate about the arts.
So, in addition to offering four Sky Arts channels dedicated to the best arts and culture from around the world, we are one of Britains largest supporters of the arts, partnering with cultural organisations to help open up the arts to more people.
Since 2007, Sky Arts has been the broadcast sponsor of the Hay Festival, one of the worlds leading literary festivals, and offers audiences at home the chance to enjoy some of the festivals best sessions.
Building on the success of its special Hay editions, Sky Arts The Book Show went on the road last year to visit four more Dining with Alice, Sky Arts Artichoke series leading literary festivals in the UK and Ireland.
Forthe past two years, Sky Arts has supported Artichoke, the leading public art producer, to develop a series of projects that have delighted audiences around the country.
Events this year included The Magical Menagerie, a giant carnival roundabout at the Milton Keynes International Festival, and Dining with Alice, a spectacular re-creation of the Mad Hatters Tea Party, as part of the Norfolk and Norwich Festival.
One of the biggest challenges in the arts world is securing funding to support new and innovative works of art.
Thats why, in April 2011, we launched Sky Arts Ignition, a new initiative that will seek to collaborate with six arts organisations over three years in the The Sky Arts Den at the Hay Festival creation of brand new works.
For each of the chosen projects, Sky Arts will provide a cash investment of up to 200,000 and work with the arts partners to bring their projects to a wider audience on-air, online and on the ground.
In addition, the Sky Arts Ignition: Futures Fund is designed to help young talent to bridge the development gap from school or college to becoming a working artist.
The fund will support five individuals aged 1830 with a mentor from Sky and a bursary of 30,000 each.
Rankin: Sky Arts Street Galleries AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 29 DEVELOPING OUR LONG-TERM CAPABILITY continued Making talent shine Our people are critical to our success.
We couldnt do what we do, or achieve our goals as a business, without the 16,500 people who create our content, innovate on and off the screen and provide our customers with great service.
So its vital that we continue to attract the most talented people to work with us.
Our aim is to create a culture where they can give their best and collaborate to fulfil their potential, and then reward them for the work they do.
Thats why were working in a number of different ways to make Sky a great place to work.
We employ 2,500 staff in skilled roles in production and broadcasting AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 30 DEVELOPING AND ATTRACTING TALENT Were always looking to attract the best people to Sky.
In fact, our commitment to developing fresh talent through our graduate schemes has led to us being named by The Times as one of the top 100 graduate employers.
This year, over 50 graduates joined Sky through our award-winning scheme, which provides the opportunity to gain valuable skills and experience across a range of business areas.
We also launched our first finance graduate scheme in Scotland, sponsoring successful candidates through their Chartered Institute of Management Accountants CIMA qualifications.
And because technology Sky Graduate Programme is such an important part of our future, weve set up our own software engineering academy, which will train graduates in web and mobile technologies.
We also take on over 50 modern apprentices every year in a range of different roles, from our installation engineers to our customer service teams.
And weve recently announced that well expand our award-winning apprenticeship scheme to include roles in our broadcast operations, drama and news teams.
But its not just about attracting the best new talent.
Were just as committed to helping everyone who already works for Sky to develop their potential.
Our online Development Studio is open to all staff and provides access to a huge range of learning resources Award-winning Development Studio and courses, linked to a new performance development system.
It has helped improve development and performance across the company and its success was recognised this year with a Broadcast National Training Award.
Our future success as a company depends on our ability to bring through the next generation of leaders.
Thats why weve built on our existing leadership development programmes by working with Henley Business School to introduce a new scheme for senior leaders currently in roles directly below our executive management team.
For a number of years, weve worked to achieve greater representation of women in senior positions.
Our Senior Womens Development Network offers opportunities for mentoring and support between women from across the organisation.
And to help new mothers and their families enjoy the first months of their childrens life, weve doubled the period of paid maternity leave and halved the qualification period this year.
We were proud to be named by The Times as one of the Top 50 Employers for Women this year.
AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 31 DEVELOPING OUR LONG-TERM CAPABILITY continued Sky is one of The Times Top 50 Employers for Women Development isnt just something that we want to happen inside our four walls.
As an industry leader, we have a wider opportunity to support the development of the whole broadcasting sector.
For example, were pioneering the introduction of 3D TV with the launch of Europes first 3D channel.
But, instead of keeping everything weve learnt to ourselves, we want to help the sector to grow.
So we organised an industry-wide conference to share what weve discovered about 3D content production with other companies and, at the same time, learn from them too.
And it is helping the whole industry to develop faster.
MAKING SKY A GREAT PLACE TO WORK Volunteering in the local community As well as developing and rewarding staff, we want Sky to be a great place to work every day.
To attract and retain the best talent, our comprehensive reward package includes healthcare cover, a pension plan and life assurance, as well as free Sky HD, Sky Broadband and Sky Talk.
We also give all our full-time staff the right to 16 hours of paid time every year to volunteer for charitable work.
They can use the time to support the charity of their choice, but we also organise volunteering opportunities for them in the local community linked to our Bigger Picture initiatives in the environment, sport and the arts.
As a result, over the past 12 months, thousands of our people have planted trees, cleared litter from parks and streams, and organised sports activities.
AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 32 Sky Fest, our summer festival for staff and their families We also encourage our staff to get on their bikes with a wide range of workplace cycling initiatives.
As well as offering dedicated changing facilities and tax-free loans to buy bikes, staff can take advantage of on-site bike and helmet hire, try a lunchtime bike ride or spinning class led by a professional and get a free bike service at the on-site bike shop.
In addition, over the past year, British Cycling and Team Sky professionals have provided staff with expert cycling advice.
And each year we support a team of Sky people to tackle one of the most challenging stages of the Tour fide France.
When our people achieve great things, its important that we stop to say thank you.
Schemes like Sky FAME for our contact centres, Sky FAME Awards or our Believe in Better Awards for the whole business, allow us to recognise and reward individuals and teams who exemplify Skys values and go above and beyond the call of duty.
Over the past year, the top prizes for our highest-achievers have included a trip to Rio fide Janeiro or a 3D TV set.
We had a great year as a company and reaching our target of 10 million homes was the result of hard work by all our staff.
So, to celebrate that achievement and say thank you, all our people were able to choose from a range of gift options.
And alongside that, Sky Fest, our summer festival for staff and their families, was the biggest and best yet, allowing us to say thank you to them for their commitment and support through the year.
Sky staff cycling a stage of the Tour fide France AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 33 DEVELOPING OUR LONG-TERM CAPABILITY continued Building for the future As we step up investment in home-grown, British content, were also investing in the facilities needed to create high-quality, innovative programming long into the future.
This year, we opened Sky Studios, our new 233 million state-of-the-art broadcast and production facility at our headquarters in Osterley, West London.
It is all part of our plan to ensure that we have the capabilities for long-term success.
Sky Studios opened in Summer 2011 AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 34 Post-production facilities Studios Transmission area SKY STUDIOS After five years of construction and technical fit-out, the opening Providing space for more than 1,300 staff, Sky Studios was of Sky Studios was a landmark in Skys development.
Its already designed and built to maximise energy efficiency.
The facility the new home of Sky Sports News HD and it will allow us to develop will include an integrated wind turbine providing 90% of the our production capability well into the future.
Arranged over five energy needed to power office lighting.
An on-site Combined levels, each the size of a football pitch, Sky Studios was designed Cooling & Heating Power plant will supply around 20% of the so that content can be filmed, edited and transmitted from within energy needed for the buildings electricity and heating systems.
A natural ventilation system reduces the need for air conditioning to cool studio space and rainwater is harvested and re-used to Split into three zones make, shape and share the first two flush toilets and irrigate green spaces.
floors house eight studios, all of which are capable of HD and 3D production.
The next two floors are dedicated to post-production We could have built Sky Studios for less money without some of so that we can have all our edit suites, audio suites and other these sustainable features.
But, in the long term, we decided that post-production facilities in one place.
Finally, the top floor is the would have been a false economy, both for ourselves and for the transmission area, from where our content is shared seamlessly environment.
In recognition of its green credentials, Sky Studios with millions of customers across multiple platforms.
And the was named the Sustainable Project of the Year at the 2010 whole operation is entirely digital and tapeless, so there is no Sustainability Awards.
more need to store and move endless miles of tape.
AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 35 Review of the year The business continues to perform well in what remains a challenging consumer environment.
We delivered good growth across our portfolio of products, achieving total product growth of 3.8 million for the 12 months to 30 June 2011 the year and reaching a total product base of 25.4 million, an increase of 17% year on year.
At the same time, we continue to make progress in areas of long-term advantage, developing our on-screen offering and innovating to add value for customers.
Our channel portfolio has been enhanced with the launch of Sky Atlantic HD and Sky Living HD and the quality of our content was recognised with six BAFTA nominations.
Since its full launch in April, our video on demand service, Sky Anytime, has made a strong start with over 800,000 enabled users and the launch of Sky Go in July 2011, giving all of our TV customers the opportunity to watch Sky content on multiple devices at no extra cost.
We have continued to deliver value for customers and, at a time when household budgets are under pressure, our success in home communications shows that customers are responding.
In addition, we have recently announced a price freeze for existing customers across our television and home communications packages until at least September 2012.
The actions taken on costs and our progress made in improving operational efficiency right across the business have given us the flexibility to do this for customers at the right time in the economic cycle.
Our approach to costs has allowed us to deploy more capital in Andrew Griffith areas where our customers see most benefit.
For example, by making Chief Financial Officer our online support environment more intuitive and accessible, weve driven a step change in online traffic, reducing telephone contacts and freeing time for contact centre advisors to deal with more complex customer issues.
That focus has resulted in fewer customer calls despite a growing customer and product base while reducing cost and improving customer satisfaction.
Savings from call reduction are being redeployed to grow our on-shore capability, enabling us to manage more customer service queries from new contact centres such as those recently opened in Stockport, Sheffield and the soon-to-open Newcastle hub.
Our single-minded customer focus is generating strong operational results.
TV additions for the year were 327,000, bringing the total TV base to 10.187 million.
Within this, loyalty remained stable with churn of 10.4% for the year and ARPU increased 6% to 539, benefiting from a higher penetration of additional products.
While product growth was broadly based, home communications performed particularly well as more customers saved money by switching their services to Sky.
Net product additions across broadband, telephony and line rental increased to 2.4 million in the year, 43% higher than the prior year.
Within that, our standalone home communications products have made good progress as we look to further leverage our fixed cost network and grow our addressable AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 36 customer base.
Given the scale and fixed cost nature of communications products, the contribution margin we make on the standalone service is in some cases higher than that on similar revenues derived from TV packages.
We currently have 107,000 standalone home communications customers and, in total, we added over 420,000 new households in the year.
In future, it is this measure total customers that we will focus on in our reporting.
Our strong performance in home communications means the number of customers choosing each of television, broadband and talk has grown by 37% on last year to 2.8 million customers, representing 27% penetration of the base.
We have continued to extend our broadband network coverage by unbundling 385 additional exchanges in the year, increasing our footprint to around 80% of households in the UK.
At the same time, we are improving the economics of our home communications business by migrating more customers to our own network.
We now have 1.7 million fully unbundled customers, 51% of our broadband base.
We closed the year with more than 3.8 million high definition HD customers, an increase of 30% on last year.
In the context of exceptionally strong growth in the prior year following the reduction in the price of the HD box and the FIFA World Cup, net additions were lower than the prior year at 883,000.
As penetration of HD-ready sets increases and our HD content offering continues to grow, we see a significant opportunity to continue adding HD customers.
CONTeNT All of our channels have performed well in the year, and with our increased investment in UK drama and comedy now reaching the Team Sky wins its first stage in the Tour fide France screen, we have a strong second half of calendar 2011 ahead.
Our new channel Sky Atlantic HD has performed strongly since launch MORE CUSTOMERS TAKING MORE PRODUCTS MILLION in February with the standout show in the fourth quarter being Game of Thrones which reached 4.4 million viewers in its first season.
Sky 1 delivered another good year with a strong performance in the fourth 25.4 quarter from our UK-commissioned drama, The Runaway.
We will build on this success with our forthcoming new slate of UK comedy, including 21.6 Trollied starring Jane Horrocks and Stella from Ruth Jones.
Alongside these shows, we will also be showing some of the best US content 17.6 CUSTOmeRS TAKING TV, BROADBAND 14.1 AND TeLePHONY 10.2 9.9 9.4 9.0 27% TOTAL PRODUCTS 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total product base 17% TV customers 25.4m AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 37 ReVIeW OF THe YeAR continued including the third season of the newly-acquired Glee in the autumn, FINANCIAL SUmmARY and the new sci-fi action series Terra Nova from Steven Spielberg.
As we consistently execute our strategy, we have delivered strong Sky Living HD continues to perform well, with one in five Sky customers double-digit growth in each of adjusted revenue, operating profit, now rating the channel amongst their favourites.
The former Sky 1 HD earnings and cash flow.
series, Bones, has made a successful transition to the channel and Revenue for the year increased by 16% reflecting continued success in other popular series such as Greys Anatomy and Criminal Minds have our multi-product strategy and strong growth in other business lines.
also attracted significantly higher audiences compared to last year.
Adjusted operating profit was 23% higher, exceeding 1 billion for the Sky Sports achieved record audiences for last seasons Premier first time.
Our continued focus on operational efficiency contributed League, with an average audience of 1.4 million viewers per game, to adjusted operating margin expanding to 16.3% and record adjusted 11% higher than the previous year.
Sky Sports also received record basic earnings per share of 41.6 pence.
Adjusted free cash flow audiences for the US Open golf and we saw an excellent response increased by 51% as we once again efficiently converted profit to cash.
to our coverage of The masters.
Sky subscribers with Sky Sports will also be able to watch live coverage online and on mobiles and tablets.
Unless otherwise stated, all figures and growth rates exclude exceptional items and are from continuing operations including Living We continue to make good progress in 3D, with our Sky 3D channel TV in the current year and excluding easynet.
The results for the year winning a BAFTA award for Sir David Attenboroughs Flying Monsters include the acquisition of Living TV, which completed on 12 July 2010, 3D, the first 3D programme ever to win a BAFTA award.
Sky 3D and contributed 107 million in revenue and 82 million of costs.
also achieved another first when it screened matthew Bournes production of Swan Lake in conjunction with Sky Arts, the first ReVeNUe full-length ballet to be shown in 3D.
Group revenue increased to 6,597 million 2010: 5,709 million, Looking ahead, we will continue to invest in our content proposition, up 16% year on year and benefiting from the broadly-based growth giving more people reasons to choose Sky.
In line with this strategy, delivered this year.
we have announced plans to increase our investment in UK-originated Retail subscription revenue increased by 15%, to 5,455 million content and production, excluding sports rights, by more than 50% 2010: 4,761 million, reflecting the success in our multi-product to 600 million in 2014.
This will include weekly, original British comedy strategy and a larger customer base.
in 2011, a threefold increase in hours of original British drama and a tripling of our arts programming budget.
In July 2011 we achieved a Wholesale subscription revenue increased by 85 million to significant milestone with the opening of our new broadcast facility, 323 million 2010: 238 million, following our acquisition of Sky Studios.
Sky Sports News HD has begun broadcasting from the Living TV and a higher number of wholesale customers paying state-of-the-art facility which houses space for eight studios as for our premium channels.
well as editing and post-production facilities.
Our advertising business has performed particularly strongly, increasing our estimated share of the TV advertising sector by INNOVATION four percentage points to 20%.
Revenue for the year was 35% We continue to innovate to add value for customers.
higher at 458 million 2010: 340 million, as we benefited from the consolidation of the sale of airtime on Living TV.
Advertising Sky Go launched in July 2011 for all customers and means they can revenue now includes revenue related to our online properties access Sky content on multiple devices at no extra cost.
This will and Sky magazine: of which 19 million 2010: 21 million was provide more flexibility and convenience for customers to watch live reclassified from other revenue.
TV on the move via PCs, laptops, macs, iPhones and iPads.
Customers can register up to two devices for Sky Go and have access to a range Installation, hardware and service revenue was 112 million of channels, including all five Sky Sports channels, in line with their TV 2010: 174 million, reflecting our decision to lower the retail price subscription.
of our Sky HD box last year.
Our video on demand service, Sky Anytime, has generated a strong Other revenue of 249 million 2010: 196 million was 27% higher year response since full launch in April, with more than 800,000 customers on year.
This increase includes revenue from the sale of set-top boxes enjoying the convenience and flexibility it offers.
Sky Anytime gives to Sky Italia in the fourth quarter, the cost associated with the boxes customers access to TV box sets and over 600 movies, on-demand, is included in subscriber management and supply chain costs.
The service is supported by our state-of-the-art, high-capacity broadband network and its connectivity to the HD box.
Customers with our unlimited broadband package also benefit from a truly unlimited service, with no fair use policies, data caps or traffic ADJUSTeD OPeRATING PROFIT management.
FROm CONTINUING OPeRATIONS We are progressing well with our technical integration of The Cloud, ahead of launching our customer proposition later this year.
We have 23% added to our existing high-quality Wi-Fi venues with the signing of 1,073m over 1,200 new sites including Virgin Active and Pizza express.
AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 38 Matthew Bournes Swan Lake, Sky Arts HD UEFA Champions League Final 2011, Sky Sports HD US Open, Sky Sports HD DIReCT COSTS OTHeR OPeRATING COSTS Direct costs were higher compared to the prior year as we increased marketing costs excluding exceptional items increased by our on-screen investment and more customers chose our home 105 million to 1,220 million 2010: 1,115 million.
The cost to communication services.
acquire a new television subscriber SAC was 376 as every customer joining received our Sky HD set-top box, and the launch Programming costs were 15% higher at 2,188 million 2010: 1,902 of the Sky Anytime service resulted in longer install visits.
million reflecting our strategy to bring TV customers more highquality content.
entertainment costs increased as we launched Sky Subscriber management and supply chain costs excluding Atlantic HD in February and continued to invest in British drama and exceptional items were 21 million lower at 596 million 2010: 617 comedy on Sky 1 HD and Sky Living HD.
We had a strong year of sport million as we benefited from our operational efficiency programmes with additional content including the fifth pack of live Premier League to reduce costs in our supply chain and contact centres.
This was matches, The masters, the Ashes in Australia and the Ryder Cup.
Third partially offset by the cost of set-top boxes sold to Sky Italia in the party channel costs were broadly level with additional costs relating fourth quarter, the revenue for which can be found in other revenue.
to more third party HD channels on the platform offset by carriage Transmission, technology and fixed network costs increased by fee savings upon consolidation of the Living TV channels.
The increase relates Direct network costs increased to 584 million 2010: 440 million to higher network costs as we gain scale in our fixed line business as a result of our customers taking 9.1 million home communication and includes costs for network services previously accounted for products from us, 37% more than a year ago.
Higher volumes have within the Group by easynet.
been partially offset by a higher proportion of fully unbundled Administration costs excluding exceptional items were 541 million customers leading to lower monthly payments.
2010: 456 million, reflecting a higher non-cash IFRS 2 Share-based payment charge and associated National Insurance costs, and the acquisition of Living TV.
The IFRS 2 charge and related National Insurance costs were 86 million, up 41 million on the prior year as a result of the phasing of our share-incentive plans and a higher share price throughout the year.
AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 39 ReVIeW OF THe YeAR continued Mount Pleasant, Sky 1 HD Got To Dance, Sky 1 HD Boulton & Co, Sky News HD eARNINGS CASH FLOW AND FINANCIAL POSITION Adjusted profit before tax from continuing operations of 987 Adjusted free cash flow increased by 51% to 869 million 2010: million 2010: 769 million includes the Groups share of results 577 million reflecting 19% growth in adjusted eBITDA, flat capital of joint ventures and associates of 34 million 2010: 29 million, expenditure, lower tax and interest payments than the prior year, which is led by a strong portfolio of channel brands such as National and a strong working capital position.
See Non-GAAP measures on Geographic, History and Nickelodeon.
A net interest charge of 120 page 60 for details of adjusting items.
million 2010: 132 million is also included.
Capital expenditure was 423 million 2010: 429 million, in line with Adjusted taxation from continuing operations for the period was our guidance of around 6.5% of revenue.
major items of expenditure in 262 million 2010: 209 million.
The full year adjusted effective tax the period included the technical fit-out of our new broadcast facility rate on continuing operations was 27% 2010: 27%, with the reduced and continued exchange rollout programme to increase the footprint rate of corporation tax announced in the budget statement on of our fixed line communications network.
23 march 2011 having only a modest positive impact in the current year.
Strong cash generation during the year has contributed to the reduction Adjusted profit for the period from continuing operations was in net debt of 326 million to 750 million 2010: 1,076 million.
725 million 2010: 560 million, generating adjusted basic earnings The combination of falling net debt and higher eBITDA over the past per share of 41.6 pence 2010: 32.1 pence.
12 months has reduced the Groups net debt to adjusted eBITDA Reported profit for the period from continuing operations was ratio.
Rating agencies often make adjustments to eBITDA and net 758 million 2010: 896 million, generating reported basic earnings debt when assessing credit ratings and Standard & Poors S&P, per share from continuing operations of 43.5 pence 2010: 51.4 pence.
for example, calculated an adjusted ratio of 1.4x as at 30 June 2010.
Reported profit for the period including discontinued operations was The main adjustments that S&P make to our reported numbers 810 million 2010: 878 million resulting in reported basic earnings are to add share based compensation back to eBITDA and to per share of 46.5 pence 2010: 50.4 pence.
A reconciliation between treat operating lease and transponder capacity commitments adjusted and reported profits can be found on page 59. approximately 650 million in total as debt-like items.
We estimate as at 30 June 2011 the S&P adjusted ratio of net debt to eBITDA would be 1.0x.
ADJUSTeD BASIC eARNINGS PeR SHARe It remains the overall financial policy of the Board to maintain FROm CONTINUING OPeRATIONS an efficient capital structure and a strong BBB credit rating, allowing sufficient financial flexibility to create additional value for shareholders via ongoing organic investment, disciplined and 30% selective acquisitions, maintaining the Companys ordinary dividend 41.6p and returns to shareholders.
AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 40 The Groups liquidity and headroom are comfortable with no bond mainly resulting from the strengthening of pounds sterling against the dollar.
This decrease was partially offset by a 30 million increase redemptions falling due until October 2015 when 428 million falls due.
As at the end of the year, cash and cash equivalents and shortin non-current derivative financial liabilities.
However, this was ahead of substantial outflows estimated at c. 330 million associated with exCePTIONAL ITemS rights payments in July and August.
Reported operating profit from continuing operations of 1,073 million includes 26 million of restructuring costs from Living TV and costs During the year, total assets increased by 550 million to 5,354 of 15 million relating to the News Corporation proposal, both within million at 30 June 2011.
Non-current assets increased by 207 million administration costs.
Within marketing costs there is an exceptional to 3,025 million, primarily due to an increase of 218 million in gain of 41 million relating to the recovery of duty arising on set-top goodwill and intangible assets following the acquisitions of Living boxes imported prior to this fiscal year.
TV and The Cloud, an increase of 33 million in available-for-sale investments due to the increase in the equity share price of ITV and In the prior year, reported operating profit from continuing operations of an increase in deferred tax assets of 69 million.
This increase was 1,113 million included litigation settlement income of 269 million relating partially offset by the impact of the disposals of easynet and Shine, to our claim against eDS, along with 5 million from the cancellation of together with a decrease of 107 million in non-current derivative accounts payable on settlement of the claim and legal costs of 1 million.
financial assets resulting from mark-to-market movements on Also included was 32 million relating to a restructuring exercise.
Reported profit after tax includes a 42 million exceptional gain Current assets increased by 343 million to 2,329 million at 2010: 180 million gain, of which 18 million are mark-to-market gains 30 June 2011.
This increase was predominately due to a 302 million relating to derivative financial instruments not qualifying for hedge net increase in cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits, accounting and gains and losses arising from designated fair value hedge as a result of receipts from the sale of easynet and net cash accounting relationships 2010: 13 million gain, 9 million relating to the generated from operating activities, offset by the acquisitions of profit on sale of our stake in Shine and a 15 million tax credit following Living TV and The Cloud and dividend payments.
Trade and other the settlement of a pre-acquisition tax issue relating to the easynet receivables and inventories also increased during the year.
networks business retained by Sky.
Total liabilities increased by 75 million to 4,319 million at 30 June 2011. exceptional items in the prior year also included investment income Current liabilities increased by 205 million to 1,912 million, primarily relating to our litigation settlement with eDS of 49 million, 115 million due to an increase in trade and other payables.
Non-current liabilities relating to the sale of ITV shares and the receipt of 3 million on closure decreased by 130 million to 2,407 million, principally due to a 125 of a joint venture.
million decrease in the fair value of the Groups non-current borrowings The related tax effects on the above items results in a 9 million charge 2010: 85 million charge.
DIVIDEND PER SHARE p 23.3 DISTRIBUTIONS TO SHAReHOLDeRS The Directors propose an increase of 20% in the full year dividend to 23.28 pence, continuing our track record of dividend growth.
On this basis, the total cash amount of dividends paid in respect of this fiscal year will be 405 million: of which the final dividend accounts for 253 million.
19.4 The ex-dividend date will be 16 November 2011 and, subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General meeting to be held on 17.6 29 November 2011, the final dividend of 14.54 pence will be paid on 16.8 9 December 2011 to shareholders appearing on the register at the close of business on 18 November 2011.
The Board has agreed to seek the necessary approvals and return 750 million of capital to shareholders via a share buy-back programme.
Shareholder approvals will be sought at the Groups AGm on 29 November 2011.
News Corporation has agreed to participate in the buy-back.
The effect of that agreement is to provide that there will be no change in News Corporations economic or voting interests in the Company as a result of the share buy-back programme.
The Board considers that an on-market share repurchase programme is a flexible, equitable and tax-efficient means by which to make distributions 2008 2009 2010 2011 to shareholders which are incremental to the ordinary dividend.
AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 41 Our performance We have a clear and consistent strategy: to attract new customers We have identified a number of key performance indicators that to Sky: sell more products and services to our existing customers: we use to assess the Groups performance against its core strategic and develop our other businesses.
This year, we continued to see priorities, which include both operational and financial measures.
good demand across our product portfolio as customers responded In addition, we have developed 10 environmental KPIs.
Our to the great quality and value that we offer.
This translated into performance against these 10, together with a comprehensive strong financial results, with double-digit growth in each of revenue, review of our environmental initiatives can be found in the Bigger operating profit, earnings per share and cash flow, on an adjusted basis.
OPeRATIONAL KeY PeRfORmANCe INDICATORS Tv cusTomer bAse million HD PeneTrATion % 6% 10.187 2008 14% 2009 9.860 2010 9.442 30% 2011 38% 2009 2010 2011 Description Analysis Description Analysis A TV customer is defined as a subscriber Our total TV customer base is a key HD penetration is defined as the Driving take-up of HD is important to one or more of our DTH, Sky by Wire, determinant of the Groups value.
percentage of TV customers paying an for customer satisfaction, while also Sky Player or Sky mobile TV services.
This In 2011, we added 327,000 net new additional monthly subscription to view generating incremental revenue and number excludes wholesale subscribers TV customers, growing the total HD content.
In 2011 we added 883,000 to our channels.
cHurn % cusTomers TAking eAcH of Tv, broADbAnD AnD TelePHony % 2011 2010 27% 10.3% 21% 10.4% 2009 16% 10.3% 2009 2010 2011 Description Analysis Description Analysis Churn represents the number of DTH Churn is a good measure of customer The percentage of TV customers taking This is an important measure for our any of our TV products and both a Sky business, with higher penetration customers over a given period who satisfaction, which is a key driver of terminated their subscriptions, net value for our business.
Churn for 2011 Broadband and a Sky Talk product.
positively impacting ARPU and Customers may also opt for our line customer loyalty.
At 30 June 2011, of former customers who reinstated was stable at 10.4%.
their subscription within 12 months of rental product.
2.8 million customers chose each of TV, broadband and telephony, their original subscription, expressed as a percentage of total average DTH up 37% from the prior year.
AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 42 fINANCIAL KeY PeRfORmANCe INDICATORS 1,3 1,3 ADjusTeD grouP revenue m ADjusTeD oPerATing ProfiT m ArPu 539 6,597 1,073 508 5,709 872 464 5,121 809 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Description Description Description Average revenue per user ARPU is calculated by Adjusted Group revenue includes revenue from Adjusted operating profit for the Group excludes taking the amount spent by the Groups residential retail subscriptions, wholesale revenue, advertising, any exceptional or one-off items.
customers ex-VAT, divided by the average number and installation, hardware and service revenue.
It is of residential DTH customers.
adjusted for any exceptional items.
Analysis Analysis Analysis ARPU is impacted by the type of subscription Adjusted Group revenue is a key measure of how Adjusted operating profit is a key measure of the package taken by a customer, as well as the number the Group is delivering on its strategy to grow underlying business performance.
It increased by of additional paid-for products.
ARPU increased by the business.
In 2011, adjusted revenue grew by 23% in 2011.
31 as customers rewarded us with more of their 888 million to reach 6,597 million.
1, 2 1,3 ADjusTeD bAsic eArnings Per sHAre p ADjusTeD free cAsH flow m ToTAl sHAreHolDer reTurn % 2011 -11.9% 41.0% 39.7% 869 -25.7% 30.9% 13.7% 30% 41.6 p 577 515 2010 SKY FTSE 15% 32.1p 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 Description 3% 27.8p Total shareholder return TSR represents the Description Description change in value of a share held for the 12 months Adjusted free cash flow is defined as cash Adjusted basic ePS is the profit after tax for the to 30 June, assuming that dividends are reinvested generated from operations after the impact of year, excluding exceptional items and related tax to purchase additional shares at the closing price capital expenditure, net interest and tax paid, effects, divided by the weighted average number applicable on the ex-dividend date.
The value of the cash flows to and from joint ventures, excluding of ordinary shares.
share is based on the average share price over the exceptional items.
three months prior to 30 June.
Analysis Analysis Analysis Adjusted basic ePS provides a measure of TSR represents a comparable measure of shareholder free cash flow is an important measure of the shareholder return that is comparable over time.
Groups success in converting profits to cash return over time.
On this basis, BSkyB shares Adjusted basic ePS increased by 30% to reach a performed 26 percentage points better than the flow and of the underlying health of the business.
Adjusted free cash flow increased by 51% as a fTSe 100 index in the year to 30 June 2011: our share price was influenced by the proposed offer by result of higher profitability, strong working capital and lower net interest and tax payments.
2 for further details see note 1 of the summary financial statement.
3 for a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures, see page 60.
AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 43 Board of Directors James Murdoch age 38 nicholas Ferguson age 62 Jeremy Darroch age 49 David F. Devoe age 64 Non-Executive Director and Deputy Chairman and Senior Executive Director Non-Executive Director Chairman Independent Non-Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer David F. DeVoe was appointed Remuneration Committee Chairman James Murdoch was appointed Jeremy Darroch was appointed as a Director of the Company on as a Director of the Company on as a Director of the Company on 15 December 1994.
Mr DeVoe has Nicholas Ferguson was appointed 13 February 2003 and Chairman 16 August 2004.
He was appointed been a Director of News Corporation as a Director of the Company on on 7 December 2007.
Between CEO on 7 December 2007, having and its CFO since October 1990.
15 June 2004, Senior Independent November 2003 and December 2007 previously been Chief Financial Mr DeVoe has served as Senior Non-Executive Director on 12 June he was Chief Executive Officer CEO Officer CFO since 2004.
Prior to Executive Vice President of News 2007 and Deputy Chairman on of the Company, a role he relinquished joining the Company, Mr Darroch Corporation since January 1996.
Mr Ferguson is on his appointment as Non-Executive was Group Finance Director of DSG Mr DeVoe has been a Director of Chairman of SVG Capital plc, a Chairman.
Mr Murdoch is Deputy International plc DSG, formerly NDS Group Limited since October publicly-quoted private equity Chief Operating Officer and Dixons Group plc.
Prior to DSG, 1996 and was appointed as a group, and was formerly Chairman Chairman and CEO, International, at Mr Darroch spent 12 years at Procter director of Shine Limited on of Schroder Ventures.
He is also News Corporation and is a member & Gamble in a variety of roles in 15 April 2011.
Chairman of the Courtauld of News Corporations Board of the UK and Europe.
Mr Darroch is Institute of Art and the Institute Directors and Executive Committee.
a Non-Executive Director and the of Philanthropy.
Between May 2000 and November Chairman of the Audit Committee 2003, he was Chairman and CEO of of Marks and Spencer Group plc.
Mr Murdoch was He is also a Board Member of the appointed a Non-Executive Director charity Youth Sport Trust and a of GlaxoSmithKline plc in May 2009 Council Member of the Council for and as a Non-Executive Director of Industry and Higher Education.
David evans age 71 Andrew Griffith age 40 Andrew Higginson age 54 Allan leighton age 58 Independent Non-Executive Director Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer Audit Committee Chairman David Evans was appointed as Allan Leighton was appointed a a Director of the Company on Andrew Griffith was appointed as Director of the Company on 15 October Andrew Higginson was appointed 21 September 2001.
Mr Evans was CFO and a Director of the Company 1999.
Mr Leighton joined Asda Stores as a Director of the Company on President and CEO of Crown Media on 7 April 2008.
Mr Griffith joined Ltd in 1992 and was appointed CEO 1 September 2004.
Mr Higginson is Holdings, Inc. and its predecessor Sky in October 1999 and held a in 1996.
In November 1999 he was Chief Executive of Retailing Services company, Hallmark Entertainment number of finance roles prior to his appointed President and CEO of of Tesco plc Tesco.
Mr Higginson Networks, from March 1999 to appointment as CFO.
Mr Leighton resigned was appointed to the Board of Tesco October 2007.
Prior to that, Mr Evans previously worked at the investment from these positions in September in 1997, having previously been the was President and CEO of Telebank Rothschild, where he advised 2000.
Mr Leighton is currently Group Finance Director of the Burton Communications International, Inc. a range of clients in the technology, Chairman of Pace plc, Peacocks Ltd, Group plc.
Mr Higginson is a member TINTA from January 1998.
Prior media and telecommunications Pandora AS, and Music Magpie.
of the 100 Group of Finance Directors to joining TINTA, from July 1996, sectors.
Mr Griffith is a member of He is Deputy Chairman of George and Chairman of Tesco Personal Mr Evans held various senior roles the 100 Group of Finance Directors.
Weston Ltd and Selfridges & Co Ltd. Finance.
at News Corporation and Fox Mr Leighton was Chairman of The Royal Television Inc.
He is currently a Mail until March 2009.
Mr Leighton is Director of Village Roadshow Limited a Patron of Breast Cancer Care and and The Concord Music Group.
holds an Honorary Degree from Cranfield University and an Honorary Fellowship at UCL.
AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 44 Thomas Mockridge age 56 Jacques nasser age 63 Dame Gail rebuck age 59 Daniel rimer age 40 Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director The Bigger Picture Thomas Mockridge was appointed Jacques Nasser was appointed Daniel Rimer was appointed as a Committee Chairman as a Director of the Company on as a Director of the Company Director of the Company on 7 April 10 February 2009.
Mr Rimer is a General Partner Dame Gail Rebuck was appointed was nominated as CEO of News served as a Member of the Board of the venture capital firm Index as a Director of the Company on International in July 2011.
Previously, of Directors, and as President and Ventures Management Limited 8 November 2002.
Dame Gail is he was CEO of Sky Italia and Chief CEO of Ford Motor Company from Index Ventures and established Chairman and CEO of The Random Executive, European Television of 1998 to 2001.
Mr Nasser is the the firms London office.
He House Group Limited, one of the News Corporation where he oversaw Chairman of BHP Billiton, and an currently serves on a number of UKs leading trade publishing News Corporations television Advisory Partner of One Equity boards including RightScale Inc. companies.
Dame Gail is a Director operations in Europe, outside Partners, the private equity arm Oanda Corporation, FON Wireless of Skillset, a Trustee of the National the UK.
Prior to joining Sky Italia, of JP Morgan.
He also serves on Limited and Stardoll Inc.
Prior to Literacy Trust, and sits on the Mr Mockridge held various roles the International Advisory Board joining Index Ventures, Mr Rimer Council of the Royal College of Art.
at Star Group Limited and was of Allianz.
Until January 2008, was a General Partner of The Dame Gail was awarded a CBE in previously CEO of Foxtel, News Mr Nasser served on the Board Barksdale Group and, previously, the 2000 New Year Honours List Corporations Pay-TV joint venture of Brambles Limited.
Mr Nasser Managing Director of Hambrecht and was made a Dame in the 2009 with Telstra.
graduated from RMIT University & Quists now JP Morgan Equity Queens Birthday Honours List.
of Melbourne, Australia and has Research Group.
Dame Gail was also named 2009 also received an honorary Veuve Clicquot Business Woman Doctorate of Technology.
Committee Membership Arthur Siskind age 72 lord wilson of Dinton age 68 Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Audit Committee Corporate Governance and Arthur Siskind was appointed Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Chairman as a Director of the Company on Corporate Governance and 19 November 1991.
Mr Siskind has Lord Wilson of Dinton was appointed Nominations Committee been the Senior Advisor to the as a Director of the Company on Chairman of News Corporation 13 February 2003.
Lord Wilson retired The Bigger Picture since January 2005.
Mr Siskind has from the Civil Service in 2002 after Committee been an Executive Director of News serving 36 years in a number of UK Corporation since 1991 and was Government departments.
Since his Group General Counsel of News retirement in September 2002, Lord Corporation from March 1991 until Wilson has been Master of Emmanuel December 2004.
Mr Siskind has College, Cambridge.
In October 2006, been a member of the Bar of the he became Non-Executive Chairman State of New York since 1962. of C. Hoare and Co, Bankers.
From April 2003 until October 2007, Lord Wilson was a Non-Executive Director of Xansa plc.
Lord Wilson was made a peer in November 2002.
AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 45 Summary Directors report DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE A more detailed Directors report is included in the Companys The Company is committed to maintaining high standards of Annual Report which can be downloaded from the Companys corporate governance in its management of the Group and when corporate website at www.
The Company values its dialogue with both institutional and private investors.
For the benefit of private DIVIDENDS investors, the Company produces this short form Annual Review which contains the information believed to be of most interest The Directors recommend a final dividend for the year ended to them.
30 June 2011 of 14.54 pence per ordinary share which, together with the interim dividend of 8.74 pence paid to shareholders on A more detailed corporate governance report is included in the 21 April 2011, will make a total dividend for the year of 23.28 pence Companys Annual Report which is available for download from 2010: 19.4 pence.
Subject to approval by shareholders at the the Companys corporate website at www.
Annual General Meeting AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 9 December 2011 to shareholders appearing on the register at the CHARITABLE CONTRIBUTIONS AND close of business on 18 November 2011.
COMMUNITY AND ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIVITIES The Bigger Picture Review, which does not form part of the Annual INTERESTS IN VOTING RIGHTS Review, will be made available online in October 2011, and will provide Information provided to the Company pursuant to the UK Listing further information on the Groups commitment to corporate Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs is published responsibility, including community and environmental activities on a Regulatory Information Service and on the Companys website.
An overview of the Groups As at 28 July 2011, the Company had been notified under DTR5 of the Bigger Picture approach, including community and environmental following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares.
activities is also provided on pages 26 to 29.
Amount Percent DIRECTORS owned of class Identity of person or group The names and biographical details of the Directors of the Company i News UK Nominees Limited 686,021,700 39.14 are given on pages 44 and 45.
There were no changes to the Board Capital Research and 90,751,601 5.18 of Directors during the financial year.
ii Management Company At the Companys 2011 AGM all current Executive and Non-Executive ii BlackRock, Inc. 87,559,067 4.99 Directors will retire.
It is the intention that Allan Leighton and David ii The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 55,977,854 3.10 Evans will not seek reappointment but all the other Executive i Direct holding which is subject to restrictions on its voting rights.
Directors and Non-Executive Directors will offer themselves for ii Indirect holding.
reappointment in accordance with provision B.
7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Directors interests in the ordinary shares and options of the Company are disclosed within the report on Directors remuneration on pages 52 to 55.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The notice convening the AGM, to be held at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE on 29 November 2011 at 11.00am, is available for download from the Companys corporate website at www.
By order of the Board, Dave Gormley Company Secretary 28 July 2011 AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 46 Summary report on Directors remuneration REMUNERATION POLICY OVERVIEW 2.
ADVISORS In setting remuneration policy and levels, the Remuneration Hewitt New Bridge Street HNBS has been appointed by the Committee the Committee is guided by the performance of Committee to act as the advisors.
HNBS advises on all aspects of the Company, relevant external factors and the responsibility senior executive remuneration and has no other connection with it has to shareholders in line with good governance practice.
the Company other than in the provision of advice on executive and employee remuneration.
HNBS is now wholly-owned by Aon The Companys objective on pay policy is to reward people fairly Corporation and while other companies within the Aon group and competitively in line with performance and in order to do undertake material non-remuneration work for the Company, attract and retain the best people.
For Executive Directors, the Committee does not believe that the independence of HNBS remuneration is heavily geared to the achievement of challenging is compromised in any way.
Executives were not present when objectives and targets that directly align executive and matters effecting their remuneration were considered.
The Chief Executive and the Director for People provide information This year has seen tough market conditions prevail, however, to the Committee on remuneration but not in respect of their the Company has continued to outperform and has delivered own remuneration.
The Committee is supported by the Company an excellent level of growth despite the economic environment.
Secretary, Finance and Human Resources functions.
In addition Executive reward for this achievement is delivered through to the regular meetings with its shareholders, the Company holds performance based incentives, rather than fixed pay, continuing a specific formal annual consultation meeting with a range of the Committees principle of paying for performance.
As a institutional investors, concerning aspects of the Committees consequence the ratio of fixed pay to variable pay remains policy, and has taken their advice into account in arriving at one of the lowest in the FTSE 100. remuneration decisions.
The Committee is also mindful of the overall Company policy on pay and supports Executive and senior management pay 3.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE changes in that context.
It is supportive of the Companys role of the remuneration Committee and terms of stance on linking pay to performance across the Company reference and notes the improvement of linking annual employee reviews to pay.
The Committee is responsible for recommendations to the Board regarding: Shareholders should note that in circumstances in which there is significant share price out-performance, reported the design and implementation of incentive compensation compensation in a single period may appear higher than arrangements including share-based schemes: market norms, since total remuneration is so heavily geared remuneration packages for Executive Directors of the Company towards variable pay.
including basic salary, performance-based bonus and long-term incentives, pensions and other benefits: 1.
MEMBERSHIP OF THE REMUNERATION the Companys policy on remuneration for Board Directors.
COMMITTEE It also reviews the proposals made by the CEO for other Senior During the year ended 30 June 2011, the Committee met four times Executives: and and was comprised of the following Independent Non-Executive any payments or benefits offered to employees in excess of Directors: 250,000 which do not form part of an employees expected Nicholas Ferguson Chairman remuneration or benefits require the approval of the David Evans Committee.
Jacques Nasser The full terms of reference for the Committee are available on the Companys corporate website.
Daniel Rimer AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 47 SUMMARY REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION continued 4.
ELEMENTS OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR AND SENIOR EXECUTIVE PAY 4.1 remuneration paid to the executive Directors is made up as follows: Performance period Conditions FixeD PAy Basic salary Salaries reviewed annually Salaries reviewed against external benchmarks see section 4.2 and against individual performance Pension and other benefits Not applicable Not applicable sections 4.3 and 4.4 vAriABle PAy Annual bonus Payable against achievement of 1 year Targets set by the Committee for: section 4.5 short-term objectives set during Operating profit the year Operating cash flow Customer net growth long Term incentive Plan Payable against achievement 3 years For awards vesting in 2011: lTiP award of stretching long-term objectives 30% subject to TSR performance vs. the FTSE section 4.6 100 over 3 years 70% subject to 3 year operational targets For awards vesting in 2013: 100% subject to 3 year operational targets see section 4.6 vesting of LTIP Awards Operational targets for all LTIP awards: EPS Operating cash flow Revenue growth Co-investment lTiP award Only operates if employee invests 3 years The number of invested shares is matched up section 4.7 own money to buy shares.
Company to a maximum of 1.5 shares for every 1 invested, matches shares with an LTIP award subject to a 3 year EPS performance condition.
which vests after 3 years if The investment eligible to receive matching performance conditions are met awards is limited to an amount equivalent to 50% of an individuals gross annual bonus.
Operating profit, operating cash flow, EPS and revenue growth are generally defined as adjusted operating profit, adjusted operating cash flow, adjusted EPS and adjusted revenue growth, however the Committee will review the measures and may amend definitions at its discretion.
remuneration mix The charts below show the relative weight of the elements making up the remuneration mix.
TARGET REMUNERATION MAXIMUM REMUNERATION Average of Executive Directors Average of Executive Directors Fixed Pay Notes to chart: Fixed Pay Target performance assumes target annual bonus and minimum level of vesting under the LTIP.
Maximum performance assumes maximum annual Maximum LTIP bonus and maximum vesting under the LTIP.
Bonus The LTIP assumes maximum investment into the co-investment element.
The LTIP ignores share price growth.
LTIP Target Bonus AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 48 Fixed pay 4.4 Other benefits Fixed pay is below market norms for Executive Directors.
Executive Directors are entitled to the use of a company car and along with all employees, private medical insurance.
4.2 Basic salary variable pay The Committee annually reviews basic salaries for Executive Directors and Senior Executives against a subset of the FTSE 100 The Committee maintains that performance-related elements of as its benchmark.
The benchmarking group is comprised of 20 pay will represent a higher proportion of total remuneration than companies of a similar size.
It also takes into consideration the market norms.
As a result, a large amount of pay is at risk and pay principles applied elsewhere in the Company.
therefore, pay is only competitive if the Companys stretching targets are achieved.
The Committee has reviewed salary levels for 2011, and awarded Jeremy Darroch an increase of 5.3% to 935,000 and Andrew 4.5 Annual bonus Griffith an increase of 5% to 573,500 from 1 July 2011.
For the CEO, the maximum bonus that may be awarded is 200% of salary and for the CFO, the maximum bonus that may be awarded Following the salary increases awarded on 1 July 2011 the Executive Directors salaries are at the median of the comparator is 150% of salary.
For the year ended 30 June 2011, the operational measures that governed bonus were operating profit, free cash flow and TV 4.3 Pensions customer growth.
Performance during the past year was very strong The Company operates a single pension plan, the BSkyB Pension and the Company exceeded each of the targets set.
As a result, the Plan Pension Plan, to all eligible employees.
The Pension Plan is CEO and CFO were awarded the following bonus payments: a defined contribution plan.
Executive Directors contribute 4% of pensionable salary basic salary less the pension offset into Bonus amount As a the Pension Plan each year and the Company matches this with a % of salary contribution of 8% of pensionable salary.
For Executive Directors Jeremy Darroch 1,776,000 200% this contribution rate is well below market norms.
The Group has Andrew Griffith 819,000 150% no legacy defined benefit plans.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the Companys pension For the year ending 30 June 2012 the operational measures that policy for its Executive Directors and has given Jeremy Darroch a govern bonus payouts will be operating profit, operating cash flow cash supplement of 61,253. and customer net growth.
The Committee believes this change simplifies and aligns targets with the Companys strategy.
The cash The Pension Plan has income protection of up to two-thirds salary, flow measure is now the same as the LTIP.
The change to customer or 300,000 and insured death in service of up to one-third salary, net growth includes customers across all areas rather than just one which can be taken entirely as a pension, or 50% lump sum and 50% specific area of growth.
pension, or entirely as a lump sum, subject to the lifetime allowance.
The Committee retains the discretion to adjust payouts either up The Pension Plan also has enhanced Life Assurance cover up to four or down as an exception, if they feel that an important aspect of times annual salary.
Employees who decide not to join the Pension performance has not been reflected.
Plan receive Life Assurance of two times annual salary.
AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 49 SUMMARY REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION continued The specifics of the measures and targets are as follows: 4.6 lTiP The Company operates an LTIP for Executive Directors and Senior i Operational targets Executives.
Awards are: In the event of a change of control the Committee has the discretion on how awards will vest under the plan.
subject to stretching performance conditions: The operational performance conditions for the LTIP are EPS growth, made to any employee or full-time Executive Director of the operating cash flow and revenue growth.
EPS provides a measure of Group at the discretion of the Committee: shareholder return that is measureable over time.
Operating cash normally made as a nil priced option: flow measures the underlying health of the business.
Revenue not transferable or pensionable: growth is a key measure of how the Group is delivering on its made over a number of shares in the Company, determined strategy to grow the business.
by the Committee: Points are awarded for performance on three operational measures usually satisfied using shares purchased by the Company as follows: in the market.
COnDiTiOnS FOr AwArDS veSTinG in 2011 The Committee believes that conditional performance share awards Performance conditions continue to be the best long-term incentive vehicle for Executive EPS growth Operating cash flow Revenue growth Directors and Senior Executives.
Performance Performance Design of lTiP Performance Points achieved Points achieved Points achieved awarded % of target awarded % of target awarded Grants are made every year and vesting occurs every two years.
105% 105% In the first year, an Executive may be granted an award of shares RPI 8% pa 10 or more 10 or more 10 that vests at the end of a three-year period, subject to performance RPI 7% pa 8 100% 8 100% 8 conditions.
In the second year a further discretionary award of up RPI 6% pa 6 95% 6 95% 6 to and normally no more than 100% of the year one award may be RPI 5% pa 4 90% 4 90% 4 granted.
This award vests at the same time as the year one award.
RPI 4% pa 2 85% 2 85% 2 The grant is made in terms of a number of shares as opposed to a RPI 3% pa 1 75% 1 75% 1 monetary value and therefore its value may fluctuate with Less than Less than Less than RPI 3% pa 0 75% 0 75% 0 movements in the share price.
How the lTiP operates The total number of points awarded governs the extent of vesting of the operational portion, according to a straight-line Performance conditions for lTiP vesting schedule: The Committee reviews the performance conditions for the LTIP from time to time to ensure that they remain appropriate.
Resulting vesting for awards vesting in 2011 vesting of lTiP awards % of % of Total points achieved operational portion overall award The awards vest, in full or in part, dependent on satisfying Less than 1 0% 0% performance targets measured over three years.
Performance 1 10% 7% targets are calibrated to ensure the achievement of Skys 1-21 10% 100% on a 7% 70% on a stretching long-term goals, and the cumulative total points straight-line basis straight-line basis achieved governs vesting.
21 or more 100% 70% For the awards made in 2008 and 2009 which will vest in 2011, 70% of the award is dependent on operational measures, while 30% Actual points awarded is governed by TSR performance.
EPS growth Operating cash flow Revenue growth Actual points awarded Actual points awarded Actual points awarded For the awards made in 2010 and any awards made in 2011 which 10.00 10.00 8.49 will vest in 2013, 100% of the award is dependent on operational measures.
TSR is not a measure of performance for awards vesting The number of points awarded exceeded 21: therefore, 100% of in 2013 as the Companys share price as at the time of grant was the operational portion of the LTIP vested in accordance with the materially impacted by the possible bid from News Corporation.
For existing and future awards granted under the Companys LTIP, the period during which participants, still employed by the Company, will be entitled to exercise their shares following the vesting of their awards will be increased to five years.
AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 50 ii 30% based on TSR Performance At the outset of the potential bid from News Corporation, the The Companys TSR performance is measured relative to the Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Board reviewed and constituents of the FTSE 100.
If the Companys TSR performance is discussed the retention of the Executive Directors and agreed to below median, the TSR element of the award lapses with no vesting.
pay an additional bonus to the Executive Directors at 31 July 2011.
For median performance, one third of the TSR portion of the award It was subsequently agreed that this would be paid in the form of an vests.
For performance in the upper quartile, the whole TSR portion additional LTIP award subject to the above performance conditions.
For performance between median and upper As a consequence Jeremy Darroch will be granted an award of quartile, vesting is on a straight-line basis, as shown in the chart 300,000 shares and Andrew Griffith will be granted an award of below: 135,000 shares.
Co-investment lTiP TSR VESTING SCHEDULE Payout The Company operates a Co-Investment LTIP where matching TSR Payout % of grant Performance shares are provided via the LTIP for Executive Directors and Senior 30 Executives and via the Management LTIP for other selected Below Median 0% employees.
The Committee believes that awards under the 50% 10% Co-Investment facility further align Executives with shareholders 55% 14% by promoting the ownership of Company shares.
65% 22% Participants in the plan invest their own money in the Companys 70% 26% shares and then are granted a conditional matching award of Company shares based on the amount they have invested.
These 75% 30% Below 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 matching shares vest at the end of a three-year period, subject to Median 100% 30% Final TSR rank % achieving EPS targets.
The shares are matched up to a maximum of 1.5 shares for every one share invested on a pre-tax basis.
The investment eligible to receive matching shares is limited to an TSR calculations are conducted independently by HNBS, employing amount equivalent to 50% of a participants gross annual bonus.
a methodology which averages share prices over the three months prior to the start and the three months prior to the end of the Performance conditions three-year performance period.
Awards are subject to EPS growth targets.
EPS growth of RPI 3% COnDiTiOnS FOr AwArDS veSTinG in 2013 p. a. is required for vesting at target 1x match with growth of RPI 6% for maximum 1.5x match : straight-line vesting will apply for Performance conditions achievement levels between 3% and 6%.
EPS growth Operating cash flow Revenue growth As participants have invested their own money in the Companys Performance Performance Performance Points achieved Points achieved Points shares they are exposed to downside risk throughout the three achieved awarded % of target awarded % of target awarded year period.
OTHER SHARE PLANS RPI 7% pa 8 100% 8 100% 8 RPI 6% pa 6 95% 6 95% 6 5.1 Management long-Term incentive Plan RPI 5% pa 4 90% 4 90% 4 Management lTiP RPI 4% pa 2 85% 2 85% 2 The Company also operates a Management LTIP, which replaced RPI 3% pa 1 75% 1 75% 1 options granted under the Executive Share Option Scheme.
Selected Less than Less than Less than RPI 3% pa 0 75% 0 75% 0 employees participate in the Management LTIP, but this does not include any Executive Directors or Senior Executives who participate 100% of the award that vests in 2013 is dependent on operational in the LTIP.
Awards under this scheme are made at the discretion of measures.
To date, the Management LTIP has mirrored the LTIP for The Company will reintroduce the TSR measure for the 2012 awards.
Executive Directors and Senior Executives, with the same performance conditions.
2011 lTiP Awards As part of the 2011 LTIP grant cycle Jeremy Darroch will be granted an award of 600,000 shares and Andrew Griffith will be granted an award of 320,000 shares.
AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 51 Median Upper Quartile SUMMARY REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION continued The Company recognises that Executive Directors may be invited 5.2 Sharesave Scheme to become non-executive directors of other companies.
Executive The Sharesave Scheme is open to UK and Irish employees.
Directors are not allowed to take on the chairmanship of a FTSE 100 Options are normally exercisable after either three or five years company, but are allowed to take up one external non-executive from the date of grant.
The price at which options are offered is FTSE 100 appointment and retain any payment in respect of such not less than 80% of the middle-market price on the dealing day appointments.
immediately preceding the date of invitation.
It is the policy of the Group to make an invitation to employees to participate in the Jeremy Darroch is a Non-Executive Director of Marks and Spencer scheme following the announcement of the year-end results.
Jeremy Group plc and retained fees for this appointment of 79,000 for Darroch and Andrew Griffith each have options granted under the the year ended 30 June 2011.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 5.3 20 year Award Plan There has been a 5% increase in the basic fees payable to the A one-off grant of 100 shares was made to all employees in 2009 Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman set by the Board of to celebrate the Companys 20th anniversary.
These shares will Directors for the financial year ending 30 June 2012: basic fees are be delivered in February 2012.
They are not subject to any further 56,500 2011: 53,800.
Furthermore, the Non-Executive Directors performance condition other than continued employment.
As will be paid an additional 10,000 2011: 10,000 per annum each permanent employees and Executive Directors of the Company, for membership of the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Jeremy Darroch and Andrew Griffith were each awarded an Committee, the Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee option over 100 shares under the plan.
and The Bigger Picture Committee.
The Chairman and the Chairmen 5.4 executive Share Option Schemes of the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the executive Schemes Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee and The Bigger Picture Committee each receives an additional 25,000 per annum The Company has in place Approved and Unapproved Executive 2011: 25,000.
The Deputy Chairman will receive an additional fee Share Option Schemes under HMRC guidelines.
The Senior Independent Director will and Senior Executives who participate in the LTIP do not participate receive an additional fee of 20,000 per annum 2011: 20,000. in the Executive Schemes.
No options have been granted since 2004.
Each Non-Executive Director is engaged by the Company for an Andrew Griffith was granted awards under the Executive Schemes initial term of three years.
Reappointment for a further term is prior to his appointment as an Executive Director.
not automatic, but may be mutually agreed.
SERVICE AGREEMENTS Following the proposal received from News Corporation, the Board established an Offer Committee of the Board comprising the Policy Independent Non-Executive and Executive Directors of the Board.
The Committees stated policy is that Executive Directors service It has been agreed that the Non-Executive Directors be paid agreements will contain a maximum notice period of one year.
The additional fees of 10,000 per annum for membership of the Offer Committee will also consider, where appropriate to do so, reducing Committee, plus 25,000 per annum for the Chairman of the Offer remuneration to a departing Director.
However, the Committee will Committee inclusive of the role of Deputy Chairman.
consider such issues on a case-by-case basis and will consider the terms of employment of a departing Director.
A large proportion On 13 July 2011 News Corporation announced that it no longer of each Executive Directors total direct remuneration is linked to intended to make an offer for the entire issued share capital of performance and therefore will not be payable to the extent that the Company and the Offer Committee was subsequently the relevant targets are not met.
AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 52 The interests of the Directors in the ordinary share capital of the 8.
PERFORMANCE GRAPH Company during the year and as at 28 July 2011 were: The following graph shows the Companys performance measured by TSR in the five years to 30 June 2011.
This graph shows the At At At 28 July 30 June 30 June growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding in the Companys Name of Director 2011 2011 2010 ordinary shares over five years, relative to three indices, which are Jeremy Darroch 230,046 230,046 170,379 considered to be the most relevant broad equity market indices for i i i David Evans 19,188 19,068 17,651 this purpose.
The graph is included to meet a legislative requirement Nicholas Ferguson 12,312 12,239 11,224 and is not directly relevant to the performance criteria approved by Andrew Griffith 57,093 57,093 34,492 shareholders for the Companys long-term incentive plans.
120 i 16,000 ordinary shares held in the form of 4,000 ADSs, one ADS is equivalent to four ordinary shares.
100 Except as disclosed in this report, no other Director held any interest 80 in the share capital, including options, of the Company, or of any 60 subsidiary of the Company, during the year.
All interests at the date 40 shown are beneficial.
20 During the year ended 30 June 2011, the share price traded within 0 the range of 693.50 to 849.00 pence per share.
The middle-market Jun-06 Jun-07 Jun-08 Jun-09 Jun-10 Jun-11 Source: Thomson Financial & NYSE closing price on the last trading day of the financial year was 849.00 pence.
SHARE INTERESTS The Company encourages the Non-Executive Directors to build up a holding in the Companys shares and has introduced a facility whereby Non-Executive Directors can elect to receive a portion of their fees in Sky shares.
Shares are purchased on a monthly basis in the market.
The Directors who are deemed to be affiliated with News Corporation James Murdoch, David DeVoe, Thomas Mockridge and Arthur Siskind are not allowed to participate in the facility.
This is due to the fact that under Rule 9 of the Takeover Code they would be deemed to be acting in concert with News Corporation if they were to purchase shares in the Company and this would place News Corporation under an obligation to make a mandatory offer for all of the issued share capital of the Company.
AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 53 SUMMARY REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION continued 10.
notes: i Jeremy Darroch was given a pension supplement of 61,253 during the financial year following a review of the Companys pension policy by the Remuneration Committee.
See section 4.3 for further information.
notes: The aggregate value received by the Directors on exercise of the LTIP before tax was nil 2010: 10,506,763.
See performance conditions for LTIP on page 48. i The market price of the shares at the time the shares were awarded was 711p.
ii Following the vesting of awards, participants, still employed by the Company, will have five years to exercise their shares.
AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 54 12.
CO-INVESTMENT PLAN Details of all outstanding awards held under the Co-Investment Plan are shown below: Number of shares under award At Granted Exercised Lapsed At Market price Date 30 June during during during 30 June Exercise at date Date of from which Name of Director 2010 the year the year the year 2011 price of exercise Award exercisable Expiry date i Jeremy Darroch 204,425 204,425 n a n a 27.08.09 27.08.12 27.08.17 ii 183,935 183,935 n a n a 31.08.10 31.08.13 31.08.18 iii Andrew Griffith 75,506 75,506 n a n a 27.08.09 27.08.12 27.08.17 iv 69,672 69,672 n a n a 31.08.10 31.08.13 31.08.18 This table is audited.
notes: See performance conditions for the Co-Investment Plan on page 48. i Jeremy Darroch holds 79,848 shares as a match under this award.
ii Jeremy Darroch holds 59,667 shares as a match under this award.
iii Andrew Griffith holds 29,492 shares as a match under this award.
iv Andrew Griffith holds 22,601 shares as a match under this award.
Signed on behalf of the Board Nicholas Ferguson Remuneration Committee Chairman 28 July 2011 AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 55 Summary financial statement SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT for the year ended 30 June 2011 2011 2010 m m Continuing operations revenue 6,597 5,709 Operating expense 5,524 4,865 Litigation settlement income 269 Operating profit 1,073 1,113 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 34 32 Investment income on litigation settlement 49 Investment income 9 3 Finance costs 111 122 Profit on disposal of available-for-sale investment 9 115 Profit before tax 1,014 1,190 Taxation 256 294 Profit for the year from continuing operations 758 896 Discontinued operations Profit loss for the year from discontinued operations 52 18 Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 810 878 earnings loss per share from profit loss for the year in pence Basic Continuing operations 43.5p 51.4p Discontinued operations 3.0p 1.0 p Total 46.5p 50.4p Diluted Continuing operations 43.0p 51.1p Discontinued operations 2.9p 1.0 p Total 45.9p 50.1p SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME for the year ended 30 June 2011 2011 2010 m m Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 810 878 Other comprehensive income Amounts recognised directly in equity Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 8 8 Gain on revaluation of available-for-sale investments 59 117 Loss gain on cash flow hedges 130 160 Tax on cash flow hedges 36 45 43 240 Amounts reclassified and reported in the income statement Gain loss on cash flow hedges 42 89 Tax on cash flow hedges 11 25 Transfer to income statement on disposal of available-for-sale investment 115 Transfer to income statement on disposal of foreign operations 4 35 179 Other comprehensive loss income for the year net of tax 8 61 Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 802 939 AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 56 SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET as at 30 June 2011 2011 2010 m m Non-current assets Goodwill 944 852 Intangible assets 462 336 Property, plant and equipment 896 899 Investments in joint ventures and associates 151 149 Available-for-sale investments 215 182 Deferred tax assets 69 Trade and other receivables 13 18 Derivative financial assets 275 382 3,025 2,818 Current assets Inventories 375 343 Trade and other receivables 592 538 Short-term deposits 430 400 Cash and cash equivalents 921 649 Derivative financial assets 11 56 2,329 1,986 Total assets 5,354 4,804 Current liabilities Borrowings 8 8 Trade and other payables 1,675 1,526 Current tax liabilities 187 136 Provisions 21 27 Derivative financial liabilities 21 10 1,912 1,707 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 2,325 2,450 Trade and other payables 26 52 Provisions 9 11 Derivative financial liabilities 47 17 Deferred tax liabilities 7 2,407 2,537 Total liabilities 4,319 4,244 Share capital 876 876 Share premium 1,437 1,437 Reserves 1,278 1,753 Total equity attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 1,035 560 Total liabilities and shareholders equity 5,354 4,804 This summary financial statement has been approved by the Board of Directors on 28 July 2011 and was signed on its behalf by: Jeremy Darroch Andrew Griffith Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 57 SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT continued SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT for the year ended 30 June 2011 2011 2010 m m Continuing operations Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from operations 1,569 1,626 Interest received 7 57 Taxation paid 219 319 net cash from operating activities 1,357 1,364 Cash flows from investing activities Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 29 30 Net funding to joint ventures and associates 4 1 Proceeds on disposal of investments 32 196 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 197 246 Purchase of intangible assets 226 183 Purchase of subsidiaries net of cash and cash equivalents purchased 222 Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1 Increase in short-term deposits 30 310 net cash used in investing activities 618 513 Cash flows from financing activities Repayment of borrowings 495 Repayment of obligations under finance leases 1 Proceeds from disposal of shares in Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP 32 16 Purchase of own shares for ESOP 90 56 Interest paid 124 156 Dividends paid to shareholders 353 314 net cash used in financing activities 536 1,005 net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents from continuing operations 203 154 Cash generated from used in discontinued operations 69 8 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 649 811 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 921 649 AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 58 SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY for the year ended 30 June 2011 Total  Share Share ESOP Hedging for-sale Other Retained deficit capital premium reserve reserve reserve reserves earnings equity m m m m m m m m At 1 July 2009 876 1,437 73 26 96 354 2,780 64 Profit for the year 878 878 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 8 8 Revaluation of available-for-sale investment 117 117 Transfer to income statement on disposal of available-for-sale investment 115 115 Recognition and transfer of cash flow hedges 71 71 Tax on items taken directly to equity 20 20 Total comprehensive income for the year 51 2 8 878 939 Share-based payment 26 36 10 Tax on items taken directly to equity 9 9 Dividends 314 314 At 30 June 2010 876 1,437 47 77 98 362 2,243 560 Profit for the year 810 810 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 8 8 Transfer to income statement on disposal of foreign operations 4 4 Revaluation of available-for-sale investment 59 59 Recognition and transfer of cash flow hedges 88 88 Tax on items taken directly to equity 25 25 Total comprehensive income for the year 63 59 4 810 802 Share-based payment 60 70 10 Tax on items taken directly to equity 19 19 Purchase of non-controlling interest 3 3 Dividends 353 353 At 30 June 2011 876 1,437 107 14 157 358 1,700 1,035 NOTE 1: RECONCILIATION FROM PROFIT FOR THE YEAR FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS TO ADJUSTED PROFIT FOR THE YEAR FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS 2011 2010 m m Profit for the year from continuing operations 758 896 Living TV restructuring costs 26 Costs in relation to News Corporation proposal 15 Recovery of import duty on set-top boxes 41 Remeasurement of all derivative financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting and hedge ineffectiveness 18 13 Profit on disposal of available-for-sale investment 9 115 Litigation settlement income relating to claim against EDS 269 Investment income on litigation settlement 49 Legal costs relating to claim against EDS 1 Cancellation of accounts payable on settlement of claim against EDS 5 Cost relating to restructuring exercise 32 Receipt on closure of joint venture 3 i Tax credit on settlement of liability 15 Tax effect of above items 9 85 Adjusted profit for the year from continuing operations 725 560 i Tax credit arising on the settlement of the pre-acquisition tax liabilities of a subsidiary of the Group.
AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 59 SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT continued NON-GAAP MEASURES All continuing operations RECONCILIATION OF REVENUE TO ADJUSTED REVENUE for the year ended 30 June 2011 2011 2010 2009 m m m revenue 6,597 5,709 5,157 Recognition of deferred revenue 36 Adjusted Group revenue 6,597 5,709 5,121 RECONCILIATION OF OPERATING PROFIT TO ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT AND ADJUSTED EBITDA for the year ended 30 June 2011 2011 2010 2009 m m m Operating profit 1,073 1,113 842 Living TV restructuring costs 26 Costs in relation to News Corporation proposal 15 Recovery of import duty on set-top boxes 41 Litigation settlement income relating to claim against EDS 269 Legal costs relating to claim against EDS 1 3 Cancellation of accounts payable on settlement of claim against EDS 5 Costs relating to restructuring exercise 32 Recognition of deferred revenue 36 Adjusted eBiTDA 1,405 1,185 1,077 Depreciation and amortisation 332 338 268 i Costs relating to restructuring exercise included within depreciation and amortisation 25 Adjusted operating profit 1,073 872 809 i Included within depreciation and amortisation for the year ended 30 June 2010 is 25 million of expense relating to a restructuring exercise of which 22 million related to the impairment of assets associated with Picnic the potential launch of a subscription television service on DTT and 3 million related to restructuring costs.
RECONCILIATION OF CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS TO ADJUSTED FREE CASH FLOW for the year ended 30 June 2011 2011 2010 2009 m m m Cash generated from operations 1,569 1,626 1,215 Interest received 7 57 47 Taxation paid 219 319 178 Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 29 30 20 Net funding to joint ventures and associates 4 1 3 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 197 246 240 Purchase of intangible assets 226 183 139 Interest paid 124 156 217 Free cash flow 835 808 505 Living TV restructuring costs 26 Costs in relation to News Corporation proposal 2 Litigation settlement income relating to claim against EDS after tax 229 Legal costs relating to claim against EDS 1 3 Receipt on closure of joint venture 3 Cash paid relating to restucturing exercise 6 7 i i Adjusted free cash flow 869 577 515 i The purchase of freehold land has been removed from adjusting items in the comparative periods 2010: 57 million: 2009: 24 million.
AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 60 Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT such forward looking statements are reasonable, these statements The summary financial statement, summary Directors report and and all other forward looking statements contained in this summary report on Directors remuneration contained within this document are not guarantees of future performance and are document are only a summary of the information provided in the subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are consolidated financial statements and Directors report contained beyond our control, are difficult to predict and could cause actual within the Annual Report.
The auditors report on the Companys results to differ materially from those expressed or implied or forecast annual accounts was unqualified.
The information has been in the forward looking statements.
These factors include, but are prepared in accordance with the accounting policies as set out in not limited to, the fact that we operate in a highly competitive the Annual Report.
These summaries do not contain sufficient environment, the effects of laws and government regulation upon information to allow as full an understanding of the results and our activities, our reliance on technology, which is subject to risk, state of affairs of the Group as would be allowed by the Annual change and development, failure of key suppliers, our ability to Report, which contains more detail.
A copy of the Annual Report can continue to obtain exclusive rights to movies, sports events and be obtained, free of charge, by writing to the Company Secretary at other programming content, risks inherent in the implementation Grant Way, Isleworth, Middlesex TW7 5QD or it can be downloaded of large-scale capital expenditure projects, our ability to continue from the Companys website at www.
To elect to to communicate and market our services effectively, and the risks receive the Annual Report for future years, write to Equiniti Limited, associated with our operation of digital television transmission in Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
the United Kingdom UK and Republic of Ireland Ireland.
Whilst the financial information included in this summary financial Information on the significant risks and uncertainties associated statement has been prepared in accordance with International with our business is described in Directors report Business Review Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the Principal risks and uncertainties in the Annual Report.
No part European Union and as issued by the International Accounting of these results constitutes, or shall be taken to constitute, an Standards Board, this summary financial statement does not invitation or inducement to invest in the Company or any other itself contain sufficient information to comply with IFRS.
entity and must not be relied upon in any way in connection with The Group maintains a 52 or 53 week year ending on the Sunday any investment decision.
All forward looking statements in this nearest to 30 June in each year.
In fiscal year 2011, this date was document are based on information known to us on the date hereof.
3 July 2011, this being a 53 week year fiscal year 2010: 27 June 2010, Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation publicly to 52 week year.
For convenience purposes, the Group continues to update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a date its summary financial statement as at 30 June.
result of new information, future events or otherwise.
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS USE OF MEASURES NOT DEFINED UNDER IFRS This document contains certain forward looking statements with This Annual Review contains certain information on the Groups respect to our financial condition, results of operations and financial position, operating results and cash flows that have business, and our strategy, plans and objectives.
These statements been derived from measures calculated in accordance with IFRS.
include, without limitation, those that express forecasts, This information should not be read in isolation of the related expectations and projections, such as forecasts, expectations and IFRS measure.
projections with respect to the potential for growth of free-to-air and pay television, fixed line telephony, broadband and bandwidth requirements, advertising growth, Direct-to-Home DTH customer growth, Multiroom, Sky, Sky HD and other services penetration, churn, DTH and other revenue, profitability and margin growth, cash flow generation, programming costs, subscriber management and supply chain costs, administration costs and other costs, marketing expenditure, capital expenditure programmes and proposals for returning capital to shareholders.
AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 61 Glossary of terms useful definitions Description Adjusted earnings per Adjusted profit for the period divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares during share EPS the period.
Adjusted operating profit Operating profit excluding exceptional items.
Adjusted operating margin is stated as a percentage and margin of adjusted revenue.
Adjusted profit for Profit for the period adjusted to remove exceptional items and related tax effects.
the period ARPU Average Revenue Per User: the amount spent by the Groups residential customers in the quarter, divided by the average number of residential DTH customers in the quarter, annualised.
Churn The number of DTH customers over a given period that terminate their subscription in its entirety, net of former DTH customers who reinstated their subscription in that period where such reinstatement is within a 12-month period of the termination of their original subscription, expressed as an annualised percentage of total average DTH customers for the period.
DTH Direct-to-Home: the transmission of satellite services and functionality with reception through a mini dish.
DTH customer means a subscriber to one or more of our retailed packages of television channels made available via DTH.
EBITDA Earnings before joint ventures, interest, profit on disposal of available-for-sale investment, taxation, depreciation and amortisation is calculated as operating profit before depreciation, amortisation and impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets.
Exceptional Items Items that arise from events or transactions that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group, but which management believes should be separately identified to help explain underlying performance.
Free cash flow The amount of cash generated by Sky after meeting obligations for interest and tax, after all capital expenditure and net cash flows relating to joint ventures and associates.
Multiroom Installation of an additional set-top box in the household of an existing DTH customer.
Net debt Borrowings net of cash and cash-equivalents, short-term deposits, and borrowings-related derivative financial instruments.
Sky by Wire Skys retailed packages of premium Sky Channels made available on third party operators DSL and fibre platforms.
Sky Player Skys retailed packages of television channels and on-demand content made available via a broadband connection and our Sky Player platform.
Sky Mobile Skys retailed packages of television channels made available to mobile devices via a wireless or 3G connection and our Sky Mobile TV platform.
Sky Skys fully-integrated Personal Video Recorder PVR and satellite decoder.
This includes Sky HD decoders.
Standalone home Skys retailed packages of broadband, talk and line rental when taken without a television communications subscription package.
TV customer A subscriber to one or more of our DTH, Sky by Wire, Sky Player or Sky Mobile TV services.
Viewing share Number of people viewing a channel as a percentage of total viewing audience.
AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 62 Independent Auditors statement to the members of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc We have examined the summary financial statement for the year ended 30 June 2011 which comprises the Summary Consolidated Income Statement, Summary Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Summary Consolidated Balance Sheet, Summary Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, Summary Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, Note 1, Summary Directors Report and the Summary Directors Remuneration Report.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 428 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, for our audit report, or for the opinion we have formed.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statement within the Annual Review with the full annual financial statements, the Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration Report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 428 of the Companies Act 2006 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review as described in the contents section, and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 2008 3 issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Our report on the companys full annual financial statements describes the basis of our audit opinion on those financial statements, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Directors Report.
OPINION In our opinion, the summary financial statement is consistent with the full annual financial statements, the Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration Report of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc for the year ended 30 June 2011 and complies with the applicable requirements of section 428 of the Companies Act 2006, and the regulations made thereunder.
Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London, United Kingdom 28 July 2011 AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 63 Shareholder information The Company provides a range of shareholder information online at www.
Shareholders can access and view their shareholding and update their details at www.
REGISTRARS Equiniti Limited Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA The 2011 BSkyB Annual Review Telephone: 0871 384 2091 and Annual Report are available Overseas: 44 121 415 7567 to view or download online at Calls to the above number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Other telephony providers costs may vary.
Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm www.
com corporate Monday to Friday.
ELECTRONIC SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATION In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys articles of association, the Company is permitted to use its corporate website as the main way to communicate with shareholders, sending out Annual Reports only to those who have opted to receive a paper copy.
This reduces our impact on the environment, minimises waste and reduces costs.
It also enables If you would like advice regarding shareholders to keep updated with developments at Sky as they accessibility of this document, happen by accessing our website.
please contact 08442 410333 Shareholders who have opted to receive shareholder textphone 08442 410535 communications in paper form are encouraged to receive these electronically in future by registering at www.
Shareholders can also change their instructions at any time by contacting Equiniti Limited.
FINANCIAL CALENDAR Results for the financial year ending 30 June 2012 will be published: Q1 19 October 2011 Q2 31 January 2012 Q3 04 May 2012 Q4 26 July 2012 COMPANY SECRETARY Dave Gormley COMPANY REGISTERED OFFICE Grant Way Isleworth Middlesex TW7 5QD Telephone: 0333 100 0333 Overseas: 44 333 100 0333 COMPANY REGISTRATION NUMBER 2247735 AnnuAl review 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 64 Supercharging the customer experience Contents 2 Chairmans statement 3 The year at a glance 4 Chief Executives statement 8 S upercharging the customer experience 24 Developing our long-term capability Connecting people Page 20 36 Review of the year As the UKs fastest growing 42 Our performance broadband and home phone 44 Board of Directors provider, we are now about much 46 Summary Directors report more than TV.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc AnnuAl Review 2011 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Review 2011 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Grant Way, Isleworth Middlesex TW7 5QD Telephone 0333 100 0333 Facsimile 0333 100 0444 www.
