Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS Statement of Directors responsibility The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Directors responsibility statement the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: regulations.
The financial statements, prepared in accordance with Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit are required to prepare the group financial statements in or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards consolidation taken as a whole: and IFRSs as adopted by the european Union and Article 4 of the IAS 2.
The management report, which is incorporated into the Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the Parent Company Directors report, includes a fair review of the development and financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the eU.
Under performance of the business and the position of the Company Company law, the Directors must not approve the accounts unless and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for uncertainties that they face.
In preparing these financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: By order of the Board properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and Jeremy Darroch Andrew Griffith understandable information: Chief executive Officer Chief Financial Officer provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 28 July 2011 28 July 2011 specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 59 Book 1. indb 59 12 10 11 20:47:06
