Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS Consolidated financial statements CONSOLIDATeD INCOMe STATeMeNT for the year ended 30 June 2011 2011 2010 Notes m m Continuing operations revenue 2 6,597 5,709 Operating expense 3 5,524 4,865 Litigation settlement income 4 269 operating profit 1,073 1,113 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 16 34 32 Investment income on litigation settlement 4 49 Investment income 5 9 3 Finance costs 5 111 122 Profit on disposal of available-for-sale investment 6 9 115 profit before tax 7 1,014 1,190 Taxation 9 256 294 profit for the year from continuing operations 758 896 Discontinued operations Profit loss for the year from discontinued operations 10 52 18 profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 810 878 earnings loss per share from profit loss for the year in pence Basic Continuing operations 11 43.5p 51.4p Discontinued operations 11 3.0p 1.0 p Total 11 46.5p 50.4p Diluted Continuing operations 11 43.0p 51.1p Discontinued operations 11 2.9p 1.0 p Total 11 45.9p 50.1p The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated income statement.
CONSOLIDATeD STATeMeNT OF COMPReHeNSIve INCOMe for the year ended 30 June 2011 2011 2010 m m profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 810 878 Other comprehensive income Amounts recognised directly in equity exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 8 8 Gain on revaluation of available-for-sale investments 59 117 Loss gain on cash flow hedges 130 160 Tax on cash flow hedges 36 45 43 240 Amounts reclassified and reported in the income statement Gain loss on cash flow hedges 42 89 Tax on cash flow hedges 11 25 Transfer to income statement on disposal of available-for-sale investment 115 Transfer to income statement on disposal of foreign operations 4 35 179 other comprehensive loss income for the year net of tax 8 61 total comprehensive income for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 802 939 The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 61 Book 1. indb 61 12 10 11 20:47:06 CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS CONSOLIDATeD BALANCe SHeeT as at 30 June 2011 2011 2010 Notes m m Non-current assets Goodwill 13 944 852 Intangible assets 14 462 336 Property, plant and equipment 15 896 899 Investments in joint ventures and associates 16 151 149 Available-for-sale investments 17 215 182 Deferred tax assets 18 69 Trade and other receivables 20 13 18 Derivative financial assets 24 275 382 3,025 2,818 Current assets Inventories 19 375 343 Trade and other receivables 20 592 538 Short-term deposits 24 430 400 Cash and cash equivalents 24 921 649 Derivative financial assets 24 11 56 2,329 1,986 total assets 5,354 4,804 Current liabilities Borrowings 23 8 8 Trade and other payables 21 1,675 1,526 Current tax liabilities 187 136 Provisions 22 21 27 Derivative financial liabilities 24 21 10 1,912 1,707 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 23 2,325 2,450 Trade and other payables 21 26 52 Provisions 22 9 11 Derivative financial liabilities 24 47 17 Deferred tax liabilities 18 7 2,407 2,537 total liabilities 4,319 4,244 Share capital 26 876 876 Share premium 27 1,437 1,437 Reserves 27 1,278 1,753 total equity attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 27 1,035 560 total liabilities and shareholders equity 5,354 4,804 The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated balance sheet.
These consolidated financial statements of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc, registered number 2247735, have been approved by the Board of Directors on 28 July 2011 and were signed on its behalf by: Jeremy Darroch Andrew Griffith Chief executive Officer Chief Financial Officer AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 62 Book 1. indb 62 12 10 11 20:47:07 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS CONSOLIDATeD CASH FLOW STATeMeNT for the year ended 30 June 2011 2011 2010 Notes m m Continuing operations Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from operations 28 1,569 1,626 Interest received 7 57 Taxation paid 219 319 net cash from operating activities 1,357 1,364 Cash flows from investing activities Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 29 30 Net funding to joint ventures and associates 4 1 Proceeds on disposal of investments 32 196 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 197 246 Purchase of intangible assets 226 183 Purchase of subsidiaries net of cash and cash equivalents purchased 222 Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1 Increase in short-term deposits 30 310 net cash used in investing activities 618 513 Cash flows from financing activities Repayment of borrowings 495 Repayment of obligations under finance leases 1 Proceeds from disposal of shares in employee Share Ownership Plan eSOP 32 16 Purchase of own shares for eSOP 90 56 Interest paid 124 156 Dividends paid to shareholders 353 314 net cash used in financing activities 536 1,005 net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents from continuing operations 203 154 Cash generated from used in discontinued operations 10 69 8 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 649 811 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 921 649 The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated cash flow statement.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 63 Book 1. indb 63 12 10 11 20:47:07 CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS CONSOLIDATeD STATeMeNT OF CHANGeS IN eQUITY for the year ended 30 June 2011 Total Available shareholders Share Share eSOP Hedging for-sale Other Retained deficit capital premium reserve reserve reserve reserves earnings equity m m m m m m m m At 1 july 2009 876 1,437 73 26 96 354 2,780 64 Profit for the year 878 878 exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 8 8 Revaluation of available-for-sale investment 117 117 Transfer to income statement on disposal of available-for-sale investment 115 115 Recognition and transfer of cash flow hedges 71 71 Tax on items taken directly to equity 20 20 total comprehensive income for the year 51 2 8 878 939 Share-based payment 26 36 10 Tax on items taken directly to equity 9 9 Dividends 314 314 At 30 june 2010 876 1,437 47 77 98 362 2,243 560 Profit for the year 810 810 exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 8 8 Transfer to income statement on disposal of foreign operations 4 4 Revaluation of available-for-sale investment 59 59 Recognition and transfer of cash flow hedges 88 88 Tax on items taken directly to equity 25 25 total comprehensive income for the year 63 59 4 810 802 Share-based payment 60 70 10 Tax on items taken directly to equity 19 19 Purchase of non-controlling interest 3 3 Dividends 353 353 At 30 june 2011 876 1,437 107 14 157 358 1,700 1,035 For a description of the nature and purpose of each equity reserve, see note 27.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated statement of changes in equity.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 64 Book 1. indb 64 12 10 11 20:47:07 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS NOTeS TO THe CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS These consolidated financial statements include the Groups share 1.
Accounting policies of the total recognised gains and losses of associates and joint British Sky Broadcasting Group plc the Company is a limited ventures using the equity method, from the date that significant liability company incorporated in england and Wales, and influence or joint control commences to the date that it ceases, domiciled in the United Kingdom UK.
The consolidated financial based on present ownership interests and excluding the possible statements include the Company and its subsidiaries together, exercise of potential voting rights, less any impairment losses see the Group and its interests in associates and jointly-controlled accounting policy j.
When the Groups interest in an associate or entities.
joint venture has been reduced to nil because the Groups share a Statement of compliance of losses exceeds its interest in the associate or joint venture, the Group only provides for additional losses to the extent that it has The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in incurred legal or constructive obligations to fund such losses, or accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards where the Group has made payments on behalf of the associate or IFRS as adopted by the european Union eU, the Companies joint venture.
Where the disposal of an investment in an associate Act 2006 and Article 4 of the International Accounting Standard or joint venture is considered to be highly probable, the investment IAS Regulations.
In addition, the Group also complied with IFRS ceases to be equity accounted and, instead, is classified as held as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
for sale and stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value b Basis of preparation less costs to sell.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on d Goodwill a going concern basis as set out in the Directors Report and Business combinations that have occurred since 1 July 2004, the on an historical cost basis, except for the remeasurement to fair date of transition to IFRS the Transition Date, are accounted value of financial instruments as described in the accounting for by applying the purchase method of accounting.
The Group has adopted the new accounting this method, goodwill is initially recognised on consolidation, pronouncements which became effective this year, none of which representing the difference between the fair value cost of the had any significant impact on the Groups results or financial business combination and the fair value of the identifiable assets, position.
liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed.
The Group maintains a 52 or 53 week fiscal year ending on the In respect of business combinations that occurred prior to the Sunday nearest to 30 June in each year.
In fiscal year 2011, this Transition Date, goodwill has been included at the amounts date was 3 July 2011, this being a 53 week year fiscal year 2010: recognised under the Groups UK Generally Accepted Accounting 27 June 2010, 52 week year.
For convenience purposes, the Group Principles UK GAAP accounting policies on the Transition continues to date its consolidated financial statements as at Date.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture, the 30 June.
The Group has classified assets and liabilities as current attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination when they are expected to be realised in, or intended for sale or of profit or loss on disposal, except for goodwill written off to consumption in, the normal operating cycle of the Group.
reserves under UK GAAP prior to the Transition Date, which is not c Basis of consolidation reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent gain or loss on disposal.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control Goodwill is stated at cost less any impairment losses and is exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to tested, at least annually, for impairment, based on the recoverable govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to amounts of the cash generating unit to which the goodwill obtain benefits from its activities.
Subsidiaries are included in the has been allocated.
Any impairment identified is recognised consolidated financial statements of the Company from the date immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently control of the subsidiary commences until the date that control reversed.
The carrying amount of goodwill in respect of associates ceases.
Intra-group balances, and any unrealised gains and losses and joint ventures is included in the carrying amount of the or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are investment in the associate or joint venture.
Goodwill is tested for eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
impairment in line with accounting policy j below.
Associates and joint ventures e Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment Associates are entities where the Group has significant influence, ppe but not control or joint control, over the financial and operating i. Intangible assets policies of the entity.
Joint ventures are those entities which are Research expenditure is recognised in operating expense in the jointly controlled by the Group under a contractual agreement income statement as the expenditure is incurred.
Development with another party or parties.
expenditure relating to the application of research knowledge to plan or design new or substantially improved products for AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 65 Book 1. indb 65 12 10 11 20:47:07 CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS NOTeS TO THe CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS continued 1.
Accounting policies continued sale or use within the business is recognised as an intangible calculated based upon the weighted average cost of borrowing to asset from the point at which it is probable that the Group has the the Group excluding the interest on any borrowings specific to any intention and ability to generate future economic benefits from qualifying assets.
This is then applied to the expenditures on the asset.
the development expenditure, that the development is technically feasible and that the subsequent expenditure can be measured All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the reliably.
Any other development expenditure is recognised in period to which they relate.
f Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Other intangible assets, which are acquired by the Group separately The Group uses a number of derivative financial instruments to or through a business combination, are initially stated at cost or fair hedge its exposure to fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange value, respectively, less accumulated amortisation and impairment rates.
losses, other than those that are classified as held for sale, which are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Derivatives are held at fair value from the date on which a derivative contract is entered into.
Fair value is defined as the amount for Amortisation of an intangible asset begins when the asset is which an asset could be exchanged, or a liability settled, between available for use, and is charged to the income statement through knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms length transaction.
The fair operating expense on a straight-line basis over the intangible value of derivative financial instruments is estimated with reference assets estimated useful life, principally being a period between to the contracted value and the appropriate market value prevailing 3 and 25 years, unless the asset life is judged to be indefinite.
If the at the balance sheet date.
Certain derivatives held by the Group useful life is indefinite or the asset is not yet available for use, no which relate to highly probable forecast transactions hedged amortisation is charged and an impairment test is carried out at items, which meet qualifying criteria under IAS 39 Financial least annually.
Other intangible assets are tested for impairment in Instruments: Recognition and Measurement IAS 39, are line with accounting policy j below.
designated as cash flow hedges or fair value hedges, and are subject ii.
property, plant and equipment to cash flow hedge accounting or fair value hedge accounting Owned PPe is stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and respectively.
Certain other derivatives held by the Group do not any impairment losses, see accounting policy j, other than those meet the qualifying criteria for recognition for accounting purposes items that are classified as held for sale, which are stated at the as hedges, despite this being their economic function.
Changes in lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
When an the fair values of these derivatives are recognised immediately in the item of PPe comprises major components having different useful income statement.
The Group does not hold or issue derivatives for economic lives, the components are accounted for as separate speculative purposes.
i. Derivatives that qualify for cash flow hedge accounting Assets held under finance leases, which confer rights and Changes in the fair values of derivatives that are designated as obligations similar to those attached to owned assets, are treated cash flow hedges cash flow hedging instruments are initially as PPe see accounting policy o. recognised in the hedging reserve.
In circumstances in which the The cost of PPe, less estimated residual value, is depreciated in derivative used is a currency option, only changes in the intrinsic operating expense on a straight-line basis over its estimated value of the option are designated under the cash flow hedging useful life.
Land, and assets that are not yet available for use, are relationship, with all other movements being recorded immediately not depreciated.
Principal useful economic lives used for this in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in the hedging purpose are: reserve are subsequently recognised in the income statement in the periods in which the related hedged items are recognised in the Freehold buildings 25 to 40 years income statement.
equipment, furniture and fixtures 3 to 15 years Assets under finance leases and Lesser of lease term and the At inception, the effectiveness of the Groups cash flow hedges leasehold improvements useful economic life of the asset is assessed through a comparison of the principal terms of the hedging instrument and the underlying hedged item.
The ongoing Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, effectiveness of the Groups cash flow hedges is assessed using the construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets dollar-offset approach, with the expected cash flows of hedging that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for instruments being compared to the expected cash flows of the their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets hedged items.
This assessment is used to demonstrate that each until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their hedge relationship is expected to be highly effective on inception, intended use or sale.
has been highly effective in the period and is expected to continue To the extent that the financing for a qualifying asset is part of the to be highly effective in future periods.
The measurement of hedge Groups general borrowings, the interest cost to be capitalised is ineffectiveness for the Groups hedging instruments is calculated AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 66 Book 1. indb 66 12 10 11 20:47:07 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS using the hypothetical derivative method, with the fair values g Inventories of the hedging instruments being compared to those of the i.
Acquired and commissioned television programme inventories hypothetical derivative that would result in the designated cash Programme inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net flow hedge achieving perfect hedge effectiveness.
The excess realisable value NRv, including, where applicable, estimated of the cumulative change in the fair value of the actual hedging subscriber escalation payments, and net of the accumulated instrument compared to that of the hypothetical derivative is expense charged to the income statement to date.
deemed to be hedge ineffectiveness, which is recognised in the Programming rights are included as inventories when the legally income statement.
enforceable licence period commences and all of the following The Group uses a range of 80% to 125% for hedge effectiveness, conditions have been met: a the cost of each programme is in accordance with IAS 39, and any relationship which has known or reasonably determinable: b the programme material effectiveness outside this range is deemed to be ineffective and has been accepted by the Group in accordance with the conditions hedge accounting is suspended.
of the rights, and c the programme is available for its first When a cash flow hedging instrument expires, is terminated or showing.
Prior to being included in inventories, the programming is exercised, or if a hedge no longer meets the qualifying criteria rights are classified as television programme rights not yet for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in the available for transmission and not recorded as inventories on the hedging reserve at that time remains in the hedging reserve and is Groups balance sheet and are instead disclosed as contractual recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised commitments see note 29.
Payments made upon receipt of in the income statement, provided that the underlying transaction commissioned and acquired programming, but in advance of is still expected to occur.
When a forecast transaction is no longer the legal right to broadcast the programmes, are treated as expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported prepayments.
in the hedging reserve is immediately recognised in the income The cost of television programme inventories is recognised in statement and all future changes in the fair value of the cash flow the operating expense line of the income statement, primarily as hedging instruments are immediately recognised in the income described below: statement.
Sports 100% of the cost is recognised in the income statement ii.
Derivatives that qualify for fair value hedge accounting on the first broadcast or, where the rights are for multiple seasons The Group has designated certain derivatives as fair value hedges or competitions, such rights are principally recognised on a as defined under IAS 39.
Any changes in the fair value of the straight-line basis across the seasons or competitions.
derivatives are recognised immediately in the income statement.
News 100% of the cost is recognised in the income statement on The carrying values of the underlying hedged items are adjusted first broadcast.
for the change in the fair value of the hedged risks, with the gains or losses recognised immediately in the income statement, Movies The cost is recognised in the income statement on a offsetting the fair value movement on the derivative.
straight-line basis over the period of broadcast rights.
Prospective effectiveness is assessed quarterly, through a General entertainment The cost is recognised in the income comparison of the principal terms of the hedging instrument and statement based on the expected value of each planned the underlying hedged item, including the likelihood of default broadcast.
The retrospective effectiveness Where programme rights are surplus to the Groups requirements, of the Groups fair value hedges is calculated quarterly using the and no gain is anticipated through a disposal of the rights, or cumulative dollar-offset approach, with movements in the fair where the programming will not be broadcast for any other reason, value of the hedged item being compared to movements in the fair a write-down to the income statement is made.
Any reversals of value of the hedging instrument.
The Group uses a range of 80% inventory write-downs are recognised as reductions in operating to 125% for hedge effectiveness and any relationship which has expense.
effectiveness outside this range is deemed to be ineffective and ii.
Set-top boxes, routers and related equipment hedge accounting is suspended.
Set-top boxes, routers and related equipment are valued at the iii.
embedded derivatives lower of cost and NRv, the latter of which reflects the value that Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other the business expects to realise from the set-top boxes and related host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their equipment in the hands of the customer, and are recognised risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the through the operating expense line of the income statement.
host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value, Any subsidy is expensed on enablement, which is the process of with unrealised gains or losses reported in the income statement.
activating the viewing card during installation, so as to enable embedded derivatives are carried on the balance sheet at fair a viewer to view encrypted broadcast services, and effectively value from the inception of the host contract.
Changes in fair value represents the completion of the installation process for new are recognised within the income statement during the period in customers.
The amount recognised in the income statement is which they arise.
determined on a weighted average cost basis, in accordance with IAS 2 Inventory.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 67 Book 1. indb 67 12 10 11 20:47:07 CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS NOTeS TO THe CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS continued 1.
raw materials, consumables and goods held for resale iii.
Cash and cash equivalents Raw materials, consumables and goods held for resale are valued at Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, bank accounts, the lower of cost and NRv.
The cost of raw materials, consumables and deposits receivable on demand and deposits with maturity dates goods held for resale is recognised through the operating expense of three months or less from the date of inception.
Bank overdrafts line of the income statement on a first in first out basis.
that are repayable on demand and which form an integral part of the Groups cash management are also included as a component of h Financial assets and liabilities cash and cash equivalents where offset conditions are met.
Financial assets and liabilities are initially recognised at fair value iv.
Short-term deposits plus any directly attributable transaction costs.
At each balance This includes short-term deposits and commercial paper which have sheet date, the Group assesses whether there is any objective maturity dates of more than three months from inception.
These evidence that any financial asset is impaired.
Financial assets and deposits are initially recognised at fair value, and then carried at liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the amortised cost through the income statement less any allowance Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the financial for impairment losses.
Financial assets are derecognised from the balance v. trade and other payables sheet when the Groups contractual rights to the cash flows expire Trade and other payables are non-derivative financial liabilities or the Group transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of and are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest the financial asset.
Financial liabilities are derecognised from the method.
Trade and other payables with no stated interest rate are Groups balance sheet when the obligation specified in the contract measured at the original invoice amount if the effect of discounting is discharged, cancelled or expires.
Borrowings equity investments intended to be held for an indefinite period are Borrowings are recorded as the proceeds received, net of direct classified as available-for-sale investments.
They are carried at fair issue costs.
Finance charges, including any premium payable on value, where this can be reliably measured, with movements in fair settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for value recognised directly in the available-for-sale reserve.
Where the on an accruals basis in the income statement using the effective fair value cannot be reliably measured, the investment is carried at interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the cost.
underlying instrument to which they relate, to the extent that they Any impairment losses in equity investments classified as availableare not settled in the period in which they arise.
for-sale investments are recognised in the income statement and are not reversible through the income statement, and are i transponder prepayments determined with reference to the closing market share price at the Payments made in respect of future satellite broadcast capacity balance sheet date.
Any subsequent increase in the fair value of have been recorded as prepaid transponder costs.
These payments the available-for-sale investment above the impaired value will be are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over recognised within the available-for-sale reserve.
the term of the agreement.
Available-for-sale investments are included within non-current assets j Impairment unless the carrying value is expected to be recovered principally At each balance sheet date, in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment through sale rather than continuing use, in which case they are of Assets, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of all its assets included within current assets.
On disposal, the difference between excluding inventories see accounting policy g, non-current assets the carrying amount and the sum of the consideration received and classified as held for sale, financial assets see accounting policy any cumulative gain or loss that had previously been recognised h and deferred taxation see accounting policy p to determine directly in reserves is recognised in the income statement.
whether there is any indication that any of those assets have ii.
trade and other receivables suffered an impairment loss.
Trade and other receivables are non-derivative financial assets An impairment is recognised in the income statement whenever with fixed or determinable payments and, where no stated interest the carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds rate is applicable, are measured at the original invoice amount, its recoverable amount.
An impairment of an investment in a joint if the effect of discounting is immaterial.
Where discounting is venture or associate is recognised within the share of profit from material, trade and other receivables are measured at amortised joint ventures and associates.
The recoverable amount is the greater cost using the effective interest method.
An allowance account of net selling price, defined as the fair value less costs to sell, and is maintained to reduce the carrying value of trade and other value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash receivables for impairment losses identified from objective evidence, flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount with movements in the allowance account, either from increased rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value impairment losses or reversals of impairment losses, being recognised in the income statement.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 68 Book 1. indb 68 12 10 11 20:47:08 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS of money and risks specific to the asset.
Where it is not possible Other revenue principally includes income from Sky Active, to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Sky Mobile Tv, Sky Player, technical platform services, Sky Bet Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating and third party set-top box sales.
With the exception of Sky unit to which the asset belongs.
Impairment losses recognised in Bet revenue, other revenue is recognised, net of any discount respect of cash generating units are allocated first to reduce the given, when the relevant goods or service are provided.
Sky carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to those units, and then Bet revenue is recognised in accordance with IAS 39 and to reduce the carrying amount of other assets in the unit on a prorepresents income in the period for betting and gaming rata basis.
activities, defined as amounts staked by customers less winnings paid out.
An impairment loss for an individual asset or cash generating unit shall be reversed if there has been a change in estimates used to Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration determine the recoverable amount since the last impairment loss received or receivable.
When the Group sells a set-top box, was recognised and is only reversed to the extent that the assets installation or service and a subscription in one bundled carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would transaction, the total consideration from the arrangement is have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no allocated to each element based on their relative fair values.
The impairment loss had been recognised.
Impairment of goodwill is fair value of each individual element is determined using vendor not reversed.
specific or third party evidence.
The amount of revenue the Group recognises for delivered elements is limited to the cash received.
k provisions n employee benefits Provisions are recognised when the Group has a probable, present legal or constructive obligation to make a transfer of economic Wages, salaries, social security contributions, bonuses payable and benefits as a result of past events where a reliable estimate is non-monetary benefits for current employees are recognised in available.
The amounts recognised represent the Groups best the income statement as the employees services are rendered.
estimate of the transfer of benefits that will be required to The Group provides pensions to eligible employees through settle the obligation as of the balance sheet date.
Provisions are defined contribution schemes.
The amount charged to the income discounted if the effect of the time value of money is material using statement in the year represents the cost of contributions a pre-tax market rate adjusted for risks specific to the liability.
payable by the Group to the schemes in exchange for employee services rendered in that year.
The assets of the schemes are held l eSop reserve independently of the Group.
Where the Company or its subsidiaries purchase the Companys Termination benefits are recognised as a liability when, and only own equity shares, the cost of those shares, including any when, the Group has a demonstrable commitment to terminate attributable transaction costs, is presented within the eSOP the employment of an employee or group of employees before the reserve as a deduction in shareholders equity in the consolidated normal retirement date or as the result of an offer to encourage financial statements.
m revenue recognition The Group issues equity-settled and cash-settled share-based Revenue, which excludes value added tax and transactions payments to certain employees which must be measured at fair between Group companies, represents the gross inflow of value and recognised as an expense in the income statement, with economic benefit from Skys operating activities.
The Groups main a corresponding increase in equity in the case of equity-settled sources of revenue are recognised as follows: payments, and liabilities in the case of cash-settled awards.
The fair values of equity-settled payments are measured at the dates Retail subscription revenue, including subscriptions for DTH services, Sky Broadband and Sky Talk services, is recognised as of grant using option-pricing models, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the awards are granted.
Cashthe goods or services are provided, net of any discount given.
settled share-based payments are measured at their fair value Pay-per-view revenue is recognised when the event or movie is viewed.
as at the balance sheet date.
The fair value is recognised over the period during which employees become unconditionally entitled Wholesale revenue is recognised as the services are provided to the awards, subject to the Groups estimate of the number of to the cable and other retailers and is based on the number of awards which will be forfeited, either due to employees leaving the subscribers taking the Sky channels, as reported to the Group Group prior to vesting or due to non-market based performance by the cable retailers, and the applicable rate card or contract.
Where an award has market-based Advertising sales revenue is recognised when the advertising performance conditions, the fair value of the award is adjusted for is broadcast.
Revenue generated from airtime sales, where Sky the probability of achieving these via the option pricing model.
The acts as an agent on behalf of third parties, is recognised on a total amount recognised in the income statement as an expense net commission basis.
is adjusted to reflect the actual number of awards that vest, except where forfeiture is due to the failure to meet market-based Installation, hardware and service revenue is recognised in the performance measures.
In the event of a cancellation, whether income statement when the goods and services are activated.
by the Group or by a participating employee, the compensation AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 69 Book 1. indb 69 12 10 11 20:47:08 CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS NOTeS TO THe CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS continued 1.
Accounting policies continued expense that would have been recognised over the remainder of the the deferred tax is also included within equity.
Deferred tax assets vesting period is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when o leases they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to on a net basis.
ownership of the asset to the lessee.
All other leases are classified q Distributions to equity shareholders as operating leases.
Dividends are recognised in the retained earnings reserve in the year When the Group is lessor, sublease income from operating leases is in which they are declared.
recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
The cost of repurchasing the Groups own equity shares for When the Group is lessee, assets held under finance leases are cancellation share buy-backs is recorded in retained earnings.
recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value on the date of In addition, the nominal cost of shares repurchased is deducted acquisition, or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease from share capital and a matching credit is recorded in the capital payments.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in redemption reserve.
the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reductions of the r earnings per share lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the Basic earnings or loss per share represents the profit or loss for the remaining balance of the liability.
year, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares The lease expense arising from operating leases is charged to the in issue during the year, excluding the weighted average number of income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
ordinary shares purchased by the Group and held in the Groups Benefits received and receivable as incentives to enter into operating eSOP during the year to satisfy employee share awards.
leases are recorded on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Diluted earnings or loss per share represents the profit or loss for p taxation, including deferred taxation the year, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding the weighted average number of The Groups liability for current tax is based on taxable profit for the ordinary shares purchased by the Group and held in the Groups year, and is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or eSOP during the year to satisfy employee share awards, plus the substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
weighted average number of dilutive shares resulting from share Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised using the balance options where the inclusion of these would not be antidilutive.
sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between s Foreign currency translation the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the balance sheet and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of The Groups functional currency and presentational currency is taxable profit.
Temporary differences arising from goodwill and pounds sterling.
Trading activities denominated in foreign currencies the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither are recorded in pounds sterling at the applicable monthly exchange accounting profit nor taxable profit are not provided for.
Monetary assets, liabilities and commitments denominated tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests rates of exchange at that date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the denominated in foreign currencies are translated to pounds sterling reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the at the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the initial transaction.
temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The Gains and losses from the retranslation of assets and liabilities are amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner included net in profit for the year, except for exchange differences of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and arising on non-monetary assets and liabilities where the changes in liabilities, using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively fair value are recognised directly in equity.
enacted at the balance sheet date.
The assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
balance sheet date and adjusted to reflect an amount that is Income and expense items are translated at the applicable monthly probable to be realised based on the weight of all available evidence.
Any exchange differences arising are Deferred tax is calculated at the rates that are expected to apply classified as equity and transferred to other reserves.
in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
t reportable segments Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except where it IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires the segment information relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case presented in the financial statements to be that which is used AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 70 Book 1. indb 70 12 10 11 20:47:08 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS internally by the chief operating decision maker to evaluate recognised.
This evaluation requires estimates to be made, the performance of the business and decide how to allocate including the level of provision to be made for amounts with resources.
The Group has identified the Board of Directors as uncertain recovery profiles.
Provisions are based on historical its chief operating decision maker and as the internal reporting trends in the percentage of debts which are not recovered, or reviewed by the Board focuses on the operations of the Group as on more detailed reviews of individually significant balances.
a whole and does not identify individual operating segments, the ii.
taxation see note 9 Group has only one reportable segment.
The Groups tax charge is the sum of the total current and deferred tax charges.
The calculation of the Groups total u Accounting Standards, interpretations and amendments tax charge necessarily involves a degree of estimation and to existing standards that are not yet effective judgment in respect of certain items whose tax treatment The Group has not yet adopted certain new standards, cannot be finally determined until resolution has been reached amendments and interpretations to existing standards, which with the relevant tax authority or, as appropriate, through a have been published but are only effective for our accounting formal legal process.
periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011 or later periods.
These Accruals for tax contingencies require management to make new pronouncements are listed below: judgments and estimates in relation to tax audit issues and Amendment to IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit exposures.
Amounts accrued are based on managements Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction interpretation of country-specific tax law and the likelihood effective 1 January 2011 of settlement.
Tax benefits are not recognised unless it is probable that the tax positions will be sustained.
Once IAS 24 Revised 2009 Related Party Disclosures effective considered to be probable, management reviews each material 1 January 2011 tax benefit to assess whether a provision should be taken Improvements to IFRSs 2010 various standards effective against full recognition of the benefit on the basis of the likely 1 January 2011 resolution of the issue through negotiation and or litigation.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective 1 January 2013 The amounts recognised in the consolidated financial IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements effective statements in respect of each matter are derived from the 1 January 2013 Groups best estimation and judgment, as described above.
However, the inherent uncertainty regarding the outcome of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements effective 1 January 2013 these items means the eventual resolution could differ from IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other entities effective the provision and in such event the Group would be required to 1 January 2013 make an adjustment in a subsequent period which could have IFRS 13 Fair value Measurement effective 1 January 2013 a material impact on the Groups profit and loss and or cash position.
The Directors are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of these standards, amendments and interpretations in future iii.
Judgment is required in determining the fair value of identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed v Critical accounting policies and the use of judgment in a business combination.
Calculating the fair values involves Certain accounting policies are considered to be critical to the the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including Group.
An accounting policy is considered to be critical if, in the expectations about future cash flows, discount rates and the Directors judgment, its selection or application materially affects lives of assets following purchase.
the Groups financial position or results.
Below is a summary of the Judgment is also required in evaluating whether any Groups critical accounting policies and details of the key areas of impairment loss has arisen against the carrying amount judgment that are exercised in their application.
This may require calculation of the recoverable i. revenue see note 2 amount of cash generating units to which the goodwill is Selecting the appropriate timing for, and amount of, revenue associated.
Such a calculation may involve estimates of the to be recognised requires judgment.
This may involve net present value of future forecast cash flows and selecting estimating the fair value of consideration before it is received.
Alternatively, it may involve a When the Group sells a set-top box, installation or service calculation of the fair value less costs to sell of the applicable and a subscription in one bundled transaction, the total cash generating unit.
consideration from the arrangement is allocated to each iv.
Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment see element based on its relative fair value.
The fair value of each notes 14 and 15 individual element is determined using vendor specific or third The assessment of the useful economic lives of these assets party evidence.
The amount of revenue the Group recognises requires judgment.
Depreciation and amortisation is charged for delivered elements is limited to the cash received.
to the income statement based on the useful economic life Judgment is also required in evaluating the likelihood selected.
This assessment requires estimation of the period of collection of customer debt after revenue has been over which the Group will benefit from the assets.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 71 Book 1. indb 71 12 10 11 20:47:08 CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS NOTeS TO THe CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Determining whether the carrying amount of these assets The alternative programming available to the Group for scheduling has any indication of impairment also requires judgment.
This consideration provides the most appropriate an indication of impairment is identified, further judgment information in order to estimate how frequently individual is required to assess whether the carrying amount can be programmes will be shown during the period in which the Group supported by the net present value of future cash flows forecast holds their Broadcast rights.
to be derived from the asset.
This forecast involves cash flow The potential benefits associated with scheduling programming.
projections and selecting the appropriate discount rate.
Certain high-profile or high-quality programming titles have Assessing whether assets meet the required criteria for initial additional value to the Group, as they attract new Tv customers capitalisation requires judgment.
This requires a determination and encourage retention of existing Tv customers.
As such, these of whether the assets will result in future benefits to the programmes are able to retain more value throughout their Group.
In particular, internally generated intangible assets broadcast runs than would be indicated when considering the must be assessed during the development phase to identify expected viewing numbers alone.
whether the Group has the ability and intention to complete the Expectations as to the number of viewers a programme is likely to development successfully.
achieve for each individual broadcast over the contractual broadcast v. Deferred tax see note 18 period.
The number of viewers per broadcast directly influences The key area of judgment in respect of deferred tax accounting advertising revenue for channels, although this consideration is is the assessment of the expected timing and manner of partly influenced by the Groups assessment of the potential impact realisation or settlement of the carrying amounts of assets of the publicly available information on its competitors scheduling and liabilities held at the balance sheet date.
In particular, intentions against planned broadcasts.
assessment is required of whether it is probable that there will be suitable future taxable profits against which any deferred tax assets can be utilised.
programming inventory see note 19 The Group has several main types of programming inventory: Sport, News, Movies and General entertainment, as detailed in accounting policy g i.
The cost of acquired Sport and News rights is recognised in the income statement on first broadcast or, where Sports rights are for multiple seasons or competitions, Sports rights are amortised on a straight-line basis across the seasons or competitions.
Acquired movie rights are amortised on a straightline basis over the period of the transmission rights.
These treatments best represent our estimate of the benefits received from the acquired rights.
The key area of accounting for programming inventory requiring judgment is the assessment of the appropriate profile over which to amortise general entertainment programming.
This assessment requires the Group to form an expectation of the number of times a programme will be broadcast, and the relative value associated with each broadcast.
In order to perform this assessment, the Group considers the following factors: The period over which the programme is expected to be shown on the Groups channels.
This is usually based on a combination of the actual period specified in the contract for the programme rights, and the initial expectation of when repeat broadcasts will be scheduled.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 72 Book 1. indb 72 12 10 11 20:47:08 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS 2. revenue 2011 2010 m m Continuing operations Retail subscription 5,455 4,761 Wholesale subscription 323 238 Advertising 458 340 Installation, hardware and service 112 174 Other 249 196 6,597 5,709 To provide a more relevant presentation, management has reclassified online properties and Sky Magazine advertising revenue of 19 million in the current period and 21 million in the comparative period from other revenue to advertising revenue.
Revenue from continuing operations arises from goods and services provided to the UK, with the exception of 422 million 2010: 378 million which arises from services provided to other countries.
3. operating expense 2011 2010 m m Continuing operations Programming 2,188 1,902 Direct networks 584 440 Transmission, technology and fixed networks 395 307 ii Marketing 1,179 1,115 iii iv Subscriber management and supply chain 596 634 i iii v Administration 582 467 5,524 4,865 i Included within administration costs for the year ended 30 June 2011 is 26 million of restructuring costs arising on the acquisition of Living TV, which comprise principally redundancy payments and the early termination of a pre-acquisition contract and 15 million of costs in relation to the News Corporation proposal.
ii Included within marketing costs for the year ended 30 June 2011 is a credit of 41 million in relation to import duty on set-top boxes paid out in prior years.
This duty is recoverable due to the judgment given by the Court of Justice of the European Union ECJ on 14 April 2011. iii Included within operating expense for the year ended 30 June 2010 is 32 million of expense relating to a restructuring exercise of which 22 million was recorded within subscriber management and supply chain costs and related to the impairment of assets associated with Picnic the potential launch of a subscription television service on DTT and 10 million was recorded within administration costs and related to restructuring costs which comprise principally redundancy payments.
iv Included within subscriber management and supply chain costs for the year ended 30 June 2010 is a 5 million credit related to the cancellation of accounts payable on settlement of the claim against EDS.
v Included within administration costs for the year ended 30 June 2010 is 1 million of expense relating to legal costs incurred on the Groups claim against EDS.
4. litigation settlement income and investment income on litigation settlement In the prior year, on 26 January 2010, the Technology and Construction Court TCC gave judgment in the litigation between electronic Data Systems eDS and the Group.
The litigation related to eDS former role as a supplier to the Group as part of the Groups customer relationship management project.
On 7 June 2010, eDS and the Group fully and finally settled the litigation between them and all related claims including for damages, costs and interest for a total amount of 318 million.
In the prior year, the Group recognised 49 million of these payments in investment income on litigation settlement.
This allocation was based on the Groups estimate of the TCCs likely award of interest on its lost cash flows since the end of eDS role as a supplier to the Group in March 2002.
The balance of 269 million was recognised in litigation settlement income, representing settlement for costs and damages.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 73 Book 1. indb 73 12 10 11 20:47:08 CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS NOTeS TO THe CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS continued 5.
Investment income and finance costs 2011 2010 m m Investment income Cash, cash equivalents and short-term deposits 9 3 2011 2010 m m Finance costs Interest payable and similar charges 750 million 1 billion Revolving Credit Facilities RCF 6 11 Guaranteed Notes see note 23 116 116 Finance lease interest 7 8 129 135 Other finance income expense Remeasurement of borrowings and borrowings-related derivative financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting 17 16 Remeasurement of other derivative financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting 2 1 Loss gain arising on derivatives in a designated fair value hedge accounting relationship 4 36 Gain loss arising on adjustment for hedged item in a designated fair value hedge accounting relationship 7 38 18 13 111 122 Borrowing costs included in the cost of qualifying assets during the year arose on the general borrowing pool and are calculated by applying a capitalisation rate of 5.3% 2010: 5.3% to expenditure on such assets.
The amount capitalised in the current year amounted to less than 1 million 2010: less than 1 million.
6. profit on disposal of available-for-sale investment On 5 April 2011, the Group sold its available-for-sale investment in Shine Limited Shine for a maximum consideration of 36 million, of which 31 million has been received to date.
The remaining consideration is contingent on certain post transaction criteria and is currently held in escrow.
At the date of disposal, the Group estimated the fair value of the contingent consideration to be 4 million and recorded a profit on disposal of 9 million, being the excess of the recognised consideration above the carrying value of the shares.
In the prior year, on 8 February 2010, the Group placed a shareholding of 10.4% in ITv in accordance with the final undertakings given by the Group to the Secretary of State for Business, Innovation and Skills relating to the Groups investment in ITv.
The placing by the Group of 404,362,095 ITv shares at 48.5 pence per share resulted in aggregate consideration of 196 million.
A profit of 115 million was realised on disposal being the excess of the consideration above the impaired value of the shares.
The Group continues to hold just under 7.5% of the shares in ITv.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 74 Book 1. indb 74 12 10 11 20:47:08 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS 7. profit before taxation Profit before taxation is stated after charging crediting : Continuing Discontinued operations operations Total m m m Year ended 30 June 2011 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 1,850 1,850 Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 173 3 176 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 159 1 160 Rentals on operating leases and similar arrangements 42 2 44 Year ended 30 June 2010 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 1,716 1,716 Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 154 19 173 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 184 5 189 Rentals on operating leases and similar arrangements 37 10 47 Consolidated non-current assets outside the UK were 2 million 2010: 29 million.
Foreign exchange Foreign exchange losses recognised in the income statement during the year amounted to less than 1 million 2010: 3 million.
Audit fees An analysis of auditors remuneration is as follows: 2011 2010 m m total audit fees 1 2 Other services pursuant to legislation 1 1 total non-audit fees 1 1 total auditor remuneration 2 3 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts were 0.9 million 2010: 1.2 million and fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation were 0.4 million 2010: 0.6 million.
Amounts paid to the auditor for non-audit fees include transaction services fees of 0.5 million 2010: nil, the interim review fee of 0.2 million 2010: 0.2 million, other audit related services of 0.1 million 2010: 0.2 million and tax fees of nil 2010: 0.2 million.
8. employee benefits and key management compensation a Group employee benefits 2011 2010 m m Wages and salaries 651 631 Social security costs 80 76 i Costs of employee share option schemes 67 32 ii Contributions to the Groups pension schemes 27 27 825 766 i A 69 million charge relates to equity-settled share-based payments 2010: 35 million charge and a credit of 2 million relates to cash-settled share-based payments 2010: 3 million credit.
At 30 June 2011, there were no liabilities arising from share-based payment transactions 2010: 5 million.
ii The Group operates defined contribution pension schemes.
The pension charge for the year represents the cost of contributions payable by the Group to the schemes during the year.
The amount payable to the schemes by the Group at 30 June 2011 was 4 million 2010: 3 million.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 75 Book 1. indb 75 12 10 11 20:47:09 CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS NOTeS TO THe CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS continued 8. employee benefits and key management compensation continued The average monthly number of full-time equivalent persons including temporary employees employed by the Group during the year was as follows: 2011 2010 Number Number Channels and services 2,498 2,670 Customer service, sales and marketing 9,440 9,463 Transmission and technology 2,753 2,650 Management and administration 1,315 1,656 16,006 16,439 There are approximately 446 2010: 538 temporary staff included within the average number of full-time equivalent persons employed by the Group.
b key management compensation see note 32d 2011 2010 m m Short-term employee benefits 5 5 Share-based payments 6 4 11 9 Post-employment benefits were less than 1 million 2010: less than 1 million.
The amounts disclosed for key management compensation are included within the disclosures in note 8 a.
9. taxation a taxation recognised in the income statement 2011 2010 m m Current tax expense Current year 386 305 Adjustment in respect of prior years 115 23 total current tax charge 271 282 Deferred tax expense Origination and reversal of temporary differences 17 9 Adjustment in respect of prior years 10 4 total deferred tax credit charge 7 13 taxation 264 295 Continuing operations 256 294 Discontinued operations see note 10 8 1 264 295 Taxation relates to a 264 million UK corporation tax charge 2010: 288 million and a Luxembourg corporation tax charge of nil 2010: 7 million.
b taxation recognised directly in equity 2011 2010 m m Current tax credit relating to share-based payments 2 Deferred tax credit relating to share-based payments 17 9 Deferred tax credit charge relating to cash flow hedges 25 20 44 11 AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 76 Book 1. indb 76 12 10 11 20:47:09 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS c reconciliation of effective tax rate The tax expense for the year is lower 2010: lower than the expense that would have been charged using the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 27.5% applied to profit loss before tax.
The applicable enacted or substantively enacted effective rate of UK corporation tax for the year was 27.5% 2010: 28%.
The differences are explained below: 2011 2010 m m Profit loss before tax: Continuing operations 1,014 1,190 Discontinued operations 60 17 1,074 1,173 Profit before tax multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 27.5% 2010: 28% 295 328 effects of: i Non-deductible expense 83 17 Deferred tax write off following tax rate change 2 Tax attributed to discontinued operations 8 1 Tax exempt gain on discontinued operations 17 ii Tax exempt gain on disposal of available-for-sale investments 2 32 i Over provision in respect of prior years 105 19 taxation 264 295 i This includes the tax effect of agreeing a number of historic issues with HMRC resulting in a credit to prior year tax liability and a debit to current year tax liability.
ii This is the tax effect of the gain on disposal of the available-for-sale investments relating to the Groups investments in Shine for the year ended 30 June 2011 and ITV for the year ended 30 June 2010, see note 6.
Discontinued operations On 1 September 2010, the Group completed the sale of its business-to-business telecommunications operation, easynet Global Services easynet, to Lloyds Development Capital LDC for 100 million.
Subsequent to this an agreed working capital adjustment reduced total net consideration to 94 million.
The Group retains the UK network assets that it acquired as part of the original acquisition of easynet Group in 2005.
As part of the sale, the Group and LDC entered into a long-term supply agreement to grant easynet continued access to the Groups fibre network and easynet continues to be a key supplier of data network and hosting services to the Group.
easynet represented a separate major line of business for the Group.
As a result its operations have been treated as discontinued for the year ended 30 June 2011 and the year ended 30 June 2010.
A single amount is shown on the face of the consolidated income statement comprising the post-tax result of discontinued operations and the post-tax profit recognised on the disposal of the discontinued operation.
A pre-tax profit of 62 million arose on the disposal of easynet being the net proceeds of disposal less the carrying amount of easynets net liabilities and attributable goodwill.
The results of discontinued operations, which have been included in the consolidated income statement, were as follows: i 2011 2010 m m Revenue 32 203 Operating expense 34 220 operating loss 2 17 Profit on disposal 62 profit loss before tax 60 17 ii Attributable tax expense 8 1 profit loss for the year from discontinued operations 52 18 i Results for the year ended 30 June 2011 include the results of discontinued operations up to the date of disposal 1 September 2010. ii Attributable tax expense comprises nil 2010: 1 million in respect of operating activities and 8 million 2010: nil arising as a result of the disposal.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 77 Book 1. indb 77 12 10 11 20:47:09 CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS NOTeS TO THe CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS continued 10.
Discontinued operations continued The net liabilities of easynet at the date of disposal were: 1 September 2010 m Non-current assets Intangible assets 21 Property, plant and equipment 40 61 Current assets Inventory 1 Trade and other receivables 47 Cash and cash equivalents 16 64 total assets 125 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 83 Provisions 1 84 Non-current liabilities Trade and other payables 37 Deferred tax liability 5 42 total liabilities 126 net liabilities 1 Total consideration 94 Net liabilities disposed 1 Attributable goodwill 30 Foreign exchange recycled to the income statement on disposal 4 Other 1 net profit on disposal 62 Consideration received in cash and cash equivalents 94 Less: cash and cash equivalents disposed of 16 net cash inflow arising on disposal 78 During the year, cash flows attributable to easynet comprised a net operating cash outflow of 7 million 2010: inflow of 7 million and a net cash inflow in respect of investing activities of 76 million 2010: outflow of 15 million.
11. earnings per share The weighted average number of shares for the year was: 2011 2010 Millions of Millions of shares shares Ordinary shares 1,753 1,753 eSOP trust ordinary shares 10 10 Basic shares 1,743 1,743 Dilutive ordinary shares from share options 20 11 Diluted shares 1,763 1,754 The calculation of diluted earnings per share excludes 2 million share options 2010: 11 million, which could potentially dilute earnings per share in the future, but which have been excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share as they are anti-dilutive in the year.
Basic and diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit or loss for the year into the weighted average number of shares for the year.
In order to provide a measure of underlying performance, management have chosen to present an adjusted profit for the year which excludes items that may distort comparability.
Such items arise from events or transactions that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group but which management believes should be separately identified to help explain underlying performance.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 78 Book 1. indb 78 12 10 11 20:47:09 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS 2011 2010 m m Reconciliation from profit for the year from continuing operations to adjusted profit for the year from continuing operations Profit for the year from continuing operations 758 896 Living Tv restructuring costs see note 3 26 Costs in relation to News Corporation proposal see note 3 15 Recovery of import duty on set-top boxes see note 3 41 Remeasurement of all derivative financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting and hedge ineffectiveness see note 5 18 13 Profit on disposal of available-for-sale investment see note 6 9 115 Litigation settlement income relating to claim against eDS see note 4 269 Investment income on litigation settlement see note 4 49 Legal costs relating to claim against eDS see note 3 1 Cancellation of accounts payable on settlement of claim against eDS see note 3 5 Cost relating to restructuring exercise see note 3 32 Receipt on closure of joint venture see note 16 3 i Tax credit on settlement of liability 15 Tax effect of above items 9 85 Adjusted profit for the year from continuing operations 725 560 i Tax credit arising on the settlement of the pre-acquisition tax liabilities of a subsidiary of the Group.
2011 2010 pence pence earnings loss per share from profit loss for the year Basic Continuing operations 43.5p 51.4p Discontinued operations 3.0p 1.0 p Total 46.5p 50.4p Diluted Continuing operations 43.0p 51.1p Discontinued operations 2.9p 1.0 p Total 45.9p 50.1p Adjusted earnings per share from adjusted profit for the year from continuing operations Basic 41.6p 32.1p Diluted 41.1p 31.9p 12.
Dividends 2011 2010 m m Dividends declared and paid during the year 2009 Final dividend paid: 10.10p per ordinary share 176 2010 Interim dividend paid: 7.875p per ordinary share 138 2010 Final dividend paid: 11.525p per ordinary share 201 2011 Interim dividend paid: 8.74p per ordinary share 152 353 314 The 2011 final dividend proposed is 14.54 pence per ordinary share being 253 million.
The dividend was not declared at the balance sheet date and is therefore not recognised as a liability as at 30 June 2011.
Dividends are paid between Group companies out of profits available for distribution subject to, inter alia, the provisions of the companies articles of association and the Companies Act 2006.
The eSOP has waived its rights to dividends.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 79 Book 1. indb 79 12 10 11 20:47:09 CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS NOTeS TO THe CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS continued 13.
Goodwill m Carrying value At 1 July 2009 and 30 June 2010 852 Purchase of Living Tv Group Living Tv 79 Purchase of The Cloud Networks Limited The Cloud 38 Other purchases 5 Disposal of easynet enterprise 30 At 30 june 2011 944 Goodwill has principally arisen from the Groups purchases of the Sports Internet Group SIG, British Interactive Broadcasting BiB, 365 Media, Amstrad, Living Tv and The Cloud.
Impairment reviews were performed on these goodwill balances at 30 June 2011, which did not indicate impairment.
The amount of goodwill deductible for tax purposes is 103 million 2010: nil.
Goodwill, allocated by cash generating unit, is analysed as follows: 2011 2010 m m i Broadcast 795 673 ii Betting and gaming 149 149 iii easynet enterprise 30 944 852 The Broadcast unit includes intangibles with indefinite lives of 25 million 2010: nil.
Recoverable amounts for the cash generating units were calculated on the basis of value in use or fair value less costs to sell as appropriate, using cash flows calculated for the next five years as forecast by management.
A long-term growth rate of 3% was applied in order to extrapolate cash flow projections beyond this period, based on future industry expectations.
The cash flows were discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 9% 2010: 10.4%.
In determining the applicable discount rate, management applied judgment in respect of several factors, which included, inter alia: assessing the risk attached to future cash flows and making reference to the capital asset pricing model the CAPM.
Management gave consideration to the selection of appropriate inputs to the CAPM, which included the risk free rate, the equity risk premium and a measure of systematic risk.
Management also considers capital structure and an appropriate cost of debt in arriving at the discount rate.
i Broadcast The Broadcast unit includes goodwill arising from the purchase of easynets UK broadband network assets, easynets UK residential business, 365 Medias content business, BiB, Amstrad, Living Tv and The Cloud.
The key assumptions, on which forecast five year cash flows of the Broadcast unit were based, include the number of gross customer additions, the rate of churn, the average revenue per user, levels of programming spend, acquisition costs per customer and anticipated changes in the product mix and marketing mix of the broadcast business.
The values assigned to each of these assumptions were determined based on the extrapolation of historical trends within the Group, and external information on expected future trends in the UK and Ireland entertainment and communications industry.
ii Betting and gaming The Betting and gaming unit includes goodwill arising from the purchase of SIG and 365 Medias betting businesses.
The key assumptions, on which forecast five year cash flows were based, include the number of weekly unique users, the number of bets placed per user per week, the average stake per user per week and the average spend per active user per week.
The values assigned to each of these assumptions were determined based on an extrapolation of historical trends within the unit, and external information on expected future trends in betting and gaming.
iii easynet enterprise The easynet enterprise unit included goodwill arising from the purchase of easynets enterprise broadband business in the UK and other european countries.
The Group completed the sale of this business during the year see note 10.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 80 Book 1. indb 80 12 10 11 20:47:09 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS 14.
Intangible assets Internally generated Acquired Internally intangible intangible generated Software Other assets not assets not intangible development Software intangible yet available yet available assets external licences assets for use for use Total m m m m m m m Cost At 1 July 2009 124 302 101 72 17 86 702 Foreign exchange movements 1 1 Additions 51 12 19 41 18 38 179 Disposals 6 10 22 38 Transfers 5 1 1 3 3 1 At 30 june 2010 174 305 120 113 32 99 843 Additions from business combinations 2 90 92 Additions 49 22 3 60 14 67 215 Disposals 23 51 22 1 97 Disposals of discontinued operations 5 2 17 19 43 Transfers 19 73 2 20 74 At 30 june 2011 214 347 88 243 26 92 1,010 Amortisation At 1 July 2009 58 205 62 32 357 Foreign exchange movements 1 1 Amortisation 37 59 20 47 163 Impairments 3 1 22 26 Disposals 6 10 22 38 At 30 june 2010 92 255 81 79 507 Amortisation 35 53 16 53 157 Impairments 2 1 3 Disposals 23 51 22 1 97 Disposals of discontinued operations 3 2 11 6 22 At 30 june 2011 103 256 64 125 548 Carrying amounts At 1 July 2009 66 97 39 40 17 86 345 At 30 June 2010 82 50 39 34 32 99 336 At 30 june 2011 111 91 24 118 26 92 462 The Groups internally generated intangible assets relate to software development associated with our customer management systems and set-top boxes.
The Groups other intangible assets mainly include copyright licenses, customer lists and relationships, and patents and brands acquired in business combinations.
The estimated future amortisation charge on intangible assets with finite lives for each of the next five years is set out below.
It is likely that future amortisation will vary from the figures below as the estimate does not include the impact of any future investments, disposals or capital expenditure.
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 m m m m m estimated amortisation charge 159 96 69 18 18 For intangible assets acquired in business combinations the average amortisation period is 20 years 2010: 3 years.
Other intangible assets include certain assets with indefinite useful lives.
The carrying value of these assets is 25 million 2010: nil.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 81 Book 1. indb 81 12 10 11 20:47:10 CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS NOTeS TO THe CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS continued 15. property, plant and equipment equipment, Assets Freehold furniture not yet land and Leasehold and available i ii iii buildings improvements fixtures for use Total m m m m m Cost At 1 July 2009 128 77 931 191 1,327 Foreign exchange movements 4 4 Additions 58 2 152 64 276 Disposals 6 69 3 78 Transfers 30 31 1 At 30 june 2010 186 73 1,040 221 1,520 Additions from business combinations 3 3 Additions 2 2 167 39 210 Disposals 1 2 18 21 Disposals of discontinued operations 14 136 2 152 Transfers 145 83 228 At 30 june 2011 332 59 1,139 30 1,560 Depreciation At 1 July 2009 22 29 477 528 Foreign exchange movements 4 4 Depreciation 4 4 160 168 Impairments 2 3 5 Disposals 6 67 3 76 At 30 june 2010 26 27 568 621 Depreciation 6 1 167 174 Impairments 2 2 Disposals 1 2 18 21 Disposals of discontinued operations 4 108 112 At 30 june 2011 31 22 611 664 Carrying amounts At 1 July 2009 106 48 454 191 799 At 30 June 2010 160 46 472 221 899 At 30 june 2011 301 37 528 30 896 i The amounts shown include assets held under finance leases with a net book value of 6 million 2010: 7 million.
The cost of these assets was 11 million 2010: 11 million and the accumulated depreciation was 5 million 2010: 4 million.
Depreciation charged during the year on such assets was 1 million 2010: 1 million.
ii Depreciation was not charged on 88 million of land 2010: 88 million.
iii During the year, 223 million 2010: nil of assets were transferred from assets not yet available for use to freehold land and buildings and equipment, furniture and fixtures in relation to the new broadcast facility at Osterley, Middlesex.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 82 Book 1. indb 82 12 10 11 20:47:10 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS 16.
Investments in joint ventures and associates A list of the Groups significant investments in joint ventures and associates, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given in note 34 to the consolidated financial statements.
The movement in joint ventures and associates during the year was as follows: 2011 2010 m m Share of net assets: At 1 July 149 135 Movement in net assets Funding, net of repayments 4 1 Dividends received 29 30 i Share of profits 34 32 exchange differences on translation of foreign joint ventures and associates 7 11 At 30 june 151 149 i Included within the share of profits for the year ended 30 June 2010 is 3 million related to an amount received on the closure of one of the Groups joint ventures.
The Groups share of any capital commitments and contingent liabilities of associates and joint ventures is shown in note 29. a Investments in joint ventures Representing the Groups share of each joint venture: 2011 2010 m m Non-current assets 5 6 Current assets 63 46 Current liabilities 32 24 Non-current liabilities 7 6 Shareholders equity 29 22 Revenue 79 70 expense 59 51 Taxation 4 4 Share of profit from joint ventures 16 15 b Investments in associates Representing a 100% share of each associate: 2011 2010 m m Total assets 257 233 Total liabilities 66 60 Shareholders equity 191 173 i Revenue 257 214 i Profit 85 64 i Revenue and profit numbers are provided for the full year ended 30 June 2011 and 30 June 2010.
Available-for-sale investments 2011 2010 m m Investment in ITv at cost 946 946 Impairment of ITv investment 807 807 Realised gain on ITv investment 115 115 Part disposal of ITv investment 196 196 Unrealised gain on ITv investment 157 98 Fair value of ItV investment 215 156 Other investments at cost 26 215 182 On 17 November 2006, the Group acquired 696 million shares in ITv, at a price of 135 pence per share, representing 17.9% of the issued capital of ITv, for a total consideration of 946 million including fees and taxes.
The Groups investment in ITv is carried at fair value.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 83 Book 1. indb 83 12 10 11 20:47:10 CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS NOTeS TO THe CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS continued 17.
Available-for-sale investments continued The fair value is determined with reference to its equity share price at the balance sheet date.
An impairment in the carrying value was first recorded at 31 December 2007, due to the significant and prolonged decline in the equity share price.
In accordance with IFRS, the Group has continued to review that carrying value and has recognised a cumulative impairment loss of 807 million in fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2009.
This impairment loss was determined with reference to ITvs closing equity share price of 20.0 pence at 27 March 2009, the last trading day of the Groups third fiscal quarter in fiscal 2009.
In line with IFRS, all subsequent increases in the fair value of the ITv investment above this impaired value have been recorded in the available-for-sale reserve.
On 8 February 2010 the Group placed a shareholding of 10.4% in ITv in accordance with the final undertakings given by the Group to the Secretary of State for Business, Innovation and Skills relating to the Groups investment in ITv.
The disposal was exempt from tax under the provisions of the Substantial Shareholding exemption SSe and as such the SSe provisions would prevent any capital loss arising for tax purposes.
On 5 April 2011, the Group sold its available-for-sale investment in Shine.
Further details of this transaction are disclosed in note 6.
Deferred tax i recognised deferred tax liabilities assets Share-based Financial Accelerated Short-term payments instruments tax temporary temporary temporary depreciation Tax losses differences differences differences Total m m m m m m At 1 July 2009 2 2 6 22 11 17 Charge credit to income 6 2 6 1 13 Charge credit to equity 9 20 11 At 30 June 2010 8 6 25 30 7 Charge credit to income 3 1 2 18 5 9 Credit to equity 19 24 43 Acquisition of subsidiaries 22 22 Disposal of subsidiary 3 2 5 effect of change in tax rate Income 2 2 equity 2 1 1 At 30 june 2011 14 1 6 58 10 69 Deferred tax assets have been recognised at 30 June 2011 and 30 June 2010 on the basis that, from managements current forecast of the Groups entities, it is probable that there will be suitable taxable profits against which these assets can be utilised.
Tax losses are treated as unrecognised deferred tax assets if it is not considered probable that suitable future taxable profits will arise.
During the year, any tax losses suffered by UK entities have been relieved against taxable profits in other UK entities in the Group.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which they reverse.
The rate enacted or substantively enacted for the relevant periods of reversal is 26% as at 30 June 2011 2010: 28%.
2 2010, which provides for a reduction in the main rate of UK corporation tax from 28% to 27% effective from 1 April 2011, was substantively enacted on 21 July 2010.
The 2011 budget delivered on 23 March 2011 announced a further reduction of 1% to the UK corporation tax rate, causing the rate to fall to 26% effective from 1 April 2011.
The Government has also indicated that it intends to introduce further reductions in the main tax rate, with the rate falling by 1% each year down to 23% by 1 April 2014.
3 Bill 2011 intends to reduce the main tax rate to 25% effective from 1 April 2012.
These further reductions to the tax rate, below the 26% rate, have not been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are therefore not reflected in these consolidated financial statements.
The impact of the reduction to the main tax rate to 25% on the deferred tax attributes of the Group would be a reduction in the deferred tax asset by 2 million.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 84 Book 1. indb 84 12 10 11 20:47:10 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset.
Inventories following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset 2011 2010 for financial reporting purposes: m m 2011 2010 Television programme rights 265 255 m m Set-top boxes and related equipment 98 73 Deferred tax assets 79 31 Other inventories 12 15 Deferred tax liabilities 10 38 375 343 69 7 At 30 June 2011, 85% 2010: 91% of the television programme rights and 100% 2010: 100% of set-top boxes and related ii unrecognised deferred tax assets equipment and other inventories is expected to be recognised in 2011 2010 the income statement within 12 months.
m m Tax losses arising from trading 300 338 20. trade and other receivables Tax losses arising from capital disposals and 2011 2010 provisions against investments 366 403 m m 666 741 Gross trade receivables 274 303 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 195 153 Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the net trade receivables 79 150 items above because it is not probable that future taxable profits Amounts receivable from joint ventures and associates 7 6 will be available against which the Group can utilise the losses.
Amounts receivable from other related parties 10 3 At 30 June 2011, a deferred tax asset of 40 million 2010: 38 million Prepayments 239 197 principally arising from UK losses in the Group, has not been Accrued income 152 135 recognised.
These losses can only be offset against taxable profits vAT 17 18 generated in the entities concerned.
There is currently insufficient Other 88 29 Current trade and other receivables 592 538 evidence to support the recognition of a deferred tax asset relating to Non-current prepayments 13 18 these losses.
The UK trading losses can be carried forward indefinitely.
total trade and other receivables 605 556 At 30 June 2011, a deferred tax asset of 260 million 2010: 300 million has not been recognised in respect of overseas Included within current trade and other receivables is nil 2010: nil trading losses on the basis that it is not probable that these which is due in more than one year.
temporary differences will be utilised.
These losses include The ageing of the Groups net trade receivables which are past due 258 million 2010: 249 million with respect to the Groups but not impaired is as follows: German holding companys former investment in KirchPayTv, 2 million 2010: nil with respect to the recently acquired Cloud 2011 2010 subsidiaries and nil 2010: 51 million with respect to the Groups m m Up to 30 days past due date 62 50 former holdings in easynets overseas subsidiaries.
The overseas 30 to 60 days past due date 1 6 trading losses can be carried forward indefinitely.
60 to 120 days past due date 2 5 At 30 June 2011, a deferred tax asset of 354 million 2010: 391 More than 120 days past due date 2 4 million has not been recognised in respect of potential capital 67 65 losses related to the Groups former investment in KirchPayTv, on the basis that utilisation of these temporary differences is not The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and probable.
At 30 June 2011, the Group also has capital losses with a other receivables approximates their fair values.
The Group is tax value estimated to be in excess of 12 million 2010: 12 million exposed to credit risk on its trade and other receivables, however including impairment of a football club and other investments, the Group does not have any significant concentrations of credit which have not been recognised as a deferred tax asset, on the risk, with exposure spread over a large number of counterparties basis that it is not probable that they will be utilised.
Trade receivables principally comprise amounts losses can be carried forward indefinitely.
outstanding from subscribers, advertisers and other customers.
provisions for doubtful debts 2011 2010 m m Balance at beginning of year 153 118 Amounts utilised 5 Income statement charge 42 40 Balance at end of year 195 153 AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 85 Book 1. indb 85 12 10 11 20:47:10 CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS NOTeS TO THe CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS continued 21. trade and other payables 2011 2010 m m i Trade payables 429 419 Amounts owed to joint ventures and associates 5 4 Amounts owed to other related parties 69 70 vAT 145 105 Accruals 654 609 Deferred income 286 251 Other 87 68 Current trade and other payables 1,675 1,526 Amounts owed to other related parties 5 3 Trade payables 12 7 Deferred income 7 38 Other 2 4 non-current trade and other payables 26 52 total trade and other payables 1,701 1,578 i Included within trade payables are 182 million 2010: 169 million of US dollar-denominated payables.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates their fair values.
Trade payables principally comprise amounts outstanding for programming purchases and ongoing costs.
22. provisions At Provided Utilised At Provided Utilised At 1 July during during 1 July during during 30 June 2009 the year the year 2010 the year the year 2011 m m m m m m m Current liabilities i Restructuring provision 7 7 7 ii Acquired and acquisition related provisions 14 4 3 15 4 8 11 iii Other provisions 4 2 1 5 5 10 18 13 4 27 9 15 21 Non-current liabilities ii Acquired and acquisition related provisions 1 1 iv Other provisions 11 2 2 11 1 3 9 12 2 3 11 1 3 9 i During the year ended 30 June 2010 the Group provided 7 million for the expected costs of a restructuring exercise undertaken.
ii These provisions arose on the acquisition of Amstrad which took place during the year ended 30 June 2008.
The amounts remaining at 30 June 2011 primarily relate to the settlement of outstanding claims.
iii Included in other provisions are amounts provided for onerous contracts for property leases, maintenance and legal disputes.
The timing of the cash flows for onerous property leases and maintenance are dependent on the terms of the remaining leases.
The timing of the cash flows for legal disputes cannot be reasonably determined.
iv Included within non-current other provisions are amounts provided for onerous contracts for property leases and maintenance.
The timing of the cash flows are dependent on the terms of the leases, but are expected to continue up to June 2021.
Borrowings 2011 2010 m m Current borrowings ii Obligations under finance leases 8 8 Non-current borrowings i US$750 million of 5.625% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2015 490 533 i 400 million of 5.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2017 406 407 i US$750 million of 6.100% Guaranteed Notes repayable in February 2018 476 511 i US$582.8 million of 9.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2018 383 413 i 300 million of 6.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in May 2027 295 295 i US$350 million of 6.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2035 214 229 ii Obligations under finance leases 61 62 2,325 2,450 AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 86 Book 1. indb 86 12 10 11 20:47:11 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS i Guaranteed notes At 30 June 2011, the Group had in issue the following Guaranteed Notes, which were issued by the Company: Interest rate Hedging Hedged Interest rates Hedged value Fixed Floating Fixed Floating m m m US$750 million of 6.100% Guaranteed Notes repayable in February 2018 387 290 97 6.829% 6m LIBOR 1.892% US$582.8 million of 9.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2018 389 389 N A 6m LIBOR 5.542% 300 million of 6.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in May 2027 300 300 6.000% N A 1,076 590 486 At 30 June 2011, the Group had in issue the following Guaranteed Notes, which were issued by BSkyB Finance UK plc: Interest rate Hedging Hedged Interest rates Hedged value Fixed Floating Fixed Floating m m m US$750 million of 5.625% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2015 428 171 257 5.427% 6m LIBOR 0.698% 400 million of 5.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2017 400 350 50 5.750% 6m LIBOR 0.229% US$350 million of 6.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2035 200 200 5.826% N A 1,028 721 307 At 30 June 2010, the Group had in issue the following Guaranteed Notes, which were issued by the Company: Interest rate Hedging Hedged Interest rates Hedged value Fixed Floating Fixed Floating m m m US$750 million of 6.100% Guaranteed Notes repayable in February 2018 387 290 97 6.829% 6m LIBOR 1.892% US$582.8 million of 9.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2018 389 389 N A 6m LIBOR 5.542% 300 million of 6.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in May 2027 300 300 6.000% N A 1,076 590 486 At 30 June 2010, the Group had in issue the following Guaranteed Notes, which were issued by BSkyB Finance UK plc: Interest rate Hedging Hedged Interest rates Hedged value Fixed Floating Fixed Floating m m m US$750 million of 5.625% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2015 428 171 257 5.427% 6m LIBOR 0.698% 400 million of 5.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2017 400 350 50 5.750% 6m LIBOR 0.229% US$350 million of 6.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2035 200 200 5.826% N A 1,028 721 307 Note: Hedged value is the final redemption value including any hedging The Group has a euro Medium Term Note Programme the Programme, which provides the Group with a standardised documentation platform for senior debt issuance in the eurobond markets.
The 300 million of 6.000% Guaranteed Notes maturing in May 2027 have been issued under the Programme, which allows issuance of up to 1 billion.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 87 Book 1. indb 87 12 10 11 20:47:11 CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS NOTeS TO THe CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS continued 23.
Borrowings continued ii Finance leases The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows: 2011 2010 m m Within one year 8 8 Between one and two years 8 8 Between two and three years 8 8 Between three and four years 8 8 Between four and five years 8 8 After five years 161 169 201 209 Future finance charges on finance lease liabilities 132 139 present value of finance lease liabilities 69 70 The main obligations under finance leases are in relation to: a finance arrangements in connection with the broadband network infrastructure.
During the year, repayments of 7 million 2010: 7 million were made against the lease.
A proportion of these payments have been allocated against the capital outstanding.
The lease bears interest at a rate of 11.1% and expires in November 2039. b finance arrangements in connection with the contact centre in Dunfermline.
During the year, repayments of 1 million 2010: 1 million were made against the lease.
A proportion of these payments have been allocated against the capital amount outstanding.
The lease bears interest at a rate of 8.5% and expires in September 2020. iii revolving Credit Facility The Group has a 750 million RCF with a maturity date of 30 July 2013, syndicated across 11 counterparty banks, each with a minimum credit rating of A.
At 30 June 2011, the RCF was undrawn 2010: undrawn.
There is an opportunity to request an extension of either one or two further years to the RCF, at the lenders discretion, with a potential final maturity of July 2015.
The Group is subject to two financial covenants under the RCF, a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest cover ratio, which are tested at the end of each six monthly period.
The key financial covenants are the ratio of Net Debt to eBITDA as defined in the loan agreements and eBITDA to Net Interest Payable as defined in the loan agreements.
Net Debt to eBITDA must be no more then 3.00:1 and eBITDA to Net Interest Payable must be at least 3.50:1.
The Group was in compliance with these covenants for all periods presented.
iv Guarantees The following guarantees are in place relating to the Groups borrowings: a British Sky Broadcasting Limited, Sky Subscribers Services Limited, BSkyB Finance UK plc and Sky In-Home Service Limited have given joint and several guarantees in relation to the Companys 750 million RCF and the outstanding Guaranteed Notes issued by the Company b the Company, British Sky Broadcasting Limited, Sky Subscribers Services Limited and Sky In-Home Service Limited have given joint and several guarantees in relation to the outstanding Guaranteed Notes issued by BSkyB Finance UK plc.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 88 Book 1. indb 88 12 10 11 20:47:11 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS 24.
Derivatives and other financial instruments Set out below are the derivative financial instruments entered into by the Group to manage its interest rate and foreign exchange risks.
2011 2010 Asset Liability Asset Liability Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional m m m m m m m m Fair value hedges Interest rate swaps 95 812 98 865 Cash flow hedges Cross-currency swaps 133 661 181 661 Forward foreign exchange contracts 8 442 28 783 77 1,006 8 221 Currency options collars 4 28 28 11 61 61 Derivatives not in a formal hedge relationship Forward foreign exchange contracts 2 67 9 1 10 2 49 Cross-currency swaps 44 353 40 390 70 353 16 390 embedded derivatives 1 4 total 286 2,363 68 1,210 438 2,956 27 725 The maturity of the derivative financial instruments is as follows: 2011 2010 Asset Liability Asset Liability m m m m In one year or less 9 20 50 10 Between one and two years 4 6 24 1 Between two and five years 87 2 15 In more than five years 186 40 349 16 total 286 68 438 27 Included within the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts are a number of US dollar-denominated forward foreign exchange contracts which the Group has taken out with counterparty banks on behalf of its joint venture AeTN UK.
On the same dates as these forward contracts were entered into, the Group entered into equal and opposite forward contracts with AeTN UK.
As a result, the net fair value of these contracts to the Group was nil 2010: nil.
The gross sterling notional value of these forward contracts at 30 June 2011 was 2 million 2010: 1 million.
The fair value of the Groups debt-related derivative portfolio at 30 June 2011 was a 232 million net asset 2010: net asset of 333 million with net notional principal amounts totalling 1,454 million 2010: 1,454 million.
This comprised: net assets of 133 million designated as cash flow hedges 2010: net assets of 181 million, net assets of 95 million designated as fair value hedges 2010: net assets of 98 million and net assets of 4 million not designated in a formal hedge relationship 2010: net assets of 54 million.
At 30 June 2011, the carrying value of financial assets that were, upon initial recognition, designated as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss was nil 2010: nil.
Hedge accounting classification and impact The Group has designated its interest rate swaps as fair value hedges of interest rate risk, representing 37% 2010: 37% of the Groups debt portfolio.
Movements in the fair value of the hedged items are taken to the income statement and are offset by movements in the fair value of the hedging instruments, to the extent that hedge accounting is achieved.
The Group has designated its fixed rate cross-currency swaps as cash flow hedges of 34% 2010: 35% of the Groups debt portfolio.
As such, the effective portion of the gain or loss on these contracts is reported as a separate component of the hedging reserve, and is then reclassified to the income statement in the same periods that the forecast transactions affect the income statement.
During the current year, losses of 54 million were removed from the hedging reserve and credited to finance costs in the income statement to offset the currency translation movements in the underlying hedged debt 2010: gains of 78 million.
The Group designates its forward foreign exchange contracts and the intrinsic element of options collars as cash flow hedges of forecast foreign currency sales and purchases.
Gains or losses are released from the hedging reserve and recycled to the income statement in the same period as the hedged item is recognised.
If forecast transactions are no longer expected to occur, any amounts included in the hedging reserve related to that forecast transaction would be recognised directly in the income statement.
During the current year gains of 2 million were removed from the hedging reserve and credited to operating expense in the income statement 2010: gains of 13 million.
Gains of 11 million were removed from the hedging reserve and credited to revenue in the income statement 2010: losses of 2 million.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 89 Book 1. indb 89 12 10 11 20:47:11 CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS NOTeS TO THe CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS continued 24.
Derivatives and other financial instruments continued Hedge effectiveness testing is performed quarterly using the dollar-offset approach.
The actual movement in the hedging items is compared with the movement in the valuation of the hypothetically perfect hedge of the underlying risk at inception, and any ineffectiveness is recognised directly in the income statement.
3 million of ineffectiveness was recognised in the income statement during the current year 2010: 2 million.
A hedge relationship is deemed to be effective if the ratio of changes in valuation of the underlying hedged item and the hedging instrument is within the range of 80% to 125%.
Any relationship which has a ratio outside this range is deemed to be ineffective, at which point hedge accounting is suspended.
During the year ended 30 June 2011, there were no instances in which the hedge relationship was not highly effective 2010: no instances.
Financial instruments a Carrying value and fair value The accounting classification of each class of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities, together with their fair values, is as follows: Held to Derivatives Derivatives in maturity Available deemed held hedging Loans and Other Total carrying Total fair investments for-sale for trading relationships receivables liabilities value value m m m m m m m m At 30 June 2011 Quoted bond debt 2,264 2,264 2,500 Derivative financial instruments 6 212 218 218 Trade and other payables 1,189 1,189 1,189 Provisions 15 15 15 Obligations under finance leases and other borrowings 69 69 69 Available-for-sale investments 215 215 215 Trade and other receivables 332 332 332 Short-term deposits 430 430 430 Cash and cash equivalents 150 771 921 921 At 30 June 2010 Quoted bond debt 2,388 2,388 2,619 Derivative financial instruments 52 359 411 411 Trade and other payables 1,174 1,174 1,174 Provisions 16 16 16 Obligations under finance leases and other borrowings 70 70 70 Available-for-sale investments 182 182 182 Trade and other receivables 334 334 334 Short-term deposits 400 400 400 Cash and cash equivalents 148 501 649 649 The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as follows: The fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities with standard terms and conditions and which are traded on active liquid markets is determined with reference to quoted market prices: The fair value of other financial assets and financial liabilities excluding derivative instruments is determined in accordance with generally accepted pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis using prices from observable current market transactions and dealer quotes for similar instruments: Foreign currency forward contracts and options are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching maturities of the contracts: Interest rate and cross currency swaps are measured at the present value of future cash flows estimated and discounted based on the applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates: and The fair value of obligations under finance leases and other borrowings is estimated by discounting the future cash flows to net present value.
The fair value of short-term deposits and cash and cash equivalents is equivalent to carrying value due to the short-term nature of these instruments.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 90 Book 1. indb 90 12 10 11 20:47:11 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS The differences between carrying values and fair values reflect unrealised gains or losses inherent in the financial instruments, based on valuations as at 30 June 2011 and 30 June 2010.
The volatile nature of the markets means that values at any subsequent date could be significantly different from the values reported above.
Cash and cash equivalents classified as held to maturity investments comprise money market deposits which have maturity dates of less than three months from inception.
Money market deposits, enhanced return investments and tri-party repurchase agreements which have maturity greater than three months from inception are classified as short-term deposits.
Cash and cash equivalents classified as loans and receivables mainly comprise investments in AAA rated money market funds which can be withdrawn without notice.
b Fair value hierarchy The following table categorises the Groups financial instruments which are held at fair value into 1 of 3 levels to reflect the degree to which observable inputs are used in determining their fair values: Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 m m m m At 30 June 2011 Assets measured at fair value Available-for-sale financial instruments ITv investment 215 215 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Interest rate swaps 95 95 Cross currency swaps 177 177 Forward foreign exchange and option contracts 14 14 total 501 215 286 Liabilities measured at fair value Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Cross currency swaps 40 40 Forward foreign exchange and option contracts 28 28 total 68 68 At 30 June 2010 Assets measured at fair value Available-for-sale financial instruments ITv investment 156 156 Other investments at cost 26 26 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Interest rate swaps 98 98 Cross currency swaps 251 251 Forward foreign exchange and option contracts 89 89 total 620 156 438 26 Liabilities measured at fair value Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Cross currency swaps 16 16 Forward foreign exchange and option contracts 10 10 embedded derivatives 1 1 total 27 27 Level 1 Fair values measured using quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 Fair values measured using inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability either directly or indirectly.
Level 3 Fair values measured using inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 91 Book 1. indb 91 12 10 11 20:47:12 CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS NOTeS TO THe CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS continued Interest rate sensitivity 25.
Financial risk management Group treasury activity The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivatives and non-derivative The Groups Treasury function is responsible for raising finance financial instruments at the balance sheet date.
For floating rate for the Groups operations, together with associated liquidity liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability management and management of foreign exchange, interest outstanding at the balance sheet date is outstanding for the whole rate and credit risks.
Treasury operations are conducted within a year.
framework of policies and guidelines authorised and reviewed by both the Audit Committee and the Board, which receive regular For each one hundred basis point rise or fall in interest rates at updates of Treasury activity.
Derivative instruments are transacted 30 June 2011, and if all other variables were held constant: for risk management purposes only.
It is the Groups policy that The Groups profit for the year ended 30 June 2011 would all hedging is to cover known risks and no speculative trading is increase or decrease by 6 million 2010: profit for the year undertaken.
Regular and frequent reporting to management is would increase or decrease by 3 million.
The year on year required for all transactions and exposures, and the internal control increase is driven by an increase in the cash balance held.
environment is subject to periodic review by the Groups internal Other equity reserves would decrease or increase by 17 audit team.
million 2010: decrease or increase by 17 million, arising from The Groups principal market risks are exposures to changes in movements in cash flow hedges.
interest rates and foreign exchange rates, which arise both from A one hundred basis point rise or fall in interest rates represents a the Groups sources of finance and its operations.
Following large but realistic movement which can easily be multiplied to give evaluation of those market risks, the Group selectively enters into derivative financial instruments to manage these exposures.
sensitivities at different interest rates.
The principal instruments currently used are interest rate swaps The sensitivity analyses provided are hypothetical only and should to hedge interest rate risks, and cross currency swaps, forward be used with caution as the impacts provided are not necessarily foreign exchange contracts and currency options collars to hedge indicative of the actual impacts that would be experienced because transactional and translational currency exposures.
the Groups actual exposure to market rates changes as the Groups portfolio of debt, cash and foreign currency contracts changes.
Interest rate risk In addition, the effect of a change in a particular market variable The Group has financial exposures to both UK and US interest on fair values or cash flows is calculated without considering rates, arising primarily from the Groups long-term bonds and other interrelationships between the various market rates or mitigating borrowings.
The Groups hedging policy requires that between actions that would be taken by the Group.
The changes in valuations 50% and 75% of borrowings are held at fixed rates.
This is achieved are estimates of the impact of changes in market variables and are by issuing fixed rate bonds and then using interest rate swaps not a prediction of future events or anticipated gains or losses.
to adjust the balance between fixed and floating rate debt.
The Foreign exchange risk Groups bank debt is at floating rates, and, when drawn, means that the mix of fixed and floating rate debt fluctuates and is therefore A combination of cross-currency and interest rate swap managed to ensure compliance with the Groups hedging policy.
arrangements is used to convert the Groups US dollar denominated At 30 June 2011, 62% of borrowings were held at fixed rates after debt and associated interest rate obligations to pounds sterling, hedging 2010: 62%.
At 30 June 2011, the split of the Groups aggregate borrowings into their core currencies was US dollar 66% The Group uses derivatives to convert all of its US dollarand pounds sterling 34% 2010: US dollar 68% and pounds sterling denominated debt and associated interest rate obligations to 32%.
At 30 June 2011, 100% of the Groups long-term borrowings, pounds sterling see section on foreign exchange risk for further after the impact of derivatives, are denominated in pounds sterling.
At 30 June 2011, the Group had no net US dollar denominated interest rate exposure on its borrowings.
The Groups revenues and operating expenses are substantially denominated in pounds sterling.
A small proportion of operating The Group designates its interest rate swaps as fair value hedges expenses is denominated in US dollars, while a small proportion of of interest rate risk.
Movements in the fair value of the hedged revenues is denominated in euros.
In the current year, approximately exposure are taken to the income statement and are offset by 11% of operating expenses 595 million was denominated in US movements in the fair value of the hedging instruments, which are dollars 2010: approximately 11% 537 million and 6% of revenues also taken to the income statement.
Any hedge ineffectiveness is was denominated in euros 2010: 8%.
recognised directly in the income statement.
In the year ended 30 June 2011, this amounted to 3 million 2010: 2 million.
The US dollar expense relates mainly to the Groups programming contracts with US suppliers, together with US dollar-denominated At 30 June 2011 and 30 June 2010, the Groups annual finance costs set-top box costs.
The euro revenues are primarily due to would be unaffected by any change to the Groups credit rating in subscribers located in Ireland.
The Groups exposure to euroeither direction.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 92 Book 1. indb 92 12 10 11 20:47:12 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS denominated revenue is offset to a certain extent by euroA combination of US dollar denominated interest rate and denominated costs, related mainly to certain transponder costs: USD GBP cross currency swaps is used to convert fixed dollar the net position being a euro surplus 2010: surplus.
denominated debt to floating sterling denominated debt.
The interest rate swaps are designated as fair value hedges.
The The Group hedges currency exposures on US dollar and euroassociated cross currency swaps are not designated as hedging denominated highly probable cash flows by using forward foreign instruments for hedge accounting purposes and, as such, exchange contracts and options collars purchased up to five movements in their value are recorded directly in the income years ahead of the cash flow.
It is the Groups policy that all anticipated foreign currency Foreign exchange sensitivity exposures are substantially hedged in advance of the year in which they occur.
The following analyses details the Groups sensitivity to movements in pounds sterling against those currencies in which At 30 June 2011, the Group had purchased forward foreign it has significant transactions.
The sensitivity analysis includes exchange contracts and collars representing up to: foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities at the balance Approximately 90% of US dollar-denominated costs falling sheet date and outstanding foreign currency denominated due within one year 2010: 85%, and approximately 80% of US financial instruments and adjusts their translation at the period dollar-denominated costs falling due within five years 2010: end for a 25% change in foreign currency rates, representing approximately 80% which are hedged via the maximum currency exposure reported to management on a Outstanding commitments to purchase, in aggregate, regular basis.
US$1,456 million 2010: US$1,310 million at an average rate A 25% strengthening in pounds sterling against the US dollar of US$1.59 to 1.00 2010: US$1.58 to 1.00. would have the effect of reducing profit by 29 million 2010: Collars relating to the purchase of a total of US$45 million reducing profit by 36 million, of which losses of 29 million relate 2010: US$91 million in aggregate.
to non-cash movements in the valuation of derivatives 2010: losses of 35 million.
The same strengthening would have an Approximately 80% of net euro-denominated exposures adverse impact on other equity of 185 million 2010: adverse relating to revenues and transponder costs falling due within impact of 198 million.
18 months 2010: approximately 80%, which are hedged via A 25% weakening in pounds sterling against the US dollar would Outstanding commitments to sell, in aggregate, have the effect of increasing profit by 48 million 2010: increasing 405 million 2010: 440 million at an average rate of 1.16 profit by 59 million of which gains of 48 million relate to 2010: 1.13. non-cash movements in the valuation of derivatives 2010: gains Outstanding commitments to purchase, in aggregate, of 58 million.
The same weakening would have a beneficial 22 million 2010: 58 million at an average rate of 1.13 impact on other equity of 309 million 2010: beneficial impact of 2010: 1.13.
No forward foreign exchange contracts or collars fall due A 25% strengthening in pounds sterling against the euro beyond five years 2010: none.
would have the effect of increasing profit by 1 million 2010: increasing profit by 2 million.
None of this amount relates to The Group designates the following as cash flow hedges for hedge non-cash movements in the valuation of derivatives.
The same accounting purposes: strengthening would have a beneficial impact on other equity of Forward foreign exchange contracts.
70 million 2010: beneficial impact of 69 million.
The intrinsic value of collars all other fair value movements are A 25% weakening in pounds sterling against the euro would have recognised directly in the income statement.
the effect of reducing profit by 2 million 2010: reducing profit by Cross-currency swaps where interest on both legs is at a fixed 4 million.
None of this amount relates to non-cash movements interest rate.
in the valuation of derivatives.
The same weakening would have an adverse impact on other equity of 117 million 2010: adverse As such, the effective portion of the gain or loss on these impact of 115 million.
contracts is reported as a component of the hedging reserve, outside the income statement, and is then reclassified to the income statement in the same periods that the forecast transactions affect the income statement.
Ineffectiveness of less than 1 million was recognised in the income statement during the year 2010: less than 1 million.
During the year, the Group exchanged 55 million for US dollars 2010: 19 million and 7 million was exchanged for pounds sterling 2010: 63 million on currency spot markets.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 93 Book 1. indb 93 12 10 11 20:47:12 CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS NOTeS TO THe CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS continued liquidity risk 25.
Financial risk management continued The sensitivity analyses provided are hypothetical only and should Our principal source of liquidity is cash generated from operations, be used with caution as the impacts provided are not necessarily combined with access to a 750 million RCF, which expires in July indicative of the actual impacts that would be experienced because 2013, with the right to request an extension of either one or two the Groups actual exposure to market rates is constantly changing further years.
At 30 June 2011, this facility was undrawn 30 June as the Groups portfolio of debt, cash and foreign currency contracts 2010: undrawn.
In addition, the effect of a change in a particular market To ensure continuity of funding, the Groups policy is to ensure that variable on fair values or cash flows is calculated without considering available funding matures over a period of years.
At 30 June 2011, interrelationships between the various market rates or mitigating 59% 2010: 76% of the Groups total available funding including actions that would be taken by the Group.
The changes in valuations available undrawn amounts on our RCF was due to mature in more are estimates of the impact of changes in market variables and are than five years.
not a prediction of future events or anticipated gains or losses.
Full details of the Groups borrowings and undrawn facilities are Hedge accounting shown in note 23, other than trade and other payables, shown in The interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk sections above note 21, and provisions, shown in note 22. outline the Groups policies regarding use of derivative products.
Further detail on valuations and the impact of hedge accounting during the year are provided in note 24. Credit risk The Group is exposed to counterparty default risk amounting to invested cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits, and the positive fair value of derivative financial assets held.
This risk is deemed to be low.
Counterparty risk forms a central part of the Groups Treasury policy, which is monitored and reported on regularly.
The Group manages credit risk by diversifying its exposures across a wide number of counterparties, such that the maximum exposure to any individual counterparty was less than 14% of the total asset value of instruments at the end of the year.
Treasury policies ensure that all transactions are only effected with strong relationship banks and, at the date of signing, each carried a minimum credit rating of Aor equivalent from Moodys and Standard & Poors.
The amount recognised in the income statement in respect of credit risk for derivatives deemed held for trading is nil 2010: nil.
Credit risk in our residential customer base is mitigated by billing and collecting in advance for digital television subscriptions for over 99% of our residential customer base.
The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk on trade receivables is the carrying amounts as disclosed in note 20.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 94 Book 1. indb 94 12 10 11 20:47:12 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS The following table analyses the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities, net-settled derivative financial instruments and gross settled financial instruments into relevant maturity groupings, based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
These amounts may not reconcile to the amounts disclosed on the balance sheet for borrowings, derivative financial instruments, provisions and trade and other payables.
Less Between Between More than one and two and than 12 months two years five years five years m m m m At 30 June 2011 Non derivative financial liabilities Bonds USD 104 104 766 1,470 Bonds GBP 41 41 123 933 Obligations under finance leases and other borrowings 8 8 24 161 Trade and other payables 1,111 72 6 Provisions 8 6 2 2 Net settled derivatives Financial assets 33 33 94 48 Gross settled derivatives Outflow 885 417 824 1,313 Inflow 871 410 856 1,427 Less Between Between More than one and two and than 12 months two years five years five years m m m m At 30 June 2010 Non derivative financial liabilities Bonds USD 111 111 333 2,172 Bonds GBP 41 41 123 985 Obligations under finance leases and other borrowings 8 8 24 169 Trade and other payables 1,123 45 6 Provisions 6 3 6 2 Net settled derivatives Financial assets 35 35 105 79 Gross settled derivatives Outflow 819 414 424 1,805 Inflow 865 443 456 2,100 Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to endeavour to ensure that the Group has the ability to access capital markets when necessary and to optimise liquidity and operating flexibility through the arrangement of new debt, while seeking to minimise the cost of capital.
The Group monitors its liquidity requirements regularly and is satisfied that it has access to sufficient liquidity and operating flexibility to meet its capital requirements.
The Group manages its short and long-term capital structure by seeking to maintain leverage ratios consistent with a long-term investment grade credit rating BBBor better from Standard & Poors and Baa3 or better from Moodys.
The Groups current ratings are BBB Standard & Poors and Baa1 Moodys.
The leverage ratios assessed by these rating agencies are those of Net Debt: eBITDA and Gross Debt: eBITDA.
Net Debt is defined as total borrowings, including the cash flows arising under operating leases and transponder prepayments, less cash and cash equivalents, excluding derivatives.
Gross Debt does not reduce total borrowings by the inclusion of cash and cash equivalents.
The Group is also required to maintain a Net Debt: eBITDA ratio below 3.00:1 under the terms of its RCF.
The RCF definition of Net Debt does not require the inclusion of future operating lease or transponder cash flows.
At 30 June 2011, the Net Debt: eBITDA ratio as defined by the terms of the RCF was 0.6:1 2010: 0.9:1.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 95 Book 1. indb 95 12 10 11 20:47:12 CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS NOTeS TO THe CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS continued ii Sharesave Scheme options 26.
Share capital All Sharesave Scheme options outstanding at 30 June 2011 and 2011 2010 30 June 2010 have no performance criteria attached, other than m m the requirement that the employee remains in employment with Allotted, called-up and fully paid shares of 50p the Group.
Options granted under the Sharesave Scheme must be 1,752,842,599 2010: 1,752,842,599 876 876 exercised within six months of the relevant award vesting date.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carries equal The Sharesave Scheme is open to all employees.
Options are voting rights and no contractual right to receive payment.
normally exercisable after either three or five years from the date of grant.
The price at which options are offered is not less than 80% of Share option and contingent share award schemes the middle-market price on the dealing day immediately preceding The Company operates various equity-settled share option schemes the date of invitation.
It is the policy of the Group to make an the Schemes for certain employees.
invitation to employees to participate in the scheme following the The number of newly issued shares which may be allocated under announcement of the end of year results.
the Schemes on any day shall not, when aggregated with the iii All employee awards 20 year Award plan number of newly issued shares which have been allocated in the The All employee awards outstanding at 30 June 2011 and 30 June previous ten years under the Schemes and any other employee 2010 have no performance criteria attached, other than the share scheme adopted by the Company, exceed such number as requirement that the employee remains in employment with represents five percent of the ordinary share capital of the Company the Group.
Awards granted under the All employee award will be in issue immediately prior to that day.
In determining this limit no exercised upon the award vesting date.
account shall be taken of any newly issued shares where the right to The Company granted the All employee award to all permanent acquire the newly issued shares was released, lapsed, cancelled or employees on 5 February 2009.
Awards under the scheme are otherwise became incapable of exercise.
Options and awards which granted in the form of a nil-priced option, and are satisfied using will be satisfied by eSOP shares do not fall within these headroom market-purchased shares.
iv management ltIp awards The share awards outstanding can be summarised as follows: All Management LTIP awards outstanding at 30 June 2011 and 2011 2010 30 June 2010 vest only if performance conditions are met.
Awards Number of Number of granted under the Management LTIP must be exercised within five ordinary ordinary years of the relevant award vesting date.
shares shares i executive Share Option Scheme options 5,583,424 13,803,846 The Company grants awards to selected employees under the ii Sharesave Scheme options 6,554,165 6,175,446 Management LTIP.
Awards under this scheme mirror the LTIP, with iii All employee awards 1,168,200 1,383,400 the same performance conditions.
Awards exercised under the iv Management LTIP awards 22,326,138 13,447,526 Management LTIP can only be satisfied by the issue of marketv LTIP awards 8,610,930 5,869,560 purchased shares.
vi Management Co-Investment LTIP awards 1,268,260 599,181 vii Co-Investment LTIP awards 1,286,906 728,736 v ltIp awards 46,798,023 42,007,695 All LTIP awards outstanding at 30 June 2011 and 30 June 2010 vest only if performance conditions are met.
Awards granted under i executive Share option Scheme options the LTIP must be exercised within five years of the relevant award All executive Share Option Scheme options outstanding at 30 June vesting date.
No options have been granted The Company operates the LTIP for executive Directors and Senior under the scheme since 2004. executives.
Awards under the scheme are granted in the form of a Grants under the executive Share Option Scheme were made on nil-priced option, and are satisfied using market-purchased shares.
an annual basis to selected employees, with the exercise price of The awards vest in full or in part dependent on the satisfaction options being equal to the Companys share price on the date of of specified performance targets.
For awards made in 2008 and grant.
For those options with performance conditions, growth in 2009 i. e. awards which will vest in 2011, 30% of the award vests ePS had to exceed growth in the Retail Prices Index plus 3% per dependent on TSR performance over a three year performance annum in order for awards to vest.
Options vested on an accelerated period, relative to the constituents of the FTSe 100 at the time of basis over a period of up to four years from the date of grant.
The grant, and the remaining 70% vests dependent on performance contractual life of all executive Share Option Scheme options is ten against operational targets.
The TSR performance targets are not years.
applicable to awards made since July 2010.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 96 Book 1. indb 96 12 10 11 20:47:12 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS vi management Co-Investment ltIp awards All Management Co-Investment LTIP awards outstanding at 30 June 2011 and 30 June 2010 vest only if performance conditions are met.
Awards granted under the Management Co-Investment LTIP must be exercised within five years of the relevant award vesting date.
The Company grants awards to selected employees under the Management Co-Investment LTIP.
Awards under this scheme mirror the Co-Investment LTIP, with the same performance conditions.
vii Co-Investment ltIp awards All Co-Investment LTIP awards outstanding at 30 June 2011 and 30 June 2010 vest only if performance conditions are met.
Awards granted under the Co-Investment LTIP must be exercised within five years of the relevant award vesting date.
The Company operates the Co-Investment LTIP award for executive Directors and Senior executives.
employees who participate in the plan are granted a conditional award of shares based on the amount they have invested in the Group.
The investment will be matched up to a maximum of 1.5 shares for every share invested, subject to a three-year ePS performance condition.
For the purposes of the disclosure below, the Sharesave Scheme options and All employee awards Sharesave Schemes and the Management LTIP, LTIP, Management Co-Investment LTIP and Co-Investment LTIP awards Senior Management Schemes have been aggregated.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 97 Book 1. indb 97 12 10 11 20:47:12 CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS NOTeS TO THe CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS continued 26.
For those exercised under the executive Scheme it was 7.99 2010: 6.27, for those exercised under the Sharesave Schemes it was 7.54 2010: 5.53, and for those exercised under the Senior Management Schemes it was 7.08 2010: 5.37.
The middle-market closing price of the Companys shares at 1 July 2011 was 8.49 25 June 2010: 7.01.
The following table summarises information about share awards outstanding at 30 June 2011: Senior management executive Scheme Sharesave Schemes Schemes total Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average remaining remaining remaining remaining contractual contractual contractual contractual life life life life Range of exercise prices Number Years Number Years Number Years Number Years 0.00 1.00 1,168,200 0.6 33,492,234 1.9 34,660,434 1.9 3.00 4.00 2,348,795 1.5 2,348,795 1.5 4.00 5.00 1,926,019 2.4 1,926,019 2.4 5.00 6.00 1,802,435 2.5 2,279,351 3.8 4,081,786 3.2 6.00 7.00 1,537,964 2.1 1,537,964 2.1 7.00 8.00 2,243,025 0.3 2,243,025 0.3 5,583,424 1.5 7,722,365 2.3 33,492,234 1.9 46,798,023 2.0 AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 98 Book 1. indb 98 12 10 11 20:47:13 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS The following table summarises information about share awards outstanding at 30 June 2010: Senior management executive Scheme Sharesave Schemes Schemes total Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average remaining remaining remaining remaining contractual contractual contractual contractual life life life life Range of exercise prices Number Years Number Years Number Years Number Years 0.00 1.00 1,383,400 1.6 20,645,003 2.1 22,028,403 2.1 3.00 4.00 2,720,290 2.5 2,720,290 2.5 4.00 5.00 2,579,561 3.1 2,579,561 3.1 5.00 6.00 3,383,932 3.5 875,595 1.6 4,259,527 3.1 6.00 7.00 3,296,301 3.2 3,296,301 3.2 7.00 8.00 3,574,429 1.3 3,574,429 1.3 9.00 10.00 3,448,253 0.4 3,448,253 0.4 12.00 13.00 100,931 100,931 13,803,846 2.1 7,558,846 2.4 20,645,003 2.1 42,007,695 2.1 The range of exercise prices of the awards outstanding at 30 June 2011 was between nil and 7.94 2010: nil and 12.88.
For those awards outstanding under the executive Scheme it was between 5.03 and 7.94 2010: 5.03 and 12.88 : for those outstanding under the Sharesave Schemes it was between nil and 5.65 2010: nil and 5.38 and for all awards outstanding under the Senior Management Schemes the exercise price was nil 2010: nil.
The following table summarises additional information about the awards exercisable at 30 June 2011 and 30 June 2010: 2011 2010 Average Average remaining remaining contractual Weighted contractual Weighted Options life of average Options life of average exercisable exercisable exercise exercisable exercisable exercise at 30 June options price at 30 June options price executive Scheme 5,583,424 1.5 6.65 13,803,846 2.1 7.44 Sharesave Schemes 72,812 0.1 5.24 204,427 0.1 4.35 Senior Management Schemes 656,011 0.1 5,656,236 1.5 6.64 14,664,284 2.0 7.06 Information for awards granted during the year The weighted average fair value of equity-settled share options granted during the year, as estimated at the date of grant, was 5.95 2010: 4.19.
This was calculated using the Black-Scholes share option pricing model except for grants of nil-priced options, which were treated as the award of a free share.
The fair value of nil-priced options granted during the year was measured on the basis of the market-price of the Companys shares on the date of grant, discounted for expected dividends which would not be received over the vesting period of the options.
expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Companys share price, over a period equal to the expected life of the options.
expected life was based on the contractual life of the awards and adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
i Sharesave Schemes The weighted average fair value of equity-settled share awards granted during the year under the Sharesave Schemes, as estimated at the date of grant, was 1.91 2010: 1.65.
This was calculated using the Black-Scholes share option pricing model.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 99 Book 1. indb 99 12 10 11 20:47:13 CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS NOTeS TO THe CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS continued 26.
Share capital continued The following weighted average assumptions were used in calculating these fair values: 2011 2010 Share price 7.09 5.73 exercise price 5.65 4.33 expected volatility 28.1% 28.3% expected life 4.6 years 4.1 years expected dividends 2.7% 3.1% Risk-free interest rate 1.5% 2.3% ii Senior Management Schemes The weighted average fair value of equity-settled share awards granted during the year under the Senior Management Schemes, as estimated at the date of grant, was 6.59 2010: 4.80.
The fair value of awards granted as nil-priced options were treated as the award of a free share.
For all other awards, fair value was calculated using the Black-Scholes share option pricing model.
In the prior year, awards with market-based performance conditions were granted and the fair value of these awards was calculated using a Monte-Carlo simulation model.
The following weighted average assumptions were used in calculating these fair values: 2011 2010 Share price 7.11 5.47 exercise price 0.00 0.00 expected volatility 34.8% expected life 3.0 years 2.1 years expected dividends 2.5% 3.2% Risk-free interest rate 2.1% 27.
Shareholders equity 2011 2010 m m Share capital 876 876 Share premium 1,437 1,437 eSOP reserve 107 47 Hedging reserve 14 77 Available-for-sale reserve 157 98 Other reserves 358 362 Retained earnings 1,700 2,243 1,035 560 Share premium and special reserve On 10 December 2003, the High Court approved a reduction in the Companys share premium account of 1,120 million, as approved by the Companys shareholders at the AGM held on 14 November 2003.
This amount was equal to the Company-only profit and loss account reserve deficit at 30 June 2003.
As part of the application, the Companys balance sheet at 30 September 2003 was required to be presented.
At that date, the deficit on the Company-only profit and loss account reserve had reduced by 14 million since 30 June 2003, to 1,106 million.
As a condition of the reduction, the reduction in the share premium account of 1,120 million was permitted to be offset against the profit and loss account reserve by the amount of the deficit at 30 September 2003.
The excess of 14 million was credited to a special reserve, which is included in other reserves, and, under the terms of the reduction, will remain undistributable until all the creditors of the Company and its guarantors as at 10 December 2003 are paid.
merger reserve The merger reserve, which is included in other reserves, represents amounts deducted from equity of 222 million 2010: 222 million.
The merger reserve was created as a result of the purchase by the Group of interests in two entities.
SIG was purchased on 12 July 2000, where consideration was paid by the issue of equity shares in the Group.
BiB was purchased between 28 June 2001 and 11 November 2002, where consideration was paid by the issue of equity shares in the Group.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 100 Book 1. indb 100 12 10 11 20:47:13 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS The merger reserve was created in accordance with the merger relief provisions under section 131 of the Companies Act 1985 as amended and section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 relating to the accounting for business combinations involving the issue of shares at a premium.
Merger relief provided relief from the requirement to create a share premium account in a parent companys balance sheet.
In preparing consolidated financial statements, the amount by which the fair value of the shares issued exceeded their nominal value was recorded within a merger reserve on consolidation, rather than in a share premium account.
This merger reserve was retained upon transition to IFRS, as allowed under UK law.
purchase of own equity shares for cancellation and capital redemption reserve On 4 November 2005, the Companys shareholders approved a resolution at the AGM for the Company to purchase up to 92 million ordinary shares.
This authority to buy-back shares expired on 3 November 2006.
During the year ended 30 June 2007, the Company purchased, and subsequently cancelled, 38 million ordinary shares at an average price of 5.55, with a nominal value of 20 million, for a consideration of 214 million including stamp duty and commission of 2 million.
The nominal value of the shares cancelled has been credited to other reserves.
The following table provides information about purchases of equity shares by the company, including purchases by the Groups eSOP, during the fiscal year.
Total number Average of shares price paid i Period purchased per share July August September 2,250,000 7.18 October November December January February March April May 7,764,887 8.48 June 1,000,000 8.46 total for the year ended 30 june 2011 11,014,887 8.21 i All share purchases were open market transactions and are included in the month of settlement.
eSop reserve The cost of the Companys ordinary shares held by the Groups eSOP is treated as a deduction in arriving at total shareholders equity.
The movement in the eSOP reserve was as follows: Number of Average ordinary price paid shares per share m At 1 July 2009 14,129,651 5.15 73 Share options exercised during the year 15,824,390 5.17 82 Shares purchased by the eSOP during the year 10,210,083 5.53 56 At 30 june 2010 8,515,344 5.56 47 Share options exercised during the year 5,697,622 5.37 30 Shares purchased by the eSOP during the year 11,014,887 8.21 90 At 30 june 2011 13,832,609 7.75 107 Hedging reserve Changes in the fair values of derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges are initially recognised in the hedging reserve, and subsequently recognised in the income statement when the related hedged items are recognised in the income statement.
In addition, deferred taxation relating to these derivatives is also initially recognised in the hedging reserve prior to transfer to the income statement.
Available-for-sale reserve Available-for-sale investments are carried at fair value where this can be reliably measured, with movements in the fair value recognised directly in the available-for-sale reserve.
At 30 June 2011, the Groups available-for-sale reserve was 157 million 2010: 98 million.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 101 Book 1. indb 101 12 10 11 20:47:13 CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS NOTeS TO THe CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS continued 27.
Shareholders equity continued other reserves The Groups other reserves include a capital redemption reserve, a merger reserve, a foreign currency translation reserve, and a special reserve.
The capital redemption reserve was 95 million as at 30 June 2011 2010: 95 million.
The merger reserve was 222 million as at 30 June 2011 2010: 222 million.
The special reserve was 14 million as at 30 June 2011 2010: 14 million.
The foreign currency translation reserve was 27 million as at 30 June 2011 2010: 31 million.
28. notes to the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement reconciliation of profit before taxation from continuing operations to cash generated from continuing operations 2011 2010 m m profit before taxation 1,014 1,190 Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 173 154 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 159 184 Profit on disposal of available-for-sale investment 9 115 Share-based payment expense 69 35 Net finance costs 102 70 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 34 32 1,474 1,486 Increase decrease in trade and other receivables 59 62 Decrease in inventories 6 43 Increase in trade and other payables 158 31 Decrease increase in provisions 8 7 Decrease in derivative financial instruments 2 3 Cash generated from continuing operations 1,569 1,626 29.
Contracted commitments, contingencies and guarantees a Future minimum expenditure contracted for but not recognised in the financial statements Year ending Year ending Year ending Year ending Year ending After Total at Total at 30 June 2012 30 June 2013 30 June 2014 30 June 2015 30 June 2016 5 years 30 June 2011 30 June 2010 m m m m m m m m i Television programme rights 1,102 1,003 370 269 83 95 2,922 3,259 Set-top boxes and related equipment 282 282 266 ii Third party payments 37 34 2 73 134 iii Transponder capacity 92 92 81 84 81 408 838 751 Property, plant and equipment 47 47 41 Intangible assets 27 20 18 18 18 41 142 142 iv Smartcards 49 49 50 50 50 112 360 408 Other 128 47 20 14 9 9 227 197 1,764 1,245 541 435 241 665 4,891 5,198 Foreign currency commitments are translated to pounds sterling at the rate prevailing on the balance sheet date.
i At 30 June 2011, the Group had minimum television programming rights commitments of 2,922 million 2010: 3,259 million, of which 344 million 2010: 412 million related to commitments payable in US dollars for periods of up to seven years 2010: eight years.
Assuming that movie subscriber numbers remain unchanged from current levels, an additional 455 million US$735 million of commitments 2010: 545 million US$886 million would also be payable in US dollars, relating to price escalator clauses.
The pound sterling television programme rights commitments include similar price escalation clauses that would result in additional commitments of 18 million 2010: 24 million if subscriber numbers were to remain at current levels.
ii The third party payment commitments are in respect of distribution agreements for the television channels owned and broadcast by third parties, retailed by the Group to retail and commercial subscribers Sky Distributed Channels and are for periods of up to five years 2010: four years.
The extent of the commitment is largely dependent upon the number of retail subscribers to the relevant Sky Distributed Channels, and in certain cases, upon inflationary increases.
If both the retail subscriber levels to these channels and the rate payable for each Sky Distributed Channel were to remain at current levels subject to inflationary increases, the additional commitment would be 525 million 2010: 521 million.
iii Transponder capacity commitments are in respect of the Astra and Eurobird satellites that the Group uses for digital transmissions to both retail subscribers and cable operators.
The commitments are for periods of up to fourteen years 2010: fifteen years.
iv In December 2008, the Group entered into a new contractual agreement with NDS, a related party, for the provision of smartcards.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 102 Book 1. indb 102 12 10 11 20:47:13 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS b Contingencies and guarantees Certain subsidiaries of the Company have agreed to provide additional funding to several of their investments in limited and unlimited companies and partnerships, in accordance with funding agreements.
Payment of this additional funding would be required if requested by the investees in accordance with the funding agreements.
The maximum potential amount of future payments which may be required to be made by the subsidiaries of the Company to their investments, in both limited and unlimited companies and partnerships under the undertakings and additional funding agreements, is 38 million 2010: 8 million.
The Group has guarantees in place relating to the Groups borrowings, see note 23.
30. operating lease commitments The minimum lease rentals to be paid under non-cancellable operating leases at 30 June are as follows: 2011 2010 m m Within one year 45 51 Between one and two years 33 38 Between two and three years 24 29 Between three and four years 17 21 Between four and five years 14 16 After five years 54 61 187 216 The majority of operating leases relate to property.
The rents payable under these leases are subject to renegotiation at the various intervals specified in the leases.
The minimum sub-lease rentals to be received under non-cancellable operating sub-leases at 30 June are as follows: 2011 2010 m m Within one year 5 3 Between one and two years 5 3 Between two and three years 3 2 Between three and four years 2 1 Between four and five years 2 After five years 8 25 9 Sub-lease rentals primarily relate to property leases.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 103 Book 1. indb 103 12 10 11 20:47:13 CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS NOTeS TO THe CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS continued 31.
Acquisition of subsidiaries living tV Group On 12 July 2010, the Group completed the purchase of 100% of the share capital of virgin Media Television Limited, virgin Media Television Rights Limited, and the assets and liabilities of the virgin Media television channels, subsequently renamed the Living Tv Group Living Tv.
Living Tv operates a portfolio of television channels including Living renamed Sky Living and Challenge which are distributed over various television platforms and generate revenue principally from the sale of advertising airtime and carriage fees paid by PayTv operators such as virgin Media and Sky.
Living Tv was acquired to complement the Groups existing content business and to deliver strategic and financial benefits.
Total consideration comprised 160 million cash after adjustments which included a working capital adjustment.
Net book Fair value Recognised value adjustments values m m m Recognised amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed Intangible assets 80 80 Property, plant and equipment 1 1 Trade and other receivables 36 36 Inventory 88 48 40 Deferred tax asset 24 24 Trade and other payables 93 7 100 32 49 81 Goodwill 79 total consideration 160 Satisfied by: Cash 160 The fair value of the financial assets includes trade receivables with a fair value of 10 million and a gross contractual value of 11 million.
The best estimate at the acquisition date of the contractual cash flows not likely to be collected was 1 million.
Goodwill of 79 million arising from the acquisition is attributable to the anticipated profitability arising from the Groups access to additional viewer demographics, breadth of content and channel slots and the anticipated future operating synergies from the combination.
All of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
Acquisition-related costs included in administration costs in the Groups consolidated income statement, for the year ended 30 June 2011, amounted to 26 million 2010: nil and comprise principally redundancy payments and the early termination of a pre-acquisition contract.
For the period between the date of purchase and 30 June 2011, Living Tv contributed 107 million to the Groups revenue, and 25 million to the Groups profit before tax.
Had the Group completed the purchase of Living Tv on the first day of the financial year, Group revenue and Group profit for the year would not have been materially different from the reported results.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 104 Book 1. indb 104 12 10 11 20:47:14 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS the Cloud On 23 February 2011, the Group completed the purchase of 100% of the share capital of The Cloud Networks Limited The Cloud, a public Wi-Fi network operator.
The acquisition is intended to support the Groups mobile content activities and complement its existing broadband services.
Total consideration of 48 million comprised 43 million of cash and a contingent consideration arrangement of 5 million.
Net book Fair value Recognised value adjustments values m m m Recognised amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed Intangible assets 9 9 Property, plant and equipment 3 3 Trade and other receivables 5 5 Cash and cash equivalents 2 2 Trade and other payables 7 7 Deferred tax liability 2 2 3 7 10 Goodwill 38 total consideration 48 Satisfied by: Cash 43 Contingent consideration arrangement 5 Net cash outflow arising on the purchase of The Cloud Cash paid 43 Cash and cash equivalents acquired 2 41 All amounts in the above table are provisional.
The fair value of the financial assets includes trade receivables with a fair value and gross contractual value of 5 million.
The best estimate at the acquisition date of the contractual cash flows not likely to be collected was less than 1 million.
Goodwill of 38 million arising from the acquisition is attributable to future operating synergies from integrating the services within the Groups broadband business.
None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The contingent consideration arrangement requires The Cloud to achieve certain financial targets within a prescribed timeframe during the next financial year.
The final amount of consideration paid will be dependent on the extent to which The Cloud achieves these targets.
The potential undiscounted amount of all future payments that the Group could be required to make under the contingent consideration arrangement is between nil and 5 million.
5 million has been recognised as the fair value of this arrangement at the acquisition date.
Acquisition-related costs included in administration costs in the Groups consolidated income statement, for the year ended 30 June 2011, amounted to 3 million and comprise principally legal and banking fees.
For the period between the date of purchase and 30 June 2011, The Cloud contributed 7 million to the Groups revenue, and a loss of 1 million to the Groups profit before tax.
Had the Group completed the purchase of The Cloud on the first day of the financial year, it is estimated that The Cloud would have contributed 18 million to Group revenue and a loss of 2 million to the Groups profit for the year.
other acquisitions During the year, the Group also purchased the trade and assets of a marketing database services business belonging to experian plc which resulted in additional goodwill of 5 million.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 105 Book 1. indb 105 12 10 11 20:47:14 CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS NOTeS TO THe CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS continued b joint ventures and associates 32. transactions with related parties and major shareholders Transactions between the Group and its subsidiaries, which are a entities with joint control or significant influence related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the Group and its joint The Group conducts business transactions with companies that are ventures and associates are disclosed below.
part of the News Corporation group News Corporation, a major shareholder: Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are disclosed in the Companys separate 2011 2010 financial statements.
m m Supply of services by the Group 49 32 2011 2010 Purchases of goods or services by the Group 216 197 m m Amounts owed by News Corporation to the Group 10 3 Supply of services by the Group 23 13 Amounts owed to News Corporation by the Group 69 70 Purchases of goods or services by the Group 57 55 Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates Services supplied to news Corporation to the Group 26 26 During the year, the Group supplied programming, telephony, airtime, Amounts owed to joint ventures and associates transmission, marketing, consultancy services and set-top boxes to by the Group 5 4 News Corporation.
purchases of goods and services and certain other relationships Services supplied are primarily the provision of transponder with news Corporation capacity, marketing, airtime sales and support services.
Purchases During the year, the Group purchased programming, digital represent fees payable for channel carriage.
Amounts owed by equipment, smartcards and encryption services, set-top box joint ventures and associates include 19 million 2010: 20 million technologies, advertising, IT services and rental premises from News relating to loan funding.
These loans bear interest at rates of three Corporation companies.
month LIBOR plus 0.45%, six month LIBOR plus 1.5% and one month and six month LIBOR plus 1%.
The maximum amount of loan funding News Corporation has entered into an agreement with the Group outstanding in total from joint ventures and associates during the pursuant to which it has been agreed that, for so long as News year was 20 million 2010: 20 million.
Corporation directly or indirectly holds an interest of 30% or more in the Group, News Corporation will not engage in the business of The Group took out a number of forward exchange contracts with satellite broadcasting in the UK or Ireland.
counterparty banks during the year on behalf of the joint venture AeTN UK.
On the same dates as these forward contracts were On 5 April 2011, the Group sold its investment in Shine to News entered into, the Group entered into equal and opposite contracts Corporation for a maximum consideration of 36 million, of which with AeTN UK in respect of these forward contracts.
31 million has been received to date see note 6.
Consequently, the Group was not exposed to any of the net gains On 15 June 2010, News Corporation announced a proposal relating or losses on these forward contracts.
The face value of forward to a possible offer for the entire issued share capital of the exchange contracts that had not matured as at 30 June 2011 was Company not already owned by News Corporation the Proposal.
News Corporation confirmed that the Proposal did not amount to a During the year, US$4 million 2010: US$3 million was paid to the firm intention to make an offer under Rule 2.5 of the Takeover Code joint ventures upon maturity of forward exchange contracts and and there was no obligation on News Corporation to make such an less than US$1 million 2010: US$2 million was received from joint offer and therefore that it could withdraw the Proposal at its sole ventures upon maturity of forward exchange contracts.
At the time of the Proposal the Company and News Corporation entered into an agreement which provided, During the year, 3 million 2010: 2 million was received from the amongst other matters, that if News Corporation announced prior joint ventures upon maturity of forward exchange contracts, and to obtaining merger clearance that it did not intend to make a less than 1 million 2010: 2 million was paid to the joint ventures firm offer, then News Corporation would pay the Company a fee of upon maturity of forward exchange contracts.
38.5 million, representing 0.5% of the value of the Proposal the During the year, 1 million 2010: nil was received from joint ventures Break Fee.
upon maturity of forward exchange contracts.
On 13 July 2011, prior to obtaining merger clearance, News Corporation announced that it no longer intended to make an offer for the entire issued share capital of the Company that it did not already own the Proposal Withdrawal.
The Break Fee has now been paid.
Costs of 15 million were incurred during the year in relation to the Proposal.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 106 Book 1. indb 106 12 10 11 20:47:14 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS c other transactions with related parties A close family member of one Director of the Company who served during the year had a controlling interest in Shine in which the Group also had an equity shareholding, until Shine was acquired by News Corporation on 5 April 2011 see note 6.
Shine continues to be a related party of the Group and transactions with Shine are included within the balances disclosed in note 32a.
A close family member of one Director of the Company runs Freud entertainment Limited Freud, which has provided external support to the press and publicity activities of the Group.
During the year the Group incurred expenditure amounting to 2 million 2010: 1 million with Freud.
At 30 June 2011 there was 1 million 2010: nil due to Freud.
In addition to the foregoing, the Group has engaged in a number of transactions with companies of which some of the Companys Directors are also directors.
These do not meet the definition of Related Party Transactions.
d key management The Group has a related party relationship with the Directors of the Group.
At 30 June 2011, there were 14 2010: 14 members of key management all of whom were Directors of the Company.
Key management compensation is disclosed in note 8b.
33. events after the reporting period On 13 July 2011, News Corporation announced that it no longer intended to make an offer for the entire issued and to be issued share capital of the Company not already owned by News Corporation.
A break fee of 38.5 million has now been received and will exceed all of the Groups direct costs associated with the Proposal.
For further details see note 32.
On 28 July 2011, the Board agreed to seek the necessary approvals to return 750 million of capital to shareholders via a share buy-back programme.
Shareholder approvals will be sought at the Companys AGM on 29 November 2011.
The Company has entered into an agreement with News Corporation under which, following any market purchases of shares by the Company, News Corporation will sell to the Company sufficient shares to maintain its percentage shareholding at the same level as applied prior to those market purchases.
The price payable to News Corporation will be the price payable by the Company in respect of the relevant market purchases.
The agreement is conditional on the appropriate shareholder approvals being granted.
The effect of the agreement is to provide that there will be no change in News Corporations economic or voting interests in the Company as a result of the share buy-back programme.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 107 Book 1. indb 107 12 10 11 20:47:14 CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS NOTeS TO THe CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS continued 34.
Group investments The significant investments of the Company which principally affect the consolidated results and total assets of the Group are as follows: Name Country of Description and proportion Principal activity incorporation of shares held % Subsidiaries: Direct holdings of the Company British Sky Broadcasting Limited england and Wales 10,002,002 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% Operation of pay television broadcasting and home communications services in the UK and Ireland British Interactive Broadcasting england and Wales 651,960 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% Parent of a company providing the transmission of Holdings Limited interactive services BSkyB Finance UK plc england and Wales 50,000 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% Finance company Subsidiaries: Indirect holdings of the Company Sky Subscribers Services Limited england and Wales 3 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% The provision of ancillary functions supporting the pay television broadcasting, residential broadband and telephone operations of the Group Sky Holdings Limited england and Wales 600 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% Holding company Sky In-Home Service Limited england and Wales 1,576,000 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% The supply, installation and maintenance of satellite television receiving equipment BSkyB Publications Limited england and Wales 2 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% The supply of magazines Sky Interactive Limited england and Wales 659,000,003 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% The provision of interactive television services BSkyB LLU Assets Limited england and Wales 121,309,090 ordinary shares of 0.04 each 100% Parent of companies managing the network assets in the UK Sky ventures Limited england and Wales 912 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% Holding company 365 Media Group Limited england and Wales 172 ordinary shares of 0.01 each 100% Production and sale of sports content for internet, text, radio and mobile Living Tv Group Holdings Limited england and Wales 2 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% The transmission of general entertainment programming Sky IQ Limited england and Wales 100 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% Provision of data base activities The Cloud Networks Limited england and Wales 30,583,988 shares of 0.00025 per share 100% Provision of telecommunications Joint ventures and associates: i Nickelodeon UK Limited england and Wales 104 B Shares of 0.01 each 40% The transmission of childrens television channels AeTN UK england and Wales 50,000 A Shares of 1 each 50% The transmission of history, biography, crime and investigation television programming i ii Paramount UK Partnership england and Wales Partnership interest 25% The transmission of general entertainment comedy channels Australian News Channel Pty Limited Australia 1 ordinary share of AUD$1 33.33% The transmission of news and business channels NGC Network International LLC United States of America Partnership interest 21% The transmission of natural history and adventure channels NGC Network Latin America LLC United States of America Partnership interest 21% The transmission of natural history and adventure channels MUTv Limited england and Wales 800 B Shares of 1 each 33.33% The transmission, production and marketing of the Manchester United football channel i Attheraces Holdings Limited england and Wales 1,500 ordinary shares of 1 each 45.85%, The transmission of a horse racing channel and 20 Recoupment Shares of 0.01 each related online activities Chelsea Digital Media Limited england and Wales 42,648 B Shares of 0.01 each 35% and 7 million The transmission, production and marketing of the redeemable preference shares of 1 each Chelsea Football Club football channel and website MGM Channel UK Limited england and Wales 50 ordinary shares of 1 each 50% The transmission of classic movies in HD Sky News Arabia United Arab emirates 6,666,666 shares of US$1 each 50% The transmission of Arabic News in the MeNA region Middle east and North Africa Investments: i ITv england and Wales 291,684,730 ordinary shares of 0.10 each The transmission of free-to-air channels 7.499999965% notes: i These entities have an accounting reference date of 31 December.
ii The registered address of Paramount UK Partnership is 180 Oxford Street, London, W1D 1DS.
The Paramount UK Partnership is a joint venture of the Group and is included within the consolidated accounts in accordance with Note 1 c ii.
Consequently, the Paramount UK Partnership has taken advantage of the exemption within the Partnerships Accounts Regulations 2008 regulation 7 from filing annual financial statements.
iii This note sets out an abbreviated list of the subsidiaries of the Company.
A full list had been filed with Companies House in accordance with section 410 of the Companies Act 2006.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 108 Book 1. indb 108 12 10 11 20:47:14 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS 35.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Company only financial statements Company Income Statement for the year ended 30 June 2011 2011 2010 Notes m m revenue 192 170 Operating expense 28 16 operating profit 164 154 Dividend income from subsidiaries O 3,445 Investment income B 63 76 Finance costs B 65 71 Impairment of investment e 1,829 56 profit before tax C 1,778 103 Taxation D 38 44 profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders 1,740 59 The accompanying notes are an integral part of this income statement.
Company Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year ended 30 June 2011 2011 2010 m m profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders 1,740 59 Other comprehensive income Amounts recognised directly in equity Loss gain on cash flow hedges 23 38 Tax on cash flow hedges 6 11 17 27 Amounts reclassified and reported in the income statement Gain loss on cash flow hedges 27 35 Tax on cash flow hedges 7 10 20 25 other comprehensive income for the year net of tax 3 2 total comprehensive income for the year attributable to equity shareholders 1,743 61 The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement of comprehensive income.
All results relate to continuing operations.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 109 Book 1. indb 109 12 10 11 20:47:14 CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS NOTeS TO THe CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS continued 35.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Company only financial statements continued Company Balance Sheet as at 30 June 2011 2011 2010 Notes m m Non-current assets Investments in subsidiaries e 8,056 4,722 Other receivables G 6 8 Derivative financial assets J 272 349 8,334 5,079 Current assets Other receivables G 1,406 3,432 Cash and cash equivalents 4 1,410 3,432 total assets 9,744 8,511 Current liabilities Other payables I 2,256 2,340 Non-current liabilities Borrowings H 1,154 1,219 Derivative financial liabilities J 181 203 Deferred tax liabilities F 3 1,338 1,422 total liabilities 3,594 3,762 Share capital 876 876 Share premium 1,437 1,437 Reserves 3,837 2,436 total equity attributable to equity shareholders 6,150 4,749 total liabilities and shareholders equity 9,744 8,511 The accompanying notes are an integral part of this balance sheet.
These financial statements of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc, registered number 2247735, have been approved by the Board of Directors on 28 July 2011 and were signed on its behalf by: Jeremy Darroch Andrew Griffith Chief executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Company Cash Flow Statement for the year ended 30 June 2011 2011 2010 Notes m m Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from operations M net cash from operating activities Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from the exercise of share options 32 47 Loan to subsidiaries 28 47 net cash used in financing activities 4 net increase in cash and cash equivalents 4 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 4 The accompanying notes are an integral part of this cash flow statement.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 110 Book 1. indb 110 12 10 11 20:47:15 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS Company Statement of Changes in equity for the year ended 30 June 2011 Capital Total Share Share Special redemption Capital eSOP Hedging Retained Shareholders capital premium reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings equity m m m m m m m m m At 1 july 2009 876 1,437 14 95 844 73 2 1,821 5,012 Profit for the year 59 59 Recognition and transfer of cash flow hedges 3 3 Tax on items taken directly to equity 1 1 total comprehensive income for the year 2 59 61 Share-based payment 26 36 10 Dividends 314 314 At 30 june 2010 876 1,437 14 95 844 47 1,530 4,749 Profit for the year 1,740 1,740 Recognition and transfer of cash flow hedges 4 4 Tax on items taken directly to equity 1 1 total comprehensive income for the year 3 1,740 1,743 Share-based payment 60 71 11 Dividends 353 353 At 30 june 2011 876 1,437 14 95 844 107 3 2,988 6,150 For a description of the nature and purpose of each equity reserve, see note L. The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement of changes in equity.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 111 Book 1. indb 111 12 10 11 20:47:15 CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS NOTeS TO THe CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS continued 35.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Company only financial statements continued A.
Accounting policies C. profit before taxation British Sky Broadcasting Group plc the Company is a limited employee benefits liability company incorporated in england and Wales, and domiciled The Company had no employees 2010: nil during the year.
key management compensation i Basis of preparation Amounts paid to the Directors of the Company are disclosed in the The Company financial statements have been prepared in Report on Directors remuneration on pages 49-58. accordance with IFRS, consistent with the accounting policies set D. taxation out in note 1 of the Companys consolidated financial statements.
i taxation recognised in the income statement ii revenue Revenue, which excludes value added tax, represents gross inflow of 2011 2010 economic benefit from the Companys operating activities.
Revenue m m is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or Current tax expense receivable.
The Companys main source of revenue is from licensing Current year 43 44 the Companys brand name asset to subsidiaries.
This revenue Adjustment in respect of prior years 7 is recognised on an accruals basis under the terms of relevant total current tax charge 36 44 licensing agreements.
Deferred tax expense Origination and reversal of temporary differences 2 iii Investment in subsidiaries total deferred tax charge 2 An investment in a subsidiary is recognised at cost less any provision taxation 38 44 for impairment.
As permitted by section 133 of the Companies Act 2006, where the relief afforded under section 131 of the Companies ii Deferred tax recognised directly in equity Act 2006 applies, cost is the aggregate of the nominal value of 2011 2010 the relevant number of the Companys shares and the fair value of m m any other consideration given to acquire the share capital of the Deferred tax charge on hedging activities 1 1 subsidiary undertakings.
iii reconciliation of effective tax rate B.
Investment income and finance costs The tax expense for the year is lower 2010: higher than the expense that would have been charged using the standard rate of 2011 2010 m m corporation tax in the UK 27.5% applied to profit before tax.
The Investment income applicable enacted or substantively enacted effective rate of UK Investment income from subsidiaries 63 76 corporation tax for the year was 27.5% 2010: 28%.
The differences are explained below: 2011 2010 m m 2011 2010 Finance costs m m Interest payable and similar charges Profit before tax 1,778 103 Revolving Credit Facility RCF 6 11 Profit before tax multiplied by standard rate of Guaranteed Notes see note H 68 69 corporation tax in the UK of 27.5% 2010: 28% 489 29 74 80 effects of: Other finance income expense Non-taxable income 947 Remeasurement of borrowings and Non-deductible expenditure 503 15 borrowings-related derivative financial Over provision in respect of prior years 7 instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting 8 9 taxation 38 44 Loss gain arising on derivatives in a designated fair value hedge accounting All taxation relates to UK corporation tax.
relationship 1 26 Gain loss arising on adjustment for hedged item in a designated fair value hedge accounting relationship 2 26 9 9 65 71 AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 112 Book 1. indb 112 12 10 11 20:47:15 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS During the year, the Company purchased the assets and liabilities e. Investments in subsidiaries of BSkyB Investments Limited and on the same date agreed to m cancel the outstanding intercompany loans to BSkyB Investments Cost Limited as consideration for the purchase.
These loans accrued At 1 July 2009 5,743 interest at 1 month LIBOR plus 0.75%.
Additions 40 Impairment 56 On 5 March 2009, the Company made a loan of 694 million to At 30 june 2010 5,727 British Sky Broadcasting Limited which is repayable on demand Additions 5,163 and bears interest at a rate of 6 month LIBOR.
In October 2009, Impairment 1,829 the Company assigned 604 million of this loan to settle payables At 30 june 2011 9,061 with BSkyB Finance Limited.
Provision On 13 January 2009, the Company made a loan of 252 million to At 1 July 2009, 30 June 2010 and 30 June 2011 1,005 British Sky Broadcasting Limited.
This loan bears interest at a rate Carrying amounts of 6 month LIBOR plus 1.00% and is repayable on demand.
At 1 July 2009 4,738 At 30 June 2010 4,722 On 13 January 2009, the Company made a loan of 91 million to Sky At 30 june 2011 8,056 In-Home Service Limited.
This loan is repayable on demand and bears interest at a rate of 6 month LIBOR plus 1.00%.
During the year, the Company purchased the assets and liabilities of BSkyB Investments Limited which included its investment of On 24 November 2008, the Company issued US$600 million 5,150 million in British Sky Broadcasting Limited.
The Company Guranteed Notes with a coupon rate of 9.5% and loaned the proceeds to BSkyB Finance Limited.
BSkyB Finance Limited pays now holds 100% of the share capital of British Sky Broadcasting Limited.
Following this purchase, BSkyB Investments Limited was the same annual effective interest rate to the Company.
The Company recognised an impairment of On 29 June 2008, the Company entered into the following loan 1,805 million for its investment in BSkyB Investments Limited.
agreements with British Sky Broadcasting Limited: See note 34 for a list of significant investments of the Company.
143 million and 109 million, both bearing interest at a rate of 1 month LIBOR plus 0.75%.
These loans are repayable on F. Deferred tax demand.
recognised deferred tax liabilities assets 11 million at an interest rate of 12 month LIBOR plus 0.75%.
In Financial June 2011, this loan and the accrued interest was paid in full.
instruments temporary On 29 June 2008, Sky ventures Limited transferred its 11 million differences loan receivable from BSkyB Finance Limited to the Company.
This m At 1 July 2009 1 loan bears interest at a rate of 1 month LIBOR plus 0.75% and is Charge to equity 1 repayable on demand.
At 30 june 2010 On 29 June 2008, the Company entered into a RCF with BSkyB Charge to income 2 Finance Limited worth 40 million.
Amounts loaned under this Charge to equity 1 facility bear interest at a rate of 1 month LIBOR plus 0.75% and is At 30 june 2011 3 repayable on demand.
At 30 June 2011, a deferred tax asset of 324 million 2010: On 15 February 2008, the Company issued US$750 million 349 million has not been recognised in respect of potential capital Guaranteed Notes with a coupon rate of 6.100% and loaned losses related to the Groups holding of KirchPayTv, on the basis the proceeds to British Sky Broadcasting Limited.
British Sky that utilisation of these temporary differences is not probable.
At Broadcasting Limited pays the same annual effective interest rate 30 June 2011, the Company has also not recognised a deferred tax to the Company.
asset of 1 million 2010: 1 million relating to provisions in respect All other amounts receivable from subsidiaries are non-interest of football club investments, on the basis that it is not probable that bearing and are also repayable on demand.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of other G. other receivables receivables approximates their fair values.
2011 2010 The Companys credit risk is primarily attributable to its other m m receivables.
The majority of its other receivables balance is Amounts receivable from subsidiaries 1,406 3,430 due from British Sky Broadcasting Limited.
The risk of this Accrued income 2 entity defaulting on amounts owed is considered low due to its Current other receivables 1,406 3,432 successful operation of a pay television broadcasting service in Non-current prepayment 6 8 the UK and Ireland.
total other receivables 1,412 3,440 AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 113 Book 1. indb 113 12 10 11 20:47:15 CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS NOTeS TO THe CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS continued 35.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Company only financial statements continued H. Borrowings 2011 2010 m m Non-current borrowings US$750 million of 6.100% Guaranteed Notes repayable in February 2018 476 511 US$582.8 million of 9.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2018 383 413 300 million of 6.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in May 2027 295 295 1,154 1,219 See note 23 for details of the Companys Guaranteed Notes and RCF and note 25 for details of Capital Risk Management.
I. other payables 2011 2010 m m Other payables Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 2,238 2,321 Accruals 18 19 2,256 2,340 Amounts payable to subsidiaries are non-interest bearing and repayable on demand.
The balance comprises 725 million of non-interest bearing loans 2010: 1,216 million and 1,513 million of other payables 2010: 1,105 million.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of other payables approximates their fair values.
j. Derivatives and other financial instruments Fair values Set out below is a comparison of the carrying values and the estimated fair values of the Companys financial assets and financial liabilities at 30 June 2011 and 30 June 2010: 2011 2011 2010 2010 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair value value value value m m m m Financial assets and liabilities held or issued to finance the Companys operations Quoted bond debt 1,154 1,317 1,219 1,382 Derivative financial instruments 91 91 146 146 Other payables and receivables 850 850 1,092 1,092 The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as detailed in note 24 and all items held at fair value are classified as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 114 Book 1. indb 114 12 10 11 20:47:15 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS Set out below are the derivative financial instruments entered into by the Company to manage its interest rate and foreign exchange risk.
2011 2010 Asset Liability Asset Liability Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional m m m m m m m m Fair value hedges Interest rate swaps 46 481 47 514 Cash flow hedges Cross-currency swaps 65 290 87 290 Derivatives not in a formal hedge relationship Interest rate swaps 49 331 49 331 51 351 51 351 Cross-currency swaps 112 724 132 1,017 164 724 152 1,018 total 272 1,826 181 1,348 349 1,879 203 1,369 Note 24 provides further details of the Groups derivative and other financial instruments.
The maturity of the derivative financial instruments is shown below: 2011 2010 Asset Liability Asset Liability m m m m Between two and five years 86 86 In more than five years 186 95 349 203 total 272 181 349 203 k. Financial risk management Interest rate and foreign exchange risk management The Company manages its exposure to interest rates and foreign exchange movements, which arise from the Companys sources of finance by selectively entering into derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure.
The Company has also entered into derivative contracts on behalf of its subsidiary BSkyB Finance UK plc, and has back-to-back intercompany contracts.
Foreign exchange risk The following analysis details the Companys sensitivity to movements in pounds sterling against all currencies in which it has significant transactions.
The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated financial instruments and adjusts their translation at the period end for a 25% change in foreign currency rates, representing the maximum currency exposure reported to management on a regular basis.
A 25% strengthening in pounds sterling against the US dollar would have an adverse impact on profit of 27 million 2010: adverse impact of 33 million, relating to non-cash movements in the valuation of derivatives.
The same strengthening would have an adverse impact on other equity of 15 million 2010: adverse impact of 17 million.
A 25% weakening in pounds sterling against the US dollar would have a beneficial impact on profit of 45 million 2010: beneficial impact of 55 million, relating to non-cash movements in the valuation of derivatives.
The same weakening would have a beneficial impact on other equity of 25 million 2010: beneficial impact of 28 million.
Interest rate risk The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivatives and non-derivative financial instruments at the balance sheet date.
For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
For each one hundred basis point rise or fall in interest rates at 30 June 2011, and if all other variables were held constant, the Companys profit for the year ended 30 June 2011 would decrease or increase by 3 million 2010: decrease or increase by 5 million and other equity reserves would decrease or increase by 5 million 2010: decrease or increase by 6 million.
A one hundred basis point rise or fall in interest rates represents a large but realistic movement which can easily be multiplied to give sensitivities at different interest rates.
The sensitivity analyses provided are hypothetical only and should be used with caution as the impacts provided are not necessarily indicative of the actual impacts that would be experienced because the effect of a change in a particular market variable on fair values or cash flows is calculated without considering interrelationships between the various market rates or mitigating actions that would be taken by the Company.
In addition, the Companys actual exposure to market rates changes as the Companys portfolio of debt changes.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 115 Book 1. indb 115 12 10 11 20:47:16 CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS NOTeS TO THe CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS continued 35.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Company only financial statements continued k. Financial risk management continued The changes in valuations are estimates of the impact of changes in market variables and are not a prediction of future events or anticipated gains or losses.
liquidity risk See note 25 for the Companys policy on liquidity management.
The following table analyses the Companys non-derivative financial liabilities, net settled interest rate swaps and gross settled currency swaps and collars into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
These amounts may not reconcile to the amounts disclosed on the balance sheet for borrowings, derivative financial instruments and other payables.
Between Between Less than one and two and More than 12 months two years five years five years m m m m At 30 June 2011 Non-derivative financial liabilities Bonds USD 63 63 189 976 Bonds GBP 18 18 54 498 Other payables 2,256 Net settled derivatives Financial assets 18 18 56 44 Gross settled derivatives Outflow 49 49 146 887 Inflow 45 45 134 931 Between Between Less than one and two and More than 12 months two years five years five years m m m m At 30 June 2010 Non-derivative financial liabilities Bonds USD 68 68 203 1,111 Bonds GBP 18 18 54 516 Other payables 2,340 Net settled derivatives Financial assets 19 19 57 65 Gross settled derivatives Outflow 48 48 143 933 Inflow 48 48 145 1,046 At 30 June 2011, the Company had an undrawn 750 million RCF with a maturity date of 30 July 2013.
See note 23 for further information.
l. notes to the Company statement of changes in equity For details of share capital, share premium, the special reserve, the capital redemption reserve and the hedging reserve see notes 26 and 27.
For details of dividends, see note 12.
Capital reserve This reserve arose from the surplus on the transfer of trade and assets to a subsidiary undertaking.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 116 Book 1. indb 116 12 10 11 20:47:16 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms CONSOLIDATeD FINANCIAL STATeMeNTS m. reconciliation of profit before taxation to cash generated from operations 2011 2010 m m profit before taxation 1,778 103 Dividend income 3,445 Impairment of investment 1,829 56 Net finance costs income 2 5 Decrease increase in other receivables 2,039 974 Decrease increase in other payables 2,203 820 Cash generated from operations n. Contingent liabilities and guarantees The Company and certain of its subsidiaries have undertaken, in the normal course of business, to provide support to several of the Groups investments in both limited and unlimited companies and partnerships, to meet their liabilities as they fall due.
Several of these undertakings contain maximum financial limits.
These undertakings have been given for at least one year from the date of the signing of the UK statutory accounts of the related entity.
A payment under these undertakings would be required in the event of an investment being unable to pay its liabilities.
The Company has provided parent company guarantees in respect of the various contracts entered into with the PL by British Sky Broadcasting Limited covering the 2010 11 to 2012 13 football seasons.
In each case the guarantee covers all payment obligations now or in the future due, owing or incurred by British Sky Broadcasting Limited under the contracts and all liabilities now or in the future arising or incurred under the indemnity given to the PL by British Sky Broadcasting Limited under the contracts.
The Company has provided a parent company guarantee in respect of the contract entered into with British Sky Broadcasting Limited and Stanhope Plc in relation to the construction of a new building at the Osterley Campus.
The guarantee covers all performance obligations and payment obligations imposed on British Sky Broadcasting Limited under that contract.
The Company has provided a limited parent company guarantee in respect of a credit facility provided to BSkyB Publications Limited by Royal Mail Group plc in relation to the delivery of customer magazines.
The guarantee covers all payment obligations of BSkyB Publications Limited and is capped at 2 million together with interest.
The Company has guarantees in place relating to the Groups borrowings, see note 23. o. transactions with related parties and major shareholders 2011 2010 m m Supply of services to subsidiaries 192 162 Interest received from funding to subsidiaries 63 76 Amounts owed by subsidiaries 1,406 3,432 Amounts owed to subsidiaries 2,238 2,321 The Company has related party transactions with its subsidiaries by virtue of its status as parent company of the Group.
In particular, it is normal treasury practice for the Company to lend and borrow cash to and from its subsidiaries as required.
Under this policy, British Sky Broadcasting Limited settled liabilities of 66 million 2010: 87 million on behalf of the Company, during the year.
Interest is earned on certain loans to subsidiaries.
The Company recognised 192 million 2010: 162 million for licensing the Sky brand name to subsidiaries.
The Company recognised dividends during the year from subsidiaries totalling 3,445 million 2010: less than 1 million primarily due to the liquidation of BSkyB Investments Limited.
On 15 June 2010, News Corporation announced a proposal relating to a possible offer for the entire share capital of the Company not already owned by News Corporation.
On 13 July 2011, this proposal was withdrawn.
The Groups related party transactions are disclosed in note 32. p. events after the reporting period For details of the withdrawal of the News Corporation proposal, see note 32.
For details of the Companys share buy-back programme, see note 33.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 117 Book 1. indb 117 12 10 11 20:47:16
