Financial Statements Accounting policies Basis of preparation IAS 12 amendment Deferred tax: recovery of underlying assets: The Consolidated Group and Parent Company Financial IAS 19 revised Employee benefits: Statements of International Personal Finance plc and its subsidiaries IPF or the Group have been prepared in IAS 27 revised Separate Financial Statements: and accordance with European Union endorsed International IAS 32 amendment Offsetting financial assets and financial Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, International Financial liabilities.
Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting Accounting convention under IFRS.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared The following new standards, amendments to standards and under the historical cost convention, as modified by the interpretations are mandatory for the first time for the financial revaluation of derivative financial instruments at fair value.
year beginning 1 January 2011 but do not have any impact on The principal accounting policies, which have been applied the Group: consistently, are set out in the following paragraphs.
Amendment to IFRS 1 January 2010, Limited exemption Going concern from comparative IFRS 7 disclosures for first-time adopters: The directors have, at the time of approving the Financial International Accounting Standards IAS 24 revised November Statements, a reasonable expectation that the Group and 2009 Related party disclosures: Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to Amendment to IAS 32 October 2009 Classification of adopt the going concern basis of accounting in the Financial rights issues: Statements.
Further detail is contained in the directors Improvements to IFRSs 2010 May 2010 : statement on page 37.
Amendments to IFRIC 14 November 2009 Prepayments Consolidation of a minimum funding requirement: and These Consolidated Financial Statements include the financial IFRIC 19 Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity results of all companies which are controlled by the Group.
Control exists where the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain The following standards, interpretations and amendments benefits from its activities.
All companies are 100% owned to existing standards are not yet effective and have not been by IPF plc Group companies.
A list of the principal subsidiaries early adopted by the Group: in the Group is included in note 12.
IFRS 7 amendment Disclosures offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities: Finance costs Finance costs comprise the interest on external borrowings IFRS 7 amendment Disclosures transfers of financial assets: which are recognised on an effective interest rate EIR basis, IFRS 9 Financial instruments.
This standard is the first and gains or losses on derivative contracts taken to the income step in the process to replace IAS 39, Financial instruments: statement.
IFRS 9 introduces new requirements for classifying and measuring financial assets Segment reporting and is likely to affect the Groups accounting for its financial The Groups operating segments are reported in a manner assets.
The standard is not applicable until 1 January 2015 and consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief has not yet been endorsed by the European Union, however, operating decision maker.
The chief operating decision maker, is available for early adoption.
The Group is in the process of who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing assessing IFRS 9s full impact: performance of operating segments, has been identified as the Board.
A geographical IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements: segment is a component of the Group that operates within a IFRS 13 Fair value measurements: particular economic environment and that is subject to risks and returns that are different from those of components IAS 1 amendment Presentation of items of other operating in other economic environments.
co. uk annualreport Financial Statements 79 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 Financial Statements Accounting policies continued Revenue In the Parent Company Financial Statements, in accordance Revenue, which excludes value added tax and intra-Group with IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and treasury share transactions, transactions, comprises revenue earned on amounts receivable the fair value of providing share-based payments to employees from customers.
Revenue on customer receivables is calculated of subsidiary companies is treated as an increase in the using an EIR.
The EIR is calculated using estimated cash flows, investment in subsidiaries.
being contractual payments adjusted for the impact of customers paying early but excluding the anticipated impact of customers Exceptional items paying late or not paying at all.
The Group classifies as exceptional those significant items that are one-off in nature and do not reflect the underlying Directly attributable issue costs are also taken into account in performance of the Group.
Interest income continues to be accrued on impaired receivables using the original EIR applied to the loans Financial instruments carrying value.
Amounts receivable from customers The accounting for amounts receivable from customers is All customer receivables are initially recognised at the amount considered further below.
loaned to the customer plus directly attributable incremental issue costs.
After initial recognition, customer receivables are Leases subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Amortised cost The leases entered into by the Group are solely operating is the amount of the customer receivable at initial recognition leases.
Costs in respect of operating leases are charged to the less customer repayments, plus revenue earned calculated income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
using the EIR, less any deduction for impairment.
Customer receivables are classified as loans and receivables in accordance Leases are classified as operating leases whenever the terms of with IAS 39. the lease do not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group.
All customer receivables are assessed for impairment each week.
Customer accounts that are in arrears those that have Other operating costs missed any portion of a contractual payment are deemed to Other operating costs include agent commission, marketing have demonstrated evidence of impairment and are subject to costs and foreign exchange gains and losses.
All other costs an impairment review.
Impairment is calculated using actuarial are included in administrative expenses.
models which use historical payment performance to generate the estimated amount and timing of future cash flows from Share-based payments each arrears stage.
These estimated future cash flows are The cost of providing share-based payments to employees is discounted to a present value using the original EIR and this charged to the income statement over the vesting period of the figure is compared with the balance sheet value.
The corresponding credit is made to retained earnings.
The unwinding of the discounted value used to compute the The cost is based on the fair value of awards granted, determined impairment is reflected in the interest charged on the impaired using a Monte Carlo simulation option pricing model or binomial loan.
Impairment charges in respect of customer receivables option pricing model depending on the type of award.
are charged to the income statement.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest as a Cash and cash equivalents result of the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand.
The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is Cash also includes those balances held by agents for operational recognised in the income statement such that the cumulative purposes.
Bank overdrafts are presented in current liabilities expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding to the extent that there is no right of offset with cash balances.
80 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 Financial Statements Derivative financial instruments Trade payables The Group uses derivative financial instruments, principally Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and interest rate swaps and forward currency contracts, to manage subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective the interest rate and currency risks arising from the Groups interest method.
No transactions of a speculative nature are undertaken.
Intangible assets Intangible assets comprise computer software.
Computer All derivative financial instruments are assessed against the software is capitalised as an intangible asset on the basis of the hedge accounting criteria set out in IAS 39.
The majority of the costs incurred to acquire or develop the specific software and Groups derivatives are cash flow hedges of highly probable bring it into use.
All intangible assets are internally generated.
forecast transactions and meet the hedge accounting requirements of IAS 39.
The Group also uses some foreign currency contracts Computer software is amortised within administrative which do not qualify for hedge accounting as they do not hedge expenses on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful a specific future transaction.
These contracts are used to reduce economic life which is generally estimated to be five years.
the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on the reported results.
The residual values and economic lives are reviewed by Derivatives are initially recognised at the fair value on the date management at each balance sheet date.
a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at each reporting date at their fair value.
Where Investments in subsidiaries derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, movements Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost, where cost is in their fair value are recognised immediately within the equal to the fair value of the consideration used to acquire the income statement.
Investments are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value For derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges and may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for where the hedge accounting criteria are met, the effective the amount by which the investment carrying value exceeds portion of changes in the fair value is recognised in other the higher of the assets value in use or its fair value less costs comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the to sell.
ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement as part of finance costs.
Amounts accumulated Property, plant and equipment in equity are recognised in the income statement when the Property, plant and equipment is shown at cost less income or expense on the hedged item is recognised in the subsequent depreciation and impairment.
invoiced cost plus any other costs that are directly attributable The Group discontinues hedge accounting when: to the acquisition of the items.
Repairs and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.
it is evident from testing that a derivative is not, or has ceased to be, highly effective as a hedge: Depreciation is calculated to write down assets to their the derivative expires, or is sold, terminated or exercised: or estimated realisable value over their useful economic lives.
The following are the principal bases used: the underlying hedged item matures or is sold or repaid.
Category Depreciation rate Method Borrowings Fixtures and fittings 10% Straight-line Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, being Equipment including their issue proceeds net of any transaction costs incurred.
computer hardware 20% to 33.3% Straight-line Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any Motor vehicles 25% Reducing balance difference between proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over The residual value and useful economic life of all assets are the expected life of the borrowings using the EIR.
Borrowings reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an date.
All items of property, plant and equipment are tested for unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised through the income statement for the amount by which the assets carrying value exceeds the higher of the assets value in use or its fair value less costs to sell.
co. uk annualreport Financial Statements 81 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 Financial Statements Accounting policies continued Share capital Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable IPF plc has only ordinary share capital.
These shares, with on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and a nominal value of 10 pence per share, are classified as equity.
liabilities in the Financial Statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is Shares held by employee trust accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
The net amount paid by the employee trust to acquire shares is Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising held in a separate reserve and shown as a reduction in equity.
on investments in subsidiaries except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group Foreign currency translation and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse Items included in the Financial Statements of each of the in the future.
Groups subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the subsidiary Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is operates the functional currency.
The Groups financial probable that future taxable profit will be available against information is presented in sterling.
which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Transactions that are not denominated in a subsidiarys functional Employee benefits currency are recorded at the rate of exchange ruling at the date Defined benefit pension plan of the transaction.
The charge or credit in the income statement in respect of Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies the defined benefit pension plan comprises the actuarially are translated into the relevant functional currency at the rates assessed current service cost of working employees together of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Differences with the interest charge on pension liabilities offset by the arising on translation are charged or credited to the income expected return on pension scheme assets.
All charges or statement, except when deferred in other comprehensive credits are allocated to administrative expenses.
income as qualifying cash flow hedges.
The asset or obligation recognised in the balance sheet in The income statements of the Group subsidiaries none respect of the defined benefit pension plan is the fair value of of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy the plans assets less the present value of the defined benefit that have a functional currency different from sterling are obligation at the balance sheet date.
translated into sterling at the average exchange rate and the The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually balance sheets are translated at the exchange rates ruling by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit at each balance sheet date.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows translation of the net investment in foreign subsidiaries, and using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that have of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related hedges of such investments, are taken to other comprehensive pension liability.
When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange Cumulative actuarial gains and losses arising from experience differences are recognised in the income statement as part adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised of the gain or loss on sale.
immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
Taxation Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income The tax expense represents the sum of current and deferred statement unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional tax.
Current tax is calculated based on taxable profit for the on the employees remaining in service for a specified period year using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past service costs enacted by the balance sheet date.
Taxable profit differs from are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
profit before taxation as reported in the income statement The Parent Company share of the defined benefit retirement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable obligation is based on the proportion of total Group contributions or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that made by the Parent Company.
are never taxable or deductible.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
82 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 Financial Statements Defined contribution plans Tax Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are The Group is subject to tax in a number of international charged to the income statement on an accruals basis.
jurisdictions as well as the UK.
In some cases, due to the unusual features of home credit, the tax treatment of certain Key assumptions and estimates items cannot be determined with certainty until the operation In applying the accounting policies set out above, the Group has been subject to a tax audit.
In some instances, this can be makes significant estimates and assumptions that affect some years after the item has first been reflected in the Financial the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as follows: Statements.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit and enquiry issues based on an assessment of whether Amounts receivable from customers such liabilities are likely to fall due.
If the outcome of such audits The Group reviews its portfolio of customer loans and is that the final liability is different to the amount originally receivables for impairment every week.
The Group makes estimated, such differences will be recognised in the period in judgements to determine whether there is objective evidence which the audit or enquiry is determined.
Any differences may which indicates that there has been an adverse effect on necessitate a material adjustment to the level of tax balances expected future cash flows.
held in the balance sheet.
For the purposes of assessing the impairment of customer loans and receivables, customers are categorised into arrears stages as this is considered to be the most reliable predictor of future payment performance.
The level of impairment is calculated using actuarial models which use historical payment performance to generate the estimated amount and timing of future cash flows from each arrears stage of each product.
The impairment models are reviewed regularly to take account of the current economic environment and recent customer payment performance.
However, on the basis that the payment performance of customers could be different from the assumptions used in estimating future cash flows, an adjustment to the carrying value of amounts receivable from customers may be required.
To the extent that the net present value of estimated cash flows differs by 5%, it is estimated that amounts receivable from customers would be 28.0m higher lower 2010: 28.3m.
Retirement benefit asset or obligation A number of judgements and estimates are made in assessing the amount of the retirement benefit asset or obligation at each balance sheet date, the key ones being discount rate, mortality rates, investment returns, salary inflation and rate of pension increases.
These judgements and estimates are derived after taking into account the requirements of IAS 19 Retirement benefit obligations and after taking the advice of the Groups actuaries.
Further details on the key assumptions used are set out in note 24. www.
