International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
General information International Public Partnerships Limited is a closed ended authorised investment company incorporated in Guernsey under The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
The address of the registered office is given on page 3.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Investment Advisors Report, Investment Policy and Portfolio Interest on pages 9, 25 and 33 respectively.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling as this is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates and represents the functional currency of the Group and all values are rounded to the nearest 000, except when otherwise indicated.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 3.
Basis of preparation As set out in the Directors Report, the Directors, in their consideration of going concern have reviewed comprehensive cash flow forecasts prepared by management, which are based on prudent market data and past experience and believe, based on those forecasts and an assessment of the Group's committed banking facilities and the available headroom, that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements of the Group on a going concern basis.
In arriving at their conclusion that the Group has adequate financial resources, the Directors were mindful that the Group had unrestricted cash of 25.1 million as at 31 December 2011, banking facilities available for investment in new or existing projects which are committed until 8 May 2014, under a new three year facility which commenced May 2011 and is forecast to continue in full compliance with the associated banking covenants.
During the year, the Company completed a series of capital raisings as disclosed in note 31.
Certain risks and uncertainties which arise as a result of the current economic environment have been considered by the Board.
The Board has concluded that these do not represent a significant threat to the Group as its income is generated from a portfolio of PFI concessions which are supported by government backed or other suitably high creditworthy counterparty backed cash flows and are forecast to cover the Group's committed costs.
The Groups cash, borrowing facilities and liquidity position are disclosed in notes 22, 23 and 30.
In addition, the Groups policy for management of exposure to financial risk, including liquidity, foreign exchange, credit and interest risks are set out in notes 3, 24 and 30.
Change in accounting policy and prior year restatements 1 Change in accounting policy financial assets for service concessions The Group has revised its accounting policy with regard to the classification of financial assets for service concessions in the construction phase or acquired in early construction to treat these balances as loans and receivables.
Previously, the policy of the Group was to classify these balances as available for sale financial assets until the end of the construction phase and commencement of the operational phase at which point they would be reclassified as loans and receivables.
Management are of the view that classification during the construction phase as loans and receivables provides more reliable and relevant information.
This is because it reflects appropriately the long-term contractual nature of the underlying service concessions the cashflows in relation to which are fixed or determinable and because it is consistent with the classification of these financial assets during the operational phase of the concession.
Having reconsidered their previous policy, Management have voluntarily determined that the risk of variation in cash flows during the construction phase does not 64 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
General Information continued preclude classification as loans and receivables in the same way that the existence of performance conditions relating to the sale of goods and services under IAS 11: Construction Contracts or IAS 18: Revenue does not preclude the related receivables from being classified as loans and receivables.
As a result of this voluntary accounting policy change, the following adjustments were made to the financial statements: As of 1 January 2010 Increase in loans and receivables 848.9 million, Current 18.8 million, Noncurrent: 830.1 million Decrease available for sale assets 838.3 million, Current 18.8 million, Noncurrent: 819.5 million Decrease in deferred tax balance 2.9 million Increase is revaluation reserve 7.7 million Increase other comprehensive income 3.5 million Included within Investment income was 33.0 million that was restated in 2009 to be reclassified from being attributable to available for sale financial assets to loans and receivables.
As of 31 December 2010 Increase in loans and receivables 1,220.0 million, Current: 28.5 million, Noncurrent: 1,191.5 million Decrease available for sale assets 1,211.8 million, Current: 28.5 million, Noncurrent: 1,183.3 million Decrease in deferred tax balance 2.2 million Increase in revaluation reserve 6.0 million Increase other comprehensive income 1.7 million Included within Investment income was 68.9 million that was restated in 2009 to be reclassified from being attributable to available for sale financial assets to loans and receivables note 7.
As of 31 December 2011 Increase in loans and receivables 1,396.1 million, Current: 7.8 million, Noncurrent: 1,388.3 million Decrease available for sale assets 1,396.1 million, Current: 7.8 million, Noncurrent: 1,388.3 million Changes have been applied retrospectively in accordance with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, resulting in the restatement of prior year financial information.
2 Other prior year restatements In reviewing its accounting treatment for balances relating to the Groups service concession arrangements, management identified 8.4 million relating to ineligible finance costs that were incorrectly capitalised and included within the intangible asset balance of 371 million and 1.3 million capitalised against the carrying value of external debt, representing unamortised balance of the break fees paid on early redemption of borrowings.
65 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
General Information continued The following adjustments were made to the financial statements for the current and prior periods presented: As of 1 January 2010 Decrease in intangible assets: 7.1 million Increase in bank loan liabilities: 1.4 million Decrease in cumulative retained profit: 6.1 million Decrease in deferred tax: 2.4 million As of 31 December 2010 Decrease in intangible assets: 6.6 million Increase in bank loan liabilities: 1.2 million Increase in consolidated income as a result of reduced amortisation: 0.5 million Decrease in cumulative retained profit: 6.1 million Decrease deferred tax: 2.2 million As of 31 December 2011 Decrease in intangible assets: 6.2 million Increase in bank loan liabilities: 1.0 million Increase in consolidated income as a result of reduced amortisation 0.4 million Decrease in deferred tax: 1.8 million Operating expenses for the year ended 31 December 2010 were restated with a reduction in amortisation of 0.4 million in connection with the accounting adjustment as detailed in note 10.
Finance costs for the year ended 31 December 2010 were restated with a reduction in other finance costs by 0.2 million in connection with the accounting adjustment as detailed in note 9.
There was no effect on earnings per share related to the restatement in the current year: the impact in 2010 was less than 0.08 pence per share.
Adoption of new and revised Standards The following new and revised Standards and Interpretations are effective for the current year and resulted in a change in the accounting policies of the Group.
These are: Changes in accounting policy and disclosures The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year, except that the Group has adopted the following new and amended IFRS and IFRIC interpretations as of 1 January 2011: IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures amendment effective 1 January 2011 IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation amendment effective 1 February 2010.
66 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Adoption of new and revised Standards continued IAS 24 Related Party Transactions Amendment The IASB has issued an amendment to IAS 24 that clarified the definitions of a related party.
The new definitions emphasise a symmetrical view on related party relationships as well as clarifying in which circumstances persons and key management personnel affect related party relationships of an entity.
Secondly, the amendment introduces an exemption from the general related party disclosure requirements, for transactions with a government and entities that are controlled, jointly controlled or significantly influenced by the same government as the reporting entity.
The adoption of the amendment did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group but the appropriate disclosures are included in note 40.
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Amendment The amendment addresses the accounting for rights issues rights, options or warrants that are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the issuer.
Previously such rights issues were accounted for as derivative liabilities and the amendment requires that, provided certain conditions are met, such rights issues are classified as equity regardless of the currency in which the exercise price is denominated.
There have been no rights issues during the period.
Improvements to IFRSs In May 2010, the IFRS Board issued its third omnibus of amendments to its standards, primarily with a view to removing inconsistencies and clarifying wording.
There are separate transitional provisions for each standard.
The adoption of the following amendments resulted in changes to accounting policies, but did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group: IFRS 3 Business Combinations: The measurement options available for non-controlling interest NCI have been amended.
Only components of NCI that constitute a present ownership interest that entitles their holder to a proportionate share of the entitys net assets in the event of liquidation shall be measured at either fair value or at the present ownership instruments proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
All other components are to be measured at their acquisition date fair value.
The amendments to IFRS 3 are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010.
The Group however adopted these as of 1 January 2011 and changed its accounting policy accordingly.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments Disclosures: The amendment was intended to simplify the disclosures provided, by reducing the volume of disclosures around collateral held and improving disclosures by requiring qualitative information to put the quantitative information in context.
The Group reflects the revised disclosure requirements in note 3.
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: The amendment provides an option to present an analysis of each component of other comprehensive income maybe either in the statement of changes in equity SOCIE or in the notes to the financial statements.
The Group provides this analysis in the SOCIE.
67 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Adoption of new and revised Standards continued Other amendments resulting from Improvements to IFRSs to the following standards did not have any impact on the accounting policies, financial position or performance of the Group: IFRS 3 Business Combinations Contingent consideration arising from business combination prior to adoption of IFRS 3 as revised in 2008 IFRS 3 Business Combinations Un-replaced and voluntarily replaced share-based payment awards IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Clarification and Measurement IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements IAS 34 Interim Financial Statements IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes determining the fair value of award credits IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments The amendments to the following standards below did not have any impact on the accounting policies, financial position or performance of the Group: IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Improvements 2010 IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements Improvements 2010 IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting Improvements 2010 IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards Improvements 2010 IFRS 3 Business Combinations Improvements 2010 IFRIC13 Customer Loyalty Programmes Improvements 2010 At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : IFRS 7 Financial Instruments Disclosures Improvements 2010 3.
Significant accounting policies Basis of accounting These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, issued by, or adopted by, the European Union, interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee, applicable legal and regulatory requirements of Guernsey and the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of the reported amounts in these financial statements.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, as amended to reflect certain items that are presented at fair value.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
68 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
Significant accounting policies continued Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries up to 31 December 2011.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition and where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Business combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition costs are those costs predominantly legal and financial advisory costs, due diligence costs, stamp duty and including the investment advisory fees in respect of the acquisition incurred by the Group in connection with acquisitions of investments.
Any costs incurred after 1 January 2010 are charged to the Income Statement.
Prior to 31 December 2009, any costs directly attributable to the acquisition were included as part of the costs of acquisition.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 Business Combinations are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date.
The excess amount arising on acquisition is recognised as an intangible asset and initially carried at fair value at acquisition.
This intangible asset represents the rights to future profits on the service element of the related concessions.
The non-controlling interest in the acquiree is initially measured at the minoritys proportion of the net fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
Investments in joint ventures A joint venture is an entity over which the Group has joint control, whereby the venturers have a contractual arrangement that establishes joint control over the economic activities of the entity.
The results and assets and liabilities of joint ventures are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Investments in joint ventures are carried in the balance sheet at cost and adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the joint venture, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Losses of the joint venture in excess of the Groups interest including loans in those joint ventures are not recognised in the financial statements.
Where a Group company transacts with an associate of the Group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the relevant joint venture.
69 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
Significant accounting policies continued Investments in associates An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the entity.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Investments in associates are carried in the balance sheet at cost and adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Losses of the associates in excess of the Groups interest including loans in those associates are not recognised in the financial statements.
Where a Group company transacts with an associate of the Group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the relevant associate.
Intangibles An intangible asset is recognised on the acquisition of service concession arrangements and represents the rights to future profits on the service element of these concessions, including where relevant revenues from commercial tenants.
This intangible is initially recognised at fair value and is subsequently amortised over the life of the underlying concessions.
The Group also recognises an intangible asset for the right to charge users of the infrastructure assets within a service concession.
This intangible asset is initially measured at fair value and is subsequently amortised over the remaining life of the concession from the date on which it is available for use.
Property, plant and equipment Land and buildings held for use in the production or supply of goods or services, or for administrative purposes, are stated in the balance sheet at fair value on acquisition, less any subsequent accumulated depreciation and subsequent accumulated impairment losses.
Depreciation of these assets, on the same basis as other property assets, commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost or valuation of assets, other than land and properties under construction, over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method at 4.0% per annum.
Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that the Group obtains the right to consideration in exchange for performance.
Services revenue arises in connection with the Groups PFI PPP projects and comprises the following elements: The fair value of consideration for construction and upgrade services work-in-progress on those PFI projects.
Revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of contract activity at the balance sheet date: Availability fees and usage fees on PFI projects where the principal asset is accounted for as a fixed or intangible asset: 70 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
Significant accounting policies continued Revenues from the provision of facilities management services to PFI projects are recognised as contract activity progresses and a mark up on related cost to reflect the value of work performed: Non-core facility recharges being recovered for ad hoc services delivered by PFI projects at the request of the client: and Third-party revenues on PFI projects.
Financial asset interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment has been established.
Foreign currencies The individual financial statements of each group company are prepared in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates its functional currency.
For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each group company are expressed in pound sterling which is the functional currency of the Company, and the presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements.
In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency foreign currencies are recorded at spot rates on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at spot rates.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the spot rates at the date when the fair value was determined.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in profit or loss for the period.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in profit or loss for the period except for differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of which gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
For such non-monetary items, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period, unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that period, in which case the exchange rate at the date of transactions are used.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets including PFI PPP concession intangible assets within the scope of IFRIC 12, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use 71 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
Significant accounting policies continued for sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
All other borrowing costs including those in respect of PFI PPP concession finance assets are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Taxation The Companys subsidiaries are subject to corporate income tax on any taxable income, after allowing for both revenue and capital deductions arising from their activities.
The tax expense included in the income statement represents the sum of the current tax and deferred tax and is calculated in accordance with applicable legislation in the jurisdictions in which each entity operates.
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the period.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in past or future years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to an underlying transaction charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income or equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive income or equity correlating to where the underlying transaction has been charged or credited.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
72 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
Significant accounting policies continued Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside the consolidated income statement are recognised in correlation to the underlying transactions either in Other Comprehensive Income or Equity.
Effective interest method The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset and of allocating interest income over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts including all fees paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts through the expected life of the financial asset, or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
The carrying value of the financial asset is adjusted to reflect changes in actual and estimated cash flows with any adjustment recognised as income or expense in profit or loss.
The change in carrying value is calculated by computing the present value of estimated future cash flows at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
Income is recognised on an effective interest basis for debt instruments.
Available for sale financial assets Investments classified as available for sale are measured initially and at each subsequent reporting date at fair value.
For available for sale financial assets, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in other comprehensive income, until the investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is included in the profit or loss for the period.
The fair value of available for sale financial assets are determined as follows: the fair value of available for sale financial assets with standard terms and conditions and traded on an active liquid market are determined with reference to quoted market prices: or the fair value of other available for sale financial assets are determined in accordance with generally accepted pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis using prices from observable market transactions.
Income is recognised on an effective interest basis as referred to above.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits and other shortterm highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
73 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
Significant accounting policies continued Bank borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded initially at fair value, being significantly equal to the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis in the income statement using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs which are charged to Share Capital in accordance with the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Financial risk management The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The Group may use foreign exchange forward contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge these exposures.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved by the Board of Directors, which provide written principles on the use of financial derivatives.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Due to the nature of PFI PPP projects, it is important that key financial risks are hedged at the inception of the project, and indeed the funders of the projects insist on this.
Therefore each PFI PPP project fixes the interest rate on its debt.
In a minority of cases, this is achieved by either financing the project with a fixed rate bond or fixed rate bank debt.
In the majority of cases, this is achieved by funding the project with a variable rate bank debt which is fully swapped into fixed rate at the inception of the project.
Hedge accounting The Group designates hedging instruments as cash flow hedges.
At the inception of the hedge relationship the entity documents the relationships between the hedging instrument and hedged item, along with the risk management objective and its strategy for undertaking various transactions.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the group documents whether the hedging instruments used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
Where ineffectiveness is judged to have occurred, the amount of the ineffectiveness is taken to the income statement.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is terminated, for example if a project is refinanced.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is recycled through the income statement over the remaining life of the instrument on a straight line basis.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to net profit or loss for the period.
74 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
Significant accounting policies continued Credit risk The Group is not exposed to significant credit risk as the Group derives revenue from PFI concessions with government departments, local authorities and other public sector clients or in the case of Offshore Transmission projects from the National Electricity Transmission System Operator : with the exception of the following concessions: the Diabolo Project which predominantly derives revenue from the local authority, however is exposed to an element of demand risk: and Angel Trains which provides rolling stock to various Train Operating Companies TOCs under long term lease arrangements.
Certain elements of the revenue generated by Angel Trains benefits from Section 54 undertakings.
These undertakings provide guaranteed minimum lease rentals to entities such as Angel Trains for periods exceeding the first lease length therefore greatly mitigating re-lease risk on fleets considered strategic by the Department for Transport and are granted at the time of the initial investment.
The Group policy is to deal only with credit worthy counter parties in its banking and sub contracting arrangements.
Liquidity risk The Group adopts a prudent approach to liquidity management and maintains sufficient cash reserves to meet its obligations.
The very nature of a PFI concession provides predictable long-term stable cash flows.
Loans in PFI project entities are non-recourse.
Non-recourse loans are those which are secured solely on a specific asset and its future income.
The terms of the finance agreements provide that the lender will not seek in any way to enforce repayment of either principal or interest from the rest of the Group and the Group is not obliged, nor does it intend, to support any losses.
In April 2011, the Company renewed the 100 million corporate debt facility with the existing providers.
This facility matures on 8 May 2014 and is secured over all assets of the Company.
This facility is sufficient to meet the Companys foreseeable funding requirements, including providing significant headroom available to support acquisitions, should suitable opportunities be identified and executed.
Should the Company require further headroom for discretionary investment opportunities then the Company is confident in its ability to extend this facility.
This facility cannot be used for working capital purposes.
Inflation risk The revenues and expenditure of project entities developed under PFI PPP are partly or wholly subject to indexation.
An assumption is made that inflation will increase at a long-term rate which may vary depending on country and from time to time.
The effect on investment returns if inflation is above or below the original projections for this long term rate is dependent on the nature of the underlying project earnings and any unitary charge indexation provisions agreed with the Public Sector Client.
The Groups ability to meet targets and its objective may be adversely or positively affected by inflation and or deflation.
75 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
Significant accounting policies continued Foreign exchange risk The Group has exposures to foreign currency exchange rate movement, as a result of its investments in assets which have functional currency other than Sterling.
The Group has entered into forward exchange contracts to mitigate foreign exchange risk to future distributions.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where an intangible is not yet ready for use, it is tested for impairment at each balance sheet date.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount and any impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset cashgenerating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
Impairment of financial assets Financial assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date.
Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been impacted.
For shares classified as available for sale AFS, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered to be objective evidence of impairment.
For all other financial assets objective evidence of impairment could include significant financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty.
For certain categories of financial asset, such as trade receivables, assets that are assessed not to be impaired individually are subsequently assessed for impairment on a collective basis.
Objective evidence of impairment for a portfolio of receivables could include the Groups past experience of collecting payments, an increase in the number of delayed payments in the portfolio past the average credit period, as well as observable changes in national or local economic conditions that correlate with default on receivables.
76 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
Significant accounting policies continued The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade receivables, where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account.
When a trade receivable is considered uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the allowance account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in profit or loss.
With the exception of AFS equity instruments, if, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss to the extent that the carrying amount of the investment at the date the impairment is reversed does not exceed what the amortised cost would have been had the impairment not been recognised.
In respect of AFS equity securities, impairment losses previously recognised through profit or loss are not reversed through profit or loss.
Any increase in fair value subsequent to an impairment loss is recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Leases Service concessions which fall outside of the scope of IFRIC 12 are assessed in terms of IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease.
Where it is assessed that the service concession does contain a lease, the concession is considered as either a finance lease or an operating lease in terms of IAS 17 Leases.
Under IAS 17, a finance lease is a lease that transfers substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of an asset.
An operating lease is a lease other than a finance lease.
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
When the benefits and risks with the asset reside with the PFI project company these assets are accordingly disclosed in the balance sheet as property, plant and equipment at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is calculated over the life of the concession or specific asset life if shorter.
77 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
Significant accounting policies continued PFI PPP Concessions PFI PPP concessions which fall within the scope of IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements conform to the following policies depending on the rights to consideration under particular concession agreement: Financial assets Service concessions give rise to financial assets where the Group, as operator, has an unconditional contractual right to receive cash or another financial asset from or at the direction of the Client grantor.
Revenue is recognised by allocating a proportion of total cash receivable to construction income and service income.
During construction, revenue is recognised at cost, plus attributable profit to the extent that this is reasonably certain, less any losses incurred or foreseen in bringing construction to completion, and less amounts received as progress payments in accordance with IAS 11.
Costs for this purpose include valuation of all work done by subcontractors whether certified or not, and all overheads other than those relating to the general administration of the relevant companies.
For any contracts where receipts exceed the book value of work done, the excess is included in liabilities as payments on account.
During the operational phase, cash received in respect of the service concession is allocated to the services revenue, with the remainder allocated between capital repayment of the financial asset and interest income, using the effective interest method.
Following a change in policy this year see note 1, financial assets are classified as: loans and receivables when it is determined that cash flows are deemed to be fixed or determinable and measured at fair value at inception and thereafter carried at amortised cost, less provision for impairment.
Intangible assets Service concessions give rise to intangible assets where to the extent that the Group, as operator, has a contractual right to charge users of the public services provided by the infrastructure.
The intangible asset represented the construction cost of assets which give rise to the contractual right to change and is amortised to estimated residual value over the remaining life of the service concession and tested each year for impairment.
Revenue arising in respect of service concessions giving rise to an intangible asset is recognised when the services are delivered.
Bifurcation between financial assets and intangible assets Where part of the concession is accounted for as a financial asset and part an intangible asset, the fair value of consideration receivable under the arrangement is allocated between the financial asset and the intangible.
The fair value of consideration related to availability or minimum take-or-pay payments is allocated to the financial asset and the difference between the total consideration and the amount allocated to the financial asset is allocated to the intangible asset.
78 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 4.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, which are described in note 3, management has made the following judgements that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Service Concession under IFRIC 12 Service concessions fall within the scope of IFRIC 12 where the grantor controls or regulates what services the operator must provide with the infrastructure, to whom it must provide them, and at what price: and the grantor controls, through ownership, beneficial entitlement or otherwise, any significant residual interest in the infrastructure at the end of the service arrangement.
Judgement is required to determine whether PFI concessions controlled by the Group fall within this scope and, if so, whether the nature of the arrangement gives rise to a financial asset, an intangible asset, or both.
Service concessions are determined to be financial assets where the operator has a contractual right to receive cash or another financial asset from or at the direction of the grantor.
Alternatively, service concessions are determined to be intangible assets to the extent the operator has a contractual right to charge users of the public services.
Where service concessions are determined to contain both of these elements, a bifurcated model will be adopted The majority of PFI concessions which fall within the scope of IFRIC 12 are considered to give rise to financial assets on the basis that substantially all of the unitary charge is received from the grantor on an availability basis.
One of the Group's PFI concessions Diabolo falls to be accounted for using the bifurcated model, where a financial asset is recognised on the basis that substantially all of the unitary charge is received from the grantor on an availability basis and an intangible asset in relation to the right to charge users of the infrastructure asset on the 'demand' basis.
Financial Assets The fair value of financial assets has been determined by discounting future cash flows at an appropriate discount rate and with reference to recent market transactions.
The discount rates utilised to discount future cash flows are calculated by adding a project specific premium to the 15-year gilt yield at 31 December 2011.
The premium takes into account several factors, including but not limited to, the stage reached by each project, the period of operation and historical track record.
79 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 5.
Revenue and other income An analysis of the Groups revenue and other income is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 000s 000s Continuing operations Revenue Construction services 173,958 420,989 Availability and facility management fees 119,703 60,840 Non-core facility recharges 5,924 7,991 Sub-total 299,585 489,820 Other income Interest income on deposits 10,031 40,657 Financial asset interest income 155,835 107,832 Investment revenue 165,866 148,489 Share of results from associates 405 4,547 Other operating income 3,818 5,145 Total 468,864 648,001 Other operating income includes distributions received from investments that are not consolidated or accounted for under the equity method of accounting.
The reduction in construction services revenue reflects the reduction in underlying construction activity at an underlying project investment level as a result of projects coming towards the end of their construction phase during the year ended 31 December 2010 and other projects reaching construction completion milestones during 2011.
Availability and facility management fee income and financial asset interest income has increased as underlying projects have become operational.
80 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 6.
Segmental reporting IFRS 8 - Operating segments adopts a through the eyes of the management approach to an entitys reporting of information relating to its operating segments and also requires an entity to report financial and descriptive information about its reportable segments.
Based on a review of information provided to the chief operating decision makers in International Public Partnerships Limited the Group has identified four reportable segments based on the geographical risk associated within the Group.
The factors used to identify the Groups reportable segments are centred on the risk free rates and the maturity of the PFI PPP industry within each country.
Further, foreign exchange and political risk is identified, as these also determine where resources are allocated.
Management has concluded that the Group is currently organised into four reportable segments being UK, Europe non UK, Australia and North America.
These reportable segments are the basis on which the Group reports information to the chief operating decision makers.
Segment information is presented below.
The customers revenues were: 163.2 million 2010 - 302.2 million reported across the Australian segment.
57.5 million 2010 - 89.2 million reported across the European segment.
72.1 million 2010 - 50.7 million reported across the UK segment.
6.8 million 2010 - 47.7 million reported across the North American segment.
82 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 7.
Investment income Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 000s 000s Interest on bank deposits non-recourse 32,172 40,434 Interest on bank deposits recourse 178 322 Loans and receivables interest income non- 1 recourse 131,308 106,564 Loans and receivables - recourse 2,208 1,169 165,866 148,489 Non-recourse financial assets and bank deposits are those which are held by a specific PFI project entity and are not readily available for transfer or use elsewhere within the Group.
1 Included within Loans and receivables is 68.9 million that was restated in 2010 to be reclassified from available for sale financial assets as set out in note 1.
Other gains and losses Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 000s 000s Unrealised gains losses on financial assets 714 3,059 Interest rate swap loss gain 3,323 312 Realised foreign exchange losses 1,796 1,752 Gain made on sale of assets 415 13 Unrealised foreign exchange losses 946 1,476 4,936 5,962 No gains or losses have been recognised on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost other than as disclosed in note 9.
Finance costs Restated Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 000s 000s Interest on bank loans non recourse 138,909 115,094 Interest on bank loans recourse 667 130 Other finance costs 6,766 6,531 Total finance costs 146,342 121,755 Non recourse loans are those which are secured solely on a specific PFI asset and its future income usually contained in a single entity.
The terms of the finance agreements provide that the lender 83 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 9.
Finance cost continued will not seek in any way to enforce repayment of either the principal or the interest from the rest of the Group and the Group is not obliged, nor does it intend to support any losses.
The cost associated with the recourse loan represents the interest costs on the corporate facility that was renewed in April 2011.
Finance costs for the year ended 31 December 2010 were restated with a reduction in other finance costs by 0.2 million, in connection with the accounting adjustment as detailed in note 1.
Profit before tax Profit before tax for the year has been arrived at after charging: Restated Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 000s 000s Asset management fees 13,144 10,872 Insurance 3,131 2,373 Amortisation of intangible assets 9,579 9,341 Other operating expenses 1,675 1,553 Operating expenses 27,529 24,139 Audit, taxation & accounting 671 1,013 Legal fees 616 949 Bank service charges 278 316 Other 591 792 Administrative expenses 2,156 3,070 Impairment of available for sale financial assets 6,286 9,620 Depreciation 350 416 Foreign exchange losses 2,743 3,228 Total finance costs note 9 146,342 121,755 For the year ended 31 December 2011 the Group had one employee 2010: one.
As noted above the Group, incurred impairment losses of 6.3 million 2010: 9.6 million as a result of an assessed permanent reduction in the recoverability of certain underlying financial assets.
Amortisation of intangible assets for the year ended 31 December 2010 were restated with a reduction of 0.4 million, in respect to the change in accounting policy as detailed in note 1.
84 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 11.
Auditors remuneration Ernst & Young LLP Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 000s 000s Fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 45 - Fees payable to the Companys auditors and their associates for other services to the group - - The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 340 - Total audit fees 385 - - Other services pursuant to legislation 44 - - Tax services - - Total non-audit fees 44 - Deloitte LLP Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 000s 000s Fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of the Companys annual accounts - 83 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and their associates for other services to the group - The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation - 332 Total audit fees - 415 - Other services pursuant to legislation 30 60 - Tax services 115 148 Total non-audit fees 145 208 Following a request for proposals prepared by the Audit Committee in October 2010, a recommendation was made to the Board to appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Groups auditors for the 2011 year.
85 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 12.
Tax The Company has obtained exempt company status in Guernsey under the terms of the Income Tax Exempt Bodies Guernsey Ordinance, 1989 and accordingly is subject to an annual charge of currently 600.
Restated Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 000s 000s Current tax: UK corporation tax current year 1,474 2,746 UK corporation tax prior year 430 295 Overseas tax 559 228 Overseas tax prior year 13 68 Deferred tax note 25 : UK - current year 9,514 3,848 UK - prior year 552 - Overseas tax - current year 5,501 3,938 Overseas tax prior year 57 1,225 Withholding tax 58 - 2,860 1,476 Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
The Group predominantly performs its operational activities within the United Kingdom and the headline UK tax rate of 26.5% 2010 28% has therefore been used within the following reconciliation.
The credit charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit as per the income statement as follows: 86 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 12.
Tax continued Year ended 31 Dec 2011 Year ended 31 Dec 2010 Restated 000s % 000s % Profit before tax 13,170 16,538 Tax at UK corporation 3,490 26.50 4,631 28.00 tax rate of 26.5% 2010 - 28% Tax effect of 8,011 60.82 6,514 39.39 expenses income not deductible assessable in determining taxable profit Tax effect of asset 150 1.14 2,626 15.88 impairments Tax effect of losses not 424 3.22 11 0.07 recognised Tax effect of Guernsey 6,712 50.96 6,861 41.49 income not assessable Tax effect of the 431 3.27 623 3.77 application of overseas tax rates Tax effect of prior year 938 7.12 1,588 9.60 adjustments Tax effect of associate 223 1.69 870 5.26 undistributed reserves Tax effect of UK rate 6,631 50.35 2,364 14.29 change Tax credit charge and 2,860 21.71 1,476 8.93 effective tax rate for the year A reduction in the headline UK tax rate from 27% to 25%, effective 1 April 2012, was substantively enacted at 31 December 2011.
The impact upon the current year has been a deferred tax credit of 6.6 million 2010 - 2.5million to the Profit and Loss account and a deferred tax charge of 2.9 million 2010 - 0.1 million credit to other comprehensive income.
Further reductions in the headline UK tax rate were announced in the 2012 UK Budget on 21 March 2012.
These reductions were included within the 2012 UK Finance Bill published on 29 March 2012, and will reduce the headline rate from 25% to 24%, effective 1 April 2012, and from 24% to 23%, effective 1 April 2013.
If these rate changes had been substantively enacted at 31 December 2011, the impact upon the current period would have been an additional deferred tax credit of 6.6 million to the Profit and Loss account and a deferred tax charge of 2.9 million to other comprehensive income.
In addition to the deferred tax charged to the income statement, a deferred tax credit of 42.5 million 2010 - 10.2 million credit relating primarily to the movement in the fair value of the Groups interest rate swaps has been taken directly to other comprehensive income note 25.
87 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 13.
Distributions The Board is satisfied that, in every respect, the solvency test as required by the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, was satisfied for the proposed dividend and the dividend paid in respect of the year ended 31 December 2011.
The Board has approved interim distributions as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 000s 000s Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders 27,875 25,756 for the year ended 31 December.
Interim distribution for the period 1 January to 30 June 14,165 13,178 2011 was 2.925 pence per share 2010 2.85 pence 1 per share.
3 3 Interim distribution for the period 1 July to 31 December 15,626 13,652 2 2011 was 2.925 pence per share 2010 - 2.85 pence per share.
1 The interim distribution for the period was from 1 January to 30 June 2010.
2 The distribution for the period 1 July to 31 December 2011 has been approved by the Board on 18 April 2012 and has not been included as a liability in the balance sheet for the year ended 31 December 2011.
3 The distribution for the period 1 July to 31 December 2011 is an estimate.
Following the tap issue on 13 January 2011, the actual distribution for the period 1 July to 31 December 2010 was 13,710,000.
Earnings per share The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data: Earnings Restated Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 000s 000s Earnings for the purposes of basic and diluted earnings per share being net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 16,538 14,645 Number Number Number of shares Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for the purposes of basic and diluted earnings per share 496,624,899 457,193,584 88 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 14.
Earnings per share continued The denominator for the purposes of calculating both basic and diluted earnings per share are the same as the Company had not issued any share options or other instruments that would cause dilution.
Restated Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 pence pence Basic 3.33 3.20 Diluted 3.33 3.20 15.
Intangible assets continued Carrying amount At 31 December 2010 Restated 186,354 115,773 302,127 At 31 December 2011 186,507 145,490 331,997 Cost of service concession intangible assets represent the right to future profits on the service element of the PFI concessions and are amortised over the remaining life of the PFI concessions.
Bifurcated IFRIC 12 intangible assets represent the right to charge users of the infrastructure assets within a service concession and are amortised over the remaining 35 years of the concession from the date on which it is available for use.
Property, plant and equipment Land and Fixtures and buildings equipment Total 000s 000s 000s Cost At 1 January 2010 9,759 4 9,763 At 1 January 2011 9,759 4 9,763 At 31 December 2011 9,759 4 9,763 Land and Fixtures and buildings equipment Total 000s 000s 000s Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2010 1,260 - 1,260 Charge for the year 414 2 416 At 1 January 2011 1,674 2 1,676 Charge for the year 348 2 350 At 31 December 2011 2,022 4 2,026 Carrying amount At 31 December 2010 8,085 2 8,087 At 31 December 2011 7,737 - 7,737 90 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 17.
Subsidiaries A list of the significant investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation as at 31 December 2011 and proportion of ownership is shown below: Place of Proportion incorporation of Name or registration ownership and operation interest % Directly owned International Public Partnerships Lux 1 S. a. r. l Luxembourg 100 Indirectly owned Abingdon Limited Partnership UK 100 Access Justice Durham Limited Canada 100 Building Schools for Future Investments LLP UK 100 IPP CCC Limited Partnership Ireland 100 AKS Betriebs GmbH & Co. KG Germany 98 International Public Infrastructure Germany GmbH & Co. KG Germany 100 International Public Partnerships Lux 2 S. a. r. l Luxembourg 100 BBPP Alberta Schools Limited Canada 75 1 Inspire Partnership Limited Partnership UK 80 IPP Aust Limited UK 100 IPP Bond Limited UK 100 IPP Moray Schools Holdings Limited UK 100 IPP North America S. a. r. l Luxembourg 100 BPSL No.
2 Limited Partnership UK 100 Calderdale Schools Partnership UK 100 CHP Unit Trust Australia 100 Derbyshire Courts Limited Partnership UK 100 Derbyshire Schools Limited Partnership UK 100 Derbyshire Schools Phase Two Partnership UK 100 H&W Courts Limited UK 100 Maesteg School Partnership UK 100 Medicaste Amiens SAS France 95 Norfolk Limited Partnership UK 100 Northampton Schools Limited Partnership UK 100 Northern Diabolo N. V. Belgium 75 Pinnacle Healthcare OAHS Trust Australia 100 Plot B Partnerships UK 100 PPP Senior Funding Limited UK 100 St. Thomas More School Partnership UK 100 1 PPP Solutions Long Bay Partnership Australia 100 1 PPP Solutions Showgrounds Trust Australia 100 Strathclyde Limited Partnership UK 100 TH Schools Limited Partnership UK 100 1 TC Robin Rigg OFTO Limited UK 100 1 TC Barrow OFTO Limited UK 100 1 TC Gunfleet Sands OFTO Limited UK 100 1 Investments or acquisitions made during the year.
See note 35 for details of acquisitions, excluding asset purchases.
91 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 18.
Interest in Joint Venture The Group acquired 100% of the interests in Building Schools for the Future Investments LLP BSFI from the Department for Education and Partnerships UK.
BSFI was acquired for 58.4 million.
The Group indirectly holds through BSFI 10% interests in 32 jointly controlled entities set up to enable the delivery of a regional development programme for secondary schools across the UK.
BSFI benefits from certain reserved matters which result in it having joint control of these entities despite holding minority equity stakes.
These jointly controlled entities are managed on a portfolio basis and are not individually significant.
The Groups combined share of the assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2011 and income and expenses of the jointly controlled entities for the 9 months ended 31 December 2011, which is equity accounted for in the consolidated financial statements, are as follows: 31 Dec 2011 000s Share of the joint ventures statement of financial position: Current assets 12,715 Non-current assets 1,542 Current liabilities 11,915 Non-current liabilities 2,342 Equity - Share of the joint ventures revenue and profit: Revenue 59,821 Cost of sales 57,793 Administrative expenses 1,552 Finance costs 140 Profit before tax 336 Income tax expense 51 Profit for the period from continuing operations 285 Joint venture capital commitments are set out in note 37.
92 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 19.
Interests in associates A list of the significant investments in associates, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is noted below.
Name Country of Ownership Date acquired Incorporation interest BeNEX GmbH Germany 49% 31 October 2007 1 Axiom Education NSW No 2 Pty Ltd Australia 25% 20 December 2007 Catalyst Brescia S. r. l. Italy 37% 24%-22 April 2008 13%-31 July 2009 AH BB ELL Holdings Limited UK 100% 9 May 2008 B Shares GoldlinQ Holdings Pty Ltd Australia 26.67% 9 June 2011 1 This entity has an accounting period ending 30 June which differs from the Groups accounting period of 31 December.
On 9 June 2011, the Group acquired 26.67% of the issued Ordinary shares and 26.67% of the Class A Preference shares in GoldlinQ Holdings Pty Ltd. GoldlinQ Holdings Pty Ltd is the parent entity holding the PFI concession to design, build, finance, maintain and operate 13km of above ground light rail on the Gold Coast, Australia.
The consideration paid for the acquisition of the Ordinary and Preferred Shares of the project was 11.1 million.
On 6 May 2011 the Group acquired additional share capital of Long Bay Forensic and Prison Hospital and Royal Melbourne Showgrounds resulting in a decrease in the interests in associates of 9.8 million and 4.3 million respectively see note 35.
Post acquisition these investments are accounted for on a consolidated basis.
In January 2011 the Group completed an incremental capital injection of 6.6 million into BeNEX GmbH from an underlying investing entity.
As the capital injection was made in the same proportion as the other existing shareholders there was no increase in the Groups interest in BeNEX GmbH.
BeNEX GmbH was established in 2007 as a joint arrangement between Hamburger Hochbahn AG, a subsidiary of the German Federal State City of Hamburg and the Group to operate rail and bus concessions throughout Germany.
During the year, the investment in IPP Moray Schools Limited of 4.6 million was reclassified as an investment on the basis the Group does not have significant influence over the investment to be able to realise economic benefits associated with this .
93 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 19.
Interests in associates continued Summarised financial information in respect of the Groups associates is noted below: 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 000s 000s Share of amounts relating to associates Total assets 146,339 267,483 Total liabilities 96,784 211,798 Carrying value of interests in associates 49,555 55,685 Revenues 28,613 25,292 Share of results of associates 405 4,547 20.
Available for sale financial assets Restated Restated 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 1 Jan 2010 000s 000s 000s Current Listed investments - 216 2,773 - 216 2,773 Non-current Unlisted investments 25,936 17,667 22,143 Listed investments - - 2,773 25,936 17,667 24,916 25,936 17,883 27,689 The investments included above represent investments in unlisted equity securities that present the Group with opportunity for return through dividend income, interest income and trading gains.
The fair values of these securities are based on quoted market prices where appropriate or discounted cash flow calculations where quoted market prices are not available.
Financial Assets available for sale are carried at fair value with movements being recorded in other comprehensive income.
They are initially recognised at fair value upon acquisition in accordance with IFRS 39 and subsequently measured at fair value.
The effective interest rate method allocates the interest income over the relevant period by applying the effective interest rate to the carrying amount of the asset.
The average effective interest rate, referred to in note 3, is 10.55% restated 2010 11.91%.
Available for sale balances include pound sterling denominated loans of 25.9 million 2010 restated 16.3 million, and nil restated 2010 - 1.36 million denominated in Australian dollars.
The increase at the end of the year relates to the acquisition of BSFI during the year partially offset by the write-down of Reliance Rail to nil 1.35 million in 2010.
94 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 20.
Available for sale financial assets continued As set out in note 1, investments previously held as available for sale financial assets during construction have been reclassified as loans and receivables.
The effect of the restatement in 2010 is to reclassify the available for sale assets of 1,220.0 million.
There is no taxation impact due to the reclassification being presentational.
All available for sale investments mature in greater than one year and the fair values have been determined in accordance with the policy set out in note 3 of these financial statements.
Details of financial risks associated with these assets are contained in note 30.
Loans and receivables financial assets Restated Restated 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 1 Jan 2010 000s 000s 000s Loans and receivables - current 40,672 39,263 26,916 Loans and receivables - non-current 2,229,111 1,654,752 1,296,474 2,269,783 1,694,015 1,323,390 Financial Assets loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost.
They are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
The average effective interest rate, referred to in note 3, is 7.17% restated 2010 7.16%.
The income will be recognised over the life of the underlying PFI concessions based on this effective rate.
Loans and receivables balances include pound sterling denominated loans of 728.4 million restated 2010 485.0 million, 172.1 million restated 2010 - 172.9 million denominated in Euros, 1,019.2 million restated 2010 - 675.1 million denominated in Australian dollars and 350 million restated 2010 - 361.0 million denominated in Canadian dollars.
The increase at the end of the year relates to new investments during the year and additional capital costs of projects in construction.
Loans and receivables have been restated in 2010 to reflect the reclassification of 1,220.0 million of available for sale financial assets as set out in note 1.
Cash and cash equivalents There has been a decrease in cash and cash equivalents from 31 December 2010 of 210 million primarily due to an increase in construction activity on Royal Childrens Hospital and the construction completion of Alberta Schools which are financed by structured bond financing arrangements.
Cash includes 378,847,680 2010: 563,071,652 which is held by non-recourse PFI project entities and is restricted.
All cash and cash equivalents are exposed to floating rate interest rate risk.
95 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 22.
Cash and cash equivalents continued The currency profile of cash and cash equivalents was: 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 000s 000s Sterling 103,110 117,369 Australian dollars 271,608 450,328 Canadian dollars 17,193 15,123 Euro 27,698 47,046 419,609 629,866 23.
Bank loans All bank loans including bonds are secured solely on a specific PFI concession and its future income stream with the exception of the corporate debt facility of 100 million provided to the Company by The Royal Bank of Scotland Limited and National Australia Bank Limited.
The amount undrawn at 31 December 2011 was 81.9 million.
The interest rate margin on the corporate facility is 225 basis points over Libor.
The loan facility matures on 8 May 2014 and is secured over all of the assets of the Company.
The terms of the PFI concession finance agreements provide that the lender cannot seek in any way to enforce repayment of either principal or interest from the rest of the Group.
For group funding, the financial covenants are in respect of historic and future interest cover ratios and loan to value calculations.
There is significant headroom on all of these covenants.
For project debt which is non recourse to the group covenants are in respect of historic and future interest cover ratios in the range of 1.01 times historic interest cover ratio and 1.75 times future interest cover ratio.
Restated Restated 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 1 Jan 2010 000s 000s 000s Bank loans bonds 2,386,821 2,020,918 1,879,306 The borrowings are repayable as follows: On demand or within one year 42,533 30,577 84,608 In the second year 38,371 28,791 79,474 In the third to fifth years inclusive 168,885 103,718 88,144 After five years 2,137,032 1,857,832 1,627,080 2,386,821 2,020,918 1,879,306 Less: Amount due for settlement within 12 months shown under current liabilities 42,533 30,577 84,608 Amount due for settlement after 12 months 2,344,288 1,990,341 1,794,698 96 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 23.
Bank Loans continued Restated Restated 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 1Jan 2010 000s 000s 000s Analysis of borrowings by currency: 31 December 2,386,821 2,020,918 1,879,306 Bank loans bonds Australian dollar 1,200,981 1,025,724 872,195 Bank loans Pounds sterling 541,450 362,468 430,741 Bank loans bonds Canadian dollar 337,049 348,332 369,107 Bank loans Euro 307,341 284,394 207,263 Restated Restated 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 1 Jan 2010 000s 000s 000s Analysis of borrowings by interest rate profile Fixed rate 310,879 308,516 315,085 Floating rate 2,075,942 1,712,402 1,564,221 Bank loans bonds 2,386,821 2,020,918 1,879,306 The weighted average interest rates paid were as follows: Bank loans floating rate 3.31% 4.01% 3.84% Bank loans bonds fixed rate 5.53% 5.16% 5.15% The Directors estimate the fair value of the Groups borrowings as follows: Restated Restated 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 1 Jan 2010 000s 000s 000s Bank loans 2,482,047 2,153,447 2,038,933 The fair value of the Groups borrowings has been determined by taking the repayment and interest cash flows associated with the loan or bond and discounting these at an appropriate current market rate for a similar instrument.
At 31 December 2011, the weighted average range of discount rates applied was 1.8% to 6.1% 2010: 1.06% to 5.9%.
97 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 24.
Derivative financial instruments Interest rate swaps The Group uses interest rate swaps to manage its exposure to interest rate movements on its bank borrowings.
Long-term contracts with nominal values of 884 million 2010 709 million have fixed interest payments at an average rate of 4.46% 2010 4.61% for periods linked to the term of underlying concessions up until 2036 and have floating interest receipts at the relevant inter bank rate.
The net fair value of swaps entered into at 31 December 2011 is estimated at negative 278.2 million 2010: negative 129.9 million.
These amounts are based on market values of equivalent instruments at the respective balance sheet dates.
All of these interest rate swaps are designated as cash flow hedges.
The after tax increase in the fair value for the year ended 31 December 2011 of 107.6 million 2010: 32.4 million after tax decrease has been deferred in other comprehensive income.
The fair value adjustment does not impact the Consolidated Income Statement or Consolidated Cashflow Statement.
The fair value reduction reflects further reductions in market variable rates of interest compared to fixed rates contracted through the interest rate swap agreements.
CPI swaps The Group uses CPI swaps to manage its exposure to inflationary movements on the bonds issued in relation to the Royal Childrens Hospital concession.
CPI linked swaps with no net nominal value have CPI linked payments for periods up until 2021 and have CPI linked receipts for the duration of the project.
CPI linked swaps are used to hedge two equal and opposite bond values of AUD250 million.
The CPI swaps held by Royal Childrens Hospital fair value at 31 December 2011 - 2.7 million liability 2010 2.5 million liability have not been hedge accounted for based on the assumption that the swap is to have a shorter life than the hedged item the borrowings will be refinanced in 2021 whereas the swap will be terminated which will give rise to ineffectiveness.
The swap movement for the year was a loss of 507,000 2009: 238,000 loss has been recognised in profit and loss, the remainder of the movement for the year is in respect of foreign exchange translation.
Foreign exchange forward contracts To reduce the Companys exposure to movements in foreign currency the company has a number of forward foreign exchange contracts, during the year the Company has not entered into any new forward foreign exchange contracts.
The Company has hedged highly probable revenue from its overseas operations that are derived in Australian Dollars, Canadian Dollars and Euro.
All of these forward foreign exchange contracts are designated and effective as cash flow hedges.
The nominal value of the forward foreign exchange contracts at 31 December 2011 is 5.6 million 2010 18.8 million.
The fair value of these foreign exchange contracts at 31 December 2011 is 1.2 million liability 2010 2.8 million and has been deferred in other comprehensive income.
98 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 25.
Deferred tax The following are the deferred tax liabilities assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current year: Accelerated Fair value tax relief in of respect of interest financial Intangible rate Tax Financing assets asset swaps losses costs Total 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s At 1 January 88,749 54,690 36,563 16,371 607 89,898 2011 Opening 15,374 - - 15,374 - - balance reallocation At 1 January 104,123 54,690 36,563 31,745 607 89,898 2011 - restated On acquisition 8,365 2,363 264 1,551 583 10,024 of subsidiaries Charge credit 15,669 2,279 95 11,297 65 2,123 to income Charge credit 39 - 42,516 60 15 42,432 to other comprehensive income Impact of UK 4,574 1,666 514 123 - 6,631 rate change income Impact of UK - - 2,892 - - 2,892 rate change other comprehensive income At 31 123,622 53,108 76,342 44,410 104 55,874 December 2011 99 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 25.
Deferred tax continued Accelerated tax relief in Fair value respect of of financial Intangible interest rate Tax Financing assets asset swaps losses costs Total 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s At 1 January 72,255 59,568 24,248 5,595 550 101,430 2010 Prior year 2,925 1,976 - - 382 567 adjustment At 1 January 75,180 57,592 24,248 5,595 932 101,997 2010 - restated Charge credit to 11,928 2,370 128 8,857 488 1,061 income Prior year 676 119 - - 51 506 adjustment Charge credit to 4,617 - 12,651 1,919 214 10,167 other comprehensive income Impact of UK rate 2,300 651 587 - - 2,364 change income - restated Impact of UK rate - - 123 - - 123 change other comprehensive income At 31 December 88,749 54,690 36,563 16,371 607 89,898 2010 - restated 100 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 25.
Deferred tax continued The balance of deferred tax liability is represented on the balance sheet as deferred tax assets 24,617,090 2010 - 3,581,000 and deferred tax liability 80,491,504 2010 restated - 93,478,887.
The following deferred tax assets are not recognised by the Group at the balance sheet date: 000s At 31 December 2009 809 On acquisition Utilised during the year - Current year losses not recognised 11 UK rate change 34 At 31 December 2010 786 Utilised during the year Current year losses not recognised 424 Prior year adjustment 273 UK rate change 50 At 31 December 2011 887 A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in respect of these losses as sufficient taxable profits are not expected to be generated in the near future to utilise the losses.
Trade and other receivables 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 000s 000s Trade receivables 44,405 37,995 Prepayments and accrued income 5,910 5,465 50,315 43,460 The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
101 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 27.
Operating leases Operating lease rental income during the year was 2.1 million 2010 1.9 million which represents the availability fees on a PFI PPP service concession.
The carrying amount of the leased property was 7.7 million as at 31 December 2011 2010 - 8.1 million.
The concession has committed lease rental revenue until 2025 with a break clause option exercisable by the client in 2015.
At 31 December 2011 the future minimum operating lease rentals receivable were: Restated 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 000s 000s Amounts receivable under operating leases Within one year 2,014 1,941 In the second to fifth years 9,064 8,843 After five years 10,592 11,562 21,670 22,346 28.
Trade and other payables 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 000s 000s Trade creditors 12,254 23,105 Accrued liabilities 30,959 44,738 Deferred income 200 786 Other creditors 20,213 19,073 63,626 87,702 The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates to their fair value.
Trade creditors and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for facility management fees and ongoing costs.
The average credit period for trade purchases is 30 days 2010: 30 days.
No interest is charged on outstanding balances.
Provisions 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 000s 000s Current Balance as at 1 January - 900 Release to Income Statement - 900 Balance as at 31 December - - Non-current Balance as at 1 January - - Arising during the year 11,474 - Balance as at 31 December 11,474 - 102 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 29.
Provisions continued Current provisions relate to a claim for additional construction costs on a PFI concession.
In accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations, this provision was recorded as a contingent liability as part of the net assets and liabilities acquired on acquisition of a subsidiary.
The decrease in current provisions in the previous year is due to the successful settlement of the claim for additional construction costs on a PFI concession which has led to the release of the provision.
Non-current provisions have been recognised during the year in relation to decommissioning costs associated with the three offshore transmission projects acquired as assets rather than business combinations.
The Group is committed to decommissioning the offshore electricity transmission platforms and certain transmission cables at the end of the relevant regulated revenue generating periods, subject to any re-powering of the relevant associated wind farm to which the transmission assets relate.
Financial instruments Capital risk management The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balances.
The capital structure of the Group consists of non-recourse debt and the Groups corporate facility, and includes the borrowings, disclosed in note 23, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in notes 31 to 34.
The Group aims to deliver its objective by investing available cash and using leverage whilst maintaining sufficient liquidity to meet on-going expenses and dividend payments.
The Groups investment policy is set out on pages 25 to 28 of the Annual Report.
Gearing ratio The Groups Investment Advisor reviews the capital structure on a semi-annual basis.
As part of this review, the Investment Advisor considers the cost of capital and the risks associated with each class of capital.
As stated in the initial public offering prospectus, the Group has committed to a maximum gearing ratio of 50% excluding non-recourse project level debt as the proportion of recourse debt to portfolio valuation.
As at the date of this Annual Report all debt was non-recourse project level debt with the exception of the corporate debt facility which is secured over all the assets of the Company.
Significant accounting policies Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis on which income and expenses are recognised in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are disclosed in note 3 to the financial statements.
103 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 30.
Financial instruments continued Categories of financial instruments Financial assets Restated 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 000s 000s Available for sale financial assets Listed investments - 216 Unlisted investments 25,936 17,667 Financial assets at fair value 25,936 17,883 Financial asset loans and receivables PFI project financial assets 2,197,587 1,680,639 Subordinated debt 72,196 13,376 Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 44,405 37,995 Cash and cash equivalents 419,609 629,866 Financial assets at amortised cost 2,733,797 2,361,876 Total financial assets 2,759,733 2,379,759 Financial liabilities 31 Dec 31 Dec 2011 2010 000s 000s Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting 279,427 132,657 relationships Financial liabilities at fair value 279,427 132,657 Financial liabilities at amortised cost Trade and other payables excluding deferred income 63,426 86,916 Bank loans 2,386,821 2,020,918 Financial liabilities at amortised cost 2,450,247 2,107,834 Total financial liabilities 2,729,674 2,240,491 Financial risk management objectives The Groups Investment Advisor provides advice to the Company and also, as operator of International Public Partnerships Limited Partnership IPP LP, co-ordinates access to domestic and international financial markets, monitors and manages the financial risks relating to the operations of the Group through internal risk reports, which analyse exposures by degree and magnitude of risks.
These risks include: market risk including currency risk and interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
104 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 30.
Financial instruments continued The Group seeks to minimise the effects of risks by using derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies which provide written principles on foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, the use of financial derivatives and non-derivative financial instruments, and the investment of excess liquidity.
The Group does not enter into or trade financial instruments, including derivative financial instruments, for speculative purposes.
Market risk The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates.
In line with the lending requirements under project agreements for PFI PPP type investments there is generally a requirement for the underlying project entity to either enter a fixed rate loan agreement for the life of the concession or, if a variable interest rate loan is agreed, an interest rate swap agreement is entered into at the commencement of the loan.
The effect of the interest rate swap is to mitigate interest rate risk that the underlying project entity may be exposed to.
As a result, the group has minimal exposure to any change in interest rates.
The Group may also enter forward foreign exchange contracts to mitigate foreign exchange risk.
Sensitivities around the Groups exposure to foreign currency movements and interest rates are detailed in the note below.
There has been no change during the year to the manner in which the Group manages and measures the risks.
Forward foreign exchange contracts It is the policy of the Group to enter into forward foreign exchange contracts to cover specific foreign currency payments and receipts based on the expected timing of these.
Generally, the Group intends to cover forward foreign exchange payments and receipts for up to a four-year period.
As at 31 December 2011 the Group had entered into foreign exchange contracts in accordance with the Groups Treasury Policy.
The following table details the forward foreign currency FC contracts outstanding as at 31 December 2011: Average Foreign Outstanding contracts exchange rate currency Notional value Fair value 2011 2011 2011 2011 000s 000s 000s Cash flow hedges Buy pound sterling Less than 12 months 1.0000 4,016 4,016 837 1 to 4 years 1.0000 1,595 1,595 386 105 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 30.
Financial instruments continued Outstanding contracts Average exchange rate Local currency Notional value Fair value 2011 2011 2011 2011 000s 000s 000s Sell Euro Less than 12 months 1.1302 1,709 1,512 69 1 to 4 years - - - - Sell Canadian dollars Less than 12 months - - - - 1 to 4 years 1.792 1,493 831 111 Sell Australian dollars Less than 12 months 1.9147 5,299 2,504 906 1 to 4 years 1.9147 1,657 764 275 Forward foreign exchange liability 1,223 Average exchange rate Foreign Notional value Outstanding contracts currency Fair value 2010 2010 2010 2010 000s 000s 000s Cash flow hedges Buy pound sterling Less than 12 months 1.0000 9,615 9,615 1,716 1 to 4 years 1.0000 5,612 5,612 1,025 Outstanding contracts Average exchange rate Local currency Notional value Fair value 2010 2010 2010 2010 000s 000s 000s Sell Euro Less than 12 months 1.1344 3,572 3,149 61 1 to 4 years 1.1302 1,709 1,512 27 Sell Canadian dollars Less than 12 months 1.7957 2,558 1,425 215 1 to 4 years 1.7960 1,493 831 118 Sell Australian dollars Less than 12 months 2.0595 10,383 5,041 1,562 1 to 4 years 2.1283 6,955 3,268 934 Forward foreign exchange liability 2,741 106 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 30.
Financial instruments continued Foreign currency risk management The Group undertakes certain transactions denominated in foreign currencies.
Hence, exposures to exchange rate fluctuations arise.
Currency risk arises in financial instruments that are denominated in a foreign currency other than the functional currency in which they are measured.
Currency risk does not arise from financial instruments that are non-monetary items or from financial instruments denominated in the functional currency.
The carrying amounts of the Groups foreign currency denominated monetary financial instruments at the reporting date are set out in the table below: Liabilities Assets 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2011 2010 2011 2010 000s 000s 000s 000s Euro - - 42,490 39,901 Canadian dollar - - - 8 Australian dollar - - 3,050 737 These balances relate to monetary loans to subsidiaries held predominantly to cover future equity investments.
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis The Group is mainly exposed to the currency of the following countries: Australia AUD dollar currency Canada CAD dollar currency Belgium, France, Ireland, Italy and Germany Euro currency.
The following tables detail the Groups sensitivity to a 10% increase and decrease in the Sterling exchange rate against the relevant foreign currencies.
10% is the sensitivity rate used when reporting foreign currency risk internally to key management personnel and represents managements assessment of a reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates.
The sensitivity analysis below includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary financial instruments and adjusts their translation at the year end for a 10% change in foreign currency rates against sterling.
A negative number below indicates a decrease in profit and other equity where Sterling strengthens 10% against the relevant currency.
For a 10% weakening of the Sterling against the relevant currency, there would be an equal and opposite impact on the profit and other equity, and the balances below would be positive.
Euro currency AUD dollar CAD dollar currency currency 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s Loss Profit before tax 5,979 3,627 2,218 67 2,499 1 107 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 30.
Financial instruments continued The reasons for the foreign currency impacts are the exposure of the Group to foreign exchange fluctuations as a result of holding multi currency financial instruments.
In managements opinion, the sensitivity analysis is unrepresentative of the inherent foreign exchange risk, as the year end exposure does not reflect the exposure during the year.
In addition, the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing at the balance date.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and transferred to the translation reserve.
The following table details the Groups sensitivity to a 10% increase and decrease in the Sterling exchange rate against the relevant foreign currencies for foreign operations.
The sensitivity table adjusts for the exchange rates prevailing at the balance date as applied to the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations and the average rate for the year applied to the income and expense items for a 10% change in foreign currency rates against Sterling.
A positive number below indicates an increase in net assets and profit where Sterling strengthens 10% against the relevant currency.
For a 10% weakening of the Sterling against the relevant currency, there would be an equal and opposite impact on net assets and profit, and the balances below would be negative.
Euro currency AUD dollar CAD dollar impact currency impact currency impact 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s Impact on net assets 1,106 812 12,341 1,671 943 1,337 Impact on profit 598 265 222 331 250 528 Interest rate risk management The Group has limited exposure to interest rate risk as the underlying borrowings within the Group are either fixed rate loans or an interest rate swap agreement is entered into to mitigate any fluctuations in interest rates.
It is generally a requirement under a PFI PPP concession that any borrowings are matched against the life of the concession.
Hedging activities are aligned with the period of the loan, which also mirrors the concession period and are highly effective.
The Groups corporate facility is unhedged on the basis it is utilised as an investment bridging facility and therefore drawn for a relatively short period of time.
Therefore, the Group is not exposed to cashflow risk due to changes in interest rates over its variable rate borrowings.
The fixed rate borrowings are carried at amortised cost and hence not exposed to fair value movements due to changes in interest rates.
The Groups exposures to interest rate movements on financial assets are detailed in the interest rate sensitivity analysis section of this note.
The Groups derivative financial instruments and certain available for sale financial assets are exposed to fair value movements due to changes in interest rates.
108 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 30.
Financial instruments continued Interest rate sensitivity analysis A sensitivity analysis has been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivatives and non-derivative instruments at the balance sheet date.
A 0.5% 2010: 0.5% increase or decrease is used when reporting interest rate risk internally to key management personnel and represents managements assessment of the reasonably possible change in interest rates.
The Groups available for sale financial assets comprise service concession financial assets that fall within the following categories and have the following values: Listed and unlisted equity investments not exposed to interest rate risk 25.9 million restated 2010: 17.9 million The Groups loans and receivable financial assets comprise fixed rate financial assets that are being carried at amortised cost and hence not exposed to fair value movements due to changes in interest rates.
If interest rates had been 0.5% higher and all other variables were held constant, the Groups: profit for the years ended 31 December 2011 and 2010 would not be materially impacted as the interest rate risk associated with floating rate liabilities has been significantly mitigated through interest rate Swap agreements: and net assets and other equity reserves would increase by 46.6 million and decrease by 59.0 million respectively 2010: decreased by 70.0 million 161.3 million as a result of the changes in the fair value of the interest rate Swap agreements, if the interest rate was 0.5% higher lower.
While the Directors note that due to interest rate movements in the year the valuation of interest rate swaps have moved by 146.8 million 2010: 46.3 million.
The Directors used a reasonably possible estimate that interest rates are unlikely to change by more than plus or minus 50 basis points over the next year.
A sensitivity analysis for monetary assets at 31 December 2011 using a 0.5% increase and a 0.5% decrease in the average interest rate would result in an increase in profit of 25.6 million 2010: 25.6 million and a decrease of 15.8 million 2010: 25.6 million respectively.
Interest rate swap contracts Under interest rate swap contracts, the Group agrees to exchange the difference between fixed and floating rate interest amounts calculated on agreed notional principal amounts.
The fair value of interest rate swaps at the reporting date is determined by discounting the future cash flows using the interest rate yield curves at the reporting date and the credit risk inherent in the contract, and is disclosed below.
The average interest rate is based on the outstanding balances at the end of the financial year.
The following tables detail the notional principal amounts of interest rate swap contracts outstanding as at the reporting date: 109 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 30.
Financial instruments continued Cash flow hedges floating to fixed rate debt Average Outstanding receive floating Fair value contract fixed interest Notional principal pay fixed rate amount liability contracts 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 % % 000s 000s 000s 000s Total 4.45 4.62 878,106 688,141 279,428 132,657 All interest rate swap contracts exchange floating rate interest amounts for fixed rate interest amounts.
These are designated as cash flow hedges in order to reduce the Groups cash flow exposure resulting from variable interest rates on borrowings.
The interest rate swaps and the interest payments on the loan occur simultaneously and the amount deferred in equity is recognised in profit or loss over the period that the floating rate interest payments on debt impact profit or loss.
Other price risks The Group is exposed to equity price risks arising from equity investments.
Investments in listed equity securities present the Group with opportunity for return through dividend income and trading gains.
All unconsolidated equity investments are designated as available for sale and are held for strategic rather than trading purposes.
The Group does not actively trade these investments.
As these movements go through the statement of comprehensive income except to the extent there has been an impairment there is no impact on the income statement when the equity prices change.
If the price of the listed equity had been 5% higher or lower and all other variables were held constant as at 31 December 2011 and 2010, the Groups net assets and equity reserves would increase decrease by nil 2010: increase decrease by nil and the impairment charge in the income statement would have been decreased increased by nil 2010: nil.
Credit risk management Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.
The Group has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties and PFI PPP concessions are entered into with government or quasi government or other public or equivalent low risk bodies.
Receivables consist of a small number of government or quasi government counterparties that are spread across an increasingly diverse geographical area.
The Group does not have any significant credit risk exposure to any single non government or quasi government or similar counterparty.
In relation to offshore transmission investments, the Group is protected in accordance with the Energy Act 2004 in the event of an insolvency of the National Electricity Transmission System Operator.
The Group is exposed to credit risk on liquid funds, cash held on deposit and financial instruments.
The Group mitigates this risk by only transacting with banking counterparties with high credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies currently with Moodys ranging between Aa1 and A1.
The Group has considered the creditworthiness of facilities managers and construction sub-contractors and the availability of 110 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 30.
Financial instruments continued alternative sub-contractors in the event of default and Group policy is only to deal with creditworthy contractors.
Refer to note 23 for further details on the corporate debt facility.
As at 31 December 2011 the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk over financial assets represents the carrying amount of 2.7 billion 2010: 2.4 billion as disclosed earlier in this note.
Liquidity risk management Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the board of directors, which has built an appropriate liquidity risk management framework for the management of the Groups short, medium and long-term funding and liquidity management requirements.
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves, banking facilities and reserve borrowing facilities by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
In April 2011, the Group renewed the corporate debt facility in order to allow the Group greater flexibility in respect of accepting investment opportunities as they arise.
As at 31 December 2011, the Group had drawn down 18.1 million of the 100 million facility.
Liquidity risk tables The following tables detail the Groups remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial liabilities.
The tables have been drawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities based on the earliest date on which the Group can be required to pay.
The table includes both interest and principal cash flows.
Weighted average effective interest Less than rate 1 year 1-2 years 3-5 years 5 years Total Liabilities % 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 2011 Non-interest 63,626 - - - 63,626 bearing Variable interest 3.55% 142,148 145,494 522,458 2,761,454 3,571,554 rate instruments Fixed interest rate instruments 5.51% 22,971 22,993 69,221 495,462 610,647 228,745 168,487 591,679 3,256,916 4,245,827 2010 restated Non-interest 87,702 - - - 87,702 bearing Variable interest 3.42% 108,575 112,896 359,766 2,511,077 3,092,314 rate instruments Fixed interest rate instruments 5.59% 21,091 23,316 70,143 491,823 606,373 217,368 136,212 429,909 3,002,900 3,786,389 111 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued The cash flows set out above in respect of variable rate instruments are presented gross of the effect of the associated interest rate swap referred to in note 24.
The following table details the Groups expected maturity for its non-derivative financial assets.
The tables below have been drawn up based on the undiscounted contractual maturities of the financial assets including interest that will be earned on those assets except where the Group anticipates that the cash flow will occur in a different period.
The following table details the Groups liquidity analysis for its derivative financial instruments.
The table has been drawn up based on the undiscounted net cash inflows outflows on the derivative instruments that settle on a net basis and the undiscounted gross inflows and outflows on those derivatives that require gross settlement.
When the amount payable is not fixed, the amount disclosed is determined by reference to the conditions existing at the reporting date.
For example, when the amount payable varies with changes in an index, the amount disclosed may be based on the level of the index at the reporting date.
112 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 30.
Interest rate swaps are measured at the present value of future cash flows estimated and discounted based on the applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates.
The fair value of non-derivative financial assets and financial liabilities with standard terms and conditions and traded on active liquid markets are determined with reference to quoted market prices.
Financial assets in this category include equity shares.
The fair value of other non-derivative financial assets and financial liabilities are determined in accordance with generally accepted pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis using current market data.
Except as detailed in the following table, the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded at amortised cost in the financial statements approximate their fair values: Carrying amount Fair value Restated Restated 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2011 2010 2011 2010 000s 000s 000s 000s Financial assets Loans and receivables 2,269,783 1,694,015 2,705,502 2,719,973 Financial liabilities Bank loans at fixed interest rates 310,879 308,516 406,986 442,265 113 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 30.
Financial instruments continued Assumptions used in determining fair value of financial assets and liabilities The fair value of the Groups loans and receivables has been determined using discounted cash flow methodology.
In determining the discount rate, consideration is given to a number of market factors including but not limited to the prevailing risk free rate, an appropriate project specific risk premium and recent transactions that have similar characteristics.
At 31 December 2011 for project debt which is non recourse to the group covenants are in respect of historic and future interest cover ratios in the range of 1.01 times historic interest cover ratio and 1.75 times future interest cover ratio.
The fair value of the fixed rate bank loans has been calculated using discounted cash flow methodology.
The discount rate used reflects changes in the LIBOR rates and lending margins.
Fair value measurements recognised in the balance sheet The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable: Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
2011 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 000s 000s 000s 000s Available-for-sale financial assets - - 25,936 25,936 Total - - 25,936 25,936 Derivative financial liabilities - 279,428 - 279,428 Total - 279,428 - 279,428 There were no transfers between Level 1 and 2 during the year.
114 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 30.
Financial instruments continued 2010 Restated Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 000s 000s 000s 000s Available-for-sale financial assets 216 - 17,667 17,883 Total 216 - 17,667 17,883 Derivative financial liabilities - 132,657 - 132,657 Total - 132,657 - 132,657 There were no transfers between Level 1 and 2 during the year.
Reconciliation of Level 3 fair value measurements of financial assets: Available-for-sale Available-for-sale Unlisted equities Unlisted equities 2011 2010 Restated 000s 000s Balance at 1 January 17,667 22,144 Total gains or losses: - in profit or loss 1,308 6 - in other comprehensive income - 4,483 Investments 9,577 - Balance at 31 December 25,936 17,667 The table above only includes financial assets.
There were no financial liabilities subsequently measured at fair value on Level 3 fair value measurement bases.
All gains and losses included in other comprehensive income relate to unlisted equities held at the balance sheet date.
Significant assumptions used in determining fair value of financial assets and liabilities Unlisted shares The financial statements include holdings in unlisted shares which are measured at fair value note 20.
Fair value is estimated using a discounted cash flow model, which includes some assumptions that are not supportable by observable market prices or rates.
In determining the fair value a risk adjusted weighted average discount factor of 10.56% 2010: 12.0% is used.
If these inputs to the valuation model were 0.5% higher lower while all the other variables were held constant, the carrying amount of the shares would decrease increase by 1.0 million 2010: decrease increase by 0.1 million.
The majority of the increase is due to the inclusion of underlying BSFI project investments acquired during the year to 31 December 2011.
115 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 31.
Share capital 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 shares shares On issue 1 January 479,040 374,715 Issued for cash 48,428 98,495 Issued as a scrip dividend alternative 6,766 2,839 Issued to the Investment Advisor as a performance fee alternative - 2,991 On issue at 31 December fully paid 534,234 479,040 At present, the Company has one class of Ordinary Shares which carry no right to fixed income.
For the year ended 31 December 2011 On 13 January 2011, the Company raised an additional 2.34 million of equity through an existing Tap facility of 2,000,000 new Ordinary shares.
The shares were issued at a price of 117.0p per share inc dividend.
In March 2011, 3,244,167 new ordinary shares of 0.01p each fully paid were issued as a scrip dividend alternative in lieu of cash for the interim dividend in respect of the six months ending 31 December 2010.
In September 2011, the Group raised an additional 52.03 million of equity through its Tap Issues for Subscription of 46,428,447 Ordinary shares at an issue price per share of 112.15p ex dividend.
In October 2011, 3,521,274 new ordinary shares of 0.01p each fully paid were issued as a scrip dividend alternative in lieu of cash for the interim dividend in respect of the six months ending 30 June 2011.
The total number of Ordinary Shares in issue at 31 December 2011 was 534,234,191.
"Share capital 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 000s 000s Opening balance 198,259 81,795 Issue of Ordinary Equity Shares 61,971 118,268 Expenses on issue of Ordinary Shares 467 1,804 Balance at 31 December 259,763 198,259 As a result of changes in the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 ""the Law"" proceeds of share issues are now required to be credited to share capital, not share premium account."
In addition, there is no longer a requirement to seek court approval to make distributions from the share premium account and distributions may now be made from share capital and share premium accounts, as well as other reserves, subject to meeting the relevant solvency tests in the Law.
The existing balance on share premium account has, therefore been transferred to share capital account 116 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 32.
Revaluation reserve Restated Restated 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 1 Jan 2010 000s 000s 000s Opening balance - - 7,694 Restatement change in accounting policy note 1 - - 7,694 Revaluation of unlisted investments 361 - - Closing balance 361 - - 33.
Retained earnings Restated Restated 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 1 Jan 2010 000s 000s 000s Opening balance 16,822 2,177 7,361 Dividends paid - - 20,515 Transfer from other distributable reserves - - 20,515 Net profit for the year 16,538 14,645 9,538 Closing balance 33,360 16,822 2,177 Retained earnings have been restated in 2010 as detailed in note 1.
117 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 35.
Liverpool Library On 31 March 2011, the Group acquired 80.1% of the issued share capital of Inspire Partnership Holdings Limited for cash consideration of 2.1 million, including the cost of acquisition of 0.2 million.
Inspire Partnership Holdings Limited is the parent company of the entity holding the PFI concession of Liverpool Library.
This transaction has been accounted for by the purchase method of accounting.
The acquirees identified assets and liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
The intangible asset arising on acquisition is attributable to the right to future profits on the services element of the related concessions acquired.
All amounts shown above are at book value and fair value.
Inspire Partnership Holdings Limited contributed 0.37 million revenue and 1.68 million loss before tax for the period between the date of acquisition and the 31 December 2011.
At 31 March 2011 000s Cash consideration 1,949 Total consideration 1,949 Fair value of the Groups equity interest held before the business combination - 1,949 000s Loans and receivables 13,124 Trade and receivables 271 Cash and cash equivalents 1,695 Intangible asset 2,692 Trade and other payables 3,031 Bank loans 12,081 Deferred tax liability 727 Total identifiable net assets 1,943 Noncontrolling interest 6 1,949 118 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 35.
Long Bay Forensic and Prison Hospital On 6 May 2011, the Group acquired an additional 50% of the issued share capital of PPP Solutions Long Bay Nominee Pty Ltd and 50% of the partnership capital and existing partnership loans of PPP Solutions Long Bay Partnership for cash consideration of 6.7 million, including the cost of acquisition of 0.04 million.
PPP Solutions Long Bay Nominee Pty Ltd is the trustee company of the entity holding the PFI concession of Long Bay Forensic and Prison Hospital.
All amounts shown below are at book value and fair value.
PPP Solutions Long Bay Partnership contributed 11.9 million revenue and profit before tax of 1.9 million for the period between the date of acquisition and the 31 December 2011.
At 6 May 2011 000s Cash consideration 6,745 Total consideration 6,745 Fair value of the Groups equity interest held before the business combination 8,559 15,304 000s Financial asset loans and receivables 12,674 Trade and receivables 7,594 Cash and cash equivalents 5,448 Intangible asset 5,455 Trade and other payables 1,652 Bank loans 8,552 Deferred tax liability 5,663 Total identifiable net assets 15,304 Noncontrolling interest - 15,304 119 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 35.
Royal Melbourne Showgrounds On 6 May 2011, the Group acquired an additional 50% of the issued share capital and existing shareholder loan notes of PPPS Showgrounds Pty Ltd for cash consideration of 3.3 million, including the cost of acquisition of 0.2 million.
PPPS Showgrounds Pty Ltd is the parent company of the entity holding the PFI concession of the Royal Melbourne Showgrounds.
The additional 50% acquisition in PPPS Showgrounds Pty Ltd contributed 1.0 million revenue and profit before tax of 1.8 million for the period between the date of acquisition and the 31 December 2011.
At 6 May 2011 000s Cash consideration 3,285 Total consideration 3,285 Fair value of the Groups equity interest 3,793 before the business combination 7,078 000s Financial asset loans and receivables 67,210 Trade receivables and other assets 3,941 Cash and cash equivalents 909 Deferred tax asset 404 Derivative financial instruments 881 Trade and other payables 1,058 Bank loans 61,038 Deferred tax liability 3,756 Total identifiable net assets 7,493 Noncontrolling interest - Gain recognised in Income Statement 415 7,078 120 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 35.
Building Schools for Future Investments LLP On 12 August 2011, the Group acquired 100% of the partnership interests including investor loans in Building Schools for the Future LLP from the Department for Education and Partnerships UK for cash consideration of 58.4 million, including the cost of acquisition of 1.3 million.
Building Schools for The Future Investments LLP is the holding entity for 10% interests in 32 local education partnership entities and 49 secondary school PFI concessions.
All amounts shown below are at fair value.
Building Schools for the Future Investments LLP contributed 1.8 million revenue and profit before tax of 0.8 million for the period between the date of acquisition and the 31 December 2011.
At 12 August 2011 000s Cash consideration 58,438 Total consideration 58,438 Fair value of the Groups equity interest - before the business combination 58,438 000s Financial asset loans and receivables 59,078 Cash and cash equivalents 282 Trade and other payables 922 Total identifiable net assets 58,438 Noncontrolling interest - 58,438 121 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 36.
Notes to the cash flow statement 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 000s 000s Profit for the year after taxation 16,030 15,062 Adjusted for: Investment revenue recognised in profit and loss 32,350 40,756 Share of profits losses of associates 405 4,547 Interest on bank loans finance costs 146,342 121,755 Depreciation of plant property and equipment 350 416 Amortisation of intangible assets 9,579 9,341 Income tax credit charge recognised in profit and loss 2,860 1,476 Other losses gains 5,614 4,470 Impairment of financial assets 6,286 9,620 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 138,168 116,837 Increase in receivables 47,046 15,580 Increase in payables 29,185 2,051 Cash generated by operations 61,937 99,206 Income tax paid 3,650 235 Interest paid 131,022 119,369 Net cash outflow from operating activities 72,735 19,928 Cash and cash equivalents held by the Group are short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying value of these assets approximates their fair value.
Contingent liabilities The Group has commitment to provide ongoing working capital facilities to certain underlying BSFI investment entities.
The total undrawn amount of these facilities as at 31 December 2011 was 0.9 million.
As at 31 December 2011 the Group also had a commitment to invest additional subordinated debt into one of the BSFI projects of 0.5 million, which was made since the end of the year.
The Directors have not identified any contingent liabilities at the date of this report.
Events after the balance sheet date There were no material events after the balance sheet date requiring disclosure.
122 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 39.
Disclosure service concession arrangements The Group operates 28 Consolidated service concession arrangements in the Accommodation, Custodial, Energy and Transport sectors.
The concessions vary on the nature of the asset but typically require the construction and operation of an asset during the concession period.
The concession may require the acquisition or replacement of an existing asset or the construction of a new asset.
The operation of the accommodation based assets normally includes the provision of facilities management services such as cleaning, catering, caretaking, security, maintenance, and lifecycle.
At the end of the concession period on the majority of the concessions the assets are returned back to the concession provider.
However on seven of the projects the Group has a right to retain the asset.
The rights of both the concession provider and concession operator are stated within the specific Project Documentation.
The standard rights of the provider to terminate the project include poor performance and in the event of force majeure.
The operators rights to terminate include the failure of the provider to make payment under the agreement, a material breach of contract and relevant changes of law which would render it impossible for the service company to fulfil its requirements The table overleaf sets out the Groups economic interests in PFI concessions that are Consolidated within the financial statements.
All economic interests reflect an investment in the capital of the underlying project.
123 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Project Short description of concession Start date End date No of years Construction Key contractual details arrangements Value Abingdon Police Design, construct, finance and 25 March 2000 09 March 2030 30 Years 6.9m Development value of Station provision of facilities approximately 8m.
Retains an management to a police facility insignificant residual value in including HQ, station and buildings land training base for Thames Valley Police Authority.
Access Justice Design, construction, financing 2 March 2007 30 November 30 Years 98.0m Concession payment basis is Durham and provision of services for a 2039 both availability and service new courthouse facility in performance-based Durham, Ontario, Canada.
Alberta Schools Design, construction, financing 15 September 2008 30 September 32 Years CAD490m An associated company of one and provision of services for 18 2040 member of the construction JV new schools throughout is a 25% equity holder in this Edmonton and Calgary, project Canada.
Amiens Hospital Design, construct, finance and 1 January 2008 31 July 2026 19 Years 7.1m Concession payment basis is Project operate an instrument both availability and service sterilization facility at Amiens, performance-based France.
Bootle Design, construct, finance and 17 July 2000 16 July 2025 25 Years 4.1m Public Sector Client has an Government provision of facilities option to break in 2015.
Offices management to fully serviced Retains an insignificant accommodation in Bootle for residual value in buildings land the occupation of HM Revenue & Customs.
124 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Project Short description of concession Start date End date No of years Construction Key contractual details arrangements Value Calderdale Design, construct, finance and 31 August 2004 17 March 2030 26 Years 44.6m Start date applies to first Schools provision of facilities operational school - Savile management to five schools in Park Primary Calderdale.
Derbyshire Design, construction, financing 04 June 2003 02 September 25 Years 21.3m Authority has option to extend Magistrates Courts and provision of facilities 2028 Concession date by 5 years management services to two courthouses in Derbyshire.
Derbyshire Design, build, finance and 28 March 2003 28 March 2029 26 Years 25.3m Concession payment basis is Schools Phase 1 provision of facilities both availability and service management services to two performance based secondary schools in Derbyshire.
Derbyshire Design, build, finance and 13 February 2006 12 February 2032 26 Years 28.3m Concession payment basis is Schools Phase 2 provision of facilities both availability and service management services to two performance based secondary schools in Derbyshire.
Diablo Project Design, construction, financing 2 October 2007 30 June 2047 40 years 285m Concession has both and subsequent operation of a availability and an element of rail link in Belgium.
demand based revenue Dublin Criminal Design, construction, financing 18 April 2007 30 June 2035 25 Years 105.0m Concession payment basis is Courts and subsequent operation of a both availability and service courthouse Dublin, Ireland.
performance-based Hereford & Design, construction, financing 03 March 2003 05 March 2025 22 Years 23.5m Concession payment basis is Worcester and subsequent operation of both availability and service Magistrates Courts four courthouses in Hereford & performance based Worcester.
125 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Project Short description of concession Start date End date No of years Construction Key contractual details arrangements Value Liverpool Central Design, build, finance and 19 July 2010 07 November 27 Years 40.8m Concession payment basis is Library & Archive provision of facilities 2037 both availability and service Project management services for the performance-based Central Library and Archive facility in Liverpool, England.
Long Bay Prison & Design, construction, financing 01 August 2006 31 May 2034 28 Years AUD 147m Concession payment basis is Forensic Hospital and subsequent operation of both availability and service prison and forensic hospital in performance based Sydney, Australia.
Maesteg Schools Design, build, finance and 29 July 2008 30 September 25 Years 17.6m Concession payment basis is Project provision of facilities 2033 both availability and service management services for new performance-based build schools in Maesteg, Wales.
Melbourne Design, construction, financing 01 July 2005 01 August 2031 26 Years AUD 103m Concession payment basis is Showgrounds and subsequent operation of both availability and service the redevelopment of performance based Melbourne showgrounds in Australia.
Northamptonshire Design, construct being a 31 December 2005 31 December 32 Years 191.3m Payments increase as schools Schools mixture of new build and 2037 are completed refurbishment, finance and provision of facilities management services in respect of 30 existing schools and 11 new build schools in Northamptonshire.
126 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Project Short description of concession Start date End date No of years Construction Key contractual details arrangements Value North Wales Police Design, construction, financing 01 March 2004 08 December 24 Years 13.2m Concession payment basis is HQ and subsequent supply of 2028 both availability and service facilities management services performance-based to the North Wales Police HQ.
Norfolk Police HQ Design, construct, finance and 17 December 2001 16 December 35 Years 22.5m Authority has option to extend subsequent provision of operational 2036 for a further 15 years and a facilities management services services, 15 January second option to extend for a of serviced accommodation for 2002 further 15 years thereafter.
a new HQ and ancillary full service Project Retains an insignificant facilities to the Norfolk Police residual value in buildings land Authority.
Orange Hospital Design, build, finance and 21 December 2007 21 December 28 years AUD170m Concession payment basis is provision of facilities 2035 both availability and service management services to the performance-based Orange Hospital.
Pforzheim Schools Build, finance and provision of 11 September 2009 11 September 30 years 47.1m Concession payment basis is facilities management services 2039 both availability and service in respect to two new performance-based secondary schools buildings and outside facilities in the City of Pforzheim.
Royal Childrens Design, build, finance and 20 December 2007 31 December 29 years AUD1.4 bn Concession is a two stage Hospital provision of facilities 2036 project that includes new management services to the building and refurbishment of Royal Childrens Hospital.
The payment basis is availability based 127 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Project Short description of concession Start date End date No of years Construction Key contractual details arrangements Value Strathclyde Police Design, build, finance and 17 October 2001 16 October 2026 25 Years 18.9m Retains an insignificant Training Centre provision of facilities residual value in buildings land management services to the Strathclyde Police Training Centre.
St Thomas More Design, construction, financing 28 March 2003 28 March 2028 25 Years 12.9m Concession payment basis is School and provision of facilities both availability and service management services to St performance-based Thomas More School.
TC Barrow OFTO Finance, Operate & Maintain 27 September 2011 27 March 2030 18.5 years 33.5m Concession payment basis is onshore offshore substations & based both on availability and under-sea cables connecting service performance the mainland electricity grid network to offshore wind-farms.
TC Gunfleet Sands Finance, Operate & Maintain 19 July 2011 19 July 2031 20 years 49.0m Concession payment basis is OFTO onshore offshore substations & based both on availability and under-sea cables connecting service performance the mainland electricity grid network to offshore wind-farms.
TC Robin Rigg Finance, Operate & Maintain 02 March 2011 02 March 2031 20 years 65.0m Concession payment basis is OFTO onshore offshore substations & based both on availability and under-sea cables connecting service performance the mainland electricity grid network to offshore wind-farms.
Tower Hamlets Design, construction mix of 28 June 2002 27 August 2027 25 Years 74.1m Under the concession the Schools new build and refurbishment contract start date, unitary payment commenced and provision of facilities June 2007 at financial close.
There is management services in construction provision for the sale of surplus respect of 27 schools in Tower completion land following the completion Hamlets.
of the redevelopment 128 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 40.
Related party transactions During the period, Group companies entered into certain transactions with related parties who are not members of the Group and who are related parties by reason of being in the same group as Amber Infrastructure Group Holdings Limited, which is the ultimate holding company of the Investment Advisor, AFML.
Under the Investment Advisory Agreement IAA, Amber Fund Management Limited AFML was appointed to provide investment advisory services to the Company including advising the Company as to the strategic management of its portfolio of investments.
AFML is a subsidiary company of Amber Infrastructure Group Holdings Limited Amber Group, in which Mr G Frost is a Director and also a substantial shareholder.
As Mr G Frost is also a Director of International Public Partnerships Limited the Company, International Public Partnerships Lux 1 Sarl.
a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company and the majority of other companies in which the Company indirectly has an investment: the transactions with the Amber Group are considered related party transactions under IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
The emoluments for Mr G Frost are paid to his employer, Amber Infrastructure Limited.
The amounts of the transactions in the year that were related party transactions are set out in the table below.
Amounts paid Amounts owing Amounts paid to related to received from to from related parties in Income related parties in parties in Balance 1 2 Statement Balance Sheet Sheet For the For the year ended year ended 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s Amber Fund Management Ltd a 1,447 21 - - - - International Public Partnerships GP Limited b 7,545 6,526 - - 3,976 3,402 Amber Asset Management Limited c 1,737 2,035 48 2,257 774 421 Amber Australia Pty Ltd d 1,219 2,018 1,591 - 311 295 Amber GmbH e 257 272 - - - - ANALLC f 555 - - - - - Amber Infrastructure Ltd g 384 - 7,148 - - - Total 13,144 10,872 8,787 2,257 5,061 4,118 1 Represents amounts paid to related parties to acquire or make investments or advisory fees associated with investments which are subsequently recorded in the balance sheet.
2 Represents debtors and creditors outstanding with related parties at each balance sheet date.
129 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 40.
Related party transactions continued a Amber Fund Management Limited AFML, the Investment Advisor, is a related party of the Group.
The aggregate fees payable to AFML in its capacity as Investment Advisor includes both base and performance fees, however the amount is reduced by any base or performance fees that have been paid or are due and payable to International Public Partnerships GP Limited see b.
The amounts paid to AFML for the year ended 31 December 2011 was 1,447,000 2010 21,000 and relates to advisory fees.
Material provisions of the Investment Advisory Agreement include that AFML is entitled to a Base Fee in each year at the annual rate of 1.2 per cent per annum of the Gross Asset Value less project specific liabilities of the Investment Portfolio.
AFML is also entitled to an Incentive Fee in respect of each Incentive Period equal to 20 per cent.
of the excess if any of the Ordinary Share Return over the Benchmark Return as defined in the Investment Advisory Agreement in the Incentive Period, provided that the Incentive Fee shall only be payable if and to the extent that the change in the Ordinary Share Return Index in the relevant Incentive Period is greater than the change in the Benchmark Return Index.
The Investment Advisory Agreement may be terminated by either party giving to the other five years notice of termination, expiring at any time after 15 years from the date of the Investment Advisory Agreement.
The Investment Advisory Agreement may also be terminated immediately by either party: a if the other party fails to make a payment when due which is not paid within 30 days of being notified of the failure to make a payment: or b in the case of the material breach by the other party which remains unremedied for 30 days after such party has been notified of the breach or, if such breach is not capable of remedy, if the breaching party fails to offer compensation in respect of such breach which is reasonably acceptable to the other party.
In addition, subject to the Shareholders passing an ordinary resolution directly to the Directors to terminate the Investment Advisory Agreement, the Company can terminate the Investment Advisory Agreement by giving one years written notice to the Investment Advisor in either of the following circumstances: a if at any time after the expiry of five years from the date of the Investment Advisory Agreement, the Benchmark Return Index outperforms the Ordinary Share Index by more than 3 per cent.
In at least eight out of the immediately preceding 10 quarterly periods unless the reason for the out performance of the Benchmark Return Index was to a material extent caused by the occurrence of an event of force majeure : or b if at any time a material in number of and seniority of employees in the Amber groups infrastructure and project finance group cease to be employed by any member of the Amber group and are not replaced before the end of the one year written notice period by suitably qualified other staff who will enable the services to be provided under the Investment Advisory Agreement in a manner at least comparable to that in which the services were provided prior to the occurrence of such event.
Material provisions of this agreement include that the Operating Agreement may be terminated by either the Partnership or the Operator giving to the other five years notice of termination, expiring at any time after 15 years from the date of the Operating Agreement.
The Operating Agreement may also be terminated immediately by the Partnership or the Operator: a if the other party fails to make a payment when due which is not paid within 30 days of being notified of the failure to make a payment: or b in the case of the material breach by the other party which remains unremedied for 30 days after such party has been notified of the breach or, if such breach is not capable of remedy, if the breaching party fails to offer compensation in respect of such breach which is reasonably acceptable to the other party.
The Partnership can terminate the Operating Agreement immediately in any of the following circumstances: 130 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 40.
Related party transactions continued a on the insolvency or analogous event occurring in respect of the Operator: b if the Operator is no longer permitted by applicable laws, rules and regulations to provide its services under the Operating Agreement: and c if the Investment Advisor is removed or replaced in accordance with the Investment Advisory Agreement, save that in the case of a and b, the General Partner shall, if so required by Amber Fund Management Limited, novate the Operating Agreement in favour of another member of the Amber Group that is reasonably acceptable to the Limited Partner, who is not insolvent and who can provide the services in accordance with relevant laws and regulations.
b International Public Partnerships GP Limited is a related party of the Group.
This company was acquired by the Amber Group of companies on 23 June 2009 and as General Partner pursuant to the Deed of Limited Partnership dated 10 October 2006, between the General Partner and the Limited Partner International Public Partnerships Lux 2 Sarl.
is entitled to a Base Priority Profit Share and an Incentive Priority Profit Share that is calculated in accordance with the Investment Advisory Agreement.
In part settlement of the performance fee that was payable at 31 December 2009, 40% of the value was accepted in shares by the Investment Advisor, being 3.4 million.
As a result, Amber Infrastructure Limited AIL received 2,991,220 Ordinary Shares of the Company on 5 May 2010 at 114.1 pence per share.
This shareholding helps strengthen the alignment of interests between the Company and the Investment Advisor.
As at 31 December 2011 AIL still held these shares and received dividends in respect of these.
c Amber Asset Management Limited registered in England and Wales is a related party of the Group pursuant to having Amber Infrastructure Group Holdings Limited as its ultimate holding company in common with the Investment Advisor and has various asset management agreements with the underlying PFI concession companies of the Group to provide asset management services.
d Amber Australia Pty Limited registered in NSW, Australia is a related party of the Group pursuant to having Amber Infrastructure Group Holdings Limited as its ultimate holding company in common with the Investment Advisor and has various asset management agreements with the underlying PFI concession companies of the Group to provide asset management services in Australia.
e Amber GmbH is a related party of the Group pursuant to having Amber Infrastructure Group Holdings Limited as its ultimate holding company in common with the Investment Advisor and has a services agreement with International Public Partnerships Infrastructure Group & Co KG.
f Amber North America LLC ANALLC is a related party of the Group pursuant to having Amber Infrastructure Group Holdings Limited as its ultimate holding company in common with the Investment Advisor and asset management agreements in place with the underlying PFI concession companies of the Group to provide asset management services g Amber Infrastructure Limited is a related party of the Group pursuant to having Amber Infrastructure Group Holdings Limited as its ultimate holding company in common with the Investment Advisor.
h During the year dividends of 0.2 million 2010: 3.2 million were received from associates and as shown in note 19, a further 9.5 million was invested in associates during the year.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
131 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 40.
Related party transactions continued Transactions with directors The were no purchases of shares from the Company by directors during the year ended 31 December 2011 2010: 192,625 shares were purchased as part of the capital raising of New Ordinary Shares.
Remuneration paid to the non executive directors is disclosed on page 41.
