society account should contact the Services Limited.
Further information The registered office is: Registrar for a dividend mandate form may be obtained through their ISA Britvic House, Broomfield Road, or the form can be downloaded from the Helpline, telephone 0845 300 0430.
aspx Financial calendar website www.
com Ex-dividend date 7 December 2011 This method of payment removes the This report is available to download Record date 9 December 2011 risk of delay or loss of dividend cheques via the companys website: in the post and ensures that your Annual general meeting 25 January 2012 http: ir.
com results-andaccount is credited on the due date.
presentations results-andPayment of final dividend 10 February 2012 presentations 2011. aspx Dividend reinvestment plan DRIP Interim results announcement May 2012 Shareholders can now choose to reinvest If you do not have access to the internet dividends received to purchase further and would like a printed copy of any of our Electronic communications shares in the company through a DRIP.
reports, please call our consumer care team Shareholders can elect to receive A DRIP application form is available via on 0800 0321 767 or write to Consumer shareholder documents electronically the registrar or for download from the Care Department, Drayton House, by registering with Shareview at companys website http: ir.
com Drayton Road, Shirley, Solihull B90 4NA.
This will save shareholder-centre dividends.
aspx on printing and distribution costs, The companys registrar is: creating environmental benefits.
When Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Share dealing services you register, you will be sent an email Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA The companys Registrar, Equiniti notification to say when shareholder Tel: 0871 384 2550 UK callers, Financial Services Limited, offer a documents are available on our website 44 121 415 7018 non-UK callers.
telephone and internet dealing service, and you will be provided with a link to Shareview, which provides a simple that information.
When registering, and convenient way of buying and For those with hearing difficulties, a textphone you will need your shareholder reference selling shares.
For telephone dealings is available on 0870 600 3950 for UK callers number which can be found on your share call 08456 037 037 between 8.00am with compatible equipment.
Please contact and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, and Calls to 0871 numbers are charged at Equiniti if you require any assistance or for internet dealings log onto www.
8p per minute from a BT landline.
co. uk dealing Other telephony provider costs may vary.
112 Britvic plc Annual Report 2011 Britvic at a glance Cautionary not e regarding forward-looking statements Britvic is one of the leading branded soft drinks This announcement includes statements that are forward-looking in nature.
Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the company to be materially different from any future results, performance The company leverages its own leading brand portfolio or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
including Robinsons, Tango, drench, J O and Fruit Shoot Except as required by the Listing Rules and applicable law, Britvic undertakes 2 no obligation to update or change any forward-looking statements to reflect as well as PepsiCo brands such as Pepsi, 7UP and events occurring after the date such statements are published.
Mountain Dew Energy which Britvic produces and sells Definitions in GB and Ireland under exclusive PepsiCo agreements.
All numbers and comparisons are quoted on a 52 week basis, constant currency and before exceptional and other items unless otherwise stated.
2010, 52 week comparatives have been derived by removing the impact of the 53 week of trading.
2011 Volume Britvic is the largest supplier of branded still soft drinks and ARP average realised price are adjusted for the impact of double concentrate on Robinsons and MiWadi to provide a meaningful comparison.
Further information, including numbers not in Great Britain GB and the number two supplier of adjusted for double concentrate and last year 53 week numbers are available at the Investor Centre branded carbonated soft drinks in GB.
Results and Presentations section on the Britvic Investor Relations website at www.
Constant currency growth removes the impact of exchange rate movements during the period by retranslating prior year foreign currency denominated results of the group at current period Britvic is an industry leader in the island of Ireland with exchange rates to aid comparability.
brands such as MiWadi and Ballygowan, and in France 3.
France is included for the full twelve months this year versus only four months in the prior period Britvic France was acquired on 28 May 2010. with brands such as Teisseire and Fruit.
EBITA is defined as operating profit before exceptional and other items and amortisation.
growing its reach into other territories through export, Only amortisation attributable to intangibles on acquisition is added back, in the period this is 3.1m 2010: 2.2m.
EBITA margin is the EBITA number as a proportion of group revenues.
Adjusted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing adjusted earnings by the average number of shares during the period.
Adjusted earnings is defined as the profit loss attributable Britvics management team has successfully developed to ordinary equity shareholders before exceptional and other items adjusted for the adding back of acquisition related amortisation.
Average number of shares during the period is defined as the the business through a clear strategy of organic growth weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period excluding any own and international expansion based on creating and building shares held by Britvic that are used to satisfy various employee share-based incentive programmes.
The weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for adjusted earnings per share for the scale brands.
Britvic is listed on the London Stock Exchange period was 240.4m 2010: 224.9m.
2010 adjusted earnings per share is a 53 week number.
Underlying free cash flow is defined as net cash flow excluding movements in borrowings, dividend payments, exceptional and other items.
Group adjusted net debt is defined as group net debt, adding back the impact of derivatives Its market capitalisation at 2 October 2011 was 760m.
hedging the balance sheet debt.
Underlying return on invested capital ROIC - ROIC is defined as operating profit after applying the tax rate for the period, stated before exceptional and other items, as a percentage of invested capital.
Invested capital is defined as non-current assets plus current assets less current liabilities, excluding all balances relating to interest bearing liabilities and all other assets or liabilities associated with the financing and capital structure of the group and excluding any deferred tax balances and effective hedges relating to interest-bearing liabilities.
The measure excludes the reduction in the asset base following the impairments of intangible assets in Ireland in 2010 to reflect capital initially invested and subsequent returns.
To aid comparability year on year the results and asset base of Britvic France have been excluded as 2010 would include only 4 months returns versus 12 months in 2011.
All numbers in this announcement other than where stated or included within the financial statements are disclosed before exceptional and other items.
The auditors have reported on the 2010 and 2009 accounts.
Their reports for both years were unqualified and did not contain statements under section 498 2 or 3 of the Companies Act 2006.
Contents Overview Governance 59 Consolidated statement 01 Our performance 34 Board of directors of changes in equity 02 Where we operate 36 Directors report 60 Notes to the consolidated 03 Our brand portfolio 40 Corporate governance report financial statements 04 Our people 45 Directors remuneration report 103 Independent auditors report 07 Strategy for growth to the members of Britvic plc Financial statements 104 Company balance sheet Business review 54 Independent auditors report 105 Notes to the company Britvic takes care of the environment by choosing pureprint environmental print technology.
All the electricity used in the production of this report was 10 Chairmans statement to the members of Britvic plc financial statements generated from renewable sources and vegetable oil based inks were used 13 Chief executives review 55 Consolidated income statement throughout.
The printer is a CarbonNeutral company and certificated to 19 Financial review 56 Consolidated statement of Shareholder information Environmental Management System, ISO 14001 and registered to EMAS, the Eco Management and Audit Scheme.
28 Corporate responsibility comprehensive income 112 Shareholder profile The paper used in this production is made from 50% recycled waste 29 Business resources 57 Consolidated balance sheet and information and 50% virgin fibre product with FSC certification.
30 Risks and uncertainties 58 Consolidated statement ibc Cautionary statement Designed by sg design [sg-design.
co. uk] of cash flows Photography by ben fisher [benfisherphotography.
com] annual report 2011 annual report 2011 Britvic plc Britvic House Broomfield Road Chelmsford Essex CM1 1TU Tel: 44 0 1245 261871 www.
