Held-to-maturity fi financial assets Held-to-maturity financial assets are non-derivative financial instruments with xed or determinable payments and maturity dates which the group has the intention and ability to hold to maturity.
Subsequent to initial recognition, held-to-maturity assets are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less impairment losses.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees that are an integral part of the effective interest rate.
The amortisation is included in interest income in the income statement.
The losses arising from impairment of such investments are recognised in the income statement.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market and exclude the following: Those that the group intends to trade in, which are classi ed as held-for-trading and those that the group designates as at fair value through pro t or loss Those that the group designates as available-for-sale Those for which the holder may not recover substantially all of its initial investment, other than because of credit deterioration, which are accounted for at fair value through pro t or loss.
Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method, less impairment losses.
The effective interest rate represents the rate that exactly discounts future projected cash ows through the expected life of the financial instrument, to the net carrying amount of the financial instrument.
Included in the calculation of the effective interest rate is any discount or premium on acquisition and fees that are an integral part of the effective interest rate.
Losses arising from impairment of such investments are recognised in the income statement line impairment losses on loans and advances.
Interest on impaired financial assets is recognised using the rate of interest used to discount the future cash ows for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss.
Available-for-sale fi financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are those which are designated as such or do not qualify to be classi ed as designated at fair value through pro t or loss, held-to-maturity, or loans and receivables.
They include strategically held equity instruments that are not associates, joint ventures or subsidiaries of the group.
Further, certain loans and receivables that are held at fair value due to being quoted on an active market, which are neither actively traded nor held-to-maturity instruments, are classi ed as available-for-sale financial assets.
Financial assets classi ed as available-for-sale are measured at fair value on the balance sheet, with unrealised gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income.
When the asset is disposed of, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is recognised in the income statement.
Interest earned whilst holding available-for-sale financial assets is reported as interest income using the effective interest rate.
Dividends earned whilst holding available-for-sale financial assets are recognised in the income statement when the right of payment has been established.
If an available-for-sale instrument is determined to be impaired, the respective cumulative unrealised losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income are included in the income statement in the period in which the impairment is identi ed.
Impairments on available-for-sale equity instruments are not reversed once recognised in the income statement.
If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt instrument classi ed as available-for-sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the income statement, the impairment loss is reversed, limited to the impairment value previously recognised in the income statement.
Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are classi ed as non-trading, held-for-trading or designated as held at fair value through pro t or loss.
Non-trading liabilities are recorded at amortised cost applying the effective interest rate method.
Held-for-trading liabilities or liabilities designated as held at fair value through pro t or loss, are measured at fair value.
313 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited signi cant accounting policies continued Valuation of fi financial instruments All financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value.
On initial recognition, the fair value of a financial instrument is the transaction price unless it is deemed appropriate that the fair value of a financial instrument is more accurately determined by comparison with other observable current market transactions in the same instrument i. e. without modi cation or repackaging or based on a valuation technique whose variables include only data from observable markets.
In circumstances where unobservable data has a signi cant impact on the valuation of a financial instrument, the entire difference between the model determined fair value and the transaction price is not recognised on initial recognition.
The difference arising is recognised in the income statement over the life of the transaction, or when inputs become observable, or when the transaction is effectively closed out.
Subsequent to initial recognition the following financial instruments are measured at fair value: Fixed maturity securities classi ed as trading, held at fair value through pro t or loss and available-for-sale Equity securities Private equity investments Derivative positions Loans and advances designated as held at fair value through pro t or loss Loans and advances designated as available-for-sale Financial liabilities classi ed as trading or designated as held at fair value through pro t or loss.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the fair value of financial instruments quoted in an active market is based on published price quotations.
Where market prices are not available, fair value is determined by discounting the expected cash ows, using market interest rates taking into account the credit quality and duration of the investment.
In certain instances model pricing may be used to determine fair values.
For private equity investments that are not publicly traded, management uses comparisons to similar listed companies, relevant third party arms length transactions and other data speci c to the investment.
Day 1 profi t or loss When the transaction price differs from the fair value of other observable current market transactions in the same instrument or based on the valuation technique whose variables include only data from observable markets, the difference between the transaction price and fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement.
In cases where fair value is determined using the data which is not observable, the difference between the transaction price and model value is only recognised in the income statement when the inputs become observable, or when the instrument is derecognised.
Impairments of fi financial assets held at amortised cost Financial assets carried at amortised cost are impaired if there is objective evidence that the group would not receive cash ows according to the original contractual terms.
Financial assets are assessed for objective evidence of impairment at least at each balance sheet reporting date.
The test for impairment is based either on speci c financial assets or collectively on a portfolio of similar, homogeneous assets.
Over and above individual collective impairments raised at speci c portfolio levels, the group recognises a collective impairment allowance at a central level within the Group Services and Other business segment that takes into account macro economic factors, mainly driven by data related to the prevailing credit markets and which indicate incurred but not speci cally identi ed losses across the loan portfolios that is, exposures in all business segments.
Assets speci cally identi ed as impaired are excluded from the collective assessment.
Impairments are credited to an allowance account which is carried against the carrying value of financial assets.
Interest continues to be accrued on the reduced carrying amount based on the original effective interest rate of the asset.
Loans together with the associated allowance are written off when there is no realistic prospect of future recovery and all collateral has been realised or transferred to the group.
An allowance for impairment is only reversed when there is objective evidence that the credit quality has improved to the extent that there is reasonable assurance of timely collection of principal and interest in terms of the original contractual agreement.
The impairment is calculated as the difference between the carrying value of the asset and the expected cash ows including net proceeds on realisation of collateral discounted at the original effective rate.
Impairments of financial assets held at amortised cost are recognised in the income statement.
To cater for any shortfall between regulatory provision requirements in the respective jurisdictions and impairments based on the principles above, a transfer is made from distributable to non-distributable reserves, being the regulatory general risk reserve.
The non-distributable regulatory risk reserve ensures that minimum regulatory provisioning requirements are maintained.
314 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Financial statements Derecognition of fi financial assets and liabilities A financial asset or a portion thereof, is derecognised when the groups rights to cash ows has expired or when the group has transferred its rights to cash ows relating to the financial assets and either a the group has transferred substantially all the risk and rewards associated with the financial assets or b the group has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards associated with the financial assets but has transferred control of the asset.
A financial liability is derecognised when it is extinguished, that is when the obligation is discharged, cancelled or expired.
When an existing financial liability is replaced or modi ed with substantially different terms, such a replacement or modi cation is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability.
The difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the income statement.
Reclassifi cation of fi financial instruments The group may reclassify, in certain circumstances, non-derivative financial assets out of the held-for-trading category and into the availablefor-sale, loans and receivables, or held-to-maturity categories.
It may also reclassify, in certain circumstances, financial instruments out of the available-for-sale category and into the loans and receivables category.
Reclassi cations are recorded at fair value at the date of reclassi cation, which becomes the new amortised cost.
Derivative instruments All derivative instruments of the group are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value.
Positive and negative fair values are reported as assets and liabilities respectively and are offset when there is both an intention to settle net and a legal right to offset exists.
Derivative positions are entered into either for trading purposes or as part of the groups asset and liability management activities to manage exposures to interest rate and foreign currency risks.
Both realised and unrealised pro ts and losses arising on derivatives are recognised in the income statement as part of trading income other than circumstances in which cash ow hedging is applied as detailed below.
Derivative instruments transacted as economic hedges which do not qualify for hedge accounting and derivatives that are entered into for trading purposes are treated in the same way as instruments that are held-for-trading.
Hedge accounting The group applies either fair value or cash ow hedge or hedge of net investments in foreign operations accounting when the transactions meet the speci ed hedge accounting criteria.
To qualify for hedge accounting treatment, the group ensures that all of the following conditions are met: At inception of the hedge the group formally documents the relationship between the hedging instrument s and hedged item s including the risk management objectives and the strategy in undertaking the hedge transaction.
Also at the inception of the hedge relationship, a formal assessment is undertaken to ensure the hedging instrument is expected to be highly effective in offsetting the designated risk in the hedged item.
A hedge is expected to be highly effective if the changes in fair value or cash ows attributable to the hedged risk during the period for which the hedge is designated are expected to offset in a range of 80% to 125% For cash ow hedges, a forecasted transaction that is the subject of the hedge must be highly probable and must present an exposure to variations in cash ows that could ultimately affect pro t and loss The effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured, i. e. the fair value or cash ows of the hedged item that are attributable to the hedged risk and the fair value of the hedging instrument can be reliably measured The hedge effectiveness is assessed on an ongoing basis and determined actually to have been highly effective throughout the financial reporting periods for which the hedge was designated.
For qualifying fair value hedges, the change in fair value of the hedging instrument is recognised in the income statement.
Changes in fair value of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk are also recognised in the income statement.
For qualifying cash ow hedges in respect of nonfinancial assets and liabilities, the change in fair value of the hedging instrument, relating to the effective portion is initially recognised in other comprehensive income and is included in the initial cost of any asset liability recognised or in all other cases released to the income statement when the hedged rm commitment or forecasted transaction affects net pro t. If the forecast transaction or rm commitment is no longer expected to occur, the balance included in other comprehensive income is reclassi ed to the income statement immediately and recognised in principal transactions.
315 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited signi cant accounting policies continued For qualifying cash ow hedges in respect of financial assets and liabilities, the change in fair value of the hedging instrument, which represents an effective hedge is initially recognised in other comprehensive income and is released to the income statement in the same period during which the relevant financial asset or liability affects the income statement.
Any ineffective portion of the hedge is immediately recognised in the income statement.
Qualifying hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation including a hedge of a monetary item that is accounted for as part of the net investment are accounted for in a way similar to cash ow hedges.
Changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge are recognised in other comprehensive income while any gains or losses relating to the ineffective portion are recognised in the income statement.
On disposal of the foreign operation, the cumulative value of any such gain or loss recorded in other comprehensive income is reclassi ed to the income statement.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when it is determined that the instrument ceases to be highly effective as a hedge: when the derivative expires, or is sold, terminated or exercised: when the hedge item matures or is sold or repaid: when a forecasted transaction is no longer deemed highly probable or when the designation as a hedge is revoked.
Embedded derivatives To the extent that a derivative may be embedded in a hybrid contract and the hybrid contract is not carried at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in the income statement, the embedded derivative is separated from the host contract and accounted for as a standalone derivative if and only if: The economic characteristics and risks of the embedded derivative are not closely related to the economic characteristics and risks of the host contract: and A separate instrument with the same terms as the embedded derivative would meet the fide nition of a derivative.
Offsetting of fi financial assets and liabilities Financial assets and liabilities are offset when there is both an intention to settle on a net basis or simultaneously and a legal right to offset exists.
Issued debt and equity fi financial instruments Financial instruments issued by the group are classi ed as liabilities if they contain an obligation to deliver cash or another financial asset.
Financial instruments issued by the group are classi ed as equity where they confer on the holder a residual interest in the group, and the group has no obligation to deliver either cash or another financial asset to the holder.
The components of compound issued financial instruments are accounted for separately with the liability component separated first and any residual amount being allocated to the equity component.
Equity instruments issued by subsidiaries of Investec plc or Investec Limited are recorded as non-controlling interests on the balance sheet.
Equity instruments are initially measured net of directly attributable issue costs.
Treasury shares represent issued equity repurchased by the group which has not been cancelled.
Treasury shares are deducted from shareholders equity and represent the purchase consideration, including directly attributable costs.
Where treasury shares are subsequently sold or reissued, net proceeds received are included in shareholders equity.
Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised as a deduction from equity at the earlier of payment date or the date that it is approved by Investec plc in relation to dividends declared by Investec plc and Investec Limited in relation to dividends declared by Investec Limited shareholders.
Sale and repurchase agreements including securities borrowing and lending Where securities are sold subject to a commitment to repurchase them, at a xed price or a selling price plus a lenders return, they remain on balance sheet.
Proceeds received are recorded as a liability on balance sheet under repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent.
Securities that are purchased under a commitment to resell the securities at a future date are not recognised on the balance sheet.
The consideration paid is recognised as an asset under reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed.
The difference between the sale and repurchase prices is treated as interest expense and is accrued over the life of the agreement using the effective interest rate method.
Securities borrowing transactions that are not cash collateralised are not included in the balance sheet.
Securities lending and borrowing transactions which are cash collateralised are accounted for in the same manner as securities sold or purchased subject to repurchase commitments.
316 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Financial statements Financial guarantees Financial guarantee contracts issued by the group are those contracts that require a payment to be made to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because the speci ed debtor fails to make a payment when due, in accordance with the terms of a debt instrument.
Financial guarantees are initially recognised at fair value, adjusted for the transaction costs that are directly attributable to the issuance of the guarantee.
Subsequent to initial recognition the liability under each guarantee is measured at the higher of the amount recognised less cumulative amortisation and the best estimate of expenditure required to settle any financial obligation arising as a result of the guarantee.
Subsequent to initial measurement all changes in the balance sheet carrying value are recognised in the income statement.
Instalment credit, leases and rental agreements A finance lease is a lease that transfers substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of an asset.
An operating lease is a lease other than a financial lease.
Where classi ed as a finance lease, amounts outstanding on these contracts, net of unearned finance charges, are included in loans and advances where Investec is the lessor and included in liabilities where Investec is the lessee.
Finance charges on finance leases and instalment credit transactions are credited or debited to income in proportion to the capital balances outstanding at the rate implicit in the agreement.
Where classi ed as operating leases, rentals payable receivable are charged credited in the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Contingent rentals if any are accrued to the income statement when incurred.
Property and equipment Property and equipment are recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairments.
Cost is the cash equivalent paid, or the fair value of the consideration given to acquire an asset and includes other expenditures that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset.
Depreciation is provided on the depreciable amount of each component on a straight-line basis over the anticipated useful life of the asset.
The depreciable amount related to each asset is determined as the difference between the cost and the residual value of the asset.
The residual value is the estimated amount, net of disposal costs, that the group would currently obtain from the disposal of an asset in similar age and condition as expected at the end of its useful life.
The current and comparative annual depreciation rates for each class of property and equipment is as follows: Computer and related equipment 20% 33% Motor vehicles 20% 25% Furniture and ttings 10% 20% Freehold buildings 2% Leasehold improvements Leasehold improvements depreciation rates are determined by reference to the appropriate useful life of its separate components, limited to the period of the lease.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land, however, similar to other property related assets, it is subject to impairment testing when deemed necessary.
Routine servicing and maintenance of assets are expensed as incurred.
Subsequent expenditure is only capitalised if it is probable that future economic bene ts associated with the item will ow to the group.
Investment property Properties held by the group which are held for capital appreciation or rental yield are classi ed as investment properties.
Investment properties are carried on balance sheet at fair value, with fair value gains and losses recognised in the income statement under principal transactions.
Fair value of investment property is calculated by taking into account the expected rental stream associated with the property, and is supported by market evidence.
317 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited signi cant accounting policies continued Dealing properties Dealing properties are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Impairment of non-fi financial assets At each balance sheet date the group reviews the carrying value of nonfinancial assets, other than investment property and deferred tax assets for indication of impairment.
The recoverable amount, being the higher of fair value less cost to sell and value in use, is determined for any assets for which an indication of impairment is identi ed.
If the recoverable amount of an asset is less than its carrying value, the carrying value of the asset is reduced to its recoverable value.
Impairment losses are recognised as an expense in the income statement in the period in which they are identi ed.
Reversal of impairment losses is recognised in income in the period in which the reversal is identi ed, to the extent that the asset is not revalued to a carrying value that would have been calculated without impairment.
Trust and fi duciary activities The group acts as a trustee or in other duciary capacities that result in the holding, placing or managing of assets for the account of and at the risk of clients.
As these are not assets of the group, they are not re ected on the balance sheet but are included at market value as part of assets under administration.
Taxation and deferred taxation Current tax payable is provided on taxable pro ts at rates that are enacted or substantively enacted and applicable to the relevant period.
Deferred taxation is provided using the balance sheet method on temporary differences between the carrying amount of an asset or liability in the balance sheet and its tax base, except where such temporary differences arise from: The initial recognition of goodwill The initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a business combination and at the time of the transaction has no effect on the income statement In respect of temporary differences associated with the investments in subsidiaries and associates, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets or liabilities are measured using the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable pro t will be available against which the deferred tax asset can be utilised.
Items recognised directly in other comprehensive income are net of related current and deferred taxation.
Insurance contracts Insurance contracts are those contracts in which the group assumes signi cant insurance risk.
The deposit components of insurance contracts are unbundled and accounted for separately.
Insurance premiums are recognised in income in the period in which the group is entitled to the premium.
Insurance claims are recognised in the income statement in the period in which a contractual obligation arises for the group to make payment under an insurance contract.
Reinsurance assets and liabilities and associated premiums claims are not offset in the income statement or balance sheet.
Insurance liabilities are measured at their actuarial values, and are tested for adequacy on an annual basis.
Any fide ciency identi ed is recognised in the income statement.
318 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Financial statements Employee benefi ts The group operates various fide ned contribution schemes and two closed fide ned bene t schemes.
In respect of the fide ned contribution scheme all employer contributions are charged to income as incurred, in accordance with the rules of the scheme, and included under staff costs.
The assets of the fide ned bene t schemes are measured at their market value at the balance sheet date and the liabilities of the schemes are measured using the projected unit credit method.
The discount rate used to measure the schemes liabilities is the current rate of return on an AA corporate bond at the balance sheet date of equivalent term and currency to the liabilities.
The extent to which the schemes assets exceed or fall short of the schemes liabilities is shown as a surplus to the extent that it is considered recoverable or fide cit in the balance sheet.
Actuarial gains and losses related to the fide ned bene t asset or liability are recognised immediately directly in other comprehensive income.
The group has no liabilities for other post retirement bene ts.
Intangible assets Intangible assets are recorded at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairments.
For intangible assets with a nite life, amortisation is provided on the depreciable amount of each intangible asset on a straight-line basis over the anticipated useful life of the asset currently three to fifteen years.
The depreciable amount related to each intangible asset is determined as the difference between the cost and the residual value of the asset.
The residual value is the estimated amount, net of disposal costs, which the group would currently obtain from the disposal of an intangible asset in similar age and condition as expected at the end of its useful life.
Intangible assets with an inde nite life are not amortised, however they are tested for impairment on an annual basis.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs in respect of property developments that take a substantial period of time to develop for sale are capitalised.
Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets Provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount and are recognised as soon as the group has created a legal or constructive obligation which will lead to an out ow of economic resources to settle the obligation as a result of a past event.
Contingent assets and contingent liabilities are not recognised on balance sheet.
Standards and interpretations issued but not yet effective The following standards and interpretations, which have been issued but are not yet effective, are applicable to the group.
These standards and interpretations have not been applied in these financial statements.
The group intends to comply with these standards from the effective dates.
New standards IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 9 as issued re ects the first and second phase of the IASBs work on the replacement of IAS 39 and applies to classi cation and measurement of financial assets and liabilities as fide ned in IAS 39, and impairment methodology.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
In the subsequent and final phase, the board will address hedge accounting.
The completion of this project is expected in mid 2011.
The adoption of the first phase of IFRS 9 will primarily have an effect on the classi cation and measurement of the groups financial assets.
The group is currently assessing the impact of adopting IFRS 9.
However, the impact of adoption depends on the assets held by the group at the date of adoption, and it is not practical to quantify the effect.
The standard is effective for the group for the year commencing 1 April 2013.
319 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited signi cant accounting policies continued Revised IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures The main changes to the standard that affects the groups current policies is the disclosure requirements in respect of derecognition of financial assets.
The revised standard requires detailed disclosure per class of financial asset including the nature, risk and rewards exposure and the carrying amount of relevant assets.
The standard will be effective for the group for the year commencing 1 April 2011 and is not expected to have a signi cant impact on the group.
IAS 24 Related Parties The amended standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011.
It clari es the fide nition of a related party to simplify the identi cation of such relationships and to eliminate inconsistencies in its application.
The group does not expect any impact on its financial position or performance.
The standard will be effective for the group for the year commencing 1 April 2011.
IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement amendment The amendment to IFRIC 14 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011 with retrospective application.
The amendment provides guidance on assessing the recoverable amount of a net pension asset.
The amendment permits an entity to treat the prepayment of a minimum funding requirement as an asset.
The amendment is not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements of the group.
The interpretation will be effective for the group for the year commencing 1 April 2011.
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments IFRIC 19 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010.
The interpretation clari es that equity instruments issued to a creditor to extinguish a financial liability qualify as consideration paid.
The equity instruments issued are measured at their fair value.
In case this cannot be reliably measured, they are measured at the fair value of the liability extinguished.
Any gain or loss is recognised immediately in pro t or loss.
The adoption of this interpretation will have no effect on the financial statements of the group.
Improvements to IFRS issued in May 2010 The IASB issued Improvements to IFRSs, an omnibus of amendments to its IFRS standards.
The amendments have not been adopted as they become effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011.
The amendments are listed below.
IFRS 7 financial instruments: disclosures IAS 1 presentation of financial statements IAS 27 consolidated and separate financial statements IFRIC 13 customer loyalty programmes.
The group, however, expects no impact from the adoption of the amendments on its financial position or performance.
320 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Financial statements Key management assumptions In preparation of the financial statements the group makes estimations and applies judgement that could affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities within the next financial year.
Key areas in which judgement is applied include: Valuation of unlisted investments in the private equity and direct investments portfolios.
Key valuation inputs are based on observable market inputs, adjusted for factors that speci cally apply to the individual investments and recognising market volatility.
Details of unlisted investments can be found in note 17 trading securities and note 19 investment securities with further analysis contained in the risk management section on pages 155 to 157 Valuation of investment properties is performed twice annually by directors that are quali ed valuators.
The valuation is performed by capitalising the budgeted net income of a property at the market related yield applicable at the time.
Refer to note 26 for the carrying value of investment property with further analysis contained in the risk management section on pages 155 to 157 The determination of impairments against assets that are carried at amortised cost and impairments relating to available-for-sale financial assets involves the assessment of future cash ows which is judgemental in nature.
Refer to pages 117 to 154 in the risk management section for further analysis on impairments Determination of interest income and interest expense using the effective interest method involves judgement in determining the timing and extent of future cash ows.
321 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Financial statements Notes to the financial statements For the year to 31 March Asset Wealth and 000 Management Investment 1.
Combined consolidated segmental analysis Segmental business analysis income statement 2011 Net interest income 2 989 7 281 Fee and commission income 411 935 159 055 Fee and commission expense 72 831 11 414 Principal transactions 40 1 334 Investment income on assurance activities Premiums and reinsurance recoveries on insurance contracts Other operating income 2 537 2 651 Other income 341 601 148 958 Claims and reinsurance premiums on insurance business Total operating income net of insurance claims 344 590 156 239 Impairment losses on loans and advances 29 Operating income 344 619 156 239 Operating costs 216 947 115 813 Depreciation on operating leased assets Operating profi t before goodwill and acquired intangibles 127 672 40 426 Operating losses attributable to non-controlling interests 364 Operating profi t before goodwill, acquired intangibles and after non-controlling interests 127 308 40 426 Selected returns and key statistics ROE pre-tax 78.5% 16.5% Return on tangible equity pre-tax 329.7% 78.7% Cost to income ratio 63.0% 74.1% Staff compensation to operating income 45.2% 53.1% Operating pro t per employee 000 124.8 63.6 Total assets million 553 1 081 Refer to calculation on page 49.
Combined consolidated segmental analysis continued Segmental business analysis income statement 2010 Net interest income 1 977 2 392 Fee and commission income 290 658 39 576 Fee and commission expense 47 059 2 724 Principal transactions 191 1 023 Investment income on assurance activities Premiums and reinsurance recoveries on insurance contracts Other operating income 5 018 11 634 Other income 248 808 49 509 Claims and reinsurance premiums on insurance business Total operating income net of insurance claims 250 785 51 901 Impairment losses on loans and advances 5 Operating income 250 790 51 901 Operating costs 166 943 26 014 Depreciation on operating leased assets Operating profi t before goodwill and acquired intangibles 83 847 25 887 Operating losses attributable to non-controlling interests 435 Operating profi t before goodwill, acquired intangibles and after non-controlling interests 83 412 25 887 Selected returns and key statistics ROE pre-tax 53.0% 101.5% Return on tangible equity pre-tax 337.3% 120.4% Cost to income ratio 66.6% 50.1% Staff compensation to operating income 43.3% 32.6% Operating pro t per employee 000 88.1 67.9 Total assets million 426 566 Refer to calculation on page 49.
Combined consolidated segmental analysis continued Segmental geographic analysis income statement 2011 Interest income 633 789 1 357 987 247 007 2 238 783 Interest expense 362 978 1 019 740 174 596 1 557 314 Net interest income 270 811 338 247 72 411 681 469 Fee and commission income 523 225 333 037 40 038 896 300 Fee and commission expense 99 473 5 280 3 889 108 642 Principal transactions 243 976 164 731 9 979 418 686 Investment income on assurance activities 64 834 64 834 Premiums and reinsurance recoveries on insurance contracts 6 110 6 110 Other operating income 51 122 5 210 2 329 54 003 Other income 718 850 568 642 43 799 1 331 291 Claims and reinsurance premiums on insurance business 57 774 57 774 Total operating income net of insurance claims 989 661 849 115 116 210 1 954 986 Impairment losses on loans and advances 210 485 77 538 30 207 318 230 Operating income 779 176 771 577 86 003 1 636 756 Operating costs 640 282 471 013 85 570 1 196 865 Depreciation on operating leased assets 16 447 16 447 Operating profi t before goodwill and acquired intangibles 122 447 300 564 433 423 444 Operating losses attributable to non-controlling interests 11 179 490 273 10 962 Operating profi t before goodwill, acquired intangibles and after non-controlling interests 133 626 300 074 706 434 406 Impairment of goodwill 6 888 6 888 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 6 341 6 341 Pro t arising from associate converted to subsidiary 73 465 73 465 Net loss on sale of subsidiaries 18 375 58 1 015 17 302 Loss on subsidiaries attributable to non-controlling interests 3 099 1 458 1 641 Earnings attributable to shareholders before taxation 185 474 291 786 1 721 478 981 Taxation 22 618 35 357 490 58 465 Earnings attributable to shareholders 162 856 256 429 1 231 420 516 Selected returns and key statistics ROE post-tax 8.0% 17.5% 0.1% 11.2% Return on tangible equity post-tax 11.7% 17.8% 0.1% 13.2% Cost to income ratio 65.8% 55.5% 73.6% 61.7% Staff compensation to operating income 42.8% 36.8% 51.6% 40.7% Operating pro t per employee 000 56.8 75.2 1.1 64.4 Effective operational tax rate 24.6% 11.8% 284.9% 15.5% Total assets million 19 217 28 284 3 440 50 941 Refer to calculation on page 48.
326 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Financial statements
