Investec plc and Investec Limited signi cant accounting policies continued Basis of consolidation Investec consists of two separate legal entities, being Investec plc and Investec Limited that operate under a dual listed company DLC structure.
The effect of the DLC structure is that Investec plc and its subsidiaries and Investec Limited and its subsidiaries operate together as a single economic entity, with neither assuming a dominant role and accordingly are reported as a single reporting entity under IFRS.
All subsidiaries and special purpose vehicles in which the group holds more than one half of the voting rights or which it has the ability to control either directly or in substance are consolidated from the effective dates of acquisition that is from when control exists up to the effective dates of loss of control, except entities which are classi ed as non-current assets held-for-sale.
Subsidiaries classi ed as non-current assets held-for-sale are consolidated in one line item as discontinued operations.
Entities, other than subsidiary undertakings, in which the group exercises signi cant in uence over operating and financial policies, are treated as associates.
In the group accounts, associates are accounted for using the equity method from the date that signi cant in uence commences until the date that signi cant in uence ceases, except as noted below.
The combined consolidated financial statements include the attributable share of the results and reserves of associated undertakings.
The groups interests in associated undertakings are included in the consolidated balance sheet at cost plus the post acquisition changes in the groups share of the net assets of the associate.
The consolidated balance sheet re ects the associated undertakings net of accumulated impairment losses.
In circumstances where associates or joint venture holdings arise in which the group has no strategic intention, these investments are classi ed as venture capital holdings and are designated as held at fair value through pro t or loss.
All intergroup balances, transactions and unrealised gains and losses within the group that do not re ect an impairment to the asset, are eliminated in full regarding subsidiaries and to the extent of the interest in an associate.
Segmental reporting An operating segment is a component of the group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the groups other components, whose operating results are reviewed regularly by the board and for which discrete financial information is available.
The groups segmental reporting is presented in the form of a business analysis.
The business analysis is presented in terms of the groups six principal business divisions and Group Services and Other Activities.
A geographical analysis is also presented in terms of the main geographies in which the group operates representing the groups exposure to various economic environments.
For further detail on the groups segmental reporting basis refer to pages 55 to 108 of the divisional review section of the annual report.
Business combinations and goodwill Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any prior non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
For each business combination, the group measures the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identi able net assets.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed immediately in the income statement.
When the group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classi cation and the designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
This includes the separation of embedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the groups previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date through the income statement.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the group will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability, will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in the income statement or as a change to other comprehensive income.
If the contingent consideration is classi ed as equity, it will not be remeasured until it is nally settled within equity.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for non-controlling interest over the net identi able assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
If this consideration and amount recognised for non- 310 controlling interest is less than the fair values of the identi able net assets acquired, the discount on acquisition is recognised directly in the income statement as a gain in the year of acquisition.
2011 Investec integrated annual report | Financial statements
