Directors report continued Employees Our policy is to recruit and promote on the basis of aptitude and ability, without discrimination of any kind.
Applications for employment by disabled people are always considered bearing in mind the quali cations and abilities of the applicants.
In the event of employees becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure their continued employment.
Our policy is to adopt an open management style, thereby encouraging informal consultation at all levels about aspects of our operations, and motivating staff involvement in our performance by means of employee share schemes.
We are committed to ensuring the health, safety and welfare of our employees and to providing and maintaining safe working conditions.
We have health and safety policies in all regions of operation that cover all legislated requirements and additional bene ts are provided for staff where possible.
We constantly seek to improve both policies and the execution of health and safety standards in all our of ces.
This takes the form of staff education, regular re drills and maintenance of an open door policy with regards to dialogue on the issue.
Where appropriate the appointment of individuals responsible for various areas of health and safety are made.
Further information is provided on pages 237 to 239.
Donations During the year, Investec plc made donations for charitable purposes, totalling 1.5 million and Investec Limited made donations for charitable purposes, totalling R38.4 million.
Further information is provided on pages 240 to 242.
Environment We are committed to pursuing sound environmental policies in all aspects of our business and seek to encourage and promote good environmental practice among our employees and within the community in which we operate.
Further information can be found on pages 244 to 246.
Post balance sheet events There are no post balance sheet events to note.
Additional information for shareholders Schedule A to the directors report is a summary of certain provisions of Investec plcs current Articles of Association and applicable English law concerning companies the UK Companies Act 2006.
David Miller Benita Coetsee Company secretary Company secretary Investec plc Investec Limited 15 June 2011 294 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Financial statements
