In favour of Against Abstain 26.
To re-appoint KPMG Inc. of 85 Empire Road, Parktown, 2193 South Africa Private Bag 9, Parkview, 2122 South Africa as joint auditors and Gavin Leslie fide Lange, as the registered auditor responsible for the audit, of Investec Limited to hold of ce until the conclusion of the annual general meeting of Investec Limited to be held in 2012 and to authorise the directors of Investec Limited to x their remuneration.
Special business: Investec Limited Ordinary resolutions 27.
Placing 5% of the unissued ordinary shares under the control of the directors.
Placing 5% of the unissued class A variable rate compulsorily convertible noncumulative preference shares under the control of the directors.
Placing the remaining unissued shares, being the variable rate cumulative redeemable preference shares, the non-redeemable, non-cumulative, non-participating preference shares and the special convertible redeemable preference shares under the control of the directors.
Directors authority to allot and issue ordinary shares for cash in respect of 5% of the unissued ordinary shares.
Directors authority to allot and issue class A variable rate compulsorily convertible non-cumulative preference shares for cash in respect of 5% of the unissued class A variable rate compulsorily non-cumulative preference shares.
Directors authority to acquire ordinary shares and perpetual preference shares.
Investec plc Ordinary business: Investec plc 35.
To receive and adopt the audited financial statements of Investec plc for the year ended 31 March 2011, together with the reports of the directors of Investec plc and of the auditors of Investec plc.
To sanction the interim dividend paid by Investec plc on the ordinary shares in Investec plc for the 6 six month period ended 30 September 2010.
Subject to the passing of resolution no.
24 to declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares in Investec plc for the year ended 31 March 2011 of an amount equal to that recommended by the directors of Investec plc.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP of 1 More London Place, London, SE1 2AF, as auditors of Investec plc to hold of ce until the conclusion of the annual general meeting of Investec plc to be held in 2012 and to authorise the directors of Investec plc to x their remuneration.
Special business: Investec plc Ordinary resolution 39.
Directors authority to allot shares and other securities.
Directors authority to allot ordinary shares for cash.
Directors authority to purchase ordinary shares.
Directors authority to purchase preference shares.
Signature: Date: 427 A member entitled to attend and vote at the annual general meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy who need not be a member of the Company to attend, and, on a poll, to vote in his place.
Each resolution is to be decided on a poll and a member or his proxy shall have one vote for every share held.
2011 Investec integrated annual report | Financial statements Notes to the form of proxy 1.
You are not obliged either to cast all your votes or to cast all your votes in the same way.
Please instruct your proxy how to vote by either: i marking the appr opriate box with an X next to each resolution, in which event the proxy will cast all your votes in the manner so speci ed: or ii setting out the number of votes to be cast in each box i. e. in favour of and or against and or by way of abstention in r espect of each resolution provided that, if for any resolution the aggregate number of votes to be cast would exceed the total number of shares held, you will be deemed to have given no speci c instruction as to how you wish your proxy to vote in respect of that resolution.
Your proxy will have discretion to vote in respect of your total holding on any resolution on which you have not or are deemed not to have given speci c instruction as to how to vote and, unless instructed otherwise, on any business which may properly come before the meeting.
The date must be lled in on this form of proxy when it is signed.
If you are signing in a representative capacity, whether for another person or for an organisation, then, in order for this form to be valid, you must include a power of attorney or other written authority that authorises you to sign or a certi ed copy of such power or authority.
In the case of a company, the proxy form should either be sealed by the company or signed by a director or an authorised signatory and the provisions of paragraph 3 shall apply to such authorised signatory.
In the case of joint holders only one need sign.
If more than one joint holder votes, whether in person or by proxy, only the most senior shareholder who renders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, will be counted.
For this purpose, seniority is determined by the order in which shareholders names appear in the register for that share.
Any alteration or correction made to this form of proxy must be initialled by the signatory or signatories.
The return of this form of proxy will not prevent you from attending the meeting and voting in person.
This form of proxy must be received by the companys transfer secretaries: Computershare Investor Services Proprietary Limited 70 Marshall Street, Johannesburg, 2001 PO Box 61051, Marshalltown, 2107 not later than 12:00 South African time on Tuesday, 2 August 2011.
Proxy forms received after this time will not be valid.
Dematerialised shareholders who have not selected own name registration and who wish to attend the annual general meeting or be represented by proxy must inform their CSDP or broker of their voting instructions.
However, should such shareholder wish to attend the annual general meeting in person, they will need to request their CSDP or broker timeously who will furnish them with the necessary letter of representation in terms of the custody agreement entered into between the dematerialised members and the CSDP or broker.
428 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Financial statements
