After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the groups cash-generating units that are expected to bene t from the combination.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash generating units retained.
Share-based payments to employees The group engages in equity-settled share-based payments and in certain limited circumstances cash-settled share-based payments in respect of services received from employees.
The fair value of the services received in respect of equity-settled share-based payments is determined by reference to the fair value of the shares or share options on the date of grant to the employee.
The cost of the share-based payment, together with a corresponding increase in equity, is recognised in the income statement over the period the service conditions of the grant are met with the amount changing according to the number of awards expected to vest.
The cumulative expense recognised for equitysettled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date re ects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the groups best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The liability, in respect of cash-settled share-based payments, is recognised at the current fair value at each balance sheet date based on an estimate of the number of instruments that will eventually vest, with the change in fair value being recognised in the income statement.
Subsequent to vesting the liability is measured at fair value, with gains and losses recognised in the income statement until such time as the liability is settled.
Fair value measurements are based on option pricing models, taking into account the risk-free interest rate, volatility of the underlying equity instrument, expected dividends and current share prices.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modi ed, the minimum expense recognised in staff costs is the expense as if the terms had not been modi ed.
An additional expense is recognised for any modi cation which increases the total fair value of the share-based payment arrangement, or is otherwise bene cial to the employee as measured at the date of modi cation.
Foreign currency transactions and foreign operations The presentation currency of the group is Pounds Sterling, being the functional currency of Investec plc.
The functional currency of Investec Limited is South African Rand.
Foreign operations are subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures or branches of the group, the activities of which are based in a functional currency other than that of reporting entity.
The functional currency of group entities is determined based on the primary economic environment in which the entity operates.
On consolidation, the results and financial position of foreign operations are translated into the presentation currency of the group as follows: Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of the balance sheet Income and expense items are translated at exchange rates ruling at the date of the transaction All resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income foreign currency translation reserve, which is recognised in the income statement on disposal of the foreign operation Cash ow items are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the date of the transaction.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency of the entity in which the transaction arises based on rates of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
At each balance sheet date foreign currency items are translated as follows: Foreign currency monetary items other than monetary items that form part of the net investment in a foreign operation are translated using closing rates, with gains and losses recognised in the income statement Exchange differences arising on monetary items that form part of the net investment in a foreign operation are determined using closing rates and recognised as a separate component of equity foreign currency translation reserve upon consolidation and is recognised in the income statement upon disposal of the net investment 311 Non-monetary items that are measured at historical costs are translated using the exchange rates ruling at the date of the transaction.
2011 Investec integrated annual report | Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited signi cant accounting policies continued Revenue recognition Revenue consists of interest income, fee and commission income, principal transactions and other operating income.
Revenue is recognised when it can be reliably measured and it is probable that the economic bene ts will ow to the entity.
Revenue is recognised at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable.
The following speci c recognition criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised.
Interest income is recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method.
Fees charged on lending transactions are included in the effective yield calculation to the extent that they form an integral part of the effective interest rate yield, but excludes those fees earned for a separately identi able signi cant act, which are recognised upon completion of the act.
Fees and commissions charged in lieu of interest are recognised as income as part of the effective interest rate on the underlying loan.
The effective interest method is based on the estimated life of the underlying instrument, and, where this estimate is not readily available, the contractual life.
Fee and commission income includes fees earned from providing advisory services as well as portfolio management.
All such fee and commission income is recognised as revenue when the related services are performed.
Principal transaction income includes trading pro ts, dividend income, gains and losses on financial assets and liabilities designated as held at fair value and realised gains and losses on assets and liabilities at amortised cost and fair value gains and losses on investment properties.
Dividend income is recognised when the groups right to receive payment is established.
Trading pro ts are shown net of the funding cost of the underlying positions and includes the unrealised pro ts on trading portfolios, which are marked to market daily.
Equity investments received in lieu of corporate finance fees are included in trading securities and valued accordingly.
Funding costs allocated against trading pro ts are disclosed in note 2.
Included in other operating income is rental income, gains on realisation of properties, operating lease income, income from associates and revenue from consolidated private equity investments.
Operating costs associated with these investments are included in operating costs in the income statement.
Financial instruments Financial instruments are initially recognised at their fair value.
For financial assets or financial liabilities not at fair value through pro t or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the financial assets or financial liabilities are included in fair value.
All other transaction costs are recorded in the income statement immediately.
Regular way purchase and sales transactions in respect of financial assets that require delivery of a financial instrument within the time frame established by market convention are recorded at trade date.
Financial assets and liabilities held at fair value through profi t or loss Financial instruments held at fair value through pro t or loss include all instruments classi ed as held for trading and those instruments designated as held at fair value through pro t or loss.
Financial instruments classi ed as held-for-trading or designated as held at fair value through pro t or loss are recorded at fair value on the balance sheet with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement.
Financial instruments are classi ed as trading when they are held with the intention of short-term disposal, held with intention of generating short-term pro ts, or are derivatives which are not designated as part of effective hedges.
Financial instruments designated as held at fair value through pro t and loss are designated as such on initial recognition of the instrument and remain in this classi cation until derecognition.
In certain instances debt instruments which contain equity features are designated as held at fair value through pro t or loss.
Financial assets and liabilities are designated as held at fair value through pro t or loss only if: It eliminates or signi cantly reduces an inconsistent measurement or recognition that would otherwise arise from measuring assets or liabilities or recognising the gains and losses on them on different bases: or A group of financial assets, financial liabilities or both is managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis in accordance with a documented risk management or investment strategy and information about the group is provided internally on that basis to the groups key management personnel: and If a contract contains one or more embedded derivatives which signi cantly modi es the cash ows that would be required by the contract and is not clearly prohibited from separation from the host contract and the group has designated the entire hybrid contract as a financial 312 instrument at fair value through pro t and loss.
Transaction costs incurred on financial instruments held at fair value through pro t or loss are recognised immediately in the income statement.
2011 Investec integrated annual report | Financial statements
