Investec plc and Investec Limited signi cant accounting policies Basis of presentation The group financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union EU which comply with the IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
At 31 March 2011, IFRS standards as endorsed by the EU are identical to current IFRSs applicable to the group.
The group financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for investment properties, available-for-sale investments, derivative financial instruments, financial assets and financial liabilities held at fair value through pro t or loss or subject to hedge accounting, liabilities for cash-settled share-based payments and pension fund surpluses and fide cits that have been measured at fair value.
Accounting policies applied are consistent with those of the prior year, except for the adoption of the following amendments: Amendments resulting from improvements to IFRS to the following standards did have an impact on the accounting policies, financial position and performance of the group which is not considered to be material: IFRS 3 Business Combinations revised and IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements amended, effective 1 July 2009, including consequential amendments to IFRS 2, IFRS 5, IFRS 7, IAS 7, IAS 21, IAS 28, IAS 31 and IAS 39.
The amended Business Combinations standard requires that acquisition costs incurred are expensed immediately.
The revised standard is applicable to the group for all business combinations that occur post 1 April 2010.
Amendments, resulting from improvements to IFRS to the following standards did not have any impact on the accounting policies, financial position or performance of the group: IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment: Group Cash-Settled Share-Based Payment Transactions, effective 1 January 2010 IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Eligible Hedged Items, effective 1 July 2009 IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Classi cation of Rights Issue, effective 1 February 2010.
IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-Cash Assets to Owners, effective 1 July 2009.
Improvements to IFRS issued in May 2008 IFRS 5 Non-Current Assets Held-for-Sale and Discontinued Operations, effective 1 January 2010.
Improvements to IFRS issued in April 2009 IFRS 2 Share-Based Payments IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows IAS 17 Leases IAS 36 Impairments of Assets IAS 38 Intangible Assets IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives.
Presentation of information Disclosure under IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures and IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements: Capital Disclosures relating to the nature and extent of risks have been included in sections marked as audited in the risk management report on pages 200 to 209.
Certain disclosures required under IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures have been included in the section marked as audited in the remuneration report on pages 253 to 274.
308 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Financial statements
