AR Accounts 2011 final tp A&R design 3 16 03 2012 17:19 Page 62 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31st December 2011 2.
Segment information Management has determined the operating segments based on the analysis used to make strategic decisions.
Business segment analysis The Group is organised on a worldwide basis into five main segments: London Market, Retail, Employee Benefits, Thistle Insurance Services and Head Office & Other operations.
These segments are consistent with the internal reporting structure of the Group.
The London Market segment comprises JLTs specialist, wholesale and reinsurance broking activities.
The Retail segment comprises the Group international insurance broking and risk services activities.
The Employee Benefits segment consists of pension administration, outsourcing and employee benefits consultancy.
The Thistle Insurance Services segment provides solutions to Affinities, SME and retail markets via its own business units as well as third party brokers, mainly through open-market placements, delegated authorities and Managed General Underwriting MGU arrangements.
The Head Office & Other segment consists mainly of holding companies, central administration functions, the Group's captive insurance companies and the Group's principal investments in associates.
Segment results Management assesses the performance of the operating segments based upon a measure of underlying trading profit.
Segment results include the net income or expense derived from the trading activities of the segment together with the investment income earned on fiduciary funds.
Interest income on the Groups own funds and finance costs are excluded since the trading activities of the Group's primary segments are not of a financial nature.
Income tax expense and the change in respect of non-controlling interests is excluded from the segmental allocation.
Segment assets include: - non current assets excluding investments in associates and deferred tax assets, - trade and other receivables, - fiduciary funds.
Interest bearing assets e. g. cash and cash equivalents and investments & deposits relating to the Group's own funds are excluded from segmental assets.
Segment liabilities include: - trade and other payables, - provisions for liabilities and charges.
Interest bearing liabilities e. g. borrowings and income and deferred tax liabilities are excluded from segmental liabilities.
"Items excluded from segmental allocation are referred to as unallocated""."
Investments in associates On 31st December 2011, the Group acquired 25 per cent of the Marine & Aviation Group which operates mainly in Italy.
Following a restructuring in July 2011, the Group increased its stake in the holding company of Siaci Saint Honor, which operates principally in France, from 20 to 26 per cent.
In 2010, the Group acquired 20 per cent of the Austrian company GrECo which operates mainly in Austria and Eastern Europe.
The investment and the Groups share of Siaci Saint Honors, GrECos and Marine & Aviations net profits are included in the Head Office & other segment, together with the investment and results of the Groups other associates, Sterling Re Intermediaro fide Reaseguro SA fide CV, JLT Insurance Malta and ICAP-JLT.
Capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets.
Comparatives for 2010 have been restated to reflect the transfer of businesses between the Employee Benefits and Thistle Insurance Services segments.
62 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2011 Financial Statements AR Accounts 2011 final tp A&R design 3 16 03 2012 17:19 Page 63 2.
Segment information continued Geographical segment analysis Although the Groups four business segments are managed on a worldwide basis, they operate in five principal geographical areas of the world.
The United Kingdom is the home country of the parent company Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc.
The London Market segment operates in the United Kingdom, its home country.
In the Americas, the London Market segment operates in Bermuda, Cayman Islands and the United States.
In Europe, it operates in France, Spain, Switzerland and Russia.
In Asia it operates in Singapore.
The Retail segment operates in the Americas in Bermuda, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Mexico, Peru and Chile.
In Europe, it operates in the Republic of Ireland, Italy, Spain, Poland, Sweden, Finland, Norway and Guernsey.
The Australasian segment includes operations in Australia and New Zealand.
The Asian segment includes operations in Singapore, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Indonesia, Japan, Thailand, Korea, Philippines, Malaysia, China and Vietnam.
In Africa, it operates in South Africa.
The Employee benefits segment operates in the United Kingdom, its home country and the Republic of Ireland.
The Thistle Insurance Services segment operates in the United Kingdom, its home country.
The Head Office & Other activities segment is mainly based in the United Kingdom with minor operations in the United States, Europe, Asia.
The Groups captive operations are included in the United Kingdom segment.
Fees and commissions are disclosed both by 1 the country in which the office is located and 2 the country in which the customer is located.
Segment non current assets, segment assets and segment liabilities are allocated based on the country in which they are located or occur.
