Financial Statements AR Accounts 2011 final tp A&R design 3 16 03 2012 17:19 Page 59 consolidated income statement and classified as income or expense The recoverable amount of an asset or a cash-generating unit is determined based on value-in use calculations prepared on the in the same periods during which the hedged firm commitment or basis of managements assumptions and estimates.
This forecasted transaction affects the consolidated income statement.
In making this The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised judgment, the Group evaluates, among other factors, the duration immediately in the income statement.
and extent to which the fair value of an investment is less than its When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no cost: and the financial health of and near-term business outlook longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or for the investment, including factors such as industry and sector loss existing in equity at that time remains in the hedging reserves performance, changes in regional economies and operational and and is recognised when the committed or forecasted transaction financing cash flow.
ultimately is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
When c Income taxes a committed or forecasted transaction is no longer expected to The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is Significant judgement is required in determining the worldwide immediately recognised in the consolidated income statement.
There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain Fair value estimation during the ordinary course of business.
Where the final tax The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets such outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were as available-for-sale is based upon quoted market prices at the initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and balance sheet date.
The quoted market price used for financial assets deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination held by the Group is the current bid price.
The carrying value less impairment provision of trade receivables and d Pension obligations payables are assumed to approximate their fair values.
The fair values of financial liabilities is estimated by discounting the future contractual The present value of the pension obligations depends on a cash flows at the current market interest rate that is available to the number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number of assumptions.
Group for similar financial instruments.
The assumptions used in determining the net cost income for Dividend distribution pensions include the expected long-term rate of return on the Dividends proposed or declared after the balance sheet date are not relevant plans assets and the discount rate.
recognised as a liability at the balance sheet date.
Final dividends are Any changes in these assumptions will impact the carrying recognised as a charge to equity once approved and interim amount of pension obligations.
dividends are charged once paid.
The expected return on plan assets assumption is determined on Financial and capital risk management a uniform basis, taking into consideration long-term historical The Groups exposure to financial risks and its financial and capital returns, asset allocation and future estimates of long-term management policies are detailed in the Finance Directors Review investment returns.
The Group determines the appropriate and the Risk Management Report on pages 23 to 29. discount rate at the end of each year.
This is the interest rate that should be used to determine the Critical accounting estimates and judgments present value of estimated future cash outflows expected to be Estimates and judgments used in preparing the financial statements required to settle the pension obligations.
are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and In determining the appropriate discount rate, the Group considers other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed the interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are to be reasonable.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
and that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the The estimates and assumptions that have a significant effect on the related pension liability.
Other key assumptions for pension carrying amounts of assets and liabilities are discussed below.
obligations are based in part on current market conditions.
a Property, plant and equipment e Errors and omissions liability Assets are carried at historical cost less depreciation calculated to During the ordinary course of business the Group can be subject write off the cost of such assets over their estimated useful lives.
to claims for errors and omissions made in connection with its broking activities.
Management determines the estimated useful lives and related depreciation charges at acquisition.
The estimated useful life is A balance sheet provision is established in respect of such claims reviewed annually and the depreciation charge is revised where when it is probable that the liability has been incurred and the useful lives are subsequently found to be different to those amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated.
The Group analyses its litigation exposures based on available b Impairment of assets information, including external legal consultation where appropriate, to assess its potential liability.
The Group tests annually whether goodwill and other assets that have indefinite useful lives suffered any impairment.
Other assets The outcome of the currently pending and future proceedings are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in cannot be predicted with certainty.
Thus, an adverse decision in a circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset current or future lawsuit could result in additional costs that are exceeds its recoverable amount.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2011 59
