AR Accounts 2011 final tp A&R design 3 16 03 2012 17:19 Page 54 Financial Statements Accounting Policies If a business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value of the Basis of Preparation acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been to fair value at the acquisition date through profit or loss.
prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is the EU, IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to Companies reporting under IFRSs.
The consolidated financial to the fair value of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, under the an asset or liability is recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of availableprofit or loss or as a change to other comprehensive income.
for-sale investments and derivative financial instruments.
Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not remeasured, and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2011 Goodwill is initially measured as the excess of the aggregate of the There are no IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that were effective for the consideration transferred and the fair value of non-controlling interests first time for the financial year beginning on or after 1st January 2011 over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
If this that had a material impact on the Group.
consideration is lower than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised in profit or loss.
Basis of consolidation Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on The consolidated financial statements comprise the accounts of the transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
The profits and losses of losses are also eliminated.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have subsidiary undertakings are consolidated as from the effective date of been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the acquisition or to the effective date of disposal.
policies adopted by the Group.
Subsidiaries Transactions with non-controlling interests Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power to Transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in loss of govern the financial and operating policies so as to obtain economic control are accounted for as equity transactions that is, as benefits and generally accompany a shareholding of more than one transactions with the owners in their capacity as owners.
The half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting difference between fair value of any consideration paid and the rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on disposals to nonThe Group also recognises control where it does not have more than controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
50% of the voting power but is able to govern the financial and operating policies by virtue of fide-facto control.
fide-facto control may Disposal of subsidiaries arise in circumstances where the size of the Groups voting rights When the Group ceases to have control any retained interest in the relative to the size and dispersion of holdings of other shareholders entity is re-measured to its fair value at the date when control is lost, give the Group the power to govern the financial and operating with the change in carrying amount recognised in profit or loss.
The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes of subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an associate, joint Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is venture or financial asset.
In addition, any amounts previously transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity control ceases.
are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to account for assets or liabilities.
This may mean that amounts previously business combinations.
The consideration transferred for the recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair values of the assets transferred, loss.
the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group.
The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or Associates liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement.
Associates are entities over which the group has significant influence Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are values at the acquisition date.
On an  basis, accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Under the the Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree equity method, the investment is initially recognised at cost, and the either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognise the investors share of the acquirees net assets.
share of the profit or loss of the investee after the date of acquisition.
The Groups investment in associates includes goodwill identified on Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
54 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2011
