AR Accounts 2011 final tp A&R design 3 16 03 2012 17:19 Page 58 Financial Statements Accounting Policies A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group Exceptional items pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
Exceptional items are separately identified to provide greater understanding of the Groups underlying performance.
Items classified The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further as exceptional items include: gains or losses arising from the sale of contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all businesses and investments: closure costs for businesses: employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and restructuring costs: post acquisition integration costs: and other prior periods.
credits and charges of non-recurring nature that require inclusion in The costs of the Groups defined contribution pension schemes are order to provide additional insight into the underlying business charged to the income statement in the period in which they fall due.
Items of a non-recurring and material nature are charged or credited Share-based compensation to operating profit and are classified to the appropriate income The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based statement headings.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
To assist in the analysis and understanding of the underlying trading position of the Group these items are summarised within the The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is Operating Profit, note 3 on page 65, under the heading of determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, exceptional items.
excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions for example, profitability and sales growth targets.
Non-market vesting Leases conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options Assets held under leasing agreements, which transfer substantially all that are expected to become exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group are included in the entity revises its estimates of the number of options that are property, plant and equipment.
The capital elements of the related expected to become exercisable.
It recognises the impact of the lease obligations are included in liabilities.
The interest elements of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a lease obligations are charged to the income statement over the period corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction The property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases is costs are credited to share capital at nominal value and share depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the premium excess over nominal value when the options are exercised.
Provisions for liabilities and charges Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of A provision is recognised where there is a present obligation, whether ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
legal or constructive, as a result of a past event for which it is Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be required to settle from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straightthe obligation and a reasonable estimate can be made of the amount line basis over the period of the lease.
Where appropriate the Group discounts provisions to their present value.
The unwinding of the provision discounting is Derivative financial instruments included as an interest charge within finance costs in the income The Group only enters into derivative financial instruments in order to statement.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on Fees and commissions the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently reFees and commissions are derived from three principal sources: measured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss is dependent on the nature of the item being hedged.
Insurance broking Income relating to insurance broking is brought into account at the The Group designates derivatives as either a hedge of the fair value of later of policy inception date or when the policy placement has been a recognised asset or liability fair value hedge, or a hedge of a completed and confirmed.
Where there is an expectation of future forecasted transaction or of the foreign currency risk on a firm servicing requirements an element of income relating to the policy is commitment cash flow hedge, or a hedge of a net investment in a deferred to cover the associated contractual obligation.
foreign entity net investment hedges.
Employee benefits Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges and that are highly effective, are recorded in the Income relating to employee benefit services includes fees and consolidated income statement, along with any changes in the fair commissions.
Fees are charged on a time-cost or fixed-fee basis and value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged are recognised in line with the performance of the underlying service.
Commission is recognised upon confirmation of the underlying policy or product.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges and that are highly effective, are recognised in Other services equity.
Where the forecasted transaction or firm commitment results in Fees and other income receivable are recognised in the period which the recognition of a non-financial asset or of a non-financial liability, the they relate and when they can be measured with reasonable certainty.
gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
Otherwise, amounts deferred in equity are transferred to the 58 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2011
