Financial Statements AR Accounts 2011 final tp A&R design 3 16 03 2012 17:19 Page 57 Employee benefit trust Deferred income tax The Group operates a deferred compensation scheme by way of a The charge for taxation is based on the result for the year at current discretionary, employee benefit trust.
Investments held by this rates of tax and takes into account deferred tax.
scheme, which are principally represented by Unit Trusts, are Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on classified as fixed assets on the balance sheets and charged to the temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and Group profit and loss account over the vesting periods of the award.
liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
However, if the deferred income tax arises from initial Insurance broking debtors and creditors recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a Insurance brokers act as agents in placing the insurable risks of their business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither clients with insurers and, as such, are not liable as principals for accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not recognised.
Deferred amounts arising from such transactions.
In recognition of this income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been relationship, debtors from insurance broking transactions are not enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are included as an asset of the Group.
Other than the receivable for fees expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is and commissions earned on a transaction, no recognition of the realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
insurance transaction occurs until the Group receives cash in respect of premiums or claims, at which time a corresponding liability is Deferred income tax is charged or credited to equity in respect of any established in favour of the insurer or the client.
items, which is itself either charged or credited directly to equity.
Any subsequent recognition of the deferred gain or loss in the In certain circumstances, the Group advances premiums, refunds or consolidated income statement is accompanied by the corresponding claims to insurance underwriters or clients prior to collection.
advances are reflected in the consolidated balance sheet as part of trade receivables.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the Trade receivables temporary differences can be utilised.
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on subsequently at amortised cost, less provision for impairment.
investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the Group A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when controls the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, dispute, default or Employee benefits delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the receivable is impaired.
Pension costs The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension schemes, The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an and a number of employees are members of defined contribution allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the pension schemes.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually allowance account for trade receivables.
dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and Cash and cash equivalents compensation.
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at Full actuarial valuations of the Groups main defined benefit schemes call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original are carried out at least every three years.
maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts are shown within A qualified actuary updates these valuations to 31st December each borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
For the purposes of these annual updates, scheme assets are Trade payables included at market value and scheme liabilities are measured on an Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently actuarial basis using the projected unit method: these liabilities are measured at amortised cost.
discounted at the current rate of return of an AA corporate bond of equivalent currency and term.
The defined benefit surplus or deficit is Borrowings included on the Groups balance sheet.
Surpluses are included only to Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an the extent that they are recoverable through reduced contributions in unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 the future or through refunds from the schemes.
The current service months after the balance sheet date.
Borrowings are recognised cost and any past service costs are included in the income statement initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
They are within salaries and associated expenses and the expected return on subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective interest rate the schemes assets, net of the impact of the unwinding of the method.
discount on scheme liabilities, is included within finance costs.
Actuarial gains and losses, including differences between the expected and actual return on scheme assets, are recognised through the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2011 57
