Corporate Governance Annual Report 11 front end final tp A&R design 3 16 03 2012 17:17 Page 37 The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the issued within the Group, to: Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the Carefully manage waste so as to minimise its production where preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from possible, or suitably dispose of it through recycling schemes: legislation in other jurisdictions.
Control and, where possible, restrict polluting emissions: Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages Ensure appropriate regulatory compliance: 30 and 31 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: Design and operate facilities taking into account the efficient use of The Group financial statements, which have been prepared in energy and materials: and accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair Encourage the adoption of these guidelines by contractors acting view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the on behalf of the Company.
This is discussed in more detail in the Group: and Corporate Social Responsibility statement on pages 45 and 46.
The Directors Report, including by reference the Overview: Chairmans Statement: Chief Executives Review: Review of Suppliers Operations: Finance Directors Review and Risk Management The Group agrees payment terms with suppliers when it enters into Report contained on pages 1 to 29, includes a fair review of the contracts for the purchase of goods or services and seeks to abide by development and performance of the business and the position of those terms when it is satisfied that the supplier has provided the the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and goods or services in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
At 31st December 2011 the Company did not have any direct external Risk management supplier creditors.
The Groups approach to Risk Management is discussed in the The Group does not have a standard or code that deals specifically Finance Directors Review and the Risk Management Report on pages with the payment of suppliers.
The Group takes a holistic approach to risk management and the Donations control environment.
Responsibility and accountability are shared During the period the Group made charitable donations totalling across all Group companies, with ultimate responsibility resting with 407,890 2010: 332,563. the Board.
No political donations were made by the Group.
Each operating company maintains controls and procedures appropriate to its own business and regulatory environment while Annual General Meeting conforming to Group standards and guidelines.
The notice convening the Annual General Meeting to be held on 26th The identification and mitigation of major business risks is the April 2012 at 12 noon at 6 Crutched Friars, London EC3N 2PH is responsibility of operational management and the Board.
contained in the circular accompanying this report.
The special business includes the following items: Going concern The renewal, within prescribed limits, of: The Directors consider that the Group and the Company have i the authority of the directors to allot securities of the Company adequate resources to continue in operational existence in the within ABI guidelines: foreseeable future.
Consequently, the financial statements have been prepared on a going-concern basis.
ii the disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights: iii the authority of the Company to purchase its own shares by way of Employment policies market purchases: and It is the policy of the Group to provide an environment in which iv a waiver of the requirement arising under Rule 9 of the City Code individual talents can excel.
Employee commitment is encouraged with on Takeovers and Mergers, that Jardine Matheson Holdings wide share ownership and participation in share option schemes.
Limited, together with parties deemed to be acting in concert with Employees are kept informed of the performance of the Group and all it, be required to make a general offer for the Company by reason matters affecting them as employees by means of regular briefings of the change in its percentage holding in the capital of the and consultation and, where possible, using the JLT intranet both in Company arising from any such purchase under iii above.
The Directors will only consider making purchases of the Companys The Group is an equal opportunities employer and encourages shares if they believe that it would be in the best interests of diversity across its workforce.
shareholders and would result in an improvement in earnings per Applications for employment by disabled persons will always be fully share.
considered, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
Auditors Should employees become disabled, every effort will be made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and, in the It is proposed that  LLP, having indicated event that they are unable to continue to work, that their financial their willingness to continue in office, be reappointed auditors of the interests are safeguarded.
It is the intention of the Group that Company.
A resolution proposing their reappointment will be put to opportunities for training, career development and promotion of the Annual General Meeting.
disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical with those for By order of the Board other employees.
David Hickman Company Secretary Environmental policy 20th March 2012 JLT remains committed to minimising any adverse impact its businesses has on the environment.
To this end, guidelines have been Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2011 37
