Corporate Governance Annual Report 11 front end final tp A&R design 3 16 03 2012 17:17 Page 35 During 2011 and to the date of this Report the Committee: Reviewed and monitored management's responsiveness to the findings and recommendations of the internal auditors: Reviewed the drafting of the interim report, preliminary Reviewed the adequacy of resources of the internal audit function: announcement and the annual report and accounts before their and submission to the Board: Met the head of internal audit, without management being Reviewed regular reports from the Group Chief Operating Officer, present, to discuss their remit and any issues arising from the including in particular, monitoring the progress of the IT outsource internal audits carried out.
contract and the human resources IT development project: Reviewed a summary of the work of the UK Audit & Risk The terms of reference of the Audit & Risk Committee cover all Committees for regulated subsidiaries and matters arising matters indicated by the UK Corporate Governance Code and include therefrom: responsibility for providing advice to the Board on the Groups interim Reviewed areas where control weaknesses had been identified by and financial statements: on accounting policies and on the control of its financial and business risks as well as reviewing the work of the internal or external auditors and monitored mitigation remediation plans of management: internal and external auditors.
Reviewed the regular reports of the external auditors, including A copy of the terms of reference can be obtained from the Company internal control issues: Secretary and is displayed on the Groups website - Received and reviewed reports from the business risk and internal http: www.
audit functions on a regular basis: In addition, the Audit & Risk Committee, through its Chairman, Approved the external audit plan and fee proposal and considered formally reports to the Board on its activities.
auditor independence in relation to non-audit services provided: Remuneration Committee Evaluated the performance of the external auditors: The Committee consists of non-executive directors, a majority of Reviewed Group Errors & Omissions provisions: whom are independent.
The membership of the Committee during the Reviewed the Group's risk management functions and structure: year comprised: John Paynter Chairman : Richard Harvey: Lord Considered the Group's overall risk management profile and Leach: Simon Keswick and Nick MacAndrew.
controls: and In addition to a number of ad hoc meetings, the Remuneration Reviewed the effectiveness of the Committee.
Committee met formally three times during the year.
It is responsible, inter alia, for setting the remuneration and terms and conditions of the External auditors executive directors and setting overall remuneration policy for senior The Committee is responsible for overseeing the relationship with the management of the Group.
It also approves the allocations under all external auditors.
long term incentive plans and share option schemes.
During the year, the Committee: Assistance was provided to the Committee by the Chairman, Chief Executive and HR Strategy Director, none in relation to their own Approved their remuneration for both audit and non-audit remuneration, and by Deloitte LLP.
services, including satisfying itself that the level of audit fee was appropriate to enable an adequate audit to be conducted: Deloitte LLP were appointed by the Remuneration Committee to act Approved the terms of engagement, including the engagement as independent advisers to the Committee with effect from 1st letter issued at the start of each audit, and the scope of the audit: January 2011.
Assessed their independence: Nominations Committee Approved the annual audit plan and ensured that it was consistent The membership of the Committee during the year comprised: Lord with the scope of the audit engagement: Leach Chairman : Richard Harvey: Geoffrey Howe: Simon Keswick: Reviewed the findings of the audit, including discussion of any Nick MacAndrew and John Paynter.
major issues arising, any accounting and audit judgements and The Committee met once during the year.
Its purpose is to make the internal control reports, including responses from management recommendations to the Board on the appointment of directors of the and any proposed remedial action: Company and to consider succession plans for senior management Reviewed the effectiveness of the external auditors by way of a positions in the Company.
The terms of reference of the Committee questionnaire distributed to senior finance staff: and are available on the Companys website.
Held meetings with the external auditors without management present.
The Committee schedules this into its timetable as a Group Executive Committee matter of course and the Chairman of the Committee meets The Group Executive Committee is an advisory group to the Chief privately with the external auditors at other times.
Executive who has primary responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Groups operations.
Internal audit function The Committee is required to assist the Board to fulfil its Corporate governance responsibilities relating to the adequacy of the resourcing and plans of During the year the Company has been in compliance with the the Internal Audit department.
"To fulfil these duties, the Committee: provisions as set out in the June 2010 UK Corporate Governance Reviewed and assessed the annual internal audit plan: Code the ""Code"" except for the following: Reviewed summaries of reports on the Group from the internal Lord Leach Deputy Chairman and Simon Keswick both served auditors: as non-executive directors and both are directors of Jardine Reviewed the co-ordination between internal and external Matheson Holdings Limited, which has a 40.20% interest in the auditors: Company."
The relationship with Jardine Matheson is maintained Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2011 35
