Financial Statements AR Accounts 2011 final tp A&R design 3 16 03 2012 17:19 Page 55 If the ownership interest in an associate is reduced but significant Group companies influence is retained, only a proportionate share of the amounts The results and financial position of all the Group entities none of previously recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified to which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy that have a profit or loss where appropriate.
functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: The Groups share of post-acquisition profit or loss is recognised in the income statement, and its share of post acquisition movements in i assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are other comprehensive income is recognised in other comprehensive translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: income with a corresponding adjustment to the carrying amount of ii income and expenses for each income statement are translated at the investment.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate average exchange rates unless this average is not a reasonable equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any other approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are unless it has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made translated at the dates of the transactions : and payments on behalf of the associate.
iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised in other Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its comprehensive income.
associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the On consolidation exchange differences arising from the translation of associates.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are transferred.
Accounting policies of associates have been modified taken to other comprehensive income.
When a foreign operation is where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by sold, such exchange differences are recognised in the income the Group.
statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Segment reporting Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker.
and translated at the closing rate.
A geographical segment is engaged in providing services within a Goodwill arising on consolidation particular economic environment that are subject to risks and returns Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the that are different from those of segments operating in other economic fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets of the environments.
acquired subsidiary associate at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is shown separately on the Balance Sheet.
Foreign currencies Goodwill on acquisitions of associates is included in investments in Functional and presentation currency associates.
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups Goodwill arising on acquisitions completed prior to 1st January 1998 entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic was written off directly to reserves.
Following the adoption of IFRS this environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
goodwill remains written off to reserves and no adjustment would be The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, which made on subsequent disposal.
For acquisitions completed on or after is the Parent Companys functional and presentation currency.
1st January 1998 and before 1st January 2004, goodwill is stated on the Balance Sheet at its previously amortised net book value.
Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional For acquisitions completed on or after 1st January 2004, goodwill is currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the impairment losses.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except impairment testing.
Cash generating units represent the lowest level of when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying geographical and business segment combinations that the Group net investment hedges.
Translation differences on non-monetary uses for internal reporting purposes.
items, such as equities held at fair value through profit or loss, are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss.
Translation differences on non-monetary items, such as equities classified as available-forsale financial assets, are included in the fair value reserve in equity.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2011 55
