AR Accounts 2011 final tp A&R design 3 16 03 2012 17:19 Page 56 Financial Statements Accounting Policies Intangible assets Property, plant and equipment Assets are stated at their net book value historical cost less Computer software accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the Acquired computer software licenses are capitalised on the basis of cost of such assets over their estimated useful lives.
the costs incurred to acquire them and bring them to use.
These costs are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
Costs associated The principal rates of depreciation are as follows: with developing or maintaining computer software programmes are Freehold land and buildings - between 0% and 2% per annum.
recognised as an expense as incurred.
Costs that are directly Leasehold improvements - between 10% and 20% per annum or associated with the production of identifiable and unique software over the life of the lease.
products controlled by the Group, and that will generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as Furniture and office equipment - between 10% and 20% per intangible assets.
Direct costs include the software development annum.
employee costs and an appropriate portion of relevant overheads.
Computer hardware - between 20% and 100% per annum.
Computer software development costs recognised as assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
Motor vehicles - between 25% and 33 1 3% per annum.
Capitalised employment contract payments Financial assets The Group makes payments to certain key employees in recognition The Group classifies its financial assets as loans and receivables and of them signing a long-term employment contact, usually three to five available-for-sale investments.
The classification depends upon the years.
These payments are capitalised as intangible assets since legal purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Management rights protect the expected benefits that the Group will derive from the determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
Loans and receivables The asset recognised is then amortised over the duration of the Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or underlying contract.
determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 Other months after the balance sheet date.
For acquisitions completed after 1st January 2004 the business acquired is reviewed to identify assets that meet the definition of an The Group's loans and receivables comprise trade and other intangible asset per IAS 38.
Examples of such assets include receivables and cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
customer contracts and expectations of business renewal.
These assets are valued on the basis of the present value of future cash Available-for-sale financial assets flows and are amortised to the income statement over the life of the Available-for-sale financial assets are categorised according to their contract or their estimated economic life.
The current maximum nature into one of two categories: estimated economic life is ten years.
1 Investments and deposits, which consist mainly of Fixed Deposits, Bonds and Commercial Paper - these investments are held at fair Impairment of assets value and are classified between current and non-current assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation according to maturity date.
and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to 2 Other investments, which include securities and other investments amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes held for strategic purposes - these investments are held fair at in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be value unless a fair value cannot be accurately determined in which recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by case they are held at cost less any provision for impairment.
which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less Interest on deposits and interest-bearing investments is credited as it costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing is earned.
impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
trade date - the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Investments are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Available-for-sale assets are subsequently carried at fair value.
Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost.
The fair values of quoted investments are determined based upon current bid price.
Changes in the value of securities classified as available-for-sale are recognised in equity.
56 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2011
