AR Accounts 2011 final tp A&R design 3 16 03 2012 17:19 Page 60 Financial Statements Accounting Policies not covered, either wholly or partially, under insurance policies and IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements builds on existing are in excess of the presently established provisions.
It is possible principles by identifying the concept of control as the determining therefore that the financial position, results of operations or cash factor in whether an entity should be included within the consolidated flows of the Group could be materially affected by the financial statements of the parent company.
The standard provides unfavourable outcome of litigation.
additional guidance to assist in the determination of control where this is difficult to assess.
The Group intends to adopt IFRS 10 no later Future developments than the accounting period beginning on or after 1st January 2013, The following standards and amendments to existing standards have subject to endorsement by the EU.
been published and are mandatory for the Groups accounting IFRS 12 Disclosures of interests in other entities includes the periods beginning on or after 1st January 2012 or later periods, but disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, the Group has not adopted them early: including joint arrangements, associates, special purpose vehicles and IAS 19 Employee Benefits was amended in June 2011. other off balance sheet vehicles.
The Group intends to adopt IFRS 12 The amendments will be as follows: to eliminate the corridor approach no later than the accounting period beginning on or after 1st January and recognise all actuarial gains and losses in other comprehensive 2013, subject to endorsement by the EU.
income as they occur: to immediately recognise all past service costs: IFRS 13 Fair value measurement aims to improve consistency and and to replace interest cost and expected return on plan assets with a reduce complexity by providing a precise definition of fair value and a net interest amount that is calculated by applying the discount rate to single source of fair value measurement and disclosure requirements the net defined benefit liability asset.
The Group intends to adopt for use across IFRSs.
The requirements, which are largely aligned IAS19 revised no later than the accounting period beginning on or between IFRSs and US GAAP, do not extend the use of fair value after 1st January 2013.
The Group is yet to assess the full impact of accounting but provide guidance on how it should be applied where the amendment on future results.
its use is already required or permitted by other standards within IFRS 9 Financial instruments addresses the classification, IFRSs or US GAAP.
The Group intends to adopt IFRS 13 no later than measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial the accounting period beginning on or after 1st January 2012, subject liabilities.
IFRS 9 was issued in November 2009 and October 2010. to endorsement by the EU.
It replaces the parts of IAS 39 that relate to the classification and measurement of financial instruments.
IFRS 9 requires financial assets to be classified into two measurement categories: those measured as at fair value and those measured at amortised cost.
The determination is made at initial recognition.
The classification depends on the entitys business model for managing its financial instruments and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the instrument.
For financial liabilities, the standard retains most of the IAS 39 requirements.
The main change is that, in cases where the fair value option is taken for financial liabilities, the part of a fair value change due to an entitys own credit risk is recorded in other comprehensive income rather than the income statement, unless this creates an accounting mismatch.
The Group intends to adopt IFRS 9 no later than the accounting period beginning on or after 1st January 2015, subject to endorsement by the EU.
60 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2011
