Annual Report 11 front end final tp A&R design 3 16 03 2012 17:17 Page 36 Corporate Governance Directors Report on an arms-length basis as detailed in note 33 on page 102.
At 31st December 2011, the Jardine Lloyd Thompson Employee However neither director can be defined as independent under the Share Trusts the trusts held 8,672,854 shares in the Company Code.
At 16th March 2011, being the latest practicable date prior to the posting of this report the trusts held 8,620,675 shares The broad range of experience and expertise and the knowledge 3.95%.
held by Lord Leach and Mr Keswick built from the long standing relationship between Jardine Matheson and JLT continues to be Accountability and audit of particular value: and The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal During the year the majority of the members of the Audit & Risk control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
and Remuneration committees were independent.
In addition, The implementation and maintenance of the risk management and Lord Leach served on the Remuneration Committee and Simon internal control systems are the responsibility of the Executive Keswick served on both these committees during the year, and Directors and senior management.
The systems are designed to therefore the Group did not comply with the Code in relation to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business the membership of these committees.
objectives and can provide only reasonable assurance, but not The Board believes that the presence of Lord Leach and Mr absolute assurance, against material mis-statement or loss.
Keswick on the Board and its committees subject to re-election under the Articles continues to be appropriate and in the interests Directors responsibilities of shareholders generally and does not detract from their Statement of Directors responsibilities independence and judgement on any relevant issue.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Both the Board and the external auditors have safeguards in place to Accounts, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial prevent the compromise of the auditors independence and objectivity.
statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Details of services provided by the Groups auditors are set out in note Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements 7 on page 73. for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the The Audit & Risk Committee also has a policy on the engagement of Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial external auditors and the supply of non-audit services to the Group, Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and including an annual review of the auditors independence.
the parent company financial statements in accordance with United The external auditors also report regularly on the actions that they Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom have taken to comply with professional and regulatory requirements Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the and current best practice in order to maintain that independence.
Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the The Directors are able to consult the Companys legal, financial and Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that other professional advisers on any matter relating to the Companys period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are affairs.
required to: Any Director may make use of this facility subject to notifying the Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Chairman or Finance Director.
consistently: If independent advice is sought, this is subject to prior consultation Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable with the Chairman or a Non-Executive Director as appropriate.
and prudent: and All Directors also have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
State whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject The Company maintains appropriate directors and officers liability to any material departures disclosed and explained in the group insurance in respect of legal actions against its directors.
and parent company financial statements respectively.
Share capital The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Movements in the share capital of the Company during the year records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys ended 31st December 2011 are set out in note 25 on page 89. transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to At 31st December 2011 the issued share capital consisted of ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration 218,069,377 ordinary shares of 5p each with voting rights and Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 1,143,131 shares are held as Treasury shares for which voting rights group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are would not be exercised.
also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the The Company has one class of share capital being ordinary shares of Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and 5p each and all the shares rank pari passu.
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
There are no special control rights in respect of the Companys So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information shares.
of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
The Board has power to implement the purchase by the Company of The Directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken its own shares in accordance with the power granted at the AGM as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit each year, and will be seeking renewal of that power at the information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of forthcoming AGM within the limits set out in the notice of that meeting.
All the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding options and awards would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
36 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2011
