Contents Con Current tents Cost Financial Statements Page Current Cost Financial Statements Page Section 1 - Introduction to the Current Cost Financial Statements............................... 3 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets.............................................. 58 Section 1.1 - Introduction: Regulation in the UK............................................. 4 Section 8.1 - Financial Performance in Other Wholesale Markets Annex 8...................... 59 Section 1.2 - Regulatory Financial Reporting Obligations...................................... 6 Section 8.2 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Annex 10 & 14............................. 60 Section 1.3 - Regulatory Financial Review Annex 4......................................... 8 Section 8.2.
1 - BT Reconciliation Statement 2011 Annex 19.............................. 84 Section 6 - Attribution of Wholesale Current Cost and Mean Capital Employed................... 22 Section 9.1.
2 - Network Activity Statement - Consolidated 2010 Restated................ 100 Section 7.5 - Wholesale business ISDN30 exchange line services Annex 12.................... 41 Section 7.6 - TISBO up to and including 8Mbit s Annex 11................................ 42 Appendix 1.2 - Calculation of FAC based on component costs and usage factors Annex 16....... 103 Section 7.7 - TISBO above 8Mbit s up to and including 45Mbit s Annex 11................... 48 Appendix 1.2.
1 - Calculation of FAC based on component costs and usage factors 2011........ 103 Section 7.8 - TISBO above 45Mbit s up to and including 155Mbit s Annex 11................ 50 Appendix 1.2.
1 - BT Network Services Reconciliation 2011............................... 116 1 Contents Current Cost Financial Statements Page Appendix 1.3.
2 - BT Network Services Reconciliation 2010 Restated..................... 119 Appendix 2 - Price Control Statements.................................................... 123 Appendix 2.1 - Price Controls in Access and Other Wholesale Markets Annex 24 Unaudited..... 124 Glossary.............................................................................. 126 Additional Information................................................................. 130 2 Section 1 - Introduction to the Current Cost Financial Statements Section 1 - Introduction to the Current Cost Financial Statements Section 1 Introduction to the Current Cost Financial Statements 3 Section 1 - Introduction to the Current Cost Financial Statements controls for specified SMP products, cost orientation of prices for SMP products and the Section 1.1 - Introduction: Regulation in the UK Section 1.1 Introduction: Regulation in the UK recovery of costs for the purpose of demonstrating transparency.
Electronic communications regulation in the UK is conducted within a framework set out in various Publication - The annual Current Cost Financial Statements satisfy the obligation relating to European Union EU directives, regulations and recommendations.
publication of financial information for SMP markets.
The publication of information relating to SMP markets is intended to provide public assurance that BT has complied with its cost Ofcom accounting and accounting separation obligations.
Ofcom also imposes certain audit requirements in respect of the published Financial Statements.
Ofcom the Office of Communications was set up under the Office of Communications Act 2002 to On 15 September 2009, as a result of its review of the Fixed Narrowband Services Wholesale Market provide a single, seamless approach to regulating the entire communications market.
Its principal and a review of the Network Charge Controls, Ofcom concluded that SMP status should be removed duties are to further the interests of citizens in relation to communications matters and to further the from the Local-tandem conveyance and transit Market, and this is now part of Wholesale Residual.
The interests of consumers in relevant markets, where appropriate by promoting competition.
Ofcom review also concluded that the Single transit Market is still subject to some SMP obligations, including regulation takes the form of sets of conditions laid down under the Communications Act 2003 the obligation not to unduly discriminate.
In assessing the level of financial reporting obligations, the Communications Act, and directions under these conditions.
Some conditions apply to all providers of review concluded that for the year ended 31 March 2011, cost accounting obligations would be electronic communications networks and services: others apply to individual providers, which Ofcom removed but accounting separation obligations would remain.
has designated as universal service providers or having significant market power SMP in a particular market.
Following Ofcoms Wholesale Broadband Access Market Review in 2010, BT was found not to have SMP or regulatory obligations in Wholesale Broadband Access Market 3.
BT Wholesale continues to Conditions applying to all providers have regulatory obligations in relation to the supply of WBA products in Markets 1 and 2 and is required to report on an Equivalence of Input EOI basis in these markets.
Although these general conditions are concerned mainly with consumer protection, they also include requirements relating to general access and interconnection, standards, emergency planning, the Significant Market Power Charge controls payment of administrative charges, the provision of information to Ofcom and numbering.
A separate condition regulates the provision of premium rate services.
The Electronic Communications Code As a result of SMP designations, the charges BT can make for a number of wholesale services are subject applies to all communications providers authorised to carry out street works and similar activities for to regulatory controls.
It requires electronic communications providers with apparatus on or in the public highway to make financial provision to cover any damage caused by work they carry out, and for the On 22 May 2009, Ofcom concluded its Financial Framework Review and published the statement A removal of their networks in the event of liquidation or bankruptcy.
new pricing framework for Openreach which set price controls for the period 22 May 2009 to 31 March 2011.
The price control applied to new connection, rental, cease and transfer charges as well as Significant Market Power SMP designations Metallic Path Facilities MPF and Shared Metallic Path Facilities SMPF ancillary services and CoMingling services.
All price changes for 2010 11 were implemented on 1 April 2010 in line with the Ofcom is also required by EU directives to review relevant markets regularly and determine whether any price control: the MPF and SMPF annual rental charges as well as the MPF new provide charge were communications provider has SMP in those markets.
subsequently modified in October 2010 following the conclusion of the Carphone Warehouse Groups appeal to the Competition Appeal Tribunal against Ofcoms Local Loop Unbundling LLU statement.
Where Ofcom finds that a provider has SMP, it must impose appropriate remedies that may include Ofcom is currently consulting on revised charge controls for LLU for the period ending 31 March 2014. price controls.
At 31 March 2011, as a result of previous market reviews, BT was deemed to have SMP A final statement is expected in Quarter 3 2011 12. in a number of markets.
These markets are listed in Section 1.2 - Regulatory Financial Reporting Obligations.
On 2 July 2009, Ofcom published its final statement on the Leased Lines Charge Control LLCC with regard to a new charge control framework for wholesale traditional interface and alternative interface Where a provider has SMP, the Communications Act enables Ofcom to impose one or more obligations products and services.
"The statement covered the Partial Private Circuit PPC products provided by BT in relation to each market, including: Wholesale referred to as ""Traditional Interface TI"" products and wholesale ethernet access and Accounting separation - which requires the operator to maintain accounting systems such that backhaul services provided by Openreach referred to as ""Alternative Interface AI"" products by Ofcom."
the financial results of each SMP market can be separately presented and that costs relating to The controls in the LLCC statement apply for the period 1 October 2009 to 30 September 2012. products and markets are allocated in a transparent and appropriate way.
Accounting separation On 2 September 2009, Cable & Wireless lodged an appeal with the Competition Appeal Tribunal is also used to ensure that there is no undue discrimination.
contesting certain parts of Ofcoms Leased Line Charge Control Statement.
The Tribunal issued a Cost accounting Wholesale cost accounting obligations apply where there is an obligation in direction on 20 September 2010 directing the controlling percentage for the TI basket to be amended relation to price controls, cost orientation or cost recovery.
Wholesale activities include products to RPI-1.75% from 1 October 2010.
Ofcom also directed new lower prices for 2Mbit s local end rentals.
and services sold to other communication providers such as the provision of network access, the These controls run from 1 October 2009 to 30 September 2012. use of the network and the availability of various facilities.
Obligations may include price 4 Section 1 - Introduction to the Current Cost Financial Statements Ofcom published two statements setting the Wholesale Line Rental WLR Charge Controls on 26 Following the election, the new Government confirmed its commitment to improving Broadband but October 2009 and 23 February 2010.
These statements set out the charge controls for WLR analogue placed more emphasis on achieving the highest possible speeds across the whole of what is known as services for the period 23 November 2009 to 31March 2011.
Given the change in market definition in the last third, reducing focus on a simple 2Mbit s for all commitment and more on super-fast NGA 2009, Ofcom set a single charge control that applies only to a new core WLR product rather than setting type services.
The last third are rural communities outside the likely reach of commercial super-fast separate controls for residential and business lines.
The cost orientation obligation was also removed rollouts such as BTs own investment in NGA that is programmed to reach 66% of the population by for service levels beyond the WLR Core rental product.
All price changes for 2010 11 were 2015. implemented on 1 April 2010 in line with the price controls.
Ofcom is currently consulting on revised The Government has allocated up to 530m to be spent by 2015 through its procurement authority charge controls for WLR for the period ending 31 March 2014.
A final statement is expected in Quarter BDUK, monies that will be allocated to the Counties and Regions on a bid basis.
This may be backed after 3 2011 12. the next election by a further 300m to a total of 830m by 2017.
The first BDUK investment On 20 August 2010, Ofcom published its market review statement for wholesale and retail ISDN30 allocations, known as Wave 1, have been made to Cumbria, North Yorkshire, Herefordshire and services.
In this, Ofcom concluded that Openreach has SMP in the provision of wholesale ISDN30 Highlands and Islands with an allocation also to Wales.
Bids have started to appear and Openreach is services.
A number of general remedies were imposed in the market review, including the requirement assisting Communications Providers on request to win funds and deliver extended coverage.
to supply services and the requirement to provide services on the basis of no undue discrimination.
Ofcom also concluded that the introduction of a price control for wholesale ISDN30 services was appropriate.
Ofcom is currently consulting on the appropriate charge controls for ISDN30 for the period ending 31 March 2014.
A final statement is expected in Quarter 3 2011 12.
Please refer to Appendix 2.1 for further details relating to charge controls.
BTs Undertakings In response to Ofcoms 2005 strategic review of telecommunications, BT proposed a number of legally binding Undertakings under the Enterprise Act 2002.
These Undertakings, which included the creation of Openreach, were accepted by Ofcom and came into force in September 2005.
The Undertakings are intended to deliver clarity and certainty to the UK telecommunications industry about the way BT will provide upstream regulated products to support effective and fair competition in related downstream markets.
This, in itself, should lead to a reduction in the need for regulation in those competitive downstream markets over time.
The Undertakings also set up certain financial reporting requirements which BT has to comply with.
These reporting requirements have been described in Section 1.2 - Regulatory Financial Reporting Obligations, Section 2.1 Statement of Responsibility and the statements are given in Section 10 - Openreach Information.
Next Generation Access regulation In March 2009, following consultation, Ofcom published a policy statement setting out a regulatory framework for Next Generation Access NGA.
This gave sufficient regulatory certainty for BT to proceed with the initial phase of super-fast broadband roll out and BT will continue to work with Ofcom as these plans develop.
In June 2009, the UK Government published its Digital Britain report setting out the importance of the digital economy to the nations economic future and how it will drive future industrial capability and competitiveness.
The report contained 78 separate recommendations, with the key areas being: Universal Service Commitment and NGA.
Prior to the May 2010 election, there were plans to create a fund of 200m that would be available via competitive tender to bidders in order to deliver a universal service commitment based on 2Mbit s broadband connection.
5 Section 1 - Introduction to the Current Cost Financial Statements Other Wholesale markets including technical areas : Section 1.2 - Regulatory Financial Reporting Obligations Section 1.2 Regulatory Financial Reporting Obligations Call origination on fixed public narrowband networks The prescribed form and content of the published Current Cost Financial Statements is reviewed Single transit on fixed public narrowband networks regularly by Ofcom, in the light of changes in the regulatory regime and the needs of stakeholders.
The Technical areas Interconnect Circuits relevant Ofcom documentation is listed below and together forms the Final Statements and Notifications under the requirements of which the Current Cost Financial Statements for 2011 have Fixed call termination been prepared.
Wholesale trunk segments The Regulatory Financial Reporting Obligations on BT and Kingston Communications issued Technical areas Point of Handover 22 July 2004 Wholesale Broadband Access Market 1 Changes to BTs Regulatory Financial Reporting Framework of 31 August 2005 Wholesale Broadband Access Market 2 Changes to BTs Regulatory Financial Reporting and Audit Requirements issued 16 August Wholesale markets which have both cost accounting and accounting separation requirements have 2006 been marked with in the list above.
For these wholesale markets, the Current Cost Financial Changes to BTs Regulatory Financial Reporting and Audit Requirements issued 30 May 2007 Statements also include details of costs and charges for individual services within each market.
The Changes to BTs 2007 08 Regulatory Financial Statements issued 26 June 2008 remaining wholesale markets have accounting separation requirements only.
Changes to BT and KCOMs Regulatory Financial Reporting 2008 09 update issued 15 June On 15 September 2009, as a result of its review of the Fixed Narrowband Services Wholesale Market 2009 and a review of the Network Charge Controls, Ofcom concluded that SMP status should be removed Changes to BT and KCOMs regulatory and financial reporting 2009 10 update issued 4 June from the Local-tandem conveyance and transit Market, and this is now part of Wholesale Residual.
The 2010 review also concluded that the Single transit Market is still subject to some SMP obligations, including the obligation not to unduly discriminate.
In assessing the level of financial reporting obligations, the Changes to BT and KCOMs regulatory and financial reporting 2010 11 update issued 2 June review concluded that for the year ended 31 March 2011, cost accounting obligations would be 2011 removed but accounting separation obligations would remain.
In addition to the information in the Current Cost Financial Statements, Ofcom also requires BT to On 3 December 2010, as a result of its review of the Wholesale Broadband Access Market, Ofcom provide additional detailed information to enable Ofcom to regulate effectively and efficiently.
This concluded that BT did not have SMP or regulatory obligations in Wholesale Broadband Access Market additional information is not published by either BT or Ofcom nor is it subject to any independent 3.
BT Wholesale continues to have regulatory obligations in relation to the supply of WBA products in examination.
Markets 1 and 2 and is required to report on an Equivalence of Input EOI basis in these markets.
The markets in which BT has SMP and reporting obligations in the period covered by the Current Cost Financial Statements for 2011 are listed below.
These markets have been grouped by Ofcom as follows: Openreach Wholesale Access markets: The Current Cost Financial Statements for 2011 also include financial information to meet the requirements set out in the Undertakings section 5.31 : specifically the need to disclose the results of Wholesale analogue exchange line services Openreach separately and to reconcile the results to the Openreach segmental information shown in BT Wholesale ISDN2 exchange line services Group plcs Annual Report effective from the 2007 financial year.
Wholesale business ISDN30 exchange line services Cost orientation information Traditional interface symmetric broadband origination up to and including 8Mbit s Traditional interface symmetric broadband origination above 8Mbit s up to and including BT has an obligation to report cost orientation information in the Current Cost Financial Statements.
45Mbit s BT has reviewed the methodology used to calculate the Long Run Incremental Cost LRIC, the Traditional interface symmetric broadband origination above 45Mbit s up to and including Distributed Long Run Incremental Cost DLRIC and the Distributed Stand Alone Cost DSAC of services 155Mbit s published in the Current Cost Financial Statements.
The review determined that the LRIC, DLRIC and Alternative interface symmetric broadband origination up to and including 1Gbit DSAC for certain cost categories were not calculated in a manner that resulted in appropriate Wholesale local access relationships between LRIC, DLRIC and DSAC and their fully allocated costs FAC, and that was compatible with underlying principles for the calculation of DLRIC and DSAC.
6 Section 1 - Introduction to the Current Cost Financial Statements The approach for calculating the LRIC, DLRIC and DSAC for 2010 11 is now consistent with that used for all other cost categories and the results derived for LRIC, DLRIC, DSAC and FAC for the services affected are now appropriately related and consistent with underlying principles.
The comparative figures for the year 2009 10 have been restated on the same basis as outlined in Section 4.1.
Further details of this change in methodology are given in the publication Long Run Incremental Cost Model: Relationships and Parameters 2011.
7 Section 1 - Introduction to the Current Cost Financial Statements Section 1.3 - Regulatory Financial Review Annex 4 Section 1.3 - Regulatory Financial Review Annex 4 The Regulatory Financial Review is intended to assist the users understanding of the Current Cost Financial Statements, and focuses on those matters that are relevant to the users of the information, including accounting policies that are key to understanding performance.
The review explains the main factors that underlie each market or groups of markets: in particular those that have changed or are expected to change in the future.
The review includes explanations of new products and services.
This is to assist a user of the Current Cost Financial Statements in understanding the dynamics of the products and services in each market, the main influences on financial performance and how these interrelate.
These Regulatory Financial Reviews have been provided at the level of groupings of markets and then by individual markets in Sections 7 and 8.
8 Section 2 - Statement of Responsibility Section 2 - Statement of Responsibility Section 2 Statement of Responsibility 9 Section 2 - Statement of Responsibility of Telecommunications, and undertakings in lieu of a reference under the Enterprise Act 2002, issued Section 2.1 - Statement of Responsibility Annex 2 Section 2.1 - Statement of Responsibility Annex 2 on the 22 September 2005.
British Telecommunications plc BT is required to prepare Current Cost Financial Statements in The Undertakings require BT to present the financial results of Openreach, including the following: accordance with the Final Statements and Notifications as described in Section 1.2.
Openreach financial information such as headline revenue, cost of sales or gross margin, Under the Financial Capital Maintenance FCM concept of Current Cost Accounting BT has revalued its SG&A, EBITDA, depreciation, operating profit and capital expenditure, revenues broken down assets in 2011.
The approach taken in the Current Cost Financial Statements has been described in into the broad product groups that Openreach provides and further split between internal and Section 4.1. external sales, separately identified payments to other parts of BT for products that form inputs to Openreach products e. g. electronics : and The Current Cost Financial Statements include comparative information for the year ended 31 March 2010 first published on 28 July 2010 subject to certain restatements and re-presentations detailed in Reconciliation of Openreachs revenue and operating profit and other such items as may be Section 4.1. agreed between BT and Ofcom with information about Openreach shown in BT Group plcs Annual Report.
The Current Cost Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with the Primary Accounting Documents and Secondary Accounting Documents namely the Detailed Attribution Methods: the The Openreach Financial Statements have been presented in Section 10.
These Statements include Detailed Valuation Methodology: the Long Run Incremental Cost Model: Relationships and Parameters comparative information for the year ended 31 March 2010. and the Wholesale Catalogue.
In so far as there is any inconsistency in the Primary and Secondary The form, content and basis of preparation of the financial results of Openreach follow those used in Accounting Documents, BT ensures that the Current Cost Financial Statements are prepared in the preparation of the Current Cost Financial Statements of BT as described above, except where accordance with the Primary Accounting Documents in the following order of priority: differences are agreed with Ofcom.
the Regulatory Accounting Principles: BT confirms that the Openreach Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2011, which have the Attribution Methods: been prepared in accordance with the Primary Accounting Documents dated 15 September 2011, the Transfer Charging System: comply with the requirements of the Undertakings dated 22 September 2005. the Accounting Policies: and the Long Run Incremental Cost Methodology.
Warren Clements The Current Cost Financial Statements are reconciled to the BT Group plcs Annual Report and that reconciliation is demonstrated and explained.
Group Controller 15 September 2011 BT confirms that the Current Cost Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 which are prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Final Statements and Notifications have been prepared in accordance with the Primary and Secondary Accounting Documents dated 15 September 2011.
BT confirms that the Current Cost Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 which are prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Final Statements and Notifications have been prepared in accordance with the Primary and Secondary Accounting Documents dated 28 July 2010 subject to certain restatements and re-presentations as detailed in Section 4.1.
BT confirms that the Detailed Attribution Methods, the Detailed Valuation Methodology, the Long Run Incremental Cost Model: Relationships and Parameters and the Wholesale Catalogue all dated 15 September 2011 are appropriate to implement the principles contained in the Primary Accounting Documents dated 15 September 2011, including the Transparency Principle.
Openreach BT is also required in accordance with the Undertakings to separately present the financial results of Openreach within BTs Current Cost Financial Statements as explained in Sections 1.1 and 1.2.
The Undertakings are attached at Annex A of Part 2 of Ofcoms Final Statements on the Strategic Review 10 Section 3 - Audit Report Section 3 - Audit Report Section 3 Audit Report 11 Section 3 - Audit Report Section 3.1 - Report of the Independent Auditors Annex 23 Report of the Independent Auditors to British Telecommunications plc and Ofcom issued in accordance with the Final Statement and Notification entitled The regulatory financial reporting obligations on BT and Kingston Communications issued by Ofcom on 22 July 2004 as amended by the annual Notifications of changes to regulatory financial reporting issued by Ofcom following consultation as set out below.
The Market Financial Statements comprise the following statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 for the Markets and Technical Areas listed on page 6: 1.
We have examined the Current Cost Financial Statements for 2011 the Financial Statements which include information in respect of economic markets the Market Financial Statements The consolidated performance summary on page 21: and Openreach the Openreach Information.
The statements of Attribution of Wholesale Current Costs and Mean Capital Employed on pages 23, 25, 26 and 28: 2.
The Market Financial Statements are prepared by British Telecommunications plc the Company under the current cost convention in accordance with: The statement of financial performance in Access Markets on page 30: the Final Statement and Notification entitled The regulatory financial reporting obligations on The Market Summary statements for Access Markets on pages 37 to 57: BT and Kingston Communications issued by Ofcom on 22 July 2004 as amended by the Final The statement of financial performance in Other Wholesale Markets on page 59: Statement and Notification entitled Changes to BTs regulatory financial reporting framework The Market Summary statements for Other Wholesale Markets on pages 67 to 82: and issued by Ofcom on 31 August 2005, and the Explanatory Statements and Notifications entitled Changes to BTs regulatory financial reporting and audit requirements issued by Ofcom on 16 the related notes set out in Sections 4, 7, 8 and 9 on pages 16 to 19, 31 to 36, 60 to 66 and 84 August 2006, Changes to BTs regulatory financial reporting and audit requirements issued by to 86, and Appendix 1 on pages 97 to 122, other than the LRIC Floors and LRIC ceilings.
Ofcom on 30 May 2007, Changes to BTs 2007 08 regulatory financial statements issued by 5.
The Openreach Information comprises the following information for the year ended 31 March Ofcom on 26 June 2008, Changes to BT and KCOMs regulatory financial reporting 2008 09 2011 on pages 88 to 93: update issued by Ofcom on 15 June 2009, Changes to BT and KCOMs regulatory and financial The Openreach P&L Statement: reporting 2009 10 update issued by Ofcom on 4 June 2010 and Changes to BT and KCOMs regulatory financial reporting 2010 11 update issued by Ofcom on 2 June 2011 together the The Openreach MCE Statement: and Final Statements and Notifications : The Reconciliation of Openreach P&L.
The Market Financial Statements and The Openreach Information include comparative information the Secondary Accounting Documents, namely the Detailed Attribution Methods, the Detailed for the year ended 31 March 2010 first published on 28 July 2010 which have been restated and Valuation Methodology and the Wholesale Catalogue: and re-presented as described in Comparability of current and prior year results on page 17.
All In respect of comparative information for the year ended 31 March 2010, the treatment of comparative information for the year ended 31 March 2010 is prepared by the Company to comply holding gains and associated backlog depreciation on duct and associated structures as with the Final Statements and Notifications, and in accordance with the Primary Accounting described in section 4.1 on page 16.
Documents and the Secondary Documents dated 28 July 2010 as amended, where applicable, in accordance with Comparability of current and prior year results on page 17.
The Openreach Information is prepared by the Company under the current cost convention in accordance with: Respective responsibilities of the Company and auditors the undertakings given to Ofcom by the Company pursuant to the Enterprise Act 2002 on 22 7.
The Company is responsible for preparing and approving the Financial Statements, as described on September 2005 the Undertakings : page 10.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are established in the United Kingdom by the Explanatory Statement and Notification entitled Changes to BTs regulatory financial the Final Statements and Notifications, the Undertakings, the Auditing Practices Board and our reporting obligations issued by Ofcom on 30 May 2007, Changes to BTs 2007 08 regulatory profession's ethical guidance.
financial statements issued by Ofcom on 26 June 2008, Changes to BT and KCOMs regulatory 8.
Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Statements in accordance with relevant legal and financial reporting 2008 9 update issued by Ofcom on 15 June 2009, Changes to BT and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the KCOMs regulatory and financial reporting 2009 10 update issued by Ofcom on 4 June 2010 Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the and Changes to BT and KCOMs regulatory financial reporting 2010 11 update issued by Company and Ofcom and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume Ofcom on 2 June 2011 together the Explanatory Statement and Notifications : and responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into the Primary Accounting Documents.
whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report our opinions as to whether: 12 Section 3 - Audit Report the Market Financial Statements as a whole: 11.
We report our opinions as to whether the restated and re-presented Market Financial Statements as a whole for the year ended 31 March 2010 are fairly presented in accordance with the Primary each of the market group statements comprising the statement of financial performance in Accounting Documents dated 28 July 2010 subject to the changes described in Comparability of Access Markets on page 30 and the statement of financial performance in Other Wholesale current and prior year results on page 17, and comply with the requirements of the Final Markets on page 59 the Market Group Statements : Statements and Notifications.
each of the Market Summary Statements for the markets and technical areas listed below the 12.
In addition, we report if, in our opinion, the Introduction to accounts, setting out the basis upon FPIA Markets which the Financial Statements have been prepared, is not consistent with the Financial o Wholesale analogue exchange line services on page 37: Statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the o Wholesale business ISDN30 exchange line services on page 41: information and explanations we require for our examination, or if information specified by the Final Statements and Notifications is not disclosed.
o Traditional interface symmetric broadband origination up to and including 8Mbit s on page 42: 13.
We read the other information presented with the Financial Statements and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material o Traditional interface symmetric broadband origination above 8mbit s up to and inc. inconsistencies with the Financial Statements.
The other information comprises the Regulatory 45Mbit s on page 48: Financial Review on page 8, the Access Markets Review on pages31 to 36, the Review of Other o Traditional interface symmetric broadband origination above 45mbit s up to and inc. Wholesale Markets on pages 60 to66, the Price Control Statements on pages 124 to 125, the 155Mbit s on page 50: Openreach Notes on pages 94 to 95 and the Glossary and Additional Information on pages 126 to 130. o Alternative interface symmetric broadband origination on page 52: o Wholesale local access on page 56: and Basis of audit opinion o Wholesale trunk segments on page 73: 14.
"As explained in ""Basis of preparation"" on pages 16 to 19, the Company has, by agreement with BT Group plc, its ultimate parent company, prepared the Financial Statements by disaggregating the Openreach Information on pages 88 to 95. balances recorded in the general ledgers and other accounting records of BT Group plc and its are fairly presented in accordance with the Primary Accounting Documents and comply with the subsidiaries ""the Group"" maintained in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and used, in requirements of the Final Statements and Notifications and the Undertakings."
"In respect of the accordance with that Act, for the preparation of the Company's statutory consolidated financial Market Financial Statements as a whole, each of the Market Group Statements and each of the FPIA statements for the years ended 31 March 2011 and 31 March 2010 ""the Statutory Financial Markets, we also report whether, in forming that opinion, having reviewed the Primary and Statements""."
Secondary Accounting Documents, the Secondary Accounting Documents are appropriate to 15.
 LLP audited the Statutory Financial Statements on which they expressed implement the principles contained in the Primary Accounting Documents.
In conducting our subsequent examination of the Financial Statements, and in providing the opinions in paragraph 18 below, we have not performed any 10.
We also report our opinion as to whether each of the Market Summary Statements for the selected additional tests of the transactions and balances which are recorded in the general ledgers and markets listed below the PPIA Markets other accounting records beyond those already performed for the purpose of the audits of the o Call origination on fixed public narrowband networks on page 67: Statutory Financial Statements.
o Technical areas interconnect circuits on page 70: 16.
Having regard to the above: o Fixed call termination on page 72: i we conducted our examination of the Financial Statements in accordance with International o Wholesale broadband access market 1 on page 77: and Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Our work included examination on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in o Wholesale broadband access market 2 on page 79. the Financial Statements.
In respect of the Market Financial Statements as a whole, each of are properly prepared in accordance with the relevant procedures, defined in the Primary and the Market Group Statements, each of the FPIA Markets and the Openreach Information it also Secondary Accounting Documents, and comply with the requirements of the Final Statements and included an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Company in Notifications.
We also report whether, in forming that opinion, having reviewed the Primary and their preparation: Secondary Accounting Documents, anything has come to our attention that would lead us to ii we planned and performed our examination of the Financial Statements so as to obtain all the conclude that the principles and procedures contained in the Primary and Secondary Accounting information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with Documents have not been properly applied in the preparation of the PPIA Markets.
sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Market Financial Statements as a 13 Section 3 - Audit Report whole, each of the Market Group Statements, each of the FPIA Markets and the Openreach 28 July 2010, and comply with the requirements of the Final Statements and Notifications as Information are fairly presented in accordance with the relevant Primary Accounting amended, where applicable, in accordance with Comparability of current and prior year reDocuments and, on that basis, are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud sults on page 17: or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of [f] the Openreach Information for the year ended 31 March 2011, which has been prepared in acthe presentation of information in the Financial Statements: cordance with the Primary Accounting Documents dated 15 September 2011, fairly presents iii we planned and performed our examination of the PPIA Markets so as to obtain all the in accordance with the Primary Accounting Documents dated 15 September 2011 the results, information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with mean capital employed and costs incurred by the Company and complies with the requirements sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that each of the PPIA Markets are properly of the Undertakings and the Explanatory Statement and Notifications: and prepared in accordance with the procedures, defined in the relevant Primary and Secondary [g] In the context of a and b and c above, the Secondary Accounting Documents all dated 15 Accounting Documents.
However, as explained in the introduction to the Primary Accounting September 2011 are appropriate to implement the principles contained in the Primary AcDocuments, the Primary Accounting Documents contain only the high level principles of counting Documents dated 15 September 2011. attribution.
The Secondary Accounting Documents contain only the procedures describing how these high level principles are applied.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the PPIA Market Statements.
In forming our opinions on the Market Financial Statements as a whole, each of the Market Group Statements and each of the FPIA Markets we also reviewed the Company's Secondary Accounting  LLP Documents which describe how the principles contained in the Primary Accounting Documents are Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors implemented.
Our review consisted of reading the Secondary Accounting Documents and London, 15 September 2011 considering whether each of the significant attribution and valuation methodologies described in these documents are consistent with the principles described on pages 15 to 16 of the Primary Accounting Documents.
In our opinion: [a] the Market Financial Statements as a whole for the year ended 31 March 2011, which have been prepared in accordance with the Primary Accounting Documents dated 15 September 2011, fairly present in accordance with the Primary Accounting Documents dated 15 September 2011 the results, mean capital employed and costs incurred by the Company and comply with the requirements of the Final Statements and Notifications: [b] each of the Market Group Statements for the year ended 31 March 2011, fairly presents in accordance with the Primary Accounting Documents dated 15 September 2011 the results, mean capital employed and costs incurred by the Company and complies with the requirements of the Final Statements and Notifications: [c] each of the FPIA Markets for the year ended 31 March 2011, fairly presents in accordance with the Primary Accounting Documents dated 15 September 2011 the results, mean capital employed and costs incurred by each of the markets and complies with the requirements of the Fifinal Statements and Notifications: [d] each of the PPIA Markets for the year ended 31 March 2011 have been properly prepared in accordance with the procedures, if any, defined in the Primary and Secondary Accounting Documents all dated 15 September 2011 and complies with the requirements of the Final Statements and Notifications: [e] the restated and re-presented Market Financial Statements as a whole for the year ended 31 March 2010 are fairly presented in accordance with the Primary Accounting Documents dated 14 Section 4 - Basis of Preparation Section 4 - Basis of Preparation Section 4 Basis of Preparation 15 Section 4 - Basis of Preparation Insofar as there is any inconsistency between any or all of the Primary Accounting Documents, the Section 4.1 - Introduction to the Basis of Preparation Section 4.1 Introduction to the Basis of Preparation Primary Accounting Documents shall have the order of priority as listed above.
The ultimate holding company of British Telecommunications plc the Company is BT Group plc The economic Markets defined by Ofcoms Final Statements and Notifications do not correspond to the referred to together with its subsidiary and associated undertakings and joint ventures as the Group way in which the Group is organised for management and accounting purposes.
Substantially all the businesses and activities of the Group are carried out by British Financial Statements are therefore produced by overlaying the requirements of the regulatory Telecommunications plc, its subsidiaries, associated undertakings and joint ventures.
reporting framework on the management and accounting structure of the Group.
The Company has, by agreement with BT Group plc, prepared the Current Cost Financial Statements in As far as possible, revenues, costs, assets and liabilities are directly associated with a product group or accordance with the Accounting Documents, by disaggregating balances recorded in the general component using information held within the Groups accounting records and are directly attributed to ledgers and other accounting records of the Group.
Where no such direct association is possible, the remaining revenues, costs, assets and liabilities are apportioned between two or more markets, services or components using a fully allocated The basis of preparation and accounting policies adopted by the Group is detailed in BT Group plcs accounting system and employing apportionment bases that reflect as far as possible the causality of Annual Report dated 11 May 2011.
BTs Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2011 on which the revenue, cost, asset or liability.
the auditors made an unqualified report, did not contain a statement under Section 498 2 or 498 3 of the Companies Act 2006 and has been delivered to the Registrar of Companies.
The amounts of revenue, cost and capital employed attributed to markets, services and components depend critically on the methods of attribution adopted.
Typically, in a fully allocated accounting The Accounting Documents means together the Primary Accounting Documents and the Secondary system, a range of attribution methods is available.
In selecting appropriate attribution methods and Accounting Documents.
The Primary Accounting Documents set out the framework under which the appropriate non-financial data for use within the attribution models employed in the production of Statements are to be prepared.
The Secondary Accounting Documents namely the Detailed Attribution these Current Cost Financial Statements, BT has had to make certain estimates and exercise its Methods DAM, the Detailed Valuation Methodology DVM, the Long Run Incremental Costs: judgement, having regard to the regulatory accounting principles, including cost causality and Relationships and Parameters R&P and the Wholesale Catalogue set out more detailed descriptions of objectivity, in order to comply with the requirements of the Primary Accounting Documents.
the policies, methodologies, systems, processes and procedures for deriving and calculating the costs, revenues, assets and liabilities underlying the Current Cost Financial Statements.
BT seeks to review and update non-financial data used within the attribution models at least annually.
Certain non-financial data employed for the purposes of the Current Cost Financial Statements has The Primary Accounting Documents set out the: been determined by sampling techniques appropriate to that data.
BT reviews and updates attribution Regulatory Accounting Principles - which means the principles applied or used by BT in the methods and non-financial data sources on an ongoing basis and, where deemed appropriate, will preparation of the Current Cost Financial Statements, for example, that all costs should be fully make improvements.
Depending on the nature of the change, this may require Ofcoms prior consent.
The Final Statements and Notifications continue to require significant granularity in the Current Cost Attribution Methods - which means a high level summary of the practices used by BT to Financial Statements.
When preparing financial statements at a very granular level it is not always attribute revenue including appropriate Transfer Charges, costs including appropriate Transfer possible to develop a directly cost causal and objective method of cost apportionment and these Charges assets and liabilities to activities or, insofar as those activities have been aggregated to Financial Statements have been prepared on the basis of the methodologies BT considers to be the most wholesale segments in a given Market or Technical Area as applicable, to each wholesale appropriate.
However, in respect of the very small wholesale services within certain of the wholesale segment.
markets, BT is aware that, in following the generic methodologies for attribution of common costs set Transfer Charge System Methodology - which means the methodology of the system employed out in the Detailed Attribution Methods, anomalies may exist in the year on year cost trends in certain by BT that enables an activity to use a service from another activity and to account for it as services.
Costing methodologies and non-financial data sources will also be subject to ongoing review, though it had purchased that service from an unrelated party including accounting for it at an and where deemed appropriate, improvements made.
BTs costing systems used in the preparation of the Current Cost Financial Statements to attribute Accounting Policies - which means the manner in which the requirements of the Companies Act revenues, costs, assets and liabilities to SMP Markets take as their starting point the general ledgers of 2006 and Article 4 of the International Accounting Standards IAS Regulation and BTs the Group which are maintained to the nearest penny.
This level of granularity is maintained accounting policies whenever not superseded by the Regulatory Accounting Principles, are throughout the costing process.
However, to be consistent with the presentation of the results of the applied by BT in each of the Current Cost Financial Statements.
This document details the Group in BT Group plcs Annual Report, the results for each SMP Market are presented in figures accounting policies adopted in preparing the underlying financial information.
rounded to the nearest whole million pounds.
Long Run Incremental Cost LRIC Methodology - means the long run incremental cost principles, procedures and processes which form the framework under which long run incremental costs are determined by BT.
This document sets out the principles followed to derive the long run incremental network costs.
16 Section 4 - Basis of Preparation Accordingly in calculating the LRIC, DLRIC and DSAC for 2010 11, those cost categories which Charges from Wholesale Markets to Retail Residual previously were split into two sub-cost categories are re-combined so that each has a single cost The Mean Capital Employed Statements for the Wholesale Markets include balances relating to the driver which is the norm.
This approach is consistent with that used for all other cost categories charges from the Wholesale Markets to Retail Residual.
Retail Residual is deemed to settle these and the results derived for LRIC, DLRIC, DSAC and FAC for the services affected are now charges in the same 33 day period for 2009 10 this was 43 days as other operators, as agreed with appropriately related and consistent with the underlying principles.
The comparative figures for Ofcom.
the year 2009 10 have been restated on the same basis.
Further details of this change in methodology are given in the publication Long Run Incremental The Network Activity Statements on a current cost basis show component unit costs on a 24-hour basis.
Cost Model: Relationships and Parameters 2011.
However, charges to Retail Residual and other Communications Providers CPs for call conveyance services vary by the time period, e. g. day or evening, during which the service was purchased.
The g The prior year comparatives have also been restated for the TISBO above 45Mbit s up to and charges for other Wholesale Services to Retail Residual and other CPs do not require adjustment for the including 155Mbit s Market to reflect a correction in BTs calculation of internal links volumes.
time of day at which they are purchased.
During 2010 11 BT reviewed and improved the data used to calculate the internal volumes of PPC Comparability of current and prior year results internal links resulting in decreased volumes of 64Kbit s and 140Mbit s internal links.
As the impact on the TISBO above 45Mbit s up to and including 155Mbit s Market was significant, prior year There have been a number of changes in the year that impact on the comparability of the current and comparatives have been restated to reflect this corrected data.
This has reduced revenues and costs in prior year results: the TISBO above 45Mbit s up to and including 155Mbit s Market for 2009 10 by 21m and 9m respectively.
The costs removed from this market are now reflected in residual markets.
The change has a Changes to BTs financial reporting obligations as set out in the Final Statements and Notifications had an immaterial impact on the TISBO up to and including 8Mbit s Market and therefore and listed below and explained in Section 4.2: comparatives for this market have not been restated.
Implementation of the Wholesale Broadband Access Review.
There were no other restatements or re-presentations.
Implementation of the Fixed Narrowband Wholesale Services Market Review.
CCA adjustments Improved disclosure of AISBO services.
Other changes to the presentation of the Current Cost Financial Statements.
a The Current Cost Financial Statements for the Group are prepared under the Financial Capital Maintenance FCM convention in accordance with the principles set out in the handbook Accounting b Changes made in the Current Cost Financial Statements 2009 10 in relation to the presentation of for the effects of changing prices, published in 1986 by the Accounting Standards Committee.
the CCA revaluation adjustment in respect of duct as explained below.
These changes were not made for the year 2010 11.
Set out below is a summary of the treatment of the CCA adjustments within the Current Cost Financial Statements: c The prior year comparatives have been re-presented to reflect the following: Changes in fixed asset values are referred to as holding gains or losses arising during the year The removal of reporting obligations for certain SMP markets as explained in Section 4.2. and are attributed between all SMP Markets, Technical Areas, Components and Wholesale Certain presentational changes as detailed in Section 4.2.
Services on the same basis as the associated assets.
The one-off exception to this in 2009 10 was the treatment of the holding gain arising on duct described in the CCA Revaluation d The average debtor days have reduced from 43 days for 2009 10 to 33 days for 2010 11 due to Adjustment section below, which was attributed between SMP Markets and Technical Areas, but improved billing and collection procedures.
was excluded from Components and Wholesale Services see below.
e The daily averaging adjustment has been removed from the accounts to simplify the reporting.
The A supplementary depreciation adjustment on fixed assets arising from differences between adjustment converted the balance sheet investments borrowings from a mean into an average historic cost accounting HCA and current cost accounting CCA valuations is also attributed position.
The 2009 10 numbers have not been re-presented.
between the various Markets, Technical Areas, Components and Wholesale Services.
f BT has reviewed the methodology used to calculate the LRIC, DLRIC and DSAC of services published Other CCA adjustments e. g. one-off changes in valuations due to a revised methodology are in Sections 7 and 8 of the Current Cost Financial Statements.
included in the current cost valuations and are also attributed between all Markets, Technical Areas, Components and Wholesale Services on the same basis as the associated assets.
The The review determined that the methodology adopted for cost categories related to duct and exception to this in 2009 10 was the treatment of the other CCA adjustments arising on duct, local exchange concentrators and exceptionally and uniquely divided into two sub-cost which was attributed between SMP Markets and Technical Areas, but was excluded from categories, had resulted in an allocation of fixed and common costs that was both inconsistent Components and Wholesale Services.
with the approach adopted for all other cost categories and incompatible with underlying principles for the calculation of DLRIC and DSAC.
As a consequence, the LRIC, DLRIC and DSAC The inflation adjustment to ordinary shareholders funds is not relevant to the SMP Markets, for certain services had resulting inappropriate relationships with their fully allocated cost FAC.
Technical Areas and Wholesale Services for which Current Cost Financial Statements are 17 Section 4 - Basis of Preparation prepared.
In addition, no CCA adjustment has been made to the valuation of goodwill as this is showed a calculation of the return excluding the duct holding gain and related backlog also not relevant to the SMP Markets, Technical Areas and Wholesale Services.
depreciation to provide a more meaningful view of the underlying rate of return.
All service and component unit cost information shown in the notes to each Market Summary b The CCA valuation of assets is affected by external factors such as changes in market prices and and Appendices 1.1 to 1.3 for 2009 10 excluded this holding gain and related backlog changes to BTs CCA policies and practices.
For the year ended 31 March 2011, this resulted in a net depreciation.
increase in the operating costs in SMP Markets and Technical Areas in these Financial Statements of approximately 1,200m, which is mainly attributed to: These changes to the presentation for 2009 10 have not been applied to 2010 11.
The valuation of the duct assets having decreased due to a reduction in the contract prices and Regulatory Valuation of Copper-Based Local Access Network Assets estimated asset volumes arising from the use of sampled data.
The valuation of the copper access network assets having decreased following the use of In August 2005, Ofcom introduced an alternative methodology for determining its view of the current updated engineering job time estimates reflecting efficiency gains offset by increases to copper cost regulatory asset value of the copper-based local access network.
This methodology, which results prices.
in a lower valuation, is used only by Ofcom for regulatory purposes and is not reflected in the methodologies employed by BT in producing the Current Cost Financial Statements or required within The valuation of the fibre network having decreased following the use of updated engineering the asset values of BT Group plcs Annual Report.
job time estimates reflecting efficiency gains.
As agreed with Ofcom, the Ofcom methodologies have not been implemented in the Current Cost The valuation of 21 Century Network assets having decreased due to a reduction in technology Financial Statements for 2011 and therefore the value of copper assets has not been adjusted to costs.
Ofcoms assessed Regulatory Asset Valuation.
CCA Revaluation Adjustment In the Current Cost Financial Statements, BT revalues its assets under the Financial Capital Maintenance concept of Current Cost Accounting.
The approach to the valuation is set out in detail in the Detailed Valuation Methodology.
For assets valued on an absolute valuation basis the volumes of assets in use are multiplied by the current replacement cost.
In the case of duct and its associated structures manholes, joint boxes and cabinets the current replacement cost is based on the current contractual price which BT pays for the construction of these assets.
The contractual price is reduced by the application of a discount factor to reflect the efficiencies, including economies of scale, revisions in working practices and the effects of competitive tendering.
These efficiencies could be achieved if the duct network were being replaced as a whole over a reasonable period of time in order to reflect the scenario which would apply to a new market entrant.
In 2010 the discount factor was reduced from 45% to 14.5% following a review in the light of new information, resulting in a significant holding gain.
This is fully described in the 2010 Current Cost Financial Statements in Section 4.1.
The discount factor has been reviewed for 2011 and is unchanged at 14.5%.
In 2010, in accordance with the FCM concept, these CCA adjustments were included in the Consolidated Performance Summary, the Market Summary for each SMP market and the Reconciliation Statements.
These adjustments were shown in the last two columns and include the words excl.
e. g. Section 7.1 Financial Performance in Access Markets Annex 7 where the last two columns read Return excl.
h. However, BT agreed with Ofcom that for 2010: Alternative information would also be supplied the Consolidated Performance Summary, Attribution of Wholesale Current Costs and the Market Summary for each SMP market also 18 Section 4 - Basis of Preparation Deletion of the Roundings column relating to Revenue at a market summary level.
Section 4.2 - Other Aspects to the Basis of Preparation Annex 22 Section 4.2 Other Aspects of Basis of Preparation Annex 22 An improved presentation of BTs Reconciliation Statement for the Consolidated Group Income Statement.
1 Key changes as a result of certain regulatory decisions Prior year numbers have not been re-presented for: The notes below refer to key changes as a result of Ofcoms Statement Changes to BT and KCOMs regulatory and financial reporting 2010 11 update issued 2 June 2011 that impact the Current Cost Improvements to the format of Appendix 1.3 Annex 17.
Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2011.
Additionally, there has been a change to the format of the Price Control Statement to enable BT to better demonstrate compliance with price controls during the year.
Implementation of the Wholesale Broadband Access Market Review In December 2010, Ofcom published its Review of the Wholesale Broadband Access Markets.
The review concluded that BT holds a position of Significant Market Power SMP in Wholesale Broadband Access Markets 1&2 as defined in the review.
Ofcom also concluded that no operator holds a position of SMP in Market 3.
As a result Ofcom have imposed on BT cost orientation and accounting separation reporting obligations in Wholesale Broadband Access Markets 1&2.
SMPF and related upstream Openreach charges are incorporated into these markets on an Equivalence of Input EOI basis i. e. at tariff rates charged from Wholesale Residual rather than at cost.
BT has not restated the prior year results for the Wholesale Broadband Access Market.
Implementation of the Fixed Narrowband Wholesale Services Market Review On 15 September 2009, as a result of its review of the Fixed Narrowband Services Wholesale Market and a review of the Network Charge Controls, Ofcom concluded that SMP status should be removed from the Local-tandem conveyance and transit Market, and this is now part of Wholesale Residual.
The review also concluded that the Single transit Market is still subject to some SMP obligations, including the obligation not to unduly discriminate.
In assessing the level of financial reporting obligations, the review concluded that for the year ended 31 March 2011, cost accounting obligations would be removed but accounting separation obligations would remain.
As a result BT is no longer required to report any information for the Local-tandem conveyance and transit market.
The prior year results for this market and Wholesale Residual have been represented.
Improved disclosure of AISBO services Certain low revenue Backhaul Extension Services BES and Backhaul Network Services BNS have been amalgamated.
The prior year has not been re-presented.
Other changes to the presentation of the Current Cost Financial Statements A small number of presentational changes have been made to the form and content of the Financial Statements.
Prior year numbers have been re-presented for the following: Deletion of the Internal and External Sales columnar information at a service level.
19 Section 5 - Summary of Financial Performance Section 5 - Summary of Financial Performance Section 5 Summary of Financial Performance 20 Section 5 - Summary of Financial Performance Section 5.1 - Consolidated Performance Summary Annex 3 CCA CCA return operating before Return Supporting For the year ended 31 March 2011 h Revenue costs taxation MCE on MCE information m m m m % Markets Access Markets 4,703 3,947 756 12,439 6.1 % Section 7 Other Wholesale Markets 1,136 1,051 85 1,755 4.8 % Section 8 5,839 4,998 841 14,194 5.9 % Residual Activities Wholesale residual activities 3,083 3,189 106 1,875 5.7 % Retail residual activities 16,264 15,675 589 1,819 32.4 % 19,347 18,864 483 3,694 13.1 % Adjustments 0 1 1 0 n a Total Markets & Activities 25,186 23,861 1,325 17,888 7.4 % CCA return before Return taxation on MCE CCA CCA return excl.
Supporting Restated for the year ended 31 March 2010 h Revenue costs taxation MCE on MCE h adj.
23 Wholesale analogue exchange line services Wholesale ISDN2 exchange line services Wholesale business ISDN30 exchange line services TISBO up to and including 8Mbit s TISBO above 8Mbit s up to and including 45Mbit s TISBO above 45Mbit s up to and including 155Mbit s AISBO up to and including 1Gbit s Wholesale local access Total Access Markets Call origination on fixed public narrowband networks Single transit on fixed public narrowband networks Technical areas Interconnect Circuits Fixed call termination Wholesale trunk segments Technical areas Point of Handover Sub-total Other Wholesale & SMP National Markets Wholesale broadband access - Market 1 h Wholesale broadband access - Market 2 h Total Other Wholesale & SMP Markets Wholesale Residual h Total Markets Section 6 - Attribution of Wholesale Current Cost and Mean Capital Employed Section 6.1.
1 - Notes on Wholesale sector costs Other Costs Section 6.1.
1 - Notes on Wholesale sector costs Other Costs are dominated by payments to other UK communications providers, but also include The notes below are intended to provide a brief description of the sectors reported in the Attribution of payments to overseas administrations and internal product transfer charge costs.
The key drivers Wholesale Current Cost Statement and the key drivers of these sectors to aid the user of the Current Cost include the pence per minute charging of the other operators for BT traffic on their network.
Further details of these sectors can be found in the Detailed Attributions Methods which outlines in detail the key bases, descriptions and drivers of the network components.
Depreciation Provision Maintenance Depreciation is analysed between land and buildings, access, switch and transmission and other including network power, computers and software.
The key drivers are the surveys of BTs asset base Provision Maintenance includes costs of network provision, installation and maintenance.
The most that allocate the depreciation charge through classes of work on the basis of surveys and engineering material cost relates to D-side copper which is allocated on the basis of the number of lines.
models and direct mapping of BT classes of work to network components and then onto the appropriate service based on usage factors and actual service volumes.
Network Support Network Support contains costs of activities necessary to support the running of BTs network plant support costs such as group property.
The key drivers for the apportionment of network support costs include pay, the relative floor space occupied by fixed assets and the current cost replacement value of assets.
General Support General Support includes planning, development, supplies, transport, computing, customer service, personnel & administration, customer support and other general support costs.
The key drivers for the apportionment of General Support include pay costs and various activity surveys.
General Management General Management includes operator services, costs of general management activities and other general expenses.
The key drivers for the apportionment of General Management include analysis of call minutes for operator services, various activity surveys and pay costs.
Finance and Billing Finance and Billing includes costs associated with activities of a financial nature, such as budget building, management reporting, and billing and collection costs.
The key drivers for the apportionment of Finance and Billing include various activity surveys and pay costs.
Accommodation The Accommodation sector includes exchange and office building costs.
Accommodation costs are mainly apportioned based on the usage of floor space and different utilities.
Bad Debts Bad debts include costs associated with writing off amounts that cannot be collected from customers.
The key driver is revenue.
26 Wholesale analogue exchange line services Wholesale ISDN2 exchange line services Wholesale business ISDN30 exchange line services TISBO up to and including 8Mbit s TISBO above 8Mbit s up to and including 45Mbit s TISBO above 45Mbit s up to and including 155Mbit s AISBO up to and including 1Gbit s Wholesale local access Total Access Markets Call origination on fixed public narrowband networks Single transit on fixed public narrowband networks Technical areas Interconnect Circuits Fixed call termination Wholesale trunk segments Technical areas Point of Handover Sub-total Other Wholesale & SMP National Markets Wholesale broadband access - Market 1 h Wholesale broadband access - Market 2 h Total Other Wholesale & SMP Markets h Wholesale Residual h Total Markets Section 6 - Attribution of Wholesale Current Cost and Mean Capital Employed Section 6.3.
1 - Notes on Wholesale MCE sector costs Transmission Section 6.3.
1 - Notes on Wholesale MCE sector costs This sector contains the asset values for transmission.
Transmission includes Core Transmission The notes below are intended to provide a brief description of the Fixed Asset sectors and Working Synchronous Digital Hierarchy SDH, Plesiochronous Digital Hierarchy PDH, Asynchronous Transfer Capital reported in the Attribution of Wholesale Current Cost Mean Capital Employed statement and the Mode ATM, Cables and Repeaters.
The Core Transmission is used to link exchanges.
The key drivers are key drivers of the sector to aid the user of the Financial Statements.
Further details of these sectors can the surveys of BTs asset base that allocate the depreciation charge through classes of work on the basis be found in the Detailed Attribution Methods which outlines in detail the key bases, descriptions and of surveys, engineering models and direct mapping of COW to network components and then onto the drivers of the network components.
appropriate service based on usage factors and actual service volumes.
Land & Buildings Other This sector contains the asset values that are booked to BT Classes of Work for land and buildings, This sector contains the asset values for a range of assets used by BT Businesses including categories including freehold, long leases and short leases.
The sector includes corporate offices, and network such as Software, Motor Transport and 21CN.
The key drivers are the surveys of BTs asset base that buildings owned by BT.
Asset values are mainly apportioned based on the usage of floor space and the allocate the depreciation charge through classes of work on the basis of surveys, engineering models usage of the different utilities.
and direct mapping of COW to network components and then onto the appropriate service based on usage factors and actual service volumes.
Access - Copper This sector contains the asset values for access copper all the copper cables in the access network and Working Capital all other necessary equipment required to carry signals between the user and the exchange.
This is split The figures for debtors and creditors include an approximation of the internal notional debtors and into Main and Distribution Copper.
The key drivers are the surveys of BTs asset base that allocate creditors that would be incurred if trades between BTs lines of business were undertaken to a third the depreciation charge through classes of work on the basis of surveys, engineering models and direct party and at arms length.
They are based upon the average trading terms of BT Groups external trades.
mapping of COW to network components and then onto the appropriate service based on usage factors External debtors reflect BTs external debts being allocated to services and products.
Access - Fibre This sector contains the asset values for access fibre.
The key drivers are the surveys of BTs asset base that allocate the depreciation charge through classes of work on the basis of surveys, engineering models and direct mapping of COW to network components and then onto the appropriate service based on usage factors and actual service volumes.
Access - Duct This sector contains the asset values for duct.
Duct is a pipe, tube or conduit through which underground cables are passed.
Switch This sector contains the asset values for switching equipment.
This equipment is located in BT exchanges.
The key drivers are the surveys of BTs asset base that allocate the depreciation charge through classes of work on the basis of surveys and engineering models and direct mapping of COW to network component and then onto the appropriate service based on usage factors and actual service volumes.
28 Wholesale analogue exchange line services Wholesale ISDN2 exchange line services Wholesale business ISDN30 exchange line services TISBO up to and including 8Mbit s TISBO above 8Mbit s up to and including 45Mbit s TISBO above 45Mbit s up to and including 155Mbit s h AISBO up to and including 1Gbit s Wholesale local access Total Access Markets h Call origination on fixed public narrowband networks Single transit on fixed public narrowband networks Technical areas Interconnect Circuits Fixed call termination Wholesale trunk segments Technical areas Point of Handover Sub-total Other Wholesale & SMP National Markets Wholesale broadband access market 1 - BT only operator Wholesale broadband access market 2 - 2 to 3 principal operators Wholesale broadband access market 3 4 or more principle operators and non geographic Sub-total Other Wholesale & SMP Geographic Markets h Total Other Wholesale & SMP Markets Wholesale Residual h Total Markets Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7 Review of Access Markets 29 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7.1 - Financial Performance in Access Markets Annex 7 Total CCA Mean Internal External Total CCA Operating Capital Return on For the year ended 31 March 2011 Revenue Revenue Revenue HCA Costs Adjustments Roundings Costs Return Employed MCE m m m m m m m m m % Wholesale analogue exchange line services 1,708 570 2,278 1,488 565 0 2,053 225 7,713 2.9 % Wholesale ISDN2 exchange line services 75 59 134 68 17 0 85 49 260 18.8 % Wholesale business ISDN30 exchange line services 195 124 319 116 18 0 134 185 274 67.1 % TISBO up to and including 8Mbit s 335 337 672 461 65 0 526 146 1,069 13.7 % TISBO above 8Mbit s up to and including 45Mbit s 29 13 42 37 7 0 44 2 97 1.9 % TISBO above 45Mbit s up to and including 155Mbit s 43 25 68 35 4 0 39 29 92 30.8 % AISBO up to and including 1Gbit s 317 237 554 388 108 0 496 58 1,301 4.5 % Wholesale local access 0 636 636 474 96 0 570 66 1,633 4.1 % Total Access Markets 2,702 2,001 4,703 3,067 880 0 3,947 756 12,439 6.1 % Return ROCE Total CCA Mean excl.
Internal External Total CCA Operating Capital Return on reval.
Restated for the year ended 31 March 2010 h Revenue Revenue Revenue HCA Costs Adjustments Roundings Costs Return Employed MCE adj.
30 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7.2 - Access Markets Review Annex 10 & 14 Section 7.2.
1 - Access Markets Group Level Review Annex 10 Section 7.2.
1 - Access Markets Group Level Review Annex 10 Overall in the WLR Access markets, the reduction in copper lines has continued primarily due to continuing migrations to MPF.
LLU operators have continued to expand their points of presence PoPs and to migrate significant numbers of lines previously using WLR and SMPF to full MPF.
Although the MPF price is lower than SMPF and WLR, the one-off migration revenues and PoP revenues has more than offset this, with revenue increasing year on year by 37m 1%.
Overall returns in TISBO markets have increased whereas returns in the Wholesale trunk segments Market have decreased.
This is due to the price adjustments made following the Leased Lines Charge Control and further price changes in these markets in October 2010 and January 2011.
In addition, during the year, BT reviewed and improved the data used to calculate the internal volumes of PPC internal links resulting in decreased volumes of 64Kbit s and 140Mbit s internal links.
As the impact on the TISBO above 45Mit s up to and including 155Mbit s Market was significant, prior year comparatives have been restated to reflect this corrected data.
This has resulted in a lower ROCE on the TISBO above 45Mbit s up to and including 155Mbit s Market but has had an immaterial impact on the TISBO up to and including 8Mbit s Market.
The Alternative Interface Symmetric Broadband Origination AISBO Market has continued to show growth due to the increased demand from mobile operators and a general migration from older technologies including the products within the TISBO Market.
Revenues have grown year on year by 65m 13% due to the volume growth offsetting the full year impact of the price reductions made in January 2010.
Access Markets Openreach Level Review A calculation of the return for all Openreach markets has been performed and is described as part of the Openreach Notes in Section 10.7.
This explains the return before and after adjusting for a number of significant items.
31 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7.2.
2 - Access Market Level Financial Review Annex 14 Key Regulatory Changes Section 7.2.
2 - Access Market Level Financial Review Annex 14 There has been no change to the prevailing regulatory regime for ISDN2 in 2010 11.
The existing Market: Wholesale Analogue Exchange Line Services regime is outlined in the Wholesale Fixed Narrowband Market Review published by Ofcom in September 2009.
Definition Key Market Changes The links between an end user and the remote concentrator unit by means of analogue technology.
ISDN2 rental and connection volumes have continued to decline as customers migrate to cheaper An analogue exchange line provides a single 64Kbit s channel, designed originally to support voice alternative technologies that can provide greater bandwidth such as DSL based broadband and ever traffic, but also capable of supporting data modems with bandwidths of up to 56Kbit s, DSL Services, increasing availability of NGA Next Generation Access broadband services.
These are the most common types of exchange lines.
Key Regulatory Changes Market: Wholesale Business ISDN30 Exchange Line Services Ofcom published its review of wholesale fixed analogue exchange lines markets on 20 December 2010 which updated its review from 15 September 2009.
This review continued to find that there are no Definition longer two separate markets for Residential and Business analogue exchange line services, rather there is a single market for wholesale analogue exchange line services.
The links between a business end user and the remote concentrator unit by means of ISDN30 technology.
Ofcom also published two statements setting the Wholesale Line Rental WLR Charge Controls on 26 October 2009 and 23 February 2010.
These statements set out the charge controls for WLR analogue Digital ISDN30 exchange lines are primary rate ISDN lines, which provide a means to deploy a wide services for the period 23 November 2009 to 31March 2011.
Given the change in market definition in range of digital services over a 2Mbit s bearer.
A single ISDN30 line supports thirty 64Kbit s channels 2009, Ofcom set a single charge control that applies only to a new core WLR product rather than setting for voice and data calls, plus a 64Kbit s channel for signalling.
ISDN30 lines are used only by business separate controls for residential and business lines.
The cost orientation obligation was also removed customers, and always in conjunction with a business PBX Private Branch Exchange.
for service levels beyond the WLR Core rental product.
All price changes for 2010 11 were implemented on 1 April 2010 in line with the price controls.
Key Regulatory Changes Ofcom is currently consulting on revised charge controls for WLR for the period ending 31 March 2014.
On 20 August 2010, Ofcom published its market review statement for wholesale and retail ISDN30 A final statement is expected in Quarter 3 2011 12. services.
In this, Ofcom concluded that Openreach continues to have Significant Market Power SMP in the provision of wholesale ISDN30 services.
A number of general remedies were imposed in the Key Market Changes market review, including the requirement to supply services and the requirement to provide services on the basis of no undue discrimination.
Ofcom imposed price caps on key ISDN30 services at the The volume of WLR PSTN lines continued to decline in 2010 11 for a number of reasons: prevailing price.
Ofcom also concluded that the introduction of a price control for wholesale ISDN30 External CPs TalkTalk and Sky in particular migrating their end users from WLR with SMPF to services may be appropriate.
MPF, coupled with expansions of their base of Points of Presence PoPs CP equipment in BT Ofcom is currently consulting on the appropriate price control for ISDN30 for the period ending 31 exchanges.
Churn of end users from CPs using WLR to CPs using MPF.
Key Market Changes ISDN30 rental volumes have declined as customers migrate to alternative cheaper technologies such as Market: Wholesale ISDN2 Exchange Line Services the SIP Session Initiation Protocol Trunking product.
Definition The links between an end user and the remote concentrator unit by means of ISDN2 technology.
Digital ISDN2 exchange lines are basic rate ISDN lines, which provide a means to deploy a wide range of digital services over a standard local loop.
A single ISDN2 line supports two 64Kbit s channels for voice and data calls, plus a 16Kbit s channel for signalling.
32 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets direction on 20 September 2010 directing the controlling percentage for the TI basket to be amended Market: Traditional Interface Symmetric Broadband Origination up to and to RPI-1.75% from 1 October 2010.
including 8Mbit s Definition Basket & services Value of X Sub Caps Traditional Interface Symmetric Broadband Origination TISBO services include: TI Basket RPI-3.25% up RPI - 0% sub-cap on sub-basket of to 30 Sept TISBO terminating segments.
TI - Low bandwidth connection 2010 : RPIand rental.
RPI 5% sub-cap on each charge Radio base station RBS backhaul including the Core Conveyance element.
Oct 2010 Local Loop Unbundling LLU backhaul which consists of LLU backhaul trunk and LLU backhaul link.
LLU backhaul links are regarded as a symmetric broadband origination service and should RPI 0% sub-cap on each charge therefore be included within the TISBO or AISBO markets, depending on the technology in use POH charges only.
bandwidth considerations being taken into account in the case of the Synchronous Digital POC end and third party end RPI-0% No charge can increase more than Hierarchy SDH technology.
Netstream 16 Long Line including the Core Conveyance element.
All relevant ancillary services used RPI-0% None.
Ofcom also views SDSL as a symmetric broadband origination service and it is therefore included within in the provision of TI services in the TISBO market.
Ofcom has concluded that BT has SMP in the low bandwidth across the UK, in high bandwidth and very high bandwidth TISBO markets outside Central and East London Area CELA as well as in the Trunk market at all bandwidths.
Consequently, it has imposed regulation on all relevant circuits and technical These controls run from 1 October 2009 to 30 September 2012.
The values of X in the charge control areas that fall within these markets, including RBS backhaul circuits.
apply to BTs prices after these adjustments have been made.
Key Regulatory Changes Key Market Changes On 8 December 2008, Ofcom published its Final Statement on the Business Connectivity Market For PPCs there continues to be migration of external customers from 64Kbit s circuits to 2Mbit s Review.
Ofcom found that BT continue to have SMP in the low bandwidth TISBO market.
In addition, the demand for Time Division Multiplexing TDM circuits has started to decline as customers migrate to 21CN services.
Ofcom increased regulation in the trunk market by imposing a charge control and requiring prices to be notified at 90 days.
In addition, Ofcom changed the definition of trunk segments from one based on Price changes in the market took place in October 2010 and again in January 2011 to enable links between two BT SDH Tier 1 nodes to one based on routes between defined major urban areas and compliance with the charge control Statement and obligations.
imposed additional Service Level Agreement Service Level Guarantee requirements from December 2008.
BT is seeing growth of bandwidth from mobile customers to enable them to use new mass market mobile broadband services, music downloads, other bandwidth-hungry applications and mobile TV.
Following a separate Consultation, Ofcom published its Statement on the Leased Lines Charge Control on 2 July 2009, imposing a RPI X% charge control on low bandwidth TISBO services as a remedy to its finding of SMP for BT.
Note that there is a single overall TI basket comprising connection and rental for low bandwidth, high bandwidth and very high bandwidth TISBO services as well as rental for Trunk Market: Traditional Interface Symmetric Broadband Origination above 8Mbit s services.
up to and including 45Mbit s In addition, Ofcom determined starting charges for terminating and trunk segments and required the introduction of separate Point of Handover rental charges to replace the current local end uplift factor Definition included in the rental price of external local ends.
To balance the introduction of the new separate Point Traditional Interface Symmetric Broadband Origination TISBO services include: of Handover charges, Ofcom required a corresponding reduction to external local end prices.
On 2 September 2009, Cable & Wireless lodged an appeal with the Competition Appeal Tribunal contesting certain parts of Ofcoms Leased Line Charge Control Statement.
The Tribunal issued a Local Loop Unbundling LLU backhaul which consists of LLU backhaul trunk and LLU backhaul link.
LLU backhaul links are regarded as a symmetric broadband origination service and should 33 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets therefore be included within the TISBO or AISBO markets, depending on the technology in use - bandwidth considerations being taken into account in the case of the SDH technology.
Basket Value of X Sub Caps Netstream 16 Long Line including the Core Conveyance element.
TI Basket RPI-3.25% RPI - 0% sub-cap on sub-basket of Ofcom also views SDSL as a symmetric broadband origination service and it is therefore included within up to 30 TISBO terminating segments.
TI-High bandwidth connection the TISBO market.
Sept 2010 : and rental outside CELA.
RPI 5% sub-cap on each charge RPI-1.75% Ofcom has concluded that BT has SMP in the low, high and very high bandwidth TISBO markets outside excluding POH charges.
from 1 Oct CELA as well as in the Trunk market at all bandwidths.
Consequently, it has imposed regulation on all 2010 RPI 0% sub-cap on each charge relevant circuits and technical areas that fall within these markets, including RBS backhaul circuits.
Key Regulatory Changes POC end and third party end RPI-0% No charge can increase more than equipment charges.
In December 2008 Ofcom published its Final Statement on the Business Connectivity Market Review.
Ofcom found that BT continue to have SMP in the high bandwidth TISBO market but only outside All relevant ancillary services used RPI-0% None.
CELA as well as in the market for trunk segments at all bandwidths.
in the provision of TI services in scope of the TI Basket.
In addition, Ofcom changed the definition of trunk segments from one based on links between two BT SDH Tier 1 nodes to one based on routes between defined major urban areas and imposed additional Service Level Agreement Service Level Guarantee requirements from December These controls run from 1 October 2009 to 30 September 2012.
The values of X in the charge control 2008. apply to BTs prices after these adjustments have been made.
Following a separate Consultation, Ofcom published its Statement on the Leased Lines Charge Control Key Market Changes on 2 July 2009, imposing a RPI X% charge control on high bandwidth TISBO services as a remedy to its finding of SMP for BT.
Note that there is a single overall TI basket comprising connection and rental Despite some PPC migration from the lower bandwidth market, significant competition has affected for low bandwidth, high bandwidth and very high bandwidth TISBO services as well as rental for Trunk this market resulting in falling volumes and revenue.
In addition customers are looking for 21CN services.
In addition, Ofcom determined starting charges for terminating and trunk segments and required the There were price changes in this market in October 2010 and January 2011 to meet the charge control introduction of separate Point of Handover rental charges to replace the current local end uplift factor included in the rental price of external local ends.
To balance the introduction of the new separate Point obligations.
of Handover charges, Ofcom required a corresponding reduction to external local end prices.
On 2 September 2009, Cable & Wireless lodged an appeal with the Competition Appeal Tribunal Market: Traditional Interface Symmetric Broadband Origination above 45Mbit s contesting certain parts of Ofcoms Leased Line Charge Control Statement.
The Tribunal issued a direction on 20 September 2010 directing the controlling percentage for the TI basket to be amended up to and including 155Mbit s to RPI-1.75% from 1 October 2010.
Definition Traditional Interface Symmetric Broadband Origination TISBO services include: Wholesale terminating segments.
Local Loop Unbundling LLU backhaul which consists of LLU backhaul trunk and LLU backhaul link.
LLU backhaul links are regarded as a symmetric broadband origination service and should therefore be included within the TISBO or AISBO markets, depending on the technology in use - bandwidth considerations being taken into account in the case of the SDH technology.
34 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Ofcom also views SDSL as a symmetric broadband origination service and it is therefore included within the TISBO market.
Basket Value of X Sub Caps Ofcom has concluded that BT has SMP in the low, high and very high bandwidth TISBO markets outside TI Basket RPI-3.25% RPI 0% sub-cap on sub-basket of CELA as well as in the Trunk market at all bandwidths.
Consequently, it has imposed regulation on all up to 30 TISBO terminating segments.
relevant circuits and technical areas that fall within these markets, including RBS backhaul circuits.
Very high bandwidth connection Sept 2010 : and rental outside CELA.
RPI 5% sub-cap on each charge RPI-1.75% Key Regulatory Changes excluding POH charges.
from 1 Oct 2010 In December 2008, Ofcom published its Final Statement on the Business Connectivity Market Review.
RPI 0% sub-cap on each charge Ofcom found BT continue to have SMP in the very high bandwidth TISBO market but only outside POH charges only.
POC end and third party end RPI-0% No charge can increase more than 5% Ofcom increased regulation in the trunk market by imposing a charge control and requiring prices to be equipment charges.
In addition, Ofcom changed the definition of trunk segments from one based on All relevant ancillary services used RPI-0% None.
links between two BT SDH Tier 1 nodes to one based on routes between defined major urban areas and in the provision of TI services in imposed additional Service Level Agreement Service Level Guarantee requirements from December scope of the TI Basket.
Following a separate Consultation, Ofcom published its Statement on the Leased Lines Charge Control on 2 July 2009, imposing a RPI X% charge control on very high bandwidth TISBO services as a remedy These controls run from 1 October 2009 to 30 September 2012.
The values of X in the charge control to its finding of SMP for BT.
Note that there is a single overall TI basket comprising connection and apply to BTs prices after these adjustments have been made.
rental for low bandwidth, high bandwidth and very high bandwidth TISBO services as well as rental for Trunk services.
Key Market Changes In addition, Ofcom determined starting charges for terminating and trunk segments and required the There were price changes in this market in October 2010 and January 2011 to meet the charge control introduction of separate Point of Handover rental charges to replace the current local end uplift factor obligations.
included in the rental price of external local ends.
To balance the introduction of the new separate Point of Handover charges, Ofcom required a corresponding reduction to external local end prices.
The numbers for 2009 10 have been restated as described in Section 4.1.
On 2 September 2009, Cable & Wireless lodged an appeal with the Competition Appeal Tribunal Netstream 16 Longline is available to customers at the bandwidth enabling mobile customers to use contesting certain parts of Ofcoms Leased Line Charge Control Statement.
The Tribunal issued a mobile broadband services, music downloads, other bandwidth hungry applications and mobile T. V. direction on 20 September 2010 directing the controlling percentage for the TI basket to be amended to RPI-1.75% from 1 October 2010.
Market: Alternative Interface Symmetric Broadband Origination up to and including 1Gbit s Definition Alternative Interface Symmetric Broadband Origination AISBO services include: Wholesale Extension Services WES Backhaul Extension Services BES Backhaul Network Services BNS Openreach Network Backhaul Services ONBS Ethernet Backhaul Direct EBD Ethernet Access Direct EAD 35 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Ofcom concluded in the Business Connectivity Market Review published in December 2008 that BT has Access VULA and Physical Infrastructure Access PIA.
Ofcom regards these new wholesale remedies SMP in the wholesale AISBO market UK excluding Hull and, as such, it is appropriate that regulation as appropriate in order to promote competition downstream in the evolving NGA space.
VULA allows be imposed on all bandwidths that fall within this market.
"These products are covered by the CPs equivalent access to BT's NGA network by purchasing Generic Ethernet Access GEA a ""virtually Undertakings obligations and as such will be managed out of Openreach."
"unbundled"" product, and PIA enables CPs to build their own NGA networks by sharing BTs duct and pole infrastructure to lay their own fibre."
Key Regulatory Changes Key Regulatory Changes WES WEES and BES are specifically covered by the Undertakings, and as such are managed out of Ofcom concluded its Financial Framework Review and published the statement A new pricing Openreach.
BNS, ONBS, EAD and EBD are products which have been developed since the Undertakings framework for Openreach on 22 May 2009 which set price controls for the period 22 May 2009 to 31 were agreed but are also covered by these obligations and must also be managed out of Openreach.
The price control applied to new connection, rental, cease and transfer charges as well as these products, with the exception of AISBO circuits above 1Gbit s, fall within a currently regulated MPF and SMPF ancillary services and Co-Mingling services.
All price changes for 2010 11 were market and continue to be subject to a cost orientation pricing regime as specified by the relevant implemented on 1 April 2010 in line with the price control: the MPF and SMPF annual rental charges Significant Market Power SMP conditions in the Business Connectivity Market Review BCMR as well as the MPF new provide charge were subsequently modified in October 2010 following the published 8 December 2008.
Ofcom will be reviewing the Business Connectivity Market during 2011 conclusion of the Carphone Warehouse Groups appeal to the Competition Appeal Tribunal against 12.
Ofcom published the Leased line Charge Control statement on 3 July 2009 in which they introduced Ofcom is currently consulting on revised charge controls for LLU for the period ending 31 March 2014.
RPI-7% charge controls for low bandwidth AISBO services.
These controls are effective to 30 A final statement is expected in Quarter 3 2011 12.
Key Market Changes Key Market Changes There has been further growth in LLU over the last 12 months: The access element of this market, made up of WES and EAD products, has shown strong growth.
The main drivers of growth were mobile and fixed operators requirements to migrate from TDM products, The volumes of CP PoPs continues to grow rapidly with the number of new LLU room builds increasing and growing demand for high speed Ethernet connectivity from corporate and CPs.
Connection prices year-on-year for the second consecutive year.
for WES and EAD 10Mbit s and 100Mbit s were reduced from May to September 2010 as part of an offer in response to the Leased Line Charge Control Statement LLCC issued by Ofcom.
A five year term The MPF rental base increased as external CPs such as TalkTalk and Sky continue to migrate end users reduced rental price was launched for EAD 1Gbit s in December 2010.
BES 100 rental prices reduced from WLR and SMPF to MPF utilising these newly built PoPs.
The introduction of the MPF re-use product has led to cheaper end user acquisition for CPs which has Overall volumes for backhaul products have increased steadily over the year with increases in both EBD stimulated greater churn in the market.
Most MPF and SMPF prices increased slightly on 1 April 2010.
However, both MPF and SMPF rental prices were subsequently reduced in mid October 2010 following a ruling from the Competition Appeals Tribunal.
"Market: Wholesale Local Access Definition Ofcom determined in December 2004, and again in October 2010, that BT has significant market power SMP in the market for ""wholesale local access in the UK excluding the Hull Area""."
Local Access can be defined as those network components that comprise and constitute metallic typically copper local loop access networks, 'cable' access networks or fibre-based local access networks between enduser premises and the facility at which those access networks connect to other communications infrastructure.
In practice, this is generally a Main Distribution Frame for a metallic loop access network, a cable head-end for a 'cable' access network or an Optical Distribution Frame for a fibrebased local access network.
As a result of the finding that BT had SMP in the WLA market Ofcom imposed a variety of different access remedies.
These included maintaining the existing remedies of Local Loop Unbundling LLU and Sub-Loop Unbundling SLU, but also introducing two new remedies known as Virtual Unbundled Local 36 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7.3 - Wholesale analogue exchange line services Annex 11 Market summary Purpose of statement: to provide more detail on financial performance and first order tests of compliance with cost orientation and non-discrimination ob bligations Wholesale analogue exchange line services Summary Return Return on Total CCA Return excl.
Internal External Operating Holding Revenue operating on reval.
Revenue Revenue note 1 costs Depreciation gain loss Supp.
Roundings costs Return MCE MCE adjs.
h m m m m m m m m m m m m m 2011 1,708 570 2,278 897 591 62 212 415 - 2,053 225 7,713 2.9 % 2010 1,857 563 2,420 1,128 670 2,357 185 532 - 158 2,262 7,937 28.5 % 1,105 13.9 % Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Non-discrimination Cost orientation Average FAC see Unaudited Unaudited Average Revenue Volume Unit b price App 1.2 D LRIC DSAC price FAC m For the year ended 31 March 2011 Service Wholesale basic analogue internal service rentals 1,270 12,250,928 lines 103.68 132.14 64.01 168.51 0.78 Wholesale basic analogue external service rentals 324 3,127,373 lines 103.68 132.10 63.99 168.46 0.78 15,378,301 Wholesale premium analogue internal service rentals 384 3,487,124 lines 110.00 132.91 64.31 169.30 0.83 Wholesale premium analogue external service rentals 201 1,826,284 lines 64.31 169.30 110.00 132.91 0.83 5,313,408 Wholesale basic analogue internal service connections 31 555,669 conns 38.03 71.05 55.74 40.86 1.36 Wholesale premium analogue internal service connections 18 330,002 conns 55.74 40.86 38.03 71.05 1.36 Wholesale premium analogue external service connections 41 739,455 conns 55.74 40.86 38.03 71.05 1.36 1,069,456 Wholesale premium analogue internal service takeovers 5 1,521,075 tover 3.09 9.40 8.40 29.36 0.33 Wholesale premium analogue external service transfers 4 1,389,783 transfer 3.09 9.73 8.71 29.78 0.32 2,910,858 Roundings - TOTAL 2,278 37 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7.3 - Wholesale analogue exchange line services continued Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Non-discrimination Cost orientation Average FAC see Unaudited Unaudited Average Revenue Volume Unit b price App 1.2 D LRIC DSAC price FAC m Restated for the year ended 31 March 2010 h Service Wholesale basic analogue internal service rentals 1,382 13,728,813 lines 100.68 90.37 55.72 116.63 1.11 Wholesale basic analogue external service rentals 320 3,176,807 lines 100.68 90.28 55.64 116.52 1.12 16,905,620 Wholesale premium analogue internal service rentals 397 3,609,219 lines 110.00 87.90 54.64 113.41 1.25 Wholesale premium analogue external service rentals 185 1,684,192 lines 110.00 87.90 54.64 113.41 1.25 5,293,411 Wholesale basic analogue internal service connections 42 562,789 conns 39.33 61.72 73.94 43.24 1.71 Wholesale premium analogue internal service connections 30 408,693 conns 72.94 43.23 39.33 61.69 1.69 Wholesale premium analogue external service connections 53 717,579 conns 39.33 61.69 73.71 43.23 1.70 1,126,272 Wholesale premium analogue internal service takeovers 6 2,594,413 tover 9.76 23.78 2.22 11.42 0.19 Wholesale premium analogue external service transfers 5 2,162,809 transfer 2.27 11.77 10.09 24.28 0.19 4,757,222 Roundings - TOTAL 2,420 b See glossary for volume unit descriptors.
h See Section 4 - Basis of Preparation.
38 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7.4 - Wholesale ISDN2 exchange line services Annex 11 Market summary Purpose of statement: to provide more detail on financial performance and first order tests of compliance with cost orientation and non-discrimination ob bligations Wholesale ISDN2 exchange line services Summary Return Return on Total CCA Return excl.
h m m m m m m m m m m m m m 2011 75 59 134 43 25 2 514 - 85 49 260 18.8 % 2010 92 59 151 53 30 65 416 - 38 113 268 41.7 % 79 29.6 % Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Non-discrimination Cost orientation Average FAC see Unaudited Unaudited Average Revenue Volume Unit b price App 1.2 D LRIC DSAC price FAC m For the year ended 31 March 2011 Service Wholesale business ISDN2 internal service rentals 70 640,549 channels 110.00 95.52 55.52 132.07 1.15 Wholesale business ISDN2 external service rentals 55 501,191 channels 110.00 94.39 54.74 130.62 1.17 1,141,741 Wholesale business ISDN2 internal service connections 5 42,026 channels 116.49 27.57 25.62 56.97 4.23 Wholesale business ISDN2 external service connections 3 24,186 channels 25.55 54.39 116.49 27.48 4.24 66,212 Wholesale business ISDN2 internal service takovers 0 10,026 channels 8.04 28.29 5.65 8.88 0.64 Wholesale business ISDN2 external service transfers 1 93,297 channels 5.65 8.89 8.04 28.33 0.64 103,323 Roundings - TOTAL 134 39 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7.4 - Wholesale ISDN2 exchange line services continued Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Non-discrimination Cost orientation Average FAC see Unaudited Unaudited Average Revenue Volume Unit b price App 1.2 D LRIC DSAC price FAC m Restated for the year ended 31 March 2010 h Service Wholesale ISDN2 internal service rentals 86 783,623 channels 49.49 111.49 110.00 71.01 1.55 Wholesale ISDN2 external service rentals 51 461,968 channels 110.00 70.99 49.47 111.45 1.55 1,245,591 Wholesale ISDN2 internal service connections 7 56,587 channels 116.49 49.85 44.52 427.82 2.34 Wholesale ISDN2 external service connections 7 56,452 channels 116.49 67.93 60.12 306.22 1.71 113,039 Wholesale ISDN2 internal service takovers 0 11,301 channels 5.65 18.43 16.26 42.88 0.31 Wholesale ISDN2 external service transfers 1 112,056 channels 5.65 18.42 16.26 42.87 0.31 123,357 Roundings 1 TOTAL 151 b See glossary for volume unit descriptors.
40 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7.5 - Wholesale business ISDN30 exchange line services Annex 12 Market summary Purpose of statement: to provide more detail on financial performance and first order tests of compliance with cost orientation and non-discrimination obligations Wholesale business ISDN30 exchange line services Summary Return Return on Total CCA Return excl.
Internal External Revenue Operating Holding operating on reval.
h m m m m m m m m m m m m m 2011 195 124 319 72 44 1 - 17 - 134 185 274 67.1 % 2010 217 103 320 80 52 40 - 18 - 110 210 302 69.7 % 187 62.1 % Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Non-discrimination Average Revenue Volume Unit b price m For the year ended 31 March 2011 Service Wholesale business ISDN30 internal service connections 5 5 133,630 channels 40.71 Wholesale business ISDN30 external service connections 4 4 92,395 channels 40.71 226,025 Wholesale business ISDN30 internal service rentals 189 189 1, 337,665 channels 141.00 Wholesale business ISDN30 external service rentals 119 119 843,990 channels 141.00 2, 181,655 Wholesale business ISDN30 internal service takeovers 0 09 6,595 channels 4.36 Wholesale business ISDN30 external service transfer 1 1 223,638 channels 4.36 416,104 Roundings 1 - 1 TOTAL 195 124 319 Represented for the year ended 31 March 2010 h Service Wholesale business ISDN30 internal service connections 5 112,003 channels 40.71 Wholesale business ISDN30 external service connections 4 88,882 channels 40.71 200,885 Wholesale business ISDN30 internal service rentals 212 1,504,990 channels 141.00 Wholesale business ISDN30 external service rentals 98 697,521 channels 141.00 2, 202,511 Wholesale business ISDN30 internal service takeovers 0 100,764 channels 4.36 Wholesale business ISDN30 external service transfer 1 219,489 channels 4.36 320,253 Roundings - TOTAL 320 b See glossary for volume unit descriptors.
41 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7.6 - TISBO up to and including 8Mbit s Annex 11 Market summary Purpose of statement: to provide more detail on financial performance and first order tests of compliance with cost orientation and non-discrimination obligations s Traditional interface symmetric broadband origination up to and including 8Mbit s Summary Return Return on Total CCA Return excl.
h m m m m m m m m m m m m m 2011 335 337 284 177 10 2 57 - 1,069 672 526 146 13.7 % 2010 338 316 654 350 198 218 8 89 - 411 243 1,227 19.8 % 108 8.8 % Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Non-discrim mination Cost orientation Average Proportion price per included in FAC see Unaudited Unaudited Average Revenue Volume Unit b price list calculation Average price App 1.2 D LRIC DSAC price FAC m For the year ended 31 March 2011 Service Internal Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - connection - 07 69 circuits 525.06 1,663.04 1,560.18 3,244.29 0.32 External Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - connection - 0460circuits 525.06 1,663.04 1,560.18 3,244.29 0.32 1,229 Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - link Main link fixed charge per year 135.03 1.00 135.03 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 84.90 0.21 18.17 Total Internal 24.00 24 15 8,540 links 153.20 170.57 155.29 266.76 0.90 Main link fixed charge per year 135.03 1.22 164.41 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 84.90 0.21 18.17 Total External 11.00 11 57,932 links 182.58 170.57 155.29 266.76 1.07 Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - distribution Terminating segment charge per year 1.91 1.00 1.91 Enhanced maintenance per kilometre charge per year 0.02 1.00 0.02 Total Internal 4.00 4 2,304,126 km 1.93 6.06 2.76 17.42 0.32 Terminating segment charge per year 1.91 1.00 1.91 Enhanced maintenance per kilometre charge per year 0.02 1.00 0.02 Total External 2.00 2 1,123,103 km 1.93 6.06 2.76 17.42 0.32 Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - trunk Trunk segment charge per year 3.39 1.00 3.39 Enhanced maintenance per kilometre charge per year 0.02 1.00 0.02 Total Internal 7.00 7 1,919,752 km 3.41 6.17 2.86 17.69 0.55 Trunk segment charge per year 3.39 1.00 3.39 Enhanced maintenance per kilometre charge per year 0.02 1.00 0.02 Total External 3.00 3 9 35,748 km 3.41 6.17 2.86 17.69 0.55 Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - local end Local end fixed charge per year 496.01 1.00 496.01 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 84.90 0.79 66.73 Total Internal 52.00 52 93,083 le 562.74 356.60 269.08 558.21 1.58 Local end fixed charge per year 496.01 1.00 496.01 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 84.90 0.79 66.73 Total External 8.00 8 13,934 le 562.74 356.60 269.08 558.21 1.58 42 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7.6 - TISBO up to and including 8Mbit s continued Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Non-discrim mination Cost orientation Average Proportion price per included in FAC see Unaudited Unaudited Average Revenue Volume Unit b price list calculation Average price App 1.2 D LRIC DSAC price FAC m For the year ended 31 March 2011 Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - connection Internal Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - connection 11.00 11 6,242 circuits 1.00 1,780.22 1,717.79 1,632.55 3,266.79 1.04 External Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - connection 13.00 13 7,360 circuits 1.00 1,780.22 1,717.79 1,632.55 3,266.79 1.04 13,602 Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - link Main link fixed charge per year 442.27 1.00 442.27 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 143.60 0.42 60.99 Total internal 36.00 36 72,374 links 503.26 259.18 206.61 412.70 1.94 Main link fixed charge per year 442.27 1.00 442.27 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 143.60 0.42 60.53 Total External 28.00 28 55,343 links 502.80 259.18 206.61 412.70 1.94 Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - distribution Terminating segment charge per year 49.41 1.00 49.41 Enhanced maintenance per kilometre charge per year 1.61 1.00 1.61 Total Internal 43.00 43 85 0,893 km 51.02 48.83 31.83 112.17 1.04 Terminating segment charge per year 49.41 1.00 49.41 Enhanced maintenance per kilometre charge per year 1.61 1.00 1.61 Total External 32.00 32 61 8,299 km 51.02 48.83 31.83 112.17 1.04 Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - local end CLZ Local end fixed charge per year 293.16 1.00 293.16 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 143.60 0.40 57.24 Total Internal CLZ 4.00 4 11,115 le 350.40 Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - local end non CLZ Local end fixed charge per year 642.87 1.00 642.87 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 143.60 0.59 85.07 Total Internal non CLZ 74.00 74 10 1,065 le 727.94 Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - local end CLZ Local end fixed charge per year 293.16 1.00 293.16 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 143.60 0.40 57.24 Total External CLZ 1.00 14, 006 le 350.40 Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - local end non CLZ Local end fixed charge per year 642.87 1.00 642.87 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 143.60 0.59 85.07 Total External non CLZ 37.00 37 51,337 le 727.94.
Weighted average price for CLZ non CLZ Nationally averaged cost 693.86 758.10 417.07 1,391.08 0.92 43 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7.6 - TISBO up to and including 8Mbit s continued Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Non-discrim mination Cost orientation Average Proportion price per included in FAC see Unaudited Unaudited Average Revenue Volume Unit b price list calculation Average price App 1.2 D LRIC DSAC price FAC m For the year ended 31 March 2011 s2 Internal SDSL 11.
00 11 u2 n a n a n a n a External Radio Backhaul Service - sub 2Mbit s connection - 01 45 circuits 519.34 1,697.47 1,592.06 3,326.32 0.31 s3 External Radio Backhaul Service - sub 2Mbit s rentals 19.
00 19 u3 n a n a n a n a Internal Radio Backhaul Service - 2Mbit s connection 4.
00 47 u3 External Radio Backhaul Service - 2Mbit s rentals 1 24.00 124 u3 s3 n a n a n a n a External Netstream 16 LL 2Mbit s connection - - 01 3 circuits 1,750.00 81,361.69 77,510.51 150,848.87 0.02 s4 External Netstream 16 LL 2Mbit s rentals non CLZ 20.
00 20 u4 n a n a n a n a External Netstream 16 LL 2Mbit s rentals CLZ - 0 u4 s4 n a n a n a n a Support Service Internal Protected Path Variants and Resilience 4.
00 4 u5 s5 Estimated cost of 0.3m External Protected Path Variants and Resilience 4.
00 4 u5 s5 Estimated cost of 0.7m Estimated equipment depreciation of 34.2m Equipment depreciation - - 0 Internal Third Party Customer Infrastructure 7.
00 7 un un Estimated matched cost of 6.8m External Third Party Customer Infrastructure 16.
00 16 un un Estimated matched cost of 14.1m Internal Excess construction charges 5.
00 5 un un Estimated matched cost of 3.2m External Excess construction charges 2.
00 2 un un Estimated matched cost of 2.3m Roundings 2.00 1.00 3 TOTAL 335 337 672 44 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7.6 - TISBO up to and including 8Mbit s continued Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Non-discrim mination Cost orientation Average Proportion price per included in FAC see Unaudited Unaudited Average Volume Unit b Revenue price list calculation Average price App 1.2 D LRIC DSAC price FAC m Restated for the year ended 31 March 2010 h Service Internal Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - connection 1 1,181 circuits 499.94 1,530.24 1,407.32 2,615.78 0.33 External Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - connection 1 1,008 circuits 499.94 1,530.24 1,407.32 2,615.78 0.33 2,189 Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - link Main link fixed charge per year 99.90 1.00 99.90 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 63.95 0.20 12.54 Total Internal 22 198,256 links 112.44 158.22 140.73 260.16 0.71 Main link fixed charge per year 99.90 1.00 99.90 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 63.95 0.20 12.54 Total External 8 70,941 links 140.73 260.16 112.44 158.22 0.71 Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - distribution Terminating segment charge per year 1.76 1.00 1.76 Enhanced maintenance per kilometre charge per year 0.02 1.00 0.02 Total Internal 6 3,183,600 km 2.14 11.18 1.78 4.30 0.41 Terminating segment charge per year 1.76 1.00 1.76 Enhanced maintenance per kilometre charge per year 0.02 1.00 0.02 Total External 2 1,275,891 km 1.78 4.30 2.14 11.18 0.41 Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - trunk Trunk segment charge per year 5.25 1.00 5.25 Enhanced maintenance per kilometre charge per year 0.02 1.00 0.02 Total Internal 12 2,301,387 km 5.27 4.30 2.14 11.17 1.22 Trunk segment charge per year 5.25 1.00 5.25 Enhanced maintenance per kilometre charge per year 0.02 1.00 0.02 Total External 5 922,327 km 5.27 4.30 2.14 11.17 1.22 Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - local end Local end fixed charge per year 409.41 0.90 370.38 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 63.95 0.73 46.51 Total Internal 39 92,621 le 416.89 396.36 350.11 714.46 1.05 Local end fixed charge per year 409.41 1.00 409.41 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 63.95 0.80 51.41 Total External 8 16,821 le 460.82 379.57 308.43 621.00 1.21 45 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7.6 - TISBO up to and including 8Mbit s continued Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Non-discrim mination Cost orientation Average Proportion price per included in FAC see Unaudited Unaudited Average Volume Unit b Revenue price list calculation Average price App 1.2 D LRIC DSAC price FAC m Restated for the year ended 31 March 2010 h Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - connection Internal Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - connection 13 7,402 circuits 1,695.04 2,012.98 1,867.67 3,090.74 0.84 External Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - connection 14 8,240 circuits 1,695.04 2,012.98 1,867.67 3,090.74 0.84 15,642 Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - link Main link fixed charge per year 411.61 1.00 411.61 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 132.30 0.40 53.41 Total internal 40 85,682 links 465.02 255.63 221.22 453.38 1.82 Main link fixed charge per year 411.61 1.00 411.61 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 132.30 0.40 53.41 Total External 26 55,799 links 465.02 255.63 221.22 453.38 1.82 Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - distribution Terminating segment charge per year 45.50 1.00 45.50 Enhanced maintenance per kilometre charge per year 1.48 1.00 1.48 Total Internal 42 891,043 km 33.82 102.14 46.98 49.89 0.94 Terminating segment charge per year 45.50 1.00 45.50 Enhanced maintenance per kilometre charge per year 1.48 1.00 1.48 Total External 27 565,044 km 46.98 49.89 33.82 102.14 0.94 Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - local end CLZ Local end fixed charge per year 355.40 0.87 308.53 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 131.64 0.40 53.09 Total Internal CLZ 5 14,216 le 361.62 Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - local end non CLZ Local end fixed charge per year 692.06 0.88 609.41 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 132.97 0.55 73.28 Total Internal non CLZ 75 109,543 le 682.69 Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - local end CLZ Local end fixed charge per year 355.40 1.00 355.40 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 131.64 0.46 61.16 Total External CLZ 2 3,737 le 416.56 Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - local end non CLZ Local end fixed charge per year 692.06 1.00 692.06 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 132.97 0.63 83.22 Total External non CLZ 40 51,689 le 775.28 Weighted average price for CLZ non CLZ Nationally averaged cost 447.17 1,217.21 678.38 758.88 0.89 46 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7.6 - TISBO up to and including 8Mbit s continued Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Non-discrim mination Cost orientation Average Proportion price per included in FAC see Unaudited Unaudited Average Volume Unit b Revenue price list calculation Average price App 1.2 D LRIC DSAC price FAC m Restated for the year ended 31 March 2010 h Internal SDSL 12 u2 s2 187.05 143.24 331.00 n a External Radio Backhaul Service - sub 2Mbit s connection 0 210 circuits 1,441.36 2,685.24 499.94 1,569.76 0.32 External Radio Backhaul Service - sub 2Mbit s rentals 17 u3 s3 497.82 345.35 693.51 n a Internal Radio Backhaul Service - 2Mbit s connection 10 7,348 circuits 1,355.56 2,018.58 1,872.20 3,102.89 0.67 External Radio Backhaul Service - 2Mbit s connection 20 15,022 circuits 1,355.56 2,018.58 1,872.20 3,102.89 0.67 Internal Radio Backhaul Service - 2Mbit s rentals 41 u3 s3 1,629.50 1,066.04 2,654.51 n a External Radio Backhaul Service - 2Mbit s rentals 95 u3 s3 1,066.04 2,654.51 1,629.50 n a External Netstream 16 LL 2Mbit s connection 0138circuits 1,328.99 2,003.71 1,859.37 3,077.21 0.66 External Netstream 16 LL 2Mbit s rentals non CLZ 25 u4 s4 n a n a n a n a External Netstream 16 LL 2Mbit s rentals CLZ 0 u4 s4 n a n a n a n a Support Service Internal Protected Path Variants and Resilience 5 u5 s5 Estimated total cost of 0.2m External Protected Path Variants and Resilience 4 u5 s5 Estimated total cost of 0.1m Equipment depreciation - Estimated equipment depreciation of 41m Internal Third Party Customer Infrastructure 10 un un Estimated matched cost of 10.5m External Third Party Customer Infrastructure 19 un un Estimated matched cost of 18.9m Internal Excess construction charges 5 un un Estimated matched cost of 3.1m External Excess construction charges 3 un un Estimated matched cost of 2.0m Roundings - TOTAL 654 b See glossary for volume unit descriptors.
sx This service comprises a number of individual prices as indicated by the value of x. ux This service comprises a number of individual volumetrics as indicated by the value of x. un This service comprises a large number of volumetrics and prices.
This component is attributed on a % basis so no volume or unit cost is derivable.
47 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7.7 - TISBO above 8Mbit s up to and including 45Mbit s Annex 11 Market summary Purpose of statement: to provide more detail on financial performance and first order tests of compliance with cost orientation and non-discrimination obliigations Traditional interface symmetric broadband origination above 8Mbit s up to and including 45Mbit s Summary Return Return on Total CCA Return excl.
h m m m m m m m m m m m m m 2011 29 13 42 17 20 1 2 8 - 44 2 97 1.9 % 2010 32 15 47 25 26 20 2 9 - 38 9 141 6.6 % 3 2.4 % Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Non-discrimin nation Cost orientation Average Proportion price per included in Average FAC see Unaudited Unaudited Average Revenue Volume Unit b price list calculation price App 1.2 D LRIC DSAC price FAC m For the year ended 31 March 2011 Service Internal Partial and Private Circuits 34 45Mbit s - connection 0 24 circuits 1,673.51 1,734.36 1,648.01 3,302.95 0.96 External Partial and Private Circuits 34 45Mbit s - connection 0 90 circuits 1,673.51 1,734.36 1,648.01 3,302.95 0.96 114 Partial and Private Circuits 34 45Mbit s - link Main link fixed charge per year 3,118.62 1.00 3118.62 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 212.70 0.55 117.80 Total Internal 61, 787 links 3,236.42 2,572.20 1,917.28 3,904.73 1.26 Main link fixed charge per year 3,118.62 1.00 3118.62 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 212.70 0.55 117.80 Total External 31, 062 links 3,236.42 2,572.20 1,917.28 3,904.73 1.26 Partial and Private Circuits 34 45Mbit s - distribution Terminating segment charge per year 489.65 1.00 489.65 Enhanced maintenance per kilometre charge per year 2.41 1.00 2.41 Total Internal 15 31,210 km 492.06 388.59 268.20 850.81 1.27 Terminating segment charge per year 489.65 1.00 489.65 Enhanced maintenance per kilometre charge per year 2.41 1.00 2.41 Total External 6 11,484 km 492.06 388.59 268.20 850.81 1.27 Partial and Private Circuits 34 45Mbit s - local end Local end fixed charge per year 2,512.52 1.00 2512.52 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 212.70 0.45 94.91 Total Internal 72, 810 le 2,607.43 6,315.02 3,094.77 11,400.99 0.41 Local end fixed charge per year 2,512.52 1.00 2512.52 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 212.70 0.45 94.91 Total External 31, 062 le 2,607.43 6,315.02 3,094.77 11,400.99 0.41 Netstream 16 LL 45Mbit s rentals 0 u4 s4 n a n a n a n a Support Service Internal Protected Path Variants and Resilience 1 u4 s4 Estimated cost of 0.5m External Protected Path Variants and Resilience 1 u4 s4 Estimated cost of 1m Equipment depreciation - Estimated equipment depreciation of 5.1m Roundings - TOTAL 42 48 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7.7 - TISBO above 8Mbit s up to and including 45Mbit s continued Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Non-discrimin nation Cost orientation Average Proportion price per included in Average FAC see Unaudited Unaudited Average Volume Unit b Revenue price list calculation price App 1.2 D LRIC DSAC price FAC m Restated for the year ended 31 March 2010 h Service Internal Partial and Private Circuits 34 45Mbit s - connection 0 20 circuits 1,837.61 3,031.88 1,593.44 1,978.15 0.81 External Partial and Private Circuits 34 45Mbit s - connection 0 160 circuits 1,593.44 1,978.15 1,837.61 3,031.88 0.81 180 Partial and Private Circuits 34 45Mbit s - link Main link fixed charge per year 2,872.36 1.00 2,872.36 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 195.90 0.51 100.19 Total Internal 7 2,216 links 2,210.10 4,531.72 2,972.55 2,773.42 1.07 Main link fixed charge per year 2,872.36 1.00 2,872.36 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 195.90 0.51 100.19 Total External 4 1,181 links 2,210.10 4,531.72 2,972.55 2,773.42 1.07 Partial and Private Circuits 34 45Mbit s - distribution Terminating segment charge per year 450.99 1.00 450.99 Enhanced maintenance per kilometre charge per year 2.22 1.00 2.22 Total Internal 17 37,129 km 453.21 389.14 272.72 748.60 1.16 Terminating segment charge per year 450.99 1.00 450.99 Enhanced maintenance per kilometre charge per year 2.22 1.00 2.22 Total External 612,929km 453.21 389.14 272.72 748.60 1.16 Partial and Private Circuits 34 45Mbit s - local end Local end fixed charge per year 2,744.12 0.87 2,378.47 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 195.90 0.42 82.96 Total Internal 83,312le 3,132.17 10,498.01 2,461.43 6,542.44 0.38 Local end fixed charge per year 2,744.12 1.00 2,744.12 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 195.90 0.49 95.71 Total External 31,187le 3,231.93 9,139.89 2,839.83 5,579.60 0.51 Netstream 16 LL 45Mbit s rentals 0 u4 s4 n a n a n a n a Support Service Internal Protected Path Variants and Resilience 1 u4 s4 Estimated total cost of 0.6m External Protected Path Variants and Resilience 2 u4 s4 Estimated total cost of 1.0m Equipment depreciation - Estimated equipment depreciation of 6.8m Roundings 1 TOTAL 47 b See glossary for volume unit descriptors.
49 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7.8 - TISBO above 45Mbit s up to and including 155Mbit s Annex 11 Market summary Purpose of statement: to provide more detail on financial performance and first order tests of compliance with cost orientation and non-discrimination obli gations Traditional interface symmetric broadband origination above 45Mbit s up to and including 155Mbit s Summary Return Return on Total CCA Return excl.
h m m m m m m m m m m m m m 2011 43 25 68 15 20 1 2 5 - 39 29 92 30.8 % 2010 58 19 16 20 16 3 8 - 108 restated 77 25 52 49.0 % 42 38.9 % Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Non-discrimin nation Cost orientation Average Proportion price per included in Average FAC see Unaudited Unaudited Average Revenue Volume Unit b price list calculation price App 1.2 D LRIC DSAC price FAC m For the year ended 31 March 2011 Service Internal Partial and Private Circuits 140 155Mbit s - connection 0 08 circuits 1,895.41 1,734.15 1,647.71 3,305.36 1.09 External Partial and Private Circuits 140 155Mbit s - connection 0 012circuits 1,895.41 1,734.15 1,647.71 3,305.36 1.09 20 Partial and Private Circuits 140 155Mbit s - link Main link fixed charge per year 9,626.07 1.00 9626.07 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 398.75 0.49 196.89 Total Internal 16 16 1,606 links 9,822.96 8,882.57 6,347.07 13,266.66 1.11 Main link fixed charge per year 9,626.07 1.00 9626.07 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 398.75 0.49 196.89 Total External 1 11 04 links 9,822.96 8,882.57 6,347.07 13,266.66 1.11 Partial and Private Circuits 140 155Mbit s - distribution Terminating segment charge per year 493.46 1.00 493.46 Enhanced maintenance per kilometre charge per year 4.13 1.00 4.13 Total Internal 11 11 21, 259 km 497.59 559.79 342.32 1,342.61 0.89 Terminating segment charge per year 493.46 1.00 493.46 Enhanced maintenance per kilometre charge per year 4.13 1.00 4.13 Total External 1 11, 133 km 497.59 559.79 342.32 1,342.61 0.89 Partial and Private Circuits 140 155Mbit s - local end Local end fixed charge per year 9,869.12 1.00 9869.12 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 398.75 0.51 201.86 Total Internal 8 87 81 le 10,070.98 10,638.95 7,027.14 18,045.16 0.95 Local end fixed charge per year 9,869.12 1.00 9869.12 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 398.75 0.51 201.86 Total External 1 11 04 le 10,070.98 10,638.95 7,027.14 18,045.16 0.95 Netstream 16 LL 155Mbit s rentals 21 21 u4 s4 n a n a n a n a Support Service Internal Protected Path Variants and Resilience 9 9 u4 s4 Estimated cost of 2.5m External Protected Path Variants and Resilience 1 1 u4 s4 Estimated cost of 0.2m Equipment Depreciation - Estimated equipment depreciation of 0.4m Roundings - 1 - 1 TOTAL 43 25 68 50 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7.8 - TISBO above 45Mbit s up to and including 155Mbit s continued Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Non-discrimin nation Cost orientation Average Proportion price per included in Average FAC see Unaudited Unaudited Average Volume Unit b Revenue price list calculation price App 1.2 D LRIC DSAC price FAC m Restated for the year ended 31 March 2010 h Service Internal Partial and Private Circuits 140 155Mbit s - connection 0 8 circuits 1,804.72 1,980.00 1,839.39 3,034.00 0.91 External Partial and Private Circuits 140 155Mbit s - connection 0 23 circuits 1,804.72 1,980.00 1,839.39 3,034.00 0.91 31 Partial and Private Circuits 140 155Mbit s - link Main link fixed charge per year 10,408.45 1.00 10,408.45 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 379.26 0.42 159.13 Total Internal restated 16 1,528 links 10,567.58 9,601.08 7,670.54 16,882.58 1.10 Main link fixed charge per year 10,408.45 1.00 10,408.45 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 379.26 0.42 159.13 Total External 193links 10,567.58 9,601.08 7,670.54 16,882.58 1.10 Partial and Private Circuits 140 155Mbit s - distribution Terminating segment charge per year 1,177.73 1.00 1,177.73 Enhanced maintenance per kilometre charge per year 5.32 1.00 5.32 Total Internal restated 22 18,958 km 1,183.05 610.38 392.43 1,280.46 1.94 Terminating segment charge per year 1,177.73 1.00 1,177.73 Enhanced maintenance per kilometre charge per year 5.32 1.00 5.32 Total External 11,000km 1,183.05 610.38 392.43 1,280.46 1.94 Partial and Private Circuits 140 155Mbit s - local end Local end fixed charge per year 14,397.82 0.88 12,619.81 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 379.26 0.51 192.94 Total Internal 10 809 le 7,974.12 17,277.38 12,812.75 12,066.53 1.06 Local end fixed charge per year 14,397.82 1.00 14,397.82 Enhanced maintenance fixed charge per year 379.26 0.58 220.12 Total External 2107le 10,068.62 21,493.49 14,617.94 14,501.69 1.01 Netstream 16 LL 155Mbit s connection 02circuits 1,935.81 3,190.68 10000 2,083.00 4.80 Netstream 16 LL 155Mbit s rentals 14 u4 s4 n a n a n a n a Support Service Internal Protected Path Variants and Resilience 10 u4 s4 Estimated total cost of 2.2m External Protected Path Variants and Resilience 1 u4 s4 Estimated total cost of 0.2m Equipment depreciation Estimated equipment depreciation of 0.2m - Roundings - 77 TOTAL restated b See glossary for volume unit descriptors.
sx This service comprises a number of individual prices as indicated by the value of x. ux This service comprises a number of individual volumetrics as indicated by the value of x. h See Section 4 - Basis of Preparation.
51 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7.9 - AISBO up to and including 1Gbit s Annex 11 Market summary Purpose of statement: to provide more detail on financial performance and first order tests of compliance with cost orientation and non-discrimination obligations Alternative interface symmetric broadband origination up to and including 1Gbit s Summary Return Return on Total CCA Return excl.
Revenue Revenue costs Depreciation gain loss Supp.
Roundings MCE note 1 costs Return MCE adjs.
h m m m m m m m m m m m m m 2011 317 237 193 195 19 584 - 1,301 554 496 58 4.5 % 2010 281 208 176 145 217 695 - 1,120 489 205 284 25.4 % 152 13.5 % Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Non-discrimination Cost orientation Average FAC see Unaudited Unaudited Average Revenue Volume Unit b price App 1.2 D LRIC DSAC price FAC m For the year ended 31 March 2011 Service Internal Wholesale extension services 10Mbit s rental 54 54 32, 846 le 1,646.22 2,475.73 1,300.94 4,856.91 0.66 External Wholesale extension services 10Mbit s rental 34 34 21,055 le 1,631.64 2,475.73 1,300.94 4,856.91 0.66 53, 901 Internal Wholesale extension services 100Mbit s rental 64 64 29, 411 le 2,183.77 2,581.97 1,380.65 5,026.89 0.85 External Wholesale extension services 100Mbit s rental 35 35 16,127 le 2,141.21 2,581.97 1,380.65 5,026.89 0.83 45, 539 Internal Wholesale extension services 1000Mbit s rental 27 27 4, 591 le 5,863.81 3,739.03 2,313.33 6,750.06 1.57 External Wholesale extension services 1000Mbit s rental 13 13 2,324 le 5,499.64 3,739.03 2,313.33 6,750.06 1.47 6, 915 Internal Wholesale extension services other bandwidth rental 11 11 u1 s1 u u u n a External Wholesale extension services other bandwidth rental 3 3 u1 s1 u u u n a Internal Wholesale extension services 10Mbit s connection 1 1 1, 586 le 855.22 805.22 738.94 2,654.32 1.06 External Wholesale extension services 10Mbit s connection 3 3 4,142 le 822.57 805.22 738.94 2,654.32 1.02 5, 728 Internal Wholesale extension services 100Mbit s connection 2 2 2, 322 le 1,028.16 809.63 743.07 2,661.91 1.27 External Wholesale extension services 100Mbit s connection 5 5 4,766 le 978.23 809.63 743.07 2,661.91 1.21 7, 088 Internal Wholesale extension services 1000Mbit s connection 2 26 66 le 2,999.29 850.28 781.10 2,731.93 3.53 External Wholesale extension services 1000Mbit s connection 2 2936le 2,141.05 850.28 781.10 2,731.93 2.52 1, 602 Internal Wholesale extension services other bandwidth connection t 0 0 t t u u u n a External Wholesale extension services other bandwidth connection t 1 1 t t u u u n a 52 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7.9 - AISBO up to and including 1Gbit s continued Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Non-discrim mination Cost orientation Average FAC see Unaudited Unaudited Average Revenue Volume Unit b price App 1.2 D LRIC DSAC price FAC m For the year ended 31 March 2011 External Backhaul extension services 1000Mbit s rental 18 18 4,915 le 3,575.76 3,631.57 1,940.31 6,149.24 0.98 External Backhaul extension services other bandwidth rental 7 7 u1 s1 External Backhaul extension services connection 6 6 u1 s1 Other internal Ethernet connection 1 1 u1 s1 ux Other internal Ethernet rental 2 2 u1 s1 Other external Ethernet connection 1 1 u1 s1 Other external Ethernet rental 5 5 u1 s1 Internal Ethernet Access Direct connection 34 34 15,772 circuits 2,183.40 1,617.25 1,260.57 4,732.43 1.35 External Ethernet Access Direct connection 6 6 3,478 circuits 1,785.05 1,617.25 1,260.57 4,732.43 1.10 19,250 Internal Ethernet Access Direct rental 32 32 8,241 circuits 3,875.46 3,611.04 1,677.32 7,433.02 1.07 External Ethernet Access Direct rental 9 9 2,496 circuits 3,553.29 3,611.04 1,677.32 7,433.02 0.98 10,738 External Ethernet Backhaul Direct connection 1 1 406 circuits 3,498.33 1,215.71 1,116.22 3,955.72 2.88 External Ethernet Backhaul Direct rental 11 11 1,352 circuits 7,782.00 14,216.70 8,475.34 20,184.02 0.55 Internal Main link rental charges 67 67 201,014 fibre km 333.53 401.68 178.10 1,027.11 0.83 External Main link rental charges 64 64 180,236 fibre km 354.41 401.68 178.10 1,027.11 0.88 381,250 Support Service Equipment depreciation 0 misc Estimated equipment depreciation of 4m Internal Excess construction charges 18 18 u1 s1 Estimated matched cost of 11.2m External Excess construction charges 14 14 u1 s1 Estimated matched cost of 8.8m Roundings 2 - 1 1 TOTAL 316.959018 237.436494 554 53 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7.9 - AISBO up to and including 1Gbit s continued Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Non-discrim mination Cost orientation Average FAC see Unaudited Unaudited Average Revenue Volume Unit b price App 1.2 D LRIC DSAC price FAC m Restated for the year ended 31 March 2010 h Service Internal Wholesale extension services 10Mbit s rental 75 36,532 le 2,040.50 1,675.41 628.46 3,041.50 1.22 External Wholesale extension services 10Mbit s rental 39 19,418 le 628.46 3,041.50 2,005.61 1,675.41 1.20 55,950 Internal Wholesale extension services 100Mbit s rental 58 24,992 le 656.61 3,126.88 2,313.46 1,719.82 1.35 External Wholesale extension services 100Mbit s rental 28 12,213 le 656.61 3,126.88 2,273.25 1,719.82 1.32 37,205 Internal Wholesale extension services 1000Mbit s rental 24 4,117 le 914.27 3,861.61 5,819.71 2,097.62 2.77 External Wholesale extension services 1000Mbit s rental 8 1,518 le 914.27 3,861.61 5,554.59 2,097.62 2.65 5,635 Internal Wholesale extension services other bandwidth rental 13 16,808 le 660.74 3,106.67 746.63 1,731.71 0.43 External Wholesale extension services other bandwidth rental 2 351 le 660.74 3,106.67 6,815.20 1,731.71 3.94 17,159 Internal Wholesale extension services 10Mbit s connection 8 6,914 le 2,919.80 6,462.39 1,097.39 3,322.59 0.33 External Wholesale extension services 10Mbit s connection 5 4,587 le 2,919.80 6,462.39 995.98 3,322.59 0.30 11,501 Internal Wholesale extension services 100Mbit s connection 13 10,196 le 2,829.91 6,165.69 1,239.42 3,224.47 0.38 External Wholesale extension services 100Mbit s connection 6 5,115 le 2,829.91 6,165.69 1,099.81 3,224.47 0.34 15,311 Internal Wholesale extension services 1000Mbit s connection 9 1,598 le 8,090.94 16,410.49 5,557.25 9,267.84 0.60 External Wholesale extension services 1000Mbit s connection 2 754 le 8,090.94 16,410.49 2,201.10 9,267.84 0.24 2,352 Internal Wholesale extension services other bandwidth connection t 1 t t u u u n a External Wholesale extension services other bandwidth connection t 1 t t u u u n a External Backhaul extension services 100Mbit s rental 5,272 le 689.39 2,327.98 8 1,582.63 1,633.96 0.97 External Backhaul extension services 1000Mbit s rental 17 4,106 le 896.34 2,847.78 4,198.81 1,934.86 2.17 External Backhaul extension services other bandwidth rental t 1 t t u u u n a External Backhaul extension services 100Mbit s connection t 1 t t u u u n a External Backhaul extension services 1000Mbit s connection 2 1,192 le 12,551.86 26,860.72 2,013.52 14,439.10 0.14 External Backhaul extension services other bandwidth connection 2 u1 s1 9,019.28 18,010.39 10,445.50 n a External Backhaul network services all bandwidth connection t 1 t t u u u n a External Backhaul network services all bandwidth rental 6 876 circuits 6,335.60 1,693.44 615.98 2,551.16 3.74 54 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7.9 - AISBO up to and including 1Gbit s continued Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Non-discrim mination Cost orientation Average FAC see Unaudited Unaudited Average Revenue Volume Unit b price App 1.2 D LRIC DSAC price FAC m Restated for the year ended 31 March 2010 h Internal Ethernet Access Direct connection 2 816 circuits 2,372.36 External Ethernet Access Direct connection 1 589 circuits 2,065.72 1,405 Internal Ethernet Access Direct rental t 1 t t External Ethernet Access Direct rental t 1 t t External Ethernet Backhaul Direct connection 1 302 circuits 4,575.00 U External Ethernet Backhaul Direct rental 6 759 circuits 7,782.00 Internal Other Ethernet connection 2 257 circuits 8,297.79 External Other Ethernet connection 1 566 circuits 2,545.33 823 Internal Other Ethernet rental 1 583 circuits 2,120.20 External Other Ethernet rental t 1 t t Internal Main link rental charges 64 159,835 fibre km 400.95 319.04 155.39 826.31 1.26 External Main link rental charges 61 154,497 fibre km 393.91 319.04 155.39 826.31 1.23 314,332 Support Service Equipment depreciation - Estimated equipment depreciation of 3.3m Internal Excess construction charges 12 u1 s1 Estimated matched cost of 8.0m External Excess construction charges 11 u1 s1 Estimated matched cost of 7.0m Roundings 2 489 TOTAL b See glossary for volume unit descriptors.
sx This service comprises a number of individual prices as indicated by the value of x. ux This service comprises a number of individual volumetrics as indicated by the value of x. t Revenue for this service is 1m and hence shown within roundings as agreed with Ofcom.
Where revenue is immaterial, no volumes or prices are shown.
u Costs associated with these services are immaterial and included within the above reported AISBO services and hence not disclosed separately.
55 Section 7 - Review of Access Markets Section 7.10 - Wholesale local access Annex 11 Market summary Purpose of statement: to provide more detail on financial performance and first order tests of compliance with cost orientation and non-dis scrimination obligations Wholesale local access Summary Return Return on Total CCA Return excl.
57 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Section 8 Review of Other Wholesale Markets 58 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Section 8.1 - Financial Performance in Other Wholesale Markets Annex 8 Total CCA Internal External Total CCA Operating Mean Capital Return on For the year ended 31 March 2011 h Revenue Revenue Revenue HCA Costs Adjustments Roundings costs Return Employed MCE m m m m m m m m m % Call origination on FPN networks 143 46 189 163 23 0 186 3 361 0.9 % Single transit on FPN networks 0 4 4 4 0 0 4 0 11 2.1 % Technical areas Interconnect Circuits 18 37 55 39 3 0 42 13 62 20.4 % Fixed call termination 66 100 166 146 25 0 171 5 380 1.2 % Wholesale trunk segments 94 14 108 49 12 0 61 47 212 22.4 % Technical areas Point of Handover 0 8 8 14 1 0 15 7 28 24.8 % Wholesale Broadband Access - Market 1 h 201 165 366 324 47 0 371 5 476 0.9 % Wholesale Broadband Access - Market 2 h 139 101 240 171 30 0 201 39 225 17.7 % Total Other Wholesale Markets 661 475 1,136 910 141 0 1,051 85 1,755 4.8 % Return ROCE Total CCA excl.
Internal External Total CCA Operating Mean Capital Return on reval.
Re-presented for the year ended 31 March 2010 h Revenue Revenue Revenue HCA Costs Adjustments Roundings costs Return Employed MCE adj.
59 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Section 8.2 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Annex 10 & 14 Section 8.2.
1 - Market Group Level Review Annex 10 Section 8.2.
1 Market Group Level Review Annex 10 Overall the markets for calls call origination, call termination and single transit continue to show a decline in revenue, due to reducing volumes.
Substitution of fixed PSTN calls continues with migration to Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP, mobile, LLU operators and other alternatives.
As volumes reduce there is a consequential reduction in the revenue for interconnect circuits, the fixed links that carry calls traffic between the networks of different operators.
Following the Network Charge Controls in 2009 10, SMP status was removed from the Local-tandem conveyance and transit market, and this service is now part of Wholesale Residual.
The Single Transit market is still subject to some SMP obligations, including the obligation not to unduly discriminate.
In assessing the level of financial reporting obligations, the review concluded that for the year end 31 March 2011, cost accounting obligations would be removed but accounting separation obligations would remain.
Wholesale trunk segments are bought by Communications Providers in combination with partial private circuits in the TISBO markets.
Revenues have fallen significantly in the year due to significant price reductions and customers continuing to rationalise their networks.
Points of Handover charges relate to the cost of providing interconnection between operators networks for TISBO services.
Revenue has decreased in 2010 11 as customers have looked to rationalise their networks and new prices have been introduced in July 2010 following industry consultation.
There were further price changes in this market in January 2011 to implement the Leased Line Charge Control obligations.
BT Wholesale continues to have regulatory obligations in relation to the supply of WBA products in Markets 1 and 2 and is required to report on an Equivalence of Input EOI basis in these markets.
Year on year comparison of revenues and costs on Markets 1 and 2 is cumbersome due to changes in market boundaries, services included within the markets and reporting on an EOI basis rather than End to End, with the same market information provided for 2009 10.
The wholesale broadband market has continued to show growth over the last year mostly driven by LLU growth.
BT DSL external wholesale volumes have declined as a result.
60 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Annex 14 Section 8.2.
2 - Market Level Financial Review of Other Wholesale SMP Markets Section 8.2.
2 Market Level Financial Review of Other Wholesale SMP Markets Annex 14 Key Market Changes Market: Call Origination on Fixed Public Narrowband Networks Call origination has declined steadily throughout the year driven by several factors: The ongoing migration of call origination minutes from fixed public narrowband networks to Definition mobile networks.
The conveyance of a call originating on a customers exchange line from the remote concentrator to and The substitution impact of VoIP calls is growing and will potentially have a greater impact in the over the local exchange.
future as Broadband Service Providers move towards double and triple play offerings in a move to consolidate market share and grow revenue.
Call Origination Services are defined as any and all of the following specific services provided by the Growth in Local Loop Unbundling LLU lines has eroded call origination volumes with major Dominant Provider: players marketing double play offerings to their customer base, where voice services are Call origination including operator assistance and emergency intermediate services : and provided alongside high speed data.
Call origination including emergency intermediate services.
Key Regulatory Changes Market: Single Transit on Fixed Public Narrowband Networks In 2009 10 Ofcom carried out a review of the Fixed Narrowband Services Wholesale Market and a review of the Network Charge Controls.
Ofcom concluded that BT still has SMP in the call origination Definition market going forward.
Ofcom also determined that due to decline in the market BT no longer has an Single transit is the service an operator provides when a call originates and terminates on networks obligation to supply FRIACO.
As of 1 October 2009 the price control on both DLE FRIACO and Single other than its own and the originating and terminating operators are directly connected at the same Tandem FRIACO fell away.
The call is therefore transited through a single tandem exchange.
The Determination on PPP Product Management, Policy and Planning was implemented by Ofcom on While Inter-tandem conveyance ITC and Inter-tandem transit ITT are essentially transmission 1 July 2004.
The interconnect costs are pooled with the costs of providing end to end calls for BTs retail services, single transit is a connection service that connects two operators who are not directly activities and the costs are recovered over all calls on an equivalent basis.
Each physical call crossing BTs connected.
Please note that in 2005 Ofcom determined ITC and ITT to be competitive, and as such no network is charged PPP only once.
As PPP is incurred on all calls in markets where BT has SMP, it is SMP was found.
relevant for the Call Origination market.
The charge controls for these services are as follows: Key Regulatory Changes In 2009 10 Ofcom carried out a review of the Fixed Narrowband Services Wholesale Market and a review of the Network Charge Controls.
Ofcom concluded that Single Transit is in a separate market to Service Current NCC that containing LTC and LTT.
The final Statement confirmed Ofcoms view that the market for Single Transit is not effectively competitive and that the finding of SMP still applies.
However, given the nature 1 Oct 2009 30 Sept 2013 of the market no price control remedy is needed.
This means that the market is not bound by the RPICall Origination RPI 2.75% X formula beyond 30 September 2009.
The Single Transit market is still subject to some SMP obligations, including the obligation not to unduly DLE FRIACO Not applicable discriminate.
Single Tandem FRIACO Not applicable The Determination on Product Management, Policy and Planning PPP was implemented by Ofcom on 1 July 2004.
The interconnect costs are pooled with the costs of providing end to end calls for BTs retail activities and the costs are recovered over all calls on an equivalent basis.
Each call crossing BTs Product Management, Policy and RPI 1.50% Planning PPP network is charged PPP only once.
As PPP is incurred on all calls in markets where BT has SMP, it is relevant for the Single Transit market.
To 30 September 2009 the price control applicable for PPP was 61 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets RPI 0.75%.
From 1 October 2009 to 30 September 2013 the price control has been changed to Key Market Changes RPI 1.50%.
Overall the fixed line calls market is shrinking.
The contraction of the fixed market is driven by Key Market Changes substitution of broadband and mobile.
Volumes of transit calls declined during the financial year ended 31 March 2011 primarily due to direct Interconnect Circuit volumes have declined slowly throughout the year driven by several factors: connects between other operators.
Ongoing migration from fixed public narrowband networks to mobile networks.
CPs building direct interconnection with other CPs and by-passing BT.
CPs building their own 21CN networks and considering requirements for NGN interconnects Market: Technical Areas Interconnect Circuits with the BT network.
CPs rationalising their existing interconnections with BT.
Definition CPs moving to Wholesale Calls packages removing the requirement for Interconnect Circuits.
Ofcom has the ability to apply remedies to technical areas as part of the overall obligation that The substitution impact of VoIP calls is growing and will potentially have a greater impact on addresses SMP in a particular market.
Interconnect Circuits have been identified as an appropriate traditional TDM Interconnect as Communication Providers move towards IP Interconnect.
technical area for the purpose of imposing appropriate regulatory remedies.
Interconnect Circuits link the exchanges of two interconnecting Communication Providers CPs in order to enable traffic to pass between their networks.
Market: Fixed Call Termination BT provides the following types of Interconnect Circuits: Customer-Sited Interconnect CSI : BT provides a point of interconnection at the site of the Definition interconnecting CP by extending its network using a 2Mbit s circuit: The Review of fixed geographic call termination markets was concerned with the wholesale conveyance In-Span Interconnect ISI : BT and the other CP build out their networks to a handover point service fixed geographic call termination only.
The handover point is normally close to the BT exchange and therefore most of the build is the responsibility of the interconnecting CP: The economic market is defined as fixed geographic call termination on each individual Public Electronic Communications Network PECN.
This definition is slightly narrower than that Interconnection Extension Circuit IEC : IECs allow an interconnecting CP with an existing ISI to recommended by the European Commission, which could be adjudged to include non-geographic call extend this point of interconnection to a new building.
In order to do this, BT provides a 2Mbit s termination services as well.
The difference is deemed justifiable in that non-geographic call circuit between the two buildings.
An IEC is subject to the same per km charge as a CSI but has a termination markets are subject to different payment arrangements that are not purely calling party reduced fixed charge: pays and, moreover, they are competitive in the UK.
Virtual Interconnect Circuit VIC : VIC is an operationally efficient alternative to physical interconnect at Digital Local Exchanges DLE allowing CPs to continue to benefit from Local After discussions with Ofcom it was agreed that due to the material changes that would be required for Exchange Segment LES rates whilst physically connecting to the Next Generation Switch the financial year ended 31 March 2005 the definition would be amended to include non-geographic NGS : and as well as geographic calls for the Current Cost Financial Statements 2005.
Ofcom determined that Interconnect Circuits should properly be considered as a Technical Area All PECNs that terminate fixed geographic calls have SMP in the provision of call termination services as set out by the Commission.
when providing such services to all other PECNs.
Ofcom therefore designated that each relevant PECN has SMP.
Key Regulatory Changes Key Regulatory Changes In 2009 10 Ofcom carried out a review of the Fixed Narrowband Services Wholesale Market and a review of the Network Charge Controls.
Ofcom concluded that BT still has SMP in the Technical Area for In 2009 10 Ofcom carried out a review of the Fixed Narrowband Services Wholesale Market and a Interconnect Circuits going forward.
The price control applicable to this Technical Area was RPI-5.25% review of the Network Charge Controls.
Ofcom concluded that BT still has SMP in the call termination up to 30 September 2009.
From 1 October 2009 the price control changed to RPI 3.75%.
The price control applicable to this market was RPI-5% up to 30 September controls will run until 30 September 2013.
The Determination on PPP Product Management, Policy and Planning was implemented by Ofcom on 1 July 2004.
Each physical call crossing BTs 62 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets network is charged PPP only once.
As PPP is incurred on all calls in markets where BT has SMP, it is LLU backhaul consists of LLU backhaul trunk and LLU backhaul link.
LLU backhaul trunk is similar to the relevant for the Fixed Call Termination market.
The price control applicable for PPP was RPI 0.75% up trunk segment of a leased line and is hence a substitute for trunk segments.
Therefore, LLU backhaul to 30 September 2009.
From 1 October 2009 the price control for PPP changed to RPI 1.50%.
trunk segments are considered to be part of the wholesale trunk segment market.
The charge controls for these services are summarised as follows: Additionally, LLU backhaul services, RBS backhaul circuits and Netstream 16 Longline may, in particular circumstances, involve some trunk segment services as part of the overall service.
This would correspond to intra core transmission on the BT network.
This element for RBS and Netstream circuits is included in the relevant TISBO market.
Service Current NCC Ofcom concluded that a national market exists for trunk segments and that BT has SMP in the national 1 Oct 2009 30 Sept 2013 market for wholesale trunk segments.
Call Termination RPI 3.75% SDSL based circuits fall into the market for low bandwidth traditional interface symmetric broadband origination.
Core conveyance relating to these services is carried across BTs Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM network, rather than its SDH network.
Ofcom therefore considered that its SMP finding is Product Management, Policy and RPI 1.50% equally applicable to trunk segments conveyed across the ATM network as well as the SDH network.
Planning PPP Key Regulatory Changes In December 2008, Ofcom published its Final Statement on the Business Connectivity Market Review.
Key Market Changes Ofcom found BT to continue to have SMP in the market for trunk segments at all bandwidths.
The contraction of the fixed market is driven by Ofcom increased regulation in the trunk market by imposing a charge control and requiring prices to be substitution of mobile and VoIP services.
In addition, Ofcom changed the definition of trunk segments from one based on links between two BT SDH Tier 1 nodes to one based on routes between defined major urban areas and Call termination has declined steadily throughout the year driven by several factors: imposed additional Service Level Agreement Service Level Guarantee requirements from December 2008.
The ongoing migration of call termination minutes from fixed public narrowband networks to mobile networks.
Given the recent reduction in Mobile Termination Rates MTRs this trend is Following a separate Consultation, Ofcom published its Statement on the Leased Lines Charge Control likely to accelerate.
on 2 July 2009, imposing a RPI X% charge control on Trunk services as a remedy to its finding of SMP The substitution impact of VoIP is growing and will potentially have a greater impact in the for BT.
Note that there is a single overall TI basket comprising connection and rental for low bandwidth, future as Broadband penetration and speed increase.
This will improve the availability and high bandwidth and very high bandwidth TISBO services as well as rental for Trunk services.
In addition, Ofcom determined starting charges for terminating and trunk segments and required the Similarly growth in Local Loop Unbundling LLU lines is eroding call termination volumes as introduction of separate Point of Handover rental charges to replace the current local end uplift factor major players move away from WLR.
On 2 September 2009, Cable & Wireless lodged an appeal with the Competition Appeal Tribunal Market: Wholesale Trunk Segments contesting certain parts of Ofcoms Leased Line Charge Control Statement.
The Tribunal issued a direction on 20 September 2010 directing the controlling percentage for the TI basket to be amended Definition to RPI-1.75% from 1 October 2010.
This market covers the provision of trunk segments across core transmission networks.
These trunk services are often used to provide a link between origination services where a communications provider does not have available network to its nearest point of connection.
As in the case of symmetric broadband origination services, trunk segment services may be used to provide a wide range of downstream retail services.
The particular services provided are the same as described above for symmetric broadband origination.
No stand alone trunk segment services were sold to third parties, although such a service may be requested at some point in the future.
63 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Key Regulatory Changes Basket Value of X Sub Caps In December 2008 Ofcom published its Final Statement on the Business Connectivity Market Review.
Ofcom found BT to continue to have SMP in the following markets: TI Basket RPI-3.25% RPI - 0% sub-cap on sub-basket of up to 30 TISBO terminating segments.
Low bandwidth TISBO up to and including 8Mbit s: TI-Trunk all bandwidths rental.
Sept 2010 : RPI 5% sub-cap on each charge High bandwidth TISBO above 8Mbit s and including 34 45Mbit s excluding the CELA : RPI-1.75% excluding POH charges.
Very high bandwidth TISBO above 34 45Mbit s and including 155Mbit s excluding CELA : and from 1 Oct RPI - 0% sub-cap on each charge Trunk segments at all bandwidths.
Ofcom increased regulation in the trunk market by imposing a charge control and requiring prices to be POC end and third party end RPI 0% No charge can increase more than 5% notified at 90 days.
In addition, Ofcom changed the definition of trunk segments from one based on equipment charges.
links between two BT SDH Tier 1 nodes to one based on routes between defined major urban areas and imposed additional Service Level Agreement Service Level Guarantee requirements from December All relevant ancillary services used in RPI 0% None.
2008. the provision of TI services in scope of the TI Basket.
Following a separate Consultation, Ofcom published its Statement on the Leased Lines Charge Control on 2 July 2009, imposing a RPI X% charge control on TISBO services as a remedy to its finding of SMP for BT.
Note that there is a single overall TI basket comprising connection and rental for low bandwidth, high bandwidth and very high bandwidth TISBO services as well as rental for Trunk services.
These controls run from 1 October 2009 to 30 September 2012.
The values of X in the charge control apply to BTs prices after these adjustments have been made.
In addition, Ofcom determined starting charges for terminating and trunk segments and required the introduction of separate Point of Handover rental charges to replace the current local end uplift factor Key Market Changes included in the rental price of external local ends.
There is significant competition on major trunk routes.
Customers continue to rationalise their networks which has resulted in a fall in the average trunk distance per circuit.
These factors have contributed to On 2 September 2009, Cable & Wireless lodged an appeal with the Competition Appeal Tribunal a material reduction in revenue.
The Tribunal issued a direction on 20 September 2010 directing the controlling percentage for the TI basket to be amended There were price changes in this market in October 2010 and January 2011 to meet the charge control to RPI-1.75% from 1 October 2010. obligations.
Basket Value of X Sub Caps Market: Technical Areas Point of Handover TI Basket RPI-3.25% up to RPI - 0% sub-cap on sub-basket 30 Sept 2010 : of TISBO terminating segments.
Definition RPI-1.75% from 1 RPI 5% sub-cap on each charge Point of Handover PoH is a Technical Area associated with the Traditional Interface Symmetric Oct 2010 excluding POH charges.
Broadband Origination TISBO market, rather than a market in itself.
It is a necessary technical function to enable network interconnection, in order to allow the provision of wholesale products in the TISBO RPI - 0% sub-cap on each charge market.
In all TISBO markets where BT has SMP BT is required to provide PoH services in two varieties: Customer POC end and third party end RPI 0% No charge can increase more Sited Handover CSH and In-Span Handover, including ISH Extension.
When providing CSH, BT delivers equipment charges.
TISBO services to the premises of its wholesale customers.
When providing ISH, BT and the wholesale All relevant ancillary services RPI 0% None customer connect their networks at a notional mid-point.
used in the provision of TI services in scope of the TI Basket.
64 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Key Market Changes These controls run from 1 October 2009 to 30 September 2012.
The values of X in the charge control BT has migrated most of its 20C IPstream volumes to the IPstream Connect platform: this has benefited apply to BTs prices after these adjustments have been made.
customers in terms of common handover arrangements with 21CN, and should ease future migration to the 21CN platform.
BTs Datastream product has shown a significant decline in the year, driven by Key Market Changes migration to LLU and to alternative BT products.
Changes reflected in the market include customers looking to rationalise their networks, i. e. reduce the BTs end user rental prices for 20C IPstream max and max premium reduced by 29p per month from number of sites and consequently points of handover, and instead increase the bandwidth to remaining April 2010. sites.
New prices were introduced in July 2010 following Industry consultation.
There were further price changes in this market in January 2011 to implement the Leased Line Charge Control LLCC obligations.
Market: Wholesale Broadband Access: Market 2 Market: Wholesale Broadband Access: Market 1 Definition Definition Wholesale Broadband Access relates to asymmetric broadband access and any backhaul as necessary to allow interconnection with other Communications Providers which provides an always-on capability, Wholesale Broadband Access relates to asymmetric broadband access and any backhaul as necessary to allows both voice and data service to be used simultaneously and provides data at speeds greater than allow interconnection with other Communications Providers which provides an always-on capability, a dial-up connection.
This includes both business and residential customers in the UK.
allows both voice and data service to be used simultaneously and provides data at speeds greater than a dial-up connection.
Wholesale Broadband Access is split into three geographic markets based on the Ofcom December 2010 Market Review final Statement.
Market 3 relates to those geographic areas covered by exchanges Wholesale Broadband Access is split into three geographic markets based on the Ofcom December where there are four or more operators or where there are three operators and BTs share is less than 2010 Market Review final Statement.
Market 3 relates to those geographic areas covered by exchanges 50% 77.6% of premises.
BT does not have SMP or regulatory obligations in Wholesale Broadband where there are four or more operators or where there are three operators and BTs share is less than Access Market 3.
BT does not have SMP or regulatory obligations in Wholesale Broadband Access Market 3.
Market 2 relates to BT exchange areas where two operators are present and exchanges where three operators are present or forecast but where BTs share is greater than or equal to 50% 10% of Market 1 relates to BT exchange areas where only BT provides Wholesale Broadband Access 11.7% of premises.
Key Regulatory Changes Key Regulatory Changes BT Wholesale continues to have regulatory and Equivalence of Input EOI obligations in relation to the BT Wholesale continues to have regulatory and Equivalence of Input EOI obligations in relation to the supply of Wholesale Broadband Access products in Market 2. supply of Wholesale Broadband Access products in Market 1.
The floors pricing commitment agreed with Ofcom in November 2006 expired on 31 December 2008.
The ceilings price commitment agreed with Ofcom expired on 31 December 2010.
In their final statement on the SMP review in December 2010 Ofcom confirmed that the new SMP In their final statement on the SMP review in December 2010, Ofcom confirmed that the new SMP obligations applying to Wholesale Broadband products would include a cost orientation obligation on obligations applying to Wholesale Broadband products would include a cost orientation obligation on BT in Market 2.
BT is also required to report the market on an EOI basis.
BT is required to report market 2 on an EOI basis as a result of the Ofcom February 2011 consultation BT is required to report market 1 on an EOI basis as a result of the Ofcom February 2011 consultation document Changes to BT and KCOMs Regulatory and Financial Reporting 20 11 Update.
SMPF and document Changes to BT and KCOMs Regulatory and Financial Reporting 2010 11 Update.
SMPF related upstream Openreach charges are incorporated into these markets on an Equivalence of Input and related upstream Openreach charges are incorporated into these markets on an Equivalence of EOI basis i. e. at tariff rates charged from Wholesale Residual rather than at cost.
Input EOI basis i. e. at tariff rates charged from Wholesale Residual rather than at cost.
Ofcom are currently consulting on a new charge control that would apply to the IPstream Connect product in Market1.
65 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Key Market Changes BT has migrated most of its 20C IPstream volumes to the IPstream Connect platform: this has benefited customers in terms of common handover arrangements with 21CN, and should ease future migration to the 21CN platform.
BTs Datastream product has shown a significant decline in the year, driven by migration to LLU and to alternative BT products.
BTs end user rental prices for 20C IPstream max and max premium reduced by 29p per month from April 2010.
66 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Section 8.3 - Call origination on fixed public narrowband networks Annex 13 Market summary Purpose of statement: to provide more detail on financial performance and first order tests of compliance with cost orientation and non-dis scrimination obligations Call origination on fixed public narrowband networks Summary Return Return on Total CCA Return excl.
h m m m m m m m m m m m m m 2011 143 46 189 110 53 4- 19 - 186 3 361 0.9 % 2010 150 52 202 120 58 52 3 27 - 150 52 372 14.4 % 17 4.6 % Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Nondiscrimination Cost orientation FAC see Unaudited Unaudited Average NCC tra affic - millions of minutes mm Average NCC rates - pence per minute ppm App 1.2 D LRIC DSAC price FAC Weighted Revenue Day Evening Weekend 24 hours Day Evening Weekend Average m ppm ppm ppm ppm ppm ppm ppm ppm For the year ended 31 March 2011 Service Internal Wholesale call originating local exchange segment PSTN and ISDN excl OA 1 335 283 218 836 0.262 0.120 0.094 0.170 0.257 0.200 0.517 0.66 External Wholesale call originating local exchange segment PSTN and ISDN excl OA 28 9,368 1,736 1,370 12,474 0.262 0.120 0.094 0.224 0.200 0.517 0.87 0.257 Internal Wholesale call originating local exchange segment incl Operator Assistance 119 33,922 12,676 11,973 58,571 0.270 0.124 0.098 0.203 0.233 0.181 0.483 0.87 External Wholesale call originating local exchange segment incl Operator Assistance 7 2,213 641 689 3,543 0.270 0.124 0.098 0.210 0.233 0.181 0.483 0.90 Internal Wholesale call originating local exchange segment ISDN incl OA 12 4,013 384 297 4,694 0.270 0.124 0.098 0.247 0.218 0.550 0.89 0.279 Internal Wholesale call origination local exchange Stick 3 1,572 569 596 2,737 0.145 0.066 0.052 0.108 0.162 0.114 0.347 0.67 Internal Wholesale call origination local exchange Stick ISDN 0 177 10 10 197 0.145 0.066 0.052 0.136 0.191 0.133 0.387 0.71 Internal Wholesale PPP 844,368 14,686 13,662 72,716 0.014 0.006 0.005 0.011 0.013 0.011 0.026 0.82 External Wholesale PPP 10 57,406 22,883 18,355 98,644 0.014 0.006 0.005 0.010 0.013 0.011 0.026 0.81 Roundings 1 189 67 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Section 8.3 - Call origination on fixed public narrowband networks continued Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Nondiscrimination Cost orientation FAC see Unaudited Unaudited Average NCC tra affic - millions of minutes mm Average NCC rates - pence per minute ppm App 1.2 D LRIC DSAC price FAC Weighted Revenue Day Evening Weekend 24 hours Day Evening Weekend Average ppm ppm ppm ppm ppm ppm ppm ppm m Restated for the year ended 31 March 2010 h Service Internal Wholesale call originating local exchange segment PSTN and ISDN excl OA 3 720 640 491 1,851 0.255 0.117 0.092 0.164 0.201 0.156 0.403 0.81 External Wholesale call originating local exchange segment PSTN and ISDN excl OA 33 10,879 2,541 1,965 15,385 0.255 0.117 0.092 0.211 0.201 0.156 0.403 1.05 Internal Wholesale call originating local exchange segment incl Operator Assistance 124 34,402 17,136 13,575 65,113 0.264 0.121 0.095 0.191 0.201 0.156 0.404 0.95 External Wholesale call originating local exchange segment incl Operator Assistance 8 2,224 781 763 3,768 0.264 0.121 0.095 0.200 0.201 0.156 0.404 1.00 Internal Wholesale call originating local exchange segment ISDN incl OA 12 4,198 516 316 5,030 0.264 0.121 0.095 0.239 0.208 0.161 0.416 1.15 Internal Wholesale call origination local exchange Stick 3 1,699 1,013 759 3,471 0.131 0.060 0.047 0.092 0.134 0.091 0.281 0.69 Internal Wholesale call origination local exchange Stick ISDN 0 152 13 10 175 0.131 0.060 0.047 0.121 0.141 0.097 0.295 0.85 Internal Wholesale PPP 946,686 20,648 16,099 83,433 0.014 0.006 0.005 0.010 0.019 0.018 0.033 0.54 External Wholesale PPP 11 60,470 24,991 19,722 105,183 0.014 0.006 0.005 0.010 0.019 0.018 0.033 0.54 Roundings 1 202 b See glossary for volume unit descriptors.
68 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Section 8.4 - Single transit on fixed public narrowband networks Annex 13 Market summary Purpose of statement: to provide more detail on financial performance and first order tests of compliance with cost orientation and non-dis scrimination obligations Single transit on fixed public narrowband networks Summary Return Return on Total CCA Return excl.
h m m m m m m m m m m m m m 2011 -4 22 ---- 11 4 4- 2.1 % 2010 -4 22 ---- 11 4 4- 1.0 % - 1.0 % Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Nondiscrimination NCC tra affic - millions of minutes mm Average NCC rates - pence per minute ppm Weighted Day Evening Weekend Day Evening Weekend Revenue 24 hours Average m ppm ppm ppm ppm For the year ended 31 March 2011 Service Internal Wholesale single transit segment PSTN & ISDN 0 134 48 32 214 0.024 0.011 0.009 0.016 External Wholesale single transit segment PSTN & ISDN 4 12,420 5,306 4,345 22,071 0.024 0.011 0.009 0.018 Roundings - 4 Restated for the year ended 31 March 2010 h Service Internal Wholesale single transit segment PSTN & ISDN 0 175 99 56 330 0.024 0.011 0.009 0.018 External Wholesale single transit segment PSTN & ISDN 4 13,237 5,952 4,780 23,969 0.024 0.011 0.009 0.018 Roundings - 4 b See glossary for volume unit descriptors.
69 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Section 8.5 - Technical areas Interconnect Circuits Annex 11 Market summary Purpose of statement: to provide more detail on financial performance and first order tests of compliance with cost orientation and non-dis scrimination obligations Technical areas Interconnect Circuits Summary Return Return on Total CCA Return excl.
h m m m m m m m m m m m m m 2011 18 37 55 27 12 1- 2- 42 13 62 20.4 % 2010 19 40 59 33 14 10 1 4 - 40 19 77 23.9 % 11 14.7 % Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Non-discrim mination Cost orientation Average FAC see Unaudited Unaudited Average Revenue Volume Unit b price App 1.2 D LRIC DSAC price FAC m For the year ended 31 March 2011 Service Customer Sited Interconnect end to end circuit External Wholesale standard CSI connection v 2 21, 230 circuits 1,790.74 7,131.36 6,346.77 12,015.58 0.25 External Wholesale standard CSI rental - fixed v 9 97, 107 circuits 529.36 1,175.29 1,196.52 675.78 1.77 External Wholesale standard CSI rentals - per km v 5 52 14,987 km 22.80 11.79 7.37 29.62 1.93 In Span Interconnect with Interconnect Extension Circuit end to end circuit External Wholesale IEC connections 0 02 53 circuits 968.57 5,039.96 4,223.94 7,671.61 0.19 External Wholesale IEC rentals 7 71 2,149 circuits 300.20 559.66 585.84 338.27 1.73 External Wholesale IEC rentals - per km 7 73 02,389 km 22.80 10.76 6.44 26.94 2.12 In Span Interconnect External Wholesale intra-building circuits connections 1 11, 731 circuits 808.36 4,390.67 3,694.55 6,724.99 0.18 External Wholesale intra-building circuits rentals 3 33 5,945 circuits 92.88 67.42 57.45 130.74 1.38 External Wholesale ISI rentals 0 07, 954 100m 255.70 460.94 0.00 287.85 0.00 External Nominated ISI - per km 2 23 0,325 100m 68.75 72.75 31.27 217.35 0.95 External Wholesale rearrangements 1 11, 391 circuits 412.87 1,231.07 1,172.18 2,344.92 0.34 Internal Wholesale standard CSI rental - fixed 9 98, 539 circuits 1,103.64 540.91 409.16 891.45 2.04 km 6.07 26.45 Internal Wholesale standard CSI rentals - per km 6 62 58,305 22.80 10.40 2.19 Internal Wholesale intra-building circuits rentals 2 22 1,886 circuits 92.88 26.11 22.22 51.59 3.56 Roundings 1 - 1 TOTAL 18.000 37.000 55 70 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Section 8.5 - Technical areas Interconnect Circuits continued Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Non-discrim mination Cost orientation Average FAC see Unaudited Unaudited Average Revenue Volume Unit b price App 1.2 D LRIC DSAC price FAC m Restated for the year ended 31 March 2010 h Service Customer Sited Interconnect end to end circuit External Wholesale standard CSI connection v 2 970 circuits 1,790.74 6,130.81 5407.84 9905.54 0.29 External Wholesale standard CSI rental - fixed v 8 6,748 circuits 1,196.52 639.54 471.43 964.19 1.87 External Wholesale standard CSI rentals - per km v 5 2 04,127 km 22.80 5.56 3.42 12.17 4.10 In Span Interconnect with Interconnect Extension Circuit end to end circuit External Wholesale IEC connections 04 51 circuits 968.57 3,805.39 3217.59 5691.54 0.26 External Wholesale IEC rentals 81 3,862 circuits 585.84 451.30 379.75 767.18 1.43 External Wholesale IEC rentals - per km 83 45,025 km 6.34 27.63 22.80 11.47 1.99 In Span Interconnect External Wholesale intra-building circuits connections 3 3,842 circuits 2740.39 4742.89 808.36 3,278.01 0.25 External Wholesale intra-building circuits rentals 33 4,320 circuits 92.88 136.26 114.23 244.76 0.68 External Wholesale ISI rentals 07, 954 100m 0.00 248.09 205.33 430.30 0.00 External Nominated ISI - per km 22 9,900 100m 68.75 62.98 27.49 175.27 1.09 External Wholesale rearrangements 12, 906 circuits 412.87 1,201.05 1122.48 2173.31 0.34 Internal Wholesale standard CSI rental - fixed 10 9,134 circuits 357.20 719.43 1,103.64 503.28 2.39 Internal Wholesale standard CSI rentals - per km 6 2 76,152 km 22.80 5.56 3.42 12.17 4.10 Internal Wholesale intra-building circuits rentals 21 8,278 circuits 92.88 89.07 74.67 160.00 1.04 Roundings 1 TOTAL 59 b See glossary for volume unit descriptors.
v Revenues shown are prior to the 'revenue share' between BT and OCPs.
71 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Section 8.6 - Fixed call termination Annex 13 Market summary Purpose of statement: to provide more detail on financial performance and first order tests of compliance with cost orientation and non-dis scrimination obligations Fixed call termination Summary Return Return on Total CCA excl.
Internal External Revenue Operating Holding operating Return reval.
Roundings costs Return MCE on MCE adjs.
72 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Section 8.7 - Wholesale trunk segments Annex 11 Market summary Purpose of statement: to provide more detail on financial performance and first order tests of compliance with cost orientation and non-disc crimination obligations Wholesale trunk segments Summary Return on Total CCA Return Return excl.
h m m m m m m m m m m m m m 2011 94 14 108 19 30 4 1 9 - 61 47 212 22.4 % 2010 141 23 164 24 31 63 3 26 - 15 149 247 60.5 % 108 43.7 % Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Non-discrim mination Cost orientation Average FAC see Unaudited Unaudited Average Revenue Volume Unit b price App 1.2 D LRIC DSAC price FAC m For the year ended 31 March 2011 Service Partial and Private circuits 2Mbit s - trunk Trunk charge per year 40.80 Enhanced maintenance per km charge per year 1.61 Total Internal 44 44 1,048,321 km 42.41 24.89 16.21 57.45 1.70 Trunk charge per year 40.80 Enhanced maintenance per km charge per year 1.61 Total External 9 9219,243 km 42.41 24.89 16.21 57.45 1.70 Partial and Private circuits 34 45Mbit s - trunk Trunk charge per year 377.95 Enhanced maintenance per km charge per year 2.41 Total Internal 19 19 48,813 km 380.36 230.21 149.86 529.69 1.65 Trunk charge per year 377.95 Enhanced maintenance per km charge per year 2.41 Total External 3 38,871 km 380.36 230.21 149.86 529.69 1.65 Partial and Private circuits 140 155Mbit s - trunk Trunk charge per year 201.24 Enhanced maintenance per km charge per year 4.13 Total Internal 11 11 52,797 km 205.37 251.29 143.30 627.96 0.82 Trunk charge per year 201.24 Enhanced maintenance per km charge per year 4.13 Total External 0 01,734 km 205.37 251.29 143.30 627.96 0.82 Internal Partial and Private circuits 622Mbit s - trunk 17 17 18,780 km 929.62 1,263.84 699.57 3,209.60 0.74 Support Service Internal Protected Path Variants and Resilience 2 2 u3 s5 Estimated cost of 1.1 External Protected Path Variants and Resilience 1 1 u3 s5 Estimated cost of 0.4 Roundings 1 1 2 TOTAL 94 14 108 73 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Section 8.7 - Wholesale trunk segments continued Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Non-discrim mination Cost orientation Average FAC see Unaudited Unaudited Average Revenue Volume Unit b price App 1.2 D LRIC DSAC price FAC m Restated for the year ended 31 March 2010 h Service Partial and Private circuits 2Mbit s - trunk Trunk charge per year 69.53 Enhanced maintenance per km charge per year 1.48 Total Internal 75 1, 057,728 km 71.01 26.00 18.28 50.60 2.73 Trunk charge per year 69.53 Enhanced maintenance per km charge per year 1.48 Total External 16 225,159 km 71.01 26.00 18.28 50.60 2.73 Partial and Private circuits 34 45Mbit s - trunk Trunk charge per year 541.92 Enhanced maintenance per km charge per year 2.22 Total Internal 31 57,177 km 544.14 216.48 148.14 391.85 2.51 Trunk charge per year 541.92 Enhanced maintenance per km charge per year 2.22 Total External 6 11,824 km 544.14 216.48 148.14 391.85 2.51 Partial and Private circuits 140 155Mbit s - trunk Trunk charge per year 256.45 Enhanced maintenance per km charge per year 5.32 Total Internal 14 51,724 km 261.77 259.53 157.42 545.44 1.01 Trunk charge per year 256.45 Enhanced maintenance per km charge per year 5.32 Total External 0 1,880 km 157.42 545.44 261.77 259.53 1.01 Internal Partial and Private circuits 622Mbit s - trunk 16 17,145 km 958.50 1,135.67 648.27 2,651.65 0.84 Support Service Internal Protected Path Variants and Resilience 4 u3 s3 Estimated total cost 1.1m External Protected Path Variants and Resilience 1 u3 s3 Estimated total cost 0.3m Roundings 1 TOTAL 164 b See glossary for volume unit descriptors.
74 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Section 8.8 - Technical areas Point of Handover Annex 11 Market summary Purpose of statement: to provide more detail on financial performance and first order tests of compliance with cost orientation and non-disc crimination obligations Technical Areas Point of Handover Summary Return Return on Total CCA Return excl.
h m m m m m m m m m m m m m 2011 -8 8 68 - 1 2 - 15 7 28 24.8 % 2010 -12 12 57 2 1 1 - 10 2 22 7.1 % 1 2.3 % Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Non-discrim mination Cost orientation Average FAC see Unaudited Unaudited Average Revenue Volume Unit b price App 1.2 D LRIC DSAC price FAC m For the year ended 31 March 2011 Service External Customer Sited Handover connection 0 05 3 conns 2,943.98 1,880.92 1,770.39 2,363.28 1.57 External Customer Sited Handover rental 2 25 76 lines 2,634.84 3,688.78 3,473.01 4,580.73 0.71 External In Span Handover connection 0 02 conns 1,966.28 1,293.50 1,216.51 1,677.88 1.52 External In Span Handover rental 2 25 58 lines 4,405.77 3,041.29 2,860.43 3,936.76 1.45 External 3rd Party POH Rental 64Kbit s 1 11 3,934 le 57.55 103.78 51.46 62.81 0.82 External 3rd Party POH Rental 2Mbit s non CLZ 3 35 1,822 le 57.46 208.04 117.08 379.16 0.28 External 3rd Party POH Rental 2Mbit s CLZ 0 04, 006 le 68.12 219.78 112.54 404.89 0.31 External 3rd Party POH Rental 34 45Mbit s 0 01, 256 le 215.67 1,434.63 620.59 2,651.75 0.15 External 3rd Party POH Rental 155Mbit s 0 01 33 le 402.63 2,439.61 1,592.92 4,063.30 0.17 Roundings - - TOTAL 8 8 75 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Section 8.8 - Technical Areas Point of Handover continued Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Non-discrim mination Cost orientation Average FAC see Unaudited Unaudited Average Revenue Volume Unit b price App 1.2 D LRIC DSAC price FAC m Restated for the year ended 31 March 2010 h Service External Customer Sited Handover connection 0130 conns 649.62 850.39 1, 463.86 710.72 2.06 External Customer Sited Handover rental 24, 866 lines 428.69 662.36 605.42 792.53 0.65 External In Span Handover connection 357 conns 44, 749.17 22,670.95 20,722.11 27,126.45 1.97 External In Span Handover rental 04 83 lines 1, 281.21 1,677.18 541.13 1,401.70 0.39 External 3rd Party POH Rental 64Kbit s 116,821 le 50.07 40.41 36.26 69.02 1.24 External 3rd Party POH Rental 2Mbit s non CLZ 559,164 le 85.12 110.83 65.52 178.45 0.77 External 3rd Party POH Rental 2Mbit s CLZ 03, 737 le 62.87 181.14 85.12 113.91 0.75 External 3rd Party POH Rental 34 45Mbit s 11,437 le 430.58 837.69 409.24 1,346.76 0.51 External 3rd Party POH Rental 155Mbit s 01 37 le 801.08 1,563.28 1,070.11 2,295.65 0.51 Roundings - TOTAL 12 b See glossary for volume unit descriptors.
76 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Section 8.9 - Wholesale Broadband Access: Market 1 Annex 11 Market summary Purpose of statement: to provide more detail on financial performance and first order tests of compliance with cost orientation and non-dis scrimination obligations Wholesale broadband access market 1 - BT only operator Summary Return Return on Total CCA Return excl.
h m m m m m m m m m m m m m 2011 201 165 366 199 125 5 6 48 - 371 5 476 0.9 % 2010 -- - -- -- - - -- - -- Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Non-discr rimination Cost orientation FAC see Unaudited Unaudited Average Revenue Volume Unit b Average price App 1.2 D LRIC DSAC price FAC m For the year ended 31 March 2011 Service Internal End user access connection Mkt 1 EOI 38.64 38.64 38.64 WBA Input 4.45 3.80 10.77 11 277,235 conns 38.64 43.09 42.44 49.41 0.90 External user access connection Mkt 1 EOI 38.64 38.64 38.64 WBA Input 4.45 3.80 10.77 5 128,031 conns 38.64 43.09 42.44 49.41 0.90 External Datastream End user access Rental Mkt 1 EOI 26.76 26.76 26.76 WBA Input 54.79 42.74 83.62 5 51,297 Rentals 89.30 81.55 69.50 110.38 1.09 Internal IPstream Connect End user access Rental Mkt 1 EOI 31.11 31.11 31.11 WBA Input 77.73 62.78 112.35 90 1,142,602 Rentals 78.71 108.84 93.89 143.46 0.72 External IPstream Connect End user access Rental Mkt 1 EOI 26.76 26.76 26.76 WBA Input 77.72 62.77 112.32 73 930,410 Rentals 78.60 104.48 89.53 139.08 0.75 External Datastream Virtual Paths Mkt 1 EOI 0.00 0.00 0.00 WBA Input 422.22 295.29 2,205.87 16 13,417 VP 1,226.42 422.22 295.29 2,205.87 2.90 Internal IPstream Connect Bandwidth Mkt 1 EOI 0.00 0.00 0.00 WBA Input 124.36 80.57 472.38 90 682,580 Bandwidth 131.98 124.36 80.57 472.38 1.06 External IPstream Connect Bandwidth Mkt 1 EOI 0.00 0.00 0.00 WBA Input 138.23 89.83 561.76 59 442,579 Bandwidth 134.37 138.23 89.83 561.76 0.97 77 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Section 8.9 - Wholesale Broadband Access: Market 1 continued Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Non-discrrimination Cost orientation FAC see Unaudited Unaudited Average Revenue Volume Unit b Average price App 1.2 D LRIC DSAC price FAC m For the year ended 31 March 2011 Internal Ancillary Charges and Other Mkt 1 EOI 0 WBA 11 u1 External Ancillary Charges and Other Mkt 1 EOI 0 WBA 6 u1 Roundings - TOTAL 366 For the year ended 31 March 2010 N a h See Section 4 - Basis of Preparation.
un This service comprises a number of individual volumetrics and prices as indicated by the value of n. 78 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Section 8.10 - Wholesale Broadband Access: Market 2 Annex 11 Market summary Purpose of statement: to provide more detail on financial performance and first order tests of compliance with cost orientation and non-dis scrimination obligations Wholesale broadband access market 2 - 2 to 3 principal operators Summary Return Return on Total CCA Return excl.
h m m m m m m m m m m m m m 2011 139 101 240 114 57 3 3 30 - 201 39 225 17.7 % 2010 -- -- -- - - -- - -- -- Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Non-discr rimination Cost orientation FAC see Unaudited Unaudited Average Revenue Volume Unit b Average price App 1.2 D LRIC DSAC price FAC m For the year ended 31 March 2011 Service Internal End user access connection Mkt 2 EOI 38.64 38.64 38.64 WBA Input 4.45 3.80 10.77 8 211,423 conns 38.64 43.09 42.44 49.41 0.90 External user access connection Mkt 2 EOI 38.64 38.64 38.64 WBA Input 4.45 3.80 10.77 4 104,106 conns 38.64 43.09 42.44 49.41 0.90 External Datastream End user access Rental Mkt 2 EOI 27.14 27.14 27.14 WBA Input 41.06 30.75 65.74 4 47,513 Rentals 89.30 68.20 57.89 92.88 1.31 Internal IPstream Connect End user access Rental Mkt 2 EOI 30.77 30.77 30.77 WBA Input 54.18 42.20 81.68 60 762,892 Rentals 78.93 84.95 72.97 112.45 0.93 External IPstream Connect End user access Rental Mkt 2 EOI 27.14 27.14 27.14 WBA Input 42.19 81.64 54.16 43 543,767 Rentals 78.72 81.30 69.33 108.78 0.97 External Datastream Virtual Paths Mkt 2 EOI 0.00 0.00 0.00 WBA Input 370.27 261.66 1,845.32 11 8,856 VP 1,226.42 370.27 261.66 1,845.32 3.31 Internal IPstream Connect Bandwidth Mkt 2 EOI 0.00 0.00 0.00 WBA Input 100.69 64.74 324.25 60 455,744 Bandwidth 131.98 100.69 64.74 324.25 1.31 External IPstream Connect Bandwidth Mkt 2 EOI 0.00 0.00 0.00 WBA Input 106.48 68.67 360.05 35 258,660 Bandwidth 134.37 106.48 68.67 360.05 1.26 79 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Section 8.10 - Wholesale Broadband Access: Market 2 continued Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges with each other and with FAC Non-discr rimination Cost orientation FAC see Unaudited Unaudited Average Revenue Volume Unit b Average price App 1.2 D LRIC DSAC price FAC m For the year ended 31 March 2011 Internal Ancillary Charges and Other Mkt 2 EOI 0 WBA 11 u1 External Ancillary Charges and Other Mkt 2 EOI 0 WBA 4 u1 Roundings - TOTAL 240 For the year ended 31 March 2010 N a h See Section 4 - Basis of Preparation.
un This service comprises a number of individual volumetrics and prices as indicated by the value of n. 80 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Section 8.11 - Wholesale Broadband Access 2010 Annex 12 Market summary Purpose of statement: to provide more detail on financial performance and first order tests of compliance with cost orientation and non-discrimin nation obligations Wholesale Broadband Access Summary Return on Total CCA Return excl.
Internal External Revenue note Operating Holding operating Return on reval.
Roundings 1 costs Depreciation gain loss Supp.
h Revenue Revenue m m m m m m m m m m m m m m 2010 570 405 - 975 469 336 65 2 19 - 757 218 1,301 16.8 % 178 13.7 % Non-discrimination Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges Volume Unit b Revenue Average price m Wholesale Broadband Access Market 1 - BT only operator For the year ended 31 March 2010 Service Internal BT only IPstream end user access connection 14 388, 043 conns 36.16 External BT only IPstream end user access connection 7 187, 918 conns 36.09 Internal BT only IPstream end user access rental 121 1,444,378 lines 83.80 External BT only IPstream end user access rental 101 1,228,398 lines 82.42 Internal BT only Datastream end user access connection - 693 conns 36.01 External BT only Datastream end user access connection - 11, 138 conns 35.92 Internal BT only Datastream end user access rental 1 9,115 lines 86.47 External BT only Datastream end user access rental 14 164, 473 lines 86.47 Internal BT only backhaul circuits excluding Virtual Paths m 35 216, 104 circuits 163.32 External BT only backhaul circuits excluding Virtual Paths m 39 237, 453 circuits 163.32 Roundings - Total geographic revenue for Wholesale Broadband Access Market 1 332 excludes non geographic revenues - see below Wholesale Broadband Access Market 2 - 2 to 3 principal operators For the year ended 31 March 2010 Service Internal 2-3 operators IPstream end user access connection 8 219, 324 conns 36.11 External 2-3 operators IPstream end user access connection 4 102, 272 conns 36.06 Internal 2-3 operators IPstream end user access rental 70 834, 687 lines 84.14 External 2-3 operators IPstream end user access rental 40 475, 424 lines 83.54 Internal 2-3 operators Datastream end user access connection - 556 conns 35.93 External 2-3 operators Datastream end user access connection - 9,044 conns 35.81 Internal 2-3 operators Datastream end user access rental 1 7,174 lines 86.47 External 2-3 operators Datastream end user access rental 13 151, 936 lines 86.47 Internal 2-3 operators backhaul circuits excluding Virtual Paths m 21 127, 854 circuits 163.32 External 2-3 operators backhaul circuits excluding Virtual Paths m 19 115, 935 circuits 163.32 Roundings - Total geographic revenue for Wholesale Broadband Access Market 2 176 excludes non geographic revenues - see below 81 Section 8 - Review of Other Wholesale Markets Section 8.11 - Wholesale Broadband Access 2010 continued Non-discrimination Note 1: Comparison of average internal and external charges Revenue Volume Unit b Average price m Wholesale Broadband Access Market 3 4 or more principal operators and non geographic For the year ended 31 March 2010 Service Market 3 excluding non-geographical 250 u5 s5 Internal Virtual Paths handover k 0 436 pipes 571.93 External Virtual Paths handover k 4 3,452 pipes 1,103.14 Ancillary charges migration, cessation, re-grades 87 u2 s2 Internal Broadband conveyance in the UK 53 u6 s6 External Broadband conveyance in the UK 73 u6 s6 Roundings - 467 WBA Total The market summary for the Wholesale Broadband Access Market includes geographical sub markets 1, 2 and 3. b See glossary for volume unit descriptors.
k This service comprises a number of individual prices.
m Backhaul circuits represents the elements of IPStream Centrals and Datastream Virtual Paths which fall into the wholesale broadband access market.
sx This service comprises a number of individual prices as indicated by the value of x. ux This service comprises a number of individual volumetrics as indicated by the value of x. h See Section 4 Basis of Preparation for the CCA Revaluation Adjustment.
82 Section 9 - Reconciliation Statements Section 9 - Reconciliation Statements Section 9 Reconciliation Statements 83 Section 9 - Reconciliation Statements Section 9.1 - BT Reconciliation Statements Section 9.1.
1 - BT Reconciliation Statement 2011 Annex 19 Consolidated Group Income Statement Return or For the year ended 31 March 2011 Operating Profit before Revenue Costs taxation m m m As in the Annual Report 20,076 17,871 1,717 Adjustments Elimination of inter-market revenue and costs 5,110 5,110 - Other operating income - 270 - Profits on disposal of property, plant and equipment - 103 - Share of post tax profits of associates and joint ventures - 21 - Profit on disposal of associate - - 42 Net short term interest - 56 - Long term interest payable - - 868 Total BT Markets HCA 25,186 22,643 2,543 Holding gain loss - 10 10 Supplementary depreciation - 230 230 Other CCA adjustments - 998 998 Adjustments - - - Total BT Markets CCA - Note 1 25,186 23,861 1,325 Note 1 - Agrees to Annex 3 Consolidated Performance Summary.
2 - BT Reconciliation Statement 2010 Restated Annex 19 Consolidated Group Income Statement Return or Restated for the year ended 31 March 2010 h Operating Profit before Revenue Costs taxation m m m 20,859 19,116 1,007 As in the Annual Report Adjustments Elimination of inter-market revenue and costs 5,499 5,499 - Other operating income - 305 - Profits on disposal of property, plant and equipment - 75 - Share of post tax profits of associates and joint ventures - 54 - Loss on disposal of associate - 12 - Net short term interest - 297 - Long term interest payable - - 861 26,358 24,490 1,868 Total BT Markets HCA Holding gain loss - 3,591 3,591 Supplementary depreciation - 192 192 Other CCA adjustments - 980 980 Adjustments - - - Total BT Markets CCA - Note 1 h 26,358 22,071 4,287 CCA adjustments excluding revaluation adj.
h - 540 540 Total BT Markets CCA - Note 1 excluding revaluation adj.
h 26,358 23,950 2,408 Note 1 - Agrees to Annex 3 Consolidated Performance Summary.
3 - BT Reconciliation Statement MCE Annex 20 Mean capital employed of BT Markets 2011 2010 Consolidated mean capital employed Restated h For the year ended 31 March 2011 2011 2010 m m m m Access markets 12,439 12,053 Shareholders funds as in the 2011 Annual Report 1,925 2,650 Other Wholesale markets h 1,755 2,418 CCA adjustments 2,518 3,736 4,443 1,086 Sub total BT Markets 14,194 14,471 Adjustments Residual activities Goodwill 1,357 1,432 Wholesale residual activity h 1,875 1,304 Retirement benefit asset - - Retail residual activity 1,819 3,416 Derivative financial instruments - assets 626 1,677 Deferred tax liabilities 1,212 1,456 Sub total residual activities 3,694 4,720 Deferred tax assets 461 2,196 Current tax liabilities 221 320 Roundings and other adjustments Long term loans and other borrowings: Wholesale markets - - Due in less than one year 266 3,260 Retail markets & activities - - Due in more than one year 9,371 9,522 Sub total roundings and other adjustments - - Derivative financial instruments - liabilities 296 693 Other payables 831 804 Total CCA mean capital employed 17,888 19,191 Minority interests 26 24 Retirement benefit obligations 1,830 7,864 a Daily averaging adjustment is not reported in 2011. h See Section 4 - Basis of Preparation.
89 Analogue exchange line services ISDN2 exchange line services Business ISDN30 exchange line services Wholesale local access Sub Total full SMP services excluding AISBO Alternative interface symmetric broadband origination up to and including 1Gbit s Sub Total: Openreach full SMP services including AISBO Other Openreach Markets & Activiities with no SMP reporting obligations Total: Openreach Services - by regulated market Section 10 - Openreach Information Section 10.3 - Openreach MCE Statement 2011 For the year ended 31 March 2011 Full service provision OpenreachServices byregulatedmarket m m m m m m m m m Non-current Assets Tangible fixed assets: Land & Buildings 118 15 16 160 309 14 323 206 529 Access - Copper 3,610 102 11 713 4,436 0 4,436 132 4,568 Access - Fibre 20 1 81 4 56 378 434 479 913 Access - Duct 3,395 98 68 615 4,176 424 4,600 931 5,531 Switch and Transmission - Switch 144 21 12 17 194 0 194 24 218 - Transmission 189 7 53 32 281 268 549 684 1,233 Other 309 18 26 136 489 255 744 387 1,131 Investments 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total Non-current assets 7,745 260 267 1,669 9,941 1,339 11,280 2,843 14,123 Current Assets Stocks 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 32 32 Debtors - Internal 206 12 29 58 305 50 355 53 302 - External 350 17 69 28 464 42 506 31 475 Total Current Assets 556 29 98 86 769 92 861 52 809 Liabilities falling due within one year - Internal 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 - External 513 24 83 100 720 118 838 194 1,032 Total Liabilities falling due within one year 513 24 83 100 720 118 838 194 1,032 Net Current Assets Liabilities 43 5 15 14 49 26 23 246 223 Total Assets less Current Liabilities 7,788 265 282 1,655 9,990 1,313 11,303 2,597 13,900 Provisions for liabilities and charges 75 5 8 22 110 12 122 82 204 Roundings Mean capital employed 7,713 260 274 1,633 9,880 1,301 11,181 2,515 13,696 90 Wholesale analogue exchange line services Wholesale ISDN2 exchange line services Wholesale business ISDN30 exchange line services Wholesale local access Sub Total full SMP services excluding AISBO AISBO up to and including 1Gbit s Sub Total full SMP services including AISBO Other Openreach Markets & Activities with no SMP reporting obligations Total: Openreach Services - by regulated market Section 10 - Openreach Information Section 10.4 - Openreach MCE Statement 2010 For the year ended 31 March 2010 Full service provision Openreach Services by regulated market m m m m m m m m m Non-current Assets Tangible fixed assets Land & Buildings 153 16 17 125 311 16 327 237 564 Access-Copper 3,667 102 12 405 4,186 - 4,186 159 4,345 AccessFibre 3 - 95 - 98 378 476 363 839 Access - Duct 3,266 92 65 313 3,736 374 4,110 912 5,022 Switch and Transmission - Switch 195 27 10 15 247 n a 247 29 276 - Transmission 310 9 70 18 407 246 653 758 1,411 Other 385 21 28 98 532 125 657 488 1,145 Investments n a n a n a n a 0 n a 0 n a 0 Total Non-current Assets 7,979 267 297 974 9,517 1,139 10,656 2,946 13,602 Current Assets: Stocks n a n a n a n a 0 n a 0 34 34 Debtors - Internal 285 18 38 52 393 58 451 2 453 - External 86 3 1 10 100 1 101 82 183 Total Current Assets 371 21 39 62 493 59 552 118 670 Liabilities falling due within one year - Internal n a n a n a n a 0 n a 0 n a 0 - External 382 17 29 79 507 75 582 368 950 Total Liabilities falling due within one year 382 17 29 79 507 75 582 368 950 Net Current Assets Liabilities 11 4 10 17 14 16 30 250 280 Total Assets less Current Liabilities 7,968 271 307 957 9,503 1,123 10,626 2,696 13,322 Provisions for liabilities and charges 31 3 5 7 46 3 49 41 90 Roundings - - - - - - - - - Mean capital employed 7,937 268 302 950 9,457 1,120 10,577 2,655 13,232 91 Analogue exchange line services ISDN2 exchange line services Business ISDN30 exchange line services Wholesale local access Sub Total full SMP services excluding AISBO Alternative interface symmetric broadband origination up to and including 1Gbit s Sub Total: Openreach full SMP services including AISBO Other Openreach Markets & Activiities with no SMP reporting obligations Total: Openreach Services - by regulated market Section 10 - Openreach Information Section 10.5 - Reconciliation of Openreach Income Statement 2011 For the year ended 31 March 2011 Notes per 10.7 Revenue Operating Return or Cost Profit before taxation m m m As in the Annual Report 4,930 3,675 1,255 Reconciliation differences: Use of BT Operate assets b - 181 181 Northern Ireland revenues and returns not subject to BT Undertakings c 120 99 21 Non-traded costs e - 129 129 Other trading differences d - 71 71 Total reconciliation differences 120 118 2 CCA adjustments - 1,031 1,031 Adjustments 1 - 1 Regulatory entity as per Section 10.1 5,051 4,824 227 h See Section 4 - Basis of Preparation.
92 Section 10 - Openreach Information Section 10.6 - Reconciliation of Openreach Income Statement 2010 For the year ended 31 March 2010 Notes per 10.7 Revenue Operating Return or Cost Profit before taxation m m m As in the Annual Report 5,164 4,060 1,104 Reconciliation differences: Use of BT Operate assets b - 179 179 Northern Ireland revenues and returns not subject to BT Undertakings c 135 112 23 Other trading differences d - 20 20 Total reconciliation differences 135 87 222 CCA adjustments - 2,322 2,322 Regulatory entity as per Section 10.2 including revaluation adjustment h 5,299 1,651 3,648 CCA adjustments excluding revaluation adjustment - 547 547 Regulatory entity as per Section 10.2 excluding revaluation adjustment h 5,299 3,426 1,873 h See Section 4 - Basis of Preparation.
The non-matched element between revenue and costs of these items distorts the Section 10.7 - Openreach Notes Section 10.7 - Openreach Notes reported return in the local access market.
Remove the Current Cost Accounting CCA Holding Gains and losses from each year, as these 1.
Openreach Statements items are the change in valuation driven by price effects in the year and can swing significantly in amount and direction from year to year.
As noted within the Regulation in the UK section of these accounts, on the 22 September 2005, BT offered certain undertakings to Ofcom in lieu of a reference under the Enterprise Act 2002 the Remove Other CCA adjustments, as these items are principally due to methodology changes, Undertakings.
In accordance with section 5.31 of the Undertakings, with effect from the start of BTs where any changes resulting from change or modification to the valuation methodology are 2006 07 financial year, BTs Regulatory Financial Statements need to separately present the financial taken through the Profit and Loss account.
The specific adjustments are not, in general, results of Openreach and include a reconciliation of Openreachs revenue, operating profit and other expected to recur.
items agreed between BT and Ofcom with the financial information about Openreach as shown in BT Group plcs Annual Report.
Reconciling Differences The form, content and basis of preparation of the financial results of Openreach follow, to the fullest The reconciling differences between the Openreach regulatory statement and the Openreach extent possible, those used in the preparation of the Current Cost Financial Statements.
segmental financial information reported in BT Group plcs Annual Report fall into the following main categories: The Primary Accounting Documents outline the methodologies used to present the financial results of Openreach within the Current Cost Financial Statements for 2011 Openreach regulatory statement.
a Basis of preparation under Current Cost Accounting CCA The reconciliation of that statement to the Openreach segmental financial information as shown in BT BT Group plcs Annual Report has been prepared under the historical cost convention HCA, modified Group plcs Annual Report is shown for the Profit and Loss Account above.
for the revaluation of certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value.
As directed by Ofcom through BTs Current Cost Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the Final Statements the Explanatory Statement and Notification, BTs Current Cost Financial Statements have been and Notifications imposed on BT by Ofcom, where Ofcom has defined certain markets where BT is prepared on a CCA basis, in accordance with the Primary Accounting Documents and the Detailed deemed to have Significant Market Power SMP in the UK.
However, the products sold by Openreach Valuation Methods, all of which are annually updated.
As such, a reconciliation entry has been made to do not align directly with these definitions of these economic markets.
exclude the aggregated CCA adjustments included within the Openreach regulatory statement.
The Primary Accounting Documents, dated 15 September 2011, detail how BT has disaggregated the b Rental charge to Openreach for use of assets owned by BT Operate SMP definitions in order to show the Openreach regulatory statement and reconciliation of that to the Within the Openreach segmental financial information reported in BT Group plcs Annual Report, the Openreach financial information as shown in BT Group plcs Annual Report.
For the sake of clarity of results of BT Wholesale include a charge for an appropriate return on capital where assets are owned by presentation, within the Openreach regulatory statement, separate columns are contained for each BT Operate e. g. for line cards, electronics and network features but are used by Openreach.
The Full Openreach market and the remaining Part Openreach marketactivities have been Openreach regulatory statements do not include this charge, as the basis for attribution of costs and consolidated into a single column.
assets to products in the regulatory accounts is actual costs and assets.
The Openreach information includes comparative information for the year ended 31 March 2010 c Results relating to Northern Ireland operations published on 28 July 2010 prepared in accordance with the Primary Accounting Documents dated 28 July 2010.
The Current Cost Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the Final Statements and Notifications imposed on BT where Ofcom has defined certain markets in which BT is deemed to have 2.
Access Markets Openreach Level Review Significant Market Power SMP in the UK.
This definition includes BTs Northern Ireland operations.
The Openreach segmental financial information reported in BT Group plcs Annual Report excludes BTs To assess the underlying performance of Openreach's markets on a like for like basis each year it is operations in Northern Ireland.
Accordingly, the results of the access network element of BTs Northern necessary to adjust for a number of significant one off items which impact the operating profit in one Ireland operations form part of the reconciliation.
The return shown in these statements for total Openreach before these items was 1.7% for the financial year 2010 11 and 27.6% for the financial year 2009 10 including non-SMP d Other Trading Differences activity and 5.3% in 2010 11 and 29.8% in 2009 10 excluding non-SMP results and Openreach Ethernet services AISBO market.
If adjustments are made to these markets, for comparability The Openreach segmental financial information reported in BT Group plc's Annual Report reflect the purposes, the return is 935m for 2010 11 and 714m for 2009 10 resulting in a ROCE of 9.7% and internal charges between BT's lines of business rather than the allocation of actual costs and capital 7.7% respectively.
The adjustments are as follows: employed as shown in the Current Cost Financial Statements.
The other trading differences reflect the total of these timing differences across the year.
Wholesale Local Access Co-location activity has been excluded.
BT charges customers upfront for the cost of equipment and the installation of its exchanges.
Revenue is recognised and received in the year of connection but the capitalised costs are depreciated over the life of the 94 Section 10 - Openreach Information e Non-traded costs Non-traded costs are shown separately from the Openreach segmented results in BT Group plcs Annual Report, and are included as a separate line to enable reconciliation between the accounts.
95 Appendix 1 - Other Information Appendix 1 - Other Information Appendix 1 Other Information 96 Appendix 1 - Other Information Appendix 1.1 - Network Activity Statements Annex 15 Appendix 1.1.
b See glossary for volume unit descriptors.
c Unit of length is 10 kilometres.
97 Footnotes Appendix 1 - Other Information Appendix 1.1.
98 Footnotes Appendix 1 - Other Information Appendix 1.1.
1 - Network Activity Statement - Consolidated 2011 continued for the year ended 31 March 2011 Network Activity Statement - Consolidated this is a consolidation of all markets where there are cost accounting obligations Total of operating Average costs costs and per unit on a Holding gain Total CCA Applicable capital costs current cost Supplementary and other CCA operating CCA mean rate of return relating to basis relating to Fully Allocated Cost m h HCA operating cost depreciation adjustments costs capital employed on capital % Capital costs current year Volume b current year SMP Cost Accounting components Access Cards ISDN2 services 0 0 0 0 0 11.0 0 0 1,141,741 channels 0.01 Core Metro voice 8 0 3 11 18 11.0 2 13 1,559,624 mm 0.00 Border gateway & signalling firewall 0 0 0 0 0 11.0 0 0 810,969 mm 0.00 MSAN-POSI Voice Link 0 0 0 0 0 11.0 0 0 816,356 mm 0.00 Access Cards other services 16 1 9 24 22 11.0 2 26 a a MSAN-METRO Connectivity Link 23 1 12 34 65 11.0 7 41 a a Core Metro connectivity 74 3 29 100 171 11.0 19 119 a a Edge Ethernet ports 12 1 4 15 25 11.0 3 18 a a iNode call set up and features 16 0 0 16 61 11.0 7 23 a a ATM customer interface 2Mbit 1 0 0 1 0 11.0 0 1 4,077 ports 160.14 ATM customer interface 34Mbit 3 0 0 3 2 11.0 0 3 1,452 ports 2,124.10 ATM customer interface 155Mbit 12 0 0 12 7 11.0 1 13 17,564 ports 699.15 ATM network interface 6 0 0 6 4 11.0 0 6 12,374 ports 490.19 ATM network switching 36 0 0 36 29 11.0 3 39 4,246,569 usage 9.27 Inter ATM transmissions 37 2 8 43 144 11.0 16 59 1,157,155 usage 50.85 Internal LLU Tie Cables 9 1 1 9 47 10.1 5 14 7,936,433 cables 1.80 Broadband backhaul circuits excl Virtual Paths 47 3 8 52 154 11.0 17 69 100 circuits 692,509.31 Special Fault Investigation 72 0 0 72 2 11.0 0 72 425,115 misc 0.02 MSAN-BRAS Broadband Link 74 6 70 138 201 11.0 22 160 4,854,652 circuits 32.97 Core Metro broadband 102 5 38 135 224 11.2 25 160 4,854,652 circuits 33.07 Geographic broadband adjustments 0 0 0 0 0 0.0 0 0 1 misc 1.00 Low Tisbo Equipment Depn 31 0 0 31 0 0.0 0 31 a a High Tisbo Equipment Depn 5 0 0 5 0 0.0 0 5 a a Very High Tisbo Equipment Depn 0 0 0 0 0 0.0 0 0 a a Low Tisbo Excess Construction 3 0 0 3 0 0.0 0 3 1 misc 2,874,202.00 AISBO Excess Construction 4 0 0 4 0 0.0 0 4 a a Main exchange switching n n ISDN30 connections n n ISDN30 access n n ISDN30 line cards n n Access Cards ISDN30 services n n SMP Accounting Separation components 122 0 16 138 293 32 170 n a n a Residual components 2,407 1 70 2,476 684 75 2,551 n a n a Roundings 0 2 2 0 3 2 2 n a n a Total 6,969 230 988 8,187 16, 069 1,680 9,867 a This component is attributed on a % basis so no volume or unit cost is derivable.
n Accounting Separation components require no costs to be disclosed.
99 Footnotes Appendix 1 - Other Information Appendix 1.1.
b See glossary for volume unit descriptions.
h See Section 4 Basis of Preparation.
2 - Network Activity Statement - Consolidated 2010 continued For the year ended 31 March 2010 Network Activity Statement - Consolidated this is a consolidation of all markets where there are cost accounting obligations Total of operating Average costs Holding costs and per unit on a gain loss and Total CCA CCA mean Applicable capital costs current cost HCA operating Supplementary other CCA operating capital rate of return Capital relating to basis relating to Fully Allocated Cost m h cost depreciation adjustments costs employed on capital % costs current year Volume b current year SMP Cost Accounting components Local Loop Unbundling systems development 17 0 0 17 40 10.1 4 21 a a Directories 40 0 0 40 6 10.1 1 39 a a Service assurance Retail 0 0 0 0 2 11.0 0 0 a a Service assurance Global services 0 0 0 0 0 11.0 0 0 a a Service Centres - Provision 100 0 0 100 3 10.1 0 100 a a Sales product management 27 0 0 27 6 11.0 1 26 a a Service Centres - Assurance 50 0 0 50 3 10.1 0 50 a a Combi Card voice 47 0 0 47 140 10.1 14 61 22,199,030 lines 2.77 Combi Card broadband 20 0 0 20 55 11.0 6 26 8,034,887 lines 3.22 Access Cards ISDN2 services 1 0 0 1 2 10.1 0 1 1,245,591 channels 0.57 Core Metro voice 13 0 0 13 29 11.0 3 16 371,275 mm 0.004p Border gateway & signalling firewall 0 0 0 0 1 11.0 0 0 194,866 mm 0.000p MSAN-POSI Voice Link 5 0 0 5 14 11.0 2 7 194,979 mm 0.003p Access Cards other services 8 0 0 8 19 11.0 2 10 a a MSAN-METRO Connectivity Link 50 0 0 50 118 11.0 13 63 a a Core Metro connectivity 107 0 0 107 239 11.0 26 133 a a Edge Ethernet ports 30 0 0 30 66 11.0 7 37 a a iNode call set up and features 16 0 0 16 47 11.0 5 21 a a ATM customer interface 2Mbit n n ATM customer interface 34Mbit n n ATM customer interface 155Mbit n n ATM network interface n n ATM network switching n n Inter ATM transmissions n n ISDN30 connections n n ISDN30 access n n ISDN30 line cards n n Internal LLU Tie Cables n n Broadband backhaul circuits excl Virtual Paths n n Special Fault Investigation n n MSAN-BRAS Broadband Link n n Core Metro broadband n n Access Cards ISDN30 services n n Geographic broadband adjustments n n SMP Accounting Separation components 414 5 7 416 984 107 523 n a n a Residual components 2,446 4 20 2,430 664 68 2,498 n a n a Roundings 2 1 3 - 3 8 8 n a n a Total 7,294 193 733 6,754 15,775 1,651 8,405 a This component is attributed on a % basis so no volume or unit cost is derivable.
102 Appendix 1 - Other Information Appendix 1.2 - Calculation of FAC based on component costs and usage factors Annex 16 Appendix 1.2.
103 Average cost per unit from annex 15 Wholesale basic analogue internal service connections Wholesale premium analogue internal service connections Wholesale premium analogue external service connections Wholesale basic analogue internal service rentals Wholesale basic analogue external service rentals Wholesale premium analogue internal service rentals Wholesale premium analogue external service rentals Wholesale premium analogue internal service takeovers Wholesale premium analogue external service transfers Wholesale ISDN2 internal service connections Wholesale ISDN2 external service connections Wholesale ISDN2 internal service rentals Wholesale ISDN2 external service rentals Wholesale ISDN2 internal service takeovers Wholesale ISDN2 external service transfers MPF New Provides MPF Rentals MPF Room Build MPF Hostel Rentals MPF Tie Cables SMPF New Provides SMPF Rentals SMPF Single Migrations SMPF Bulk Migrations SMPF Ceases MPF Single Migrations MPF Buk Migrations MPF Ceases Appendix 1 - Other Information Appendix 1.2.
1 - Calculation of FAC based on component costs and usage factors 2011 continued for the year ended 31 March 2011 Traditional interface symmetric broadband origination up to and including 8Mbit s Fully Allocated Cost h Components Unit d PC rental 2Mbit link per km distribution km 45.32 45.32 PC rental 2Mbit link per km trunk km 22.69 PC rental 64Kbit link link 160.16 160.16 PC rental 2Mbit link link 148.06 148.06 PC rental 64Kbit link per km transmission km 5.95 5.95 5.97 64Kbit PC link connection cct provision circuit 1,646.50 1,646.50 1,646.50 2Mbit and above PC link connection cct provision circuit 1,583.41 1,586.33 1,581.57 81,185.00 PC rental 64Kbit link local end le 235.39 234.86 PC rental 2Mbit local end copper le 510.92 58.84 PC rental 2Mbit local end fibre le 811.27 635.74 SDSL connections conn 0.51 Routeing & records line 6.74 MDF Hardware jumpering line 24.22 Software jumpering line 0.33 E side copper capital line 10.83 10.83 2.55 E side copper current line 1.98 1.98 0.16 D side copper capital line 75.05 75.05 17.71 D side copper current line 5.71 5.71 0.47 Local exchanges general frames capital line 1.25 1.25 0.29 Local exchanges general frames current line 1.30 Dropwire capital & PSTN NTE line 19.17 Residential PSTN drop maintenance line 4.45 Broadband line testing systems line 2.92 Low Tisbo Equipment Depn q % 31m Edge Ethernet ports q % 18m 9.09 Core Metro connectivity q % 119m 59.51 MSAN-METRO Connectivity Link q % 41m 9.02 0.12 Service Centres - Assurance q % 49m Sales product management q % 25m Service Centres - Provision q % 98m SG & A other access q % 82m DSLAM capital maintenance q % 307m SG & A partial private circuits q % 48m 9.91 4.98 0.06 0.11 7.40 50.97 98.15 21.98 2.19 23.55 129.93 176.69 SG & A private circuits q % 20m 6.63 5.43 0.05 0.09 19.52 33.31 11.52 1.20 18.79 PPC support services q % 6m Fully Allocated Costs 1,663.04 170.57 6.06 6.17 356.60 1,697.47 1,717.79 259.18 48.83 758.10 1,711.50 81,361.69 d ppm pence per minute: 2Mbit cct per 2Mbit s circuit: km per kilometre: 100m m per 100 metres: trans per transaction: circuit per circuit: hostel rental per hostel rental: % % utilisation: d2 line per line: room per room: cable per cable: link per link: eq per equipment units: le per local end: conn per connection: channel per channel: fibre km per fibre km.
q This is the total cost not unit cost for this component.
y Unit costs calculated as a weighted average of the 64Kbit PC link connection cct provision & & 64Kbit PC link connection cct rearrangements.
104 Average cost per unit from annex 15 Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - connection Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - link Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - distribution Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - trunk Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - local end Radio Backhaul Service - sub 2 Mbit s connection Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - connection Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - link Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - distribution Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - local end Radio Backhaul Service - 2 Mbit s connection Netstream 16 LL 2Mbit s connection Appendix 1 - Other Information Appendix 1.2.
1 - Calculation of FAC based on component costs and usage factors 2011 continued for the year ended 31 March 2011 Traditional interface symmetric Traditional interface symmetric broadband origination above broadband origination above Wholesale trunk segments 8Mbit s up to and including 45Mbit s up to and including 45Mbit s 155Mbit s Fully Allocated Cost h Components Unit d PC rental 2Mbit link per km trunk km 22.69 22.69 PC rental 34Mbit link per km distribution km 360.31 360.31 PC rental 34Mbit link per km trunk km 211.53 211.53 PC rental 140Mbit link per km distribution km 537.54 537.84 PC rental 140Mbit link per km trunk km 242.45 242.45 PC rental 622Mbit link per km trunk km 1,231.29 1,231.29 PC rental 34Mbit link link 1,047.11 1,047.11 PC rental 140Mbit link link 3,103.45 3,012.76 2Mbit and above PC link connection cct provision circuit 1,583.41 1,585.37 1,587.35 PC rental 34Mbit link local end le 4,928.11 4,837.70 PC rental 140Mbit link local end le 10,219m 10,155.95 High Tisbo Equipment Depn q % 5m Edge Ethernet ports q % 18m 154.50 636.19 Core Metro connectivity q % 119m 1,011.60 4,165.40 MSAN-METRO Connectivity Link q % 41m 153.28 0.12 631.16 0.12 0.02 0.12 0.12 0.12 Access Cards other services q % 26m 1,327.29 SG & A partial private circuits q % 48m 134.62 122.93 13.49 72.87 115.90 60.87 2.57 120.59 0.75 5.24 0.62 SG & A private circuits q % 20m 14.37 82.78 14.67 77.16 30.90 376.19 19.26 362.41 1.43 13.32 8.10 32.43 PPC support services q % 6m Fully Allocated Costs 1,734.36 2,572.20 388.59 6,315.02 1,734.15 8,882.57 559.79 10,638.95 24.89 230.21 251.29 1,263.84 d ppm pence per minute: 2Mbit cct per 2Mbit s circuit: km per kilometre: 100m m per 100 metres: trans per transaction: circuit per circuit: hostel rental pe er hostel rental: % % utilisation: d2 line per line: room per room: cable per cable: link per link: eq per equipment units: le per local end: con nn per connection: channel per channe el: fibre km per fibre km.
105 Average cost per unit from annex 15 Partial and Private Circuits 34 45Mbit s - connection Partial and Private Circuits 34 45Mbit s - link Partial and Private Circuits 34 45Mbit s - distribution Partial and Private Circuits 34 45Mbit s - local end Partial and Private Circuits 140 155Mbit s - connection Partial and Private Circuits 140 155Mbit s - link Partial and Private Circuits 140 155Mbit s - distribution Internal Partial and Private Circuits 140 155Mbit s - local end Partial and Private circuits 2Mbit s - trunk Partial and Private circuits 34 45Mbit s - trunk Partial and Private circuits 140 155Mbit s - trunk Partial and Private circuits 622Mbit s - trunk Appendix 1 - Other Information Appendix 1.2.
1 - Calculation of FAC based on component costs and usage factors 2011 continued for the year ended 31 March 2011 Call origination on fixed public narrowband Fixed call termination networks PPP Call Termination Call Origination Basket ad Retail Sticks Retail Sticks Basket basket Fully Allocated Cost h Components Unit d ppm ppm ppm ppm ppm ppm ppm ppm ppm ppm Local exchange concentrator ppm 0.062 0.071 0.059 0.080 0.059 0.084 0.060 0.082 0.059 0.084 Local exchange processor ppm 0.062 0.071 0.060 0.081 0.061 0.082 Remote - local transmission link ppm 0.042 0.034 0.034 0.034 0.034 0.034 0.034 0.034 0.034 0.034 Remote - local transmission length ppm per 10km 0.042 0.061 0.061 0.061 0.061 0.061 0.061 0.061 0.061 0.061 Product management policy & planning ppm 0.013 0.013 National OA non chargeable ppm 0.001 0.001 0.001 Emergency OA 999 non chargeable ppm 0.010 0.010 0.010 0.011 Core Metro voice ppm 0.001 Border gateway & signalling firewall ppm 0.000 MSAN-POSI Voice Link ppm 0.000 iNode call set up and features q % 23m 0.010 0.008 0.011 0.008 0.012 0.009 0.012 0.008 0.012 Edge Ethernet ports q % 18m SG & A other access q % 82m Fully Allocated Costs ppm 0.257 0.233 0.279 0.013 0.162 0.191 0.225 0.271 0.162 0.191 d ppm pence per minute: 2Mbit cct per 2Mbit s circuit: km per kilometre: 100m p per 100 metres: trans per transaction: circuit per circuit: hostel rental per hostel rental: % d2 line per line: room per room: cable per cable: link per link: eq per equ uipment units: le per local end: conn per connection: channel per channel: fibre km h See Section 4 - Basis of Preparation.
ad Does not include the service Wholesale Call originating local exchange segment ISDN excl.
Ope erator Assistance due to immaterial volumes.
106 Average cost per unit from annex 15 Internal and External Wholesale call originating local exchange segment PSTN and ISDN excl OA Internal and External Wholesale call originating local exchange segment incl Operator Assistance Internal Wholesale call originating local exchange segment ISDN incl OA Internal and External Wholesale PPP Internal Wholesale call origination local exchange Stick Internal Wholesale call origination local exchange Stick ISDN Wholesale call termination local exchange segment Internal Wholesale call termination local exchange segment ISDN Internal Wholesale call termination local exchange stick Internal Wholesale call termination local exchange stick ISDN Appendix 1 - Other Information Appendix 1.2.
1 - Calculation of FAC based on component costs and usage factors 2011 continued for the year ended 31 March 2011 Technical areas Interconnect Circuits Technical Areas Point of Handover Interconnect Specific Basket In Span Interconnect with Customer Sited Interconnect Interconnect Extension Circuit In span Interconnect Internal Interconnect end to end circuit end to end circuit Fully Allocated Cost h Components Unit d Interconnect local end rental 2Mbit circuit 243.38 243.38 243.38 Interconnect 2Mbit connection circuit 10,400.10 2,829.98 461.53 1,189.37 Interconnect extension circuits IEC 2Mbit link circuit 242.17 242.17 Customer Sited Interconnect cct CSI 2Mbit link circuit 244.51 244.51 244.51 Interconnect extension circuits IEC 2Mbit per km km 9.85 9.85 Customer Sited Interconnect cct CSI 2Mbit per km km 9.37 9.37 9.37 In Span Interconnect circuits ISI transmission 100m 287.85 287.85 Nominated In Span I Connect cct ISI transmission 100m 70.01 70.01 Intra Building Circuit IBC connection circuit 4,167.39 4,167.39 4,167.39 4,167.39 Intra Building Circuit IBC rental circuit 47.92 58.04 58.04 58.04 22.41 Point of Handover electronics eq 0.97 1,818.96 3,604.06 1,215.00 2,862.35 PC rental 64Kbit link local end le 235.39 57.61 PC rental 34Mbit link local end le 4,928.11 1,412.66 PC rental 140Mbit link local end le 10,219.28 2,398.59 PC rental 2Mbit local end copper le 510.92 24.91 PC rental 2Mbit local end fibre le 811.27 177.28 212.84 E side copper capital line 10.83 E side copper current line 1.98 D side copper capital line 75.05 D side copper current line 5.71 Local exchanges general frames capital line 1.25 Edge Ethernet ports q % 18m 43.57 362.13 141.65 MSAN-METRO Connectivity Link q % 41m 9.02 0.12 9.02 9.02 0.12 SG & A partial private circuits q % 48m 90.42 120.83 2.30 48.91 9.38 81.63 9.38 41.70 5.20 5.85 6.94 21.97 41.02 SG & A private circuits q % 20m 19.66 0.91 2.74 44.00 0.91 3.70 61.96 84.72 78.50 178.94 Fully Allocated Costs 7,131.36 675.78 11.79 5,039.96 338.27 10.76 4,390.67 67.42 287.85 72.75 1,231.07 540.91 10.40 26.11 1,880.92 3,688.78 1,293.50 3,041.29 62.81 208.04 219.78 1,434.63 2,439.61 d ppm pence per minute: 2Mbit cct per 2Mbit s circuit: km per kilometre: 100m m per 100 metres: trans per transaction: circuit per circuit: hostel rental per hostel rental: % % utilisation: d2 line per line: room per room: cable per cable: link per link: eq per equipment units: le per local end: conn per connection: channel per channel: fibre km per fibre km.
107 Average cost per unit from annex 15 External Wholesale standard CSI connection External Wholesale standard CSI rental - fixed External Wholesale standard CSI rentals - per km External Wholesale IEC connections External Wholesale IEC rentals - fixed External Wholesale IEC rentals - per km External Wholesale intra-building circuits connections External Wholesale intra-building circuits rentals External Wholesale ISI rentals External Nominated ISI - per km External Wholesale rearrangements Internal Wholesale standard CSI rentals - fixed Internal Wholesale standard CSI rentals - per km Internal Wholesale intra-building circuits rentals Customer Sited Handover connection Customer Sited Handover rental In Span Handover connection In Span Handover rental External 3rd Party POH Rental 64Kbit s External 3rd Party POH Rental 2Mbit s non CLZ External 3rd Party POH Rental 2Mbit s CLZ External 3rd Party POH Rental 34 45Mbit s External 3rd Party POH Rental 155Mbit s Appendix 1 - Other Information Appendix 1.2.
1 - Calculation of FAC based on component costs and usage factors 2011 continued for the year ended 31 March 2011 Alternative interface symmetric broadband origination up to and inclluding 1Gbit s Fully Allocated Cost h Components Unit d Wholesale & LAN extension services electronics le 381.37 337.69 374.31 912.92 8.28 9.90 24.79 27.52 Wholesale & LAN extension services fibre etc le 2,778.28 2,037.08 2,055.18 2,094.76 234.90 77.87 469.80 3,343.51 Backhaul extension services electronics le 378.94 882.49 45.60 Backhaul extension services fibre etc le 1,918.77 1,924.55 101.44 Ethernet main links fibre km 230.30 230.30 MSAN-BRAS Broadband Link circuit 32.97 14,021.90 AISBO Excess Construction % 4m MSAN-METRO Connectivity Link % 41m 92.57 Access Cards other services q % 26m 36.84 79.31 596.96 543.82 183.41 Service Centres - Assurance q % 49m 36.01 36.01 36.01 36.01 72.03 72.03 Sales product management q % 25m 28.11 37.16 98.38 14.25 17.04 42.80 9.80 9.59 21.33 0.94 6.29 12.09 Service Centres - Provision q % 98m 782.69 782.69 782.69 1,160.52 1,113.64 Wholesale & LAN extension services BNS electronics q circuit 375m Wholesale & LAN extension services BNS q circuit 1,923m Fully Allocated Costs 2,475.73 2,581.97 3,739.03 805.22 809.63 850.28 3,631.57 1,215.71 14,216.70 401.68 1,617.25 3,611.04 d ppm pence per minute: 2Mbit cct per 2Mbit s circuit: km per kilometre: 100m m per 100 metres: trans per transaction: circuit per circuit: hostel rental per hostel ren ntal: % % utilisation: d2 line per line: room per room: cable per cable: link per link: eq per equipment units: le per local end: conn per connection: channel per channel: fibre km m per fibre km.
108 Average cost per unit from annex 15 Wholesale extension services 10Mbit s rental Wholesale extension services 100Mbit s rental Wholesale extension services 1000Mbit s rental Wholesale extension services 10Mbit s connection Wholesale extension services 100Mbit s connection Wholesale extension services 1000Mbit s connection Backhaul extension services 1000Mbit s rental Ethernet Backhaul Direct connection Ethernet Backhaul Direct rental Main link rental charges Ethernet Access Direct connection Ethernet Access Direct rental Appendix 1 - Other Information Appendix 1.2.
1 - Calculation of FAC based on component costs and usage factors 2011 continued for the year ended 31 March 2011 Wholesale broadband access market 1 - BT only operator Wholesale broadband access market 2 - 2 to 3 principal operators Fully Allocated Cost h Components Unit d MDF Hardware jumpering line 24.22 Software jumpering line 0.33 E side copper current line 1.98 D side copper current line 5.71 Local exchanges general frames capital line 1.25 Local exchanges general frames current line 1.30 Broadband line testing systems line 2.92 2.512.402.40 2.51 2.40 2.40 ADSL connections conn 2.29 1.84 1.84 1.84 1.84 Combi Card broadband line 20.48 20.4820.4820.48 20.48 20.48 20.48 ATM customer interface 2Mbit port 160.14 0.04 0.05 ATM customer interface 34Mbit port2,124.10 0.090.190.24 ATM customer interface 155Mbit port699.15 12.573.143.94 10.731.722.16 ATM network interface port490.19 7.670.981.24 8.58 0.87 1.10 ATM network switching use9.27 34.058.5410.72 29.054.695.89 Inter ATM transmissions use50.85 90.7111.9515.01 93.44 11.45 14.38 Internal LLU Tie Cables cable 1.80 Broadband backhaul circuits excl Virtual Paths circuit692,509.31 114.6828.0034.85 69.20 11.59 12.35 MSAN-BRAS Broadband Link circuit32.97 36.0930.0330.51 32.91 28.88 28.93 Core Metro broadband circuit33.07 28.6828.6828.68 28.68 28.68 28.68 Geographic broadband adjustments % 1m Special Fault Investigation q % 0m Edge Ethernet ports q % 18m 2.57 2.57 2.57 2.57 2.57 2.57 Service Centres - Assurance q % 49m Sales product management q % 25m Service Centres - Provision q % 98m Local Loop Unbundling systems development q % 2m SG & A other access q % 82m 2.61 2.61 6.04 5.32 5.31 95.11 10.24 10.42 2.61 2.61 6.04 5.34 5.32 95.11 10.24 10.42 DSLAM capital maintenance q % 307m 25.76 49.53 49.53 12.03 25.96 25.96 Fully Allocated Costs 4.45 4.45 54.79 77.73 77.72 422.22 124.36 138.23 4.45 4.45 41.06 54.18 54.16 370.27 100.69 106.48 d ppm pence per minute: 2Mbit cct per 2Mbit s circuit: km pe er kilometre: 100m per 100 metres: trans per transaction: circuit per circuit: hostel rental per hostel rental: % % utilisation: d2 line per line: room per room: cable per cable: link per link: eq per equipment units: le per local end: conn per connection: channel per ch hannel: fibre km per fibre km.
109 Average cost per unit from annex 15 Internal End user access connection Mkt 1 External user access connection Mkt 1 External Datastream End user access Rental Mkt 1 Internal IPstream Connect End user access Rental Mkt 1 External IPstream Connect End user access Rental Mkt 1 External Datastream Virtual Paths Mkt 1 Internal IPstream Connect Bandwidth Mkt 1 External IPstream Connect Bandwidth Mkt 1 Internal End user access connection Mkt 2 External user access connection Mkt 2 External Datastream End user access Rental Mkt 2 Internal IPstream Connect End user access Rental Mkt 2 External IPstream Connect End user access Rental Mkt 2 External Datastream Virtual Paths Mkt 2 Internal IPstream Connect Bandwidth Mkt 2 External IPstream Connect Bandwidth Mkt 2 Appendix 1 - Other Information Appendix 1.2.
110 Average cost per unit from annex 15 Wholesale basic analogue internal service connections Wholesale premium analogue internal service connections Wholesale premium analogue external service connections Wholesale basic analogue internal service rentals Wholesale basic analogue external service rentals Wholesale premium analogue internal service rentals Wholesale premium analogue external service rentals Wholesale premium analogue internal service takeovers Wholesale premium analogue external service transfers Wholesale ISDN2 internal service connections Wholesale ISDN2 external service connections Wholesale ISDN2 internal service rentals Wholesale ISDN2 external service rentals Wholesale ISDN2 internal service takovers Wholesale ISDN2 external service transfers MPF Connections MPF Rentals MPF Room Build MPF Hostel Rentals MPF Tie Cables SMPF Connections SMPF Rentals Appendix 1 - Other Information Appendix 1.2.
2 - Calculation of FAC based on component costs and usage factors 2010 Restated continued Restated for the year ended 31 March 2010 h Traditional interface symmetric broadband origination up to and including 8Mbit s Fully Allocated Cost h Components Unit d E side copper capital line 3.51 4.55 4.55 4.55 1.15 7.68 3.51 E side copper current line 2.73 2.73 2.73 2.73 0.24 1.58 3.55 D side copper capital line 32.23 41.75 41.75 41.75 10.52 70.38 32.23 D side copper current line 7.78 7.78 7.78 7.78 0.67 4.50 10.11 Local exchanges general frames capital line 2.41 2.41 2.41 2.41 0.61 4.06 4.81 Local exchanges general frames current line 1.79 3.59 Dropwire capital & PSTN NTE line 18.71 18.71 Residential PSTN drop maintenance line 5.16 5.16 Routeing & records line 12.37 12.37 MDF Hardware jumpering line 19.10 18.35 Software jumpering line 0.35 0.02 64Kbit PC link connection cct provision y circuit 1,287.73 1,287.73 1,287.73 PC rental 64Kbit link link 137.44 137.44 137.44 PC rental 64Kbit link per km transmission km 3.95 3.95 3.95 3.95 PC rental 64Kbit link local end le 297.25 310.04 257.99 198.43 2Mbit and above PC link connection cct provision circuit 1,683.66 1,686.01 1,682.01 1,681.70 PC rental 2Mbit link link 144.16 144.16 144.16 PC rental 2Mbit link per km distribution km 45.80 45.80 45.80 PC rental 2Mbit local end copper le 517.63 69.11 57.19 PC rental 2Mbit local end fibre le 722.52 573.56 759.44 PC rental 2Mbit link per km trunk km 22.63 22.63 Broadband line testing systems line 3.69 2.74 DSLAM capital maintenance line 41.66 41.03 SDSL connections conn 5.19 5.19 Combi Card broadband line 3.22 3.22 Service Centres - Provision q % 100m 5.60 Sales product management q % 26m 3.73 Service Centres - Assurance q % 50m 0.66 SG & A private circuits q % 33m 94.43 11.71 0.19 0.19 27.10 134.68 14.81 0.57 54.85 SG & A partial private circuits q % 74m 148.08 9.07 0.16 0.16 62.36 282.03 98.78 192.29 20.08 3.52 48.17 336.57 435.50 322.01 SG & A other access q % 18m 12.47 MSAN-METRO Connectivity Link q % 63m 42.04 42.04 Core Metro connectivity q % 133m 28.99 28.99 Edge Ethernet ports q % 37m 5.55 5.55 Fully Allocated Costs 1,530.24 158.22 4.30 4.30 396.36 379.57 1,569.76 497.82 2,012.98 255.63 49.89 758.88 2,018.58 1,629.50 2,003.71 187.05 d ppm pence per minute: 2Mbit cct per 2Mbit s circuit: km per kilometr re: 100m per 100 metres: trans per transaction: circuit per circuit: hostel rental per hostel rental: % % utilisation: line per line: room per room: cable per cable: link per link: eq per equipment units: le per local end: conn per connection: channel per channel: fibr re km per fibre km.
y Unit costs calculated as a weighted average of the 64Kbit PC link connection cct provision & 64Kbit PC link connection cct rearrangements.
111 Average cost per unit from annex 15 Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - connection Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - link Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - distribution Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - trunk Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - internal local end Partial and Private Circuits 64Kbit s - external local end Radio Backhaul Service - sub 2 Mbit s connection Radio Backhaul Service - sub 2 Mbit s rentals Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - connection Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - link Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - distribution Partial and Private Circuits 2Mbit s - local end Radio Backhaul Service - 2 Mbit s connection Radio Backhaul Service - 2 Mbit s rentals Netstream 16 LL 2Mbit s connection SDSL Appendix 1 - Other Information Appendix 1.2.
2 - Calculation of FAC based on component costs and usage factors 2010 Restated continued Restated for the year ended 31 March 2010 h Traditional interface symmetric Traditional interface symmetric broadband broadband origination above 8Mbit s up origination above 45Mbit s up to and including Wholesale trunk segments to and including 45Mbit s 155Mbit s Fully Allocated Cost h Components Unit d 2Mbit and above PC link connection cct provision circuit 1,683.66 1,684.81 1,687.29 1,784.00 PC rental 34Mbit link links 1,183.43 1,183.43 PC rental 34Mbit link per km distribution km 359.18 359.18 PC rental 34Mbit link local end le 4,941.61 5,613.97 3,431.49 PC rental 140Mbit link links 3,752.49 3,641.58 PC rental 140Mbit link per km distribution km 587.63 587.63 PC rental 140Mbit link local end le 11,677.25 11,795.85 11,818.55 PC rental 2Mbit link per km trunk km 22.63 22.63 PC rental 34Mbit link per km trunk km 198.46 198.46 PC rental 140Mbit link per km trunk km 247.47 247.47 PC rental 622Mbit link per km trunk km 1,064.32 1,064.32 Sales product management q % 26m SG & A private circuits q % 33m 32.53 84.29 10.92 180.74 78.19 482.63 17.41 270.68 1.94 11.49 10.69 71.35 SG & A partial private circuits q % 74m 260.81 203.87 19.04 1,400.38 214.52 116.43 5.34 2,683.14 299.00 1.43 6.53 1.37 Access Cards other services q % 10m 747.73 747.73 MSAN-METRO Connectivity Link q % 63m 714.60 2,942.46 Core Metro connectivity q % 133m 492.89 2,029.54 Edge Ethernet ports q % 37m 94.34 388.44 Fully Allocated Costs 1,978.15 2,773.42 389.14 6,542.44 5,579.60 1,980.00 9,601.08 610.38 12,066.53 14,501.69 2,083.00 26.00 216.48 259.53 1,135.67 d ppm pence per minute: 2Mbit cct per 2Mbit s circuit: km per kilometr re: 100m per 100 metres: trans per transaction: circuit per circuit: hostel rental per hostel rental: % % utilisation: line per line: room m per room: cable per cable: link per link: eq per equipment units: le per local end: conn per connection: channel per channel: fibr re km per fibre km.
am See Section 4.1 Introduction to the Basis of Preparation.
112 Average cost per unit from annex 15 Partial and Private Circuits 34 45Mbit s - connection Partial and Private Circuits 34 45Mbit s - link Partial and Private Circuits 34 45Mbit s - distribution Partial and Private Circuits 34 45Mbit s - internal local end Partial and Private Circuits 34 45Mbit s - external local end Partial and Private Circuits 140 155Mbit s - connection Partial and Private Circuits 140 155Mbit s - link Partial and Private Circuits 140 155Mbit s - distribution Partial and Private Circuits 140 155Mbit s - internal local end Partial and Private Circuits 140 155Mbit s - external local end Netstream 16 LL 155Mbit s connection Partial and Private circuits 2Mbit s - trunk Partial and Private circuits 34 45Mbit s - trunk Partial and Private circuits 140 155Mbit s - trunk Partial and Private circuits 622Mbit s - trunk Appendix 1 - Other Information Appendix 1.2.
ad Does not include the service Wholesale Call originating local exchange segment ISDN e excl.
Operator Assistance due to immaterial volumes.
ae Does not include the service Wholesale Single transit segment ISDN due to immaterial v volumes.
113 Average cost per unit from annex 15 Wholesale call originating local exchange segment PSTN and ISDN excl OA Wholesale call originating local exchange segment incl Operator Assistance Wholesale call originating local exchange segment ISDN incl OA Wholesale PPP Wholesale call origination local exchange Stick Wholesale call origination local exchange Stick ISDN Wholesale call termination local exchange segment Wholesale call termination local exchange segment ISDN Wholesale call termination local exchange stick Wholesale call termination local exchange stick ISDN Appendix 1 - Other Information Appendix 1.2.
2 - Calculation of FAC based on component costs and usage factors 2010 Restated continued Restated for the year ended 31 March 2010 h Technical areas Interconnect Circuits Technical Areas Point of Handover Interconnect Specific Basket Customer Sited In Span Interconnect with Interconnect end to end Interconnect Extension In span Interconnect Internal Interconnect circuit Circuit end to end circuit Fully Allocated Cost h Components Unit d Interconnect local end rental 2Mbit 2Mbit cct 241.23 241.23 241.23 Customer Sited Interconnect cct CSI 2Mbit link 2Mbit cct 220.01 220.01 220.01 Customer Sited Interconnect cct CSI 2Mbit per km km 5.56 5.56 5.56 Interconnect 2Mbit connection 2Mbit cct 10,422.64 2,857.76 466.06 1,201.05 Intra Building Circuit IBC rental 2Mbit cct 124.48 136.26 136.26 136.26 89.07 Intra Building Circuit IBC connection 2Mbit cct 3,253.45 3,253.45 3,253.45 3,253.45 Interconnect extension circuits IEC 2Mbit link 2Mbit cct 273.00 273.00 Interconnect extension circuits IEC 2Mbit per km km 11.47 11.47 In Span Interconnect circuits ISI transmission 100m 248.09 248.09 Nominated In Span I Connect cct ISI transmission 100m 62.98 62.98 Point of Handover electronics eq 0.79 710.72 662.36 22,670.95 1,401.70 E side copper capital line 3.51 E side copper current line 2.73 D side copper capital line 32.23 D side copper current line 7.78 Local exchanges general frames capital line 2.41 PC rental 64Kbit link local end le 297.25 36.52 PC rental 34Mbit link local end le 4,941.61 733.12 PC rental 140Mbit link local end le 11,677.25 1,359.27 PC rental 2Mbit local end copper le 517.63 10.47 PC rental 2Mbit local end fibre le 722.52 86.15 99.56 SG & A partial private circuits q % 74m 3.89 14.21 14.35 104.57 204.01 MSAN-METRO Connectivity Link q % 63m 42.04 42.04 42.04 Edge Ethernet ports q % 37m 19.60 85.88 24.56 Fully Allocated Costs 6,130.81 639.54 5.56 3,805.39 451.30 11.47 3,278.01 136.26 248.09 62.98 1,201.05 503.28 5.56 89.07 710.72 662.36 22,670.95 1,401.70 40.41 110.83 113.91 837.69 1,563.28 d ppm pence per minute: 2Mbit cct per 2Mbit s circuit: km per kilom metre: 100m per 100 metres: trans per transaction: circuit per circuit: hostel rental per hostel rental: % % utilisation: line per line: ro oom per room: cable per cable: link per link: eq per equipment units: le per local end: conn per connection: channel per channel: fibre km per fibre km.
114 Average cost per unit from annex 15 External Wholesale standard CSI connection External Wholesale standard CSI rental - fixed External Wholesale standard CSI rentals - per km External Wholesale IEC connections External Wholesale IEC rentals - fixed External Wholesale IEC rentals - per km External Wholesale intra-building circuits connections External Wholesale intra-building circuits rentals External Wholesale ISI rentals External Nominated ISI - per km External Wholesale rearrangements Internal Wholesale standard CSI rental - fixed Internal Wholesale standard CSI rentals - per km Internal Wholesale intra-building circuits rentals Customer Sited Handover connection Customer Sited Handover rental In Span Handover connection In Span Handover rental External 3rd Party POH Rental 64Kbit s External 3rd Party POH Rental 2Mbit s non CLZ External 3rd Party POH Rental 2Mbit s CLZ External 3rd Party POH Rental 34 45Mbit s External 3rd Party POH Rental 155Mbit s Appendix 1 - Other Information Appendix 1.2.
2 - Calculation of FAC based on component costs and usage factors 2010 Restated continued Restated for the year ended 31 March 2010 h Alternative interface symmetric broadband origination up to and including 1Gbit s Fully Allocated Cost h Components Unit d Wholesale & LAN extension services electronics le 2,285.39 2,209.61 2,285.39 8,296.02 r Wholesale & LAN extension services fibre etc le 1,583.42 1,571.37 1,582.74 1,632.63 1,586.32 Wholesale & LAN extension services BNS circuit 1,595.96 1,595.96 Backhaul extension services electronics le 3,244.72 r 11,744.07 10,445.50 Backhaul extension services fibre etc le 1,549.65 1,537.57 1,565.76 r Wholesale & LAN extension services BNS electronics circuit 11,034,494.00 r Ethernet main links fibre km 199.23 199.23 Sales product management q % 26m 42.02 49.42 120.95 18.71 22.42 25.62 95.12 r 9.85 26.19 r r 12.53 r 39.43 2.47 Service Centres - Provision q % 100m 1,090.56 913.46 876.70 r r 2,682.50 Service Centres - Assurance q % 50m 59.17 59.17 59.17 59.17 58.05 58.05 r 58.05 Access Cards other services q % 10m 2.85 28.49 284.87 67.51 28.49 284.86 r MSAN-METRO Connectivity Link q % 63m 117.34 Core Metro connectivity q % 133m Edge Ethernet ports q % 37m Fully Allocated Costs 1,675.41 1,719.82 2,097.62 1,731.71 3,322.59 3,224.47 9,267.84 r 1,633.96 1,934.86 r r 14,439.10 10,445.50 r 1,693.44 319.04 d ppm pence per minute: 2Mbit cct per 2Mbit s circuit: km per kilometre: 10 00m per 100 metres: trans per transaction: circuit per circuit: hostel rental per hostel rental: % % utilisation: line per line: room pe er room: cable per cable: link per link: eq per equipment units: le per local end: conn per connection: channel per channel: fibre km per fibre km.
r fide-minimus services with turnover of less than 1m.
115 Average cost per unit from annex 15 Wholesale extension services 10Mbit s rental Wholesale extension services 100Mbit s rental Wholesale extension services 1000Mbit s rental Wholesale extension services other bandwidth rental Wholesale extension services 10Mbit s connection Wholesale extension services 100Mbit s connection Wholesale extension services 1000Mbit s connection Wholesale extension services other bandwidth connection Backhaul extension services 100Mbit s rental Backhaul extension services 1000Mbit s rental Backhaul extension services other bandwidth rental Backhaul extension services 100Mbit s connection Backhaul extension services 1000Mbit s connection Backhaul extension services other bandwidth connection Backhaul network services all bandwidth connection Backhaul network services all bandwidth rental Main link rental charges Appendix 1 - Other Information Appendix 1.3 - BT Network Services Reconciliation Annex 17 Appendix 1.3.
1 - BT Network Services Reconciliation 2011 Consolidation Statement a summary of all wholesale markets where there are cost accounting obligations Fully Allocated Cost m h Components Local exchange concentrator 108 - - - - - - - 52 56 - - - - - - Local exchange processor 107 - - - - - - - 50 55 - - - - - 2 Remote - local transmission link 60 - - - - - - - 29 31 - - - - - - Remote - local transmission length 107 - - - - - - - 51 56 - - - - - - Product management policy & planning 22 - - - - - - - 22 - - - - - - - Interconnect local end rental 2Mbit 4 - - - - - - - - - 4 - - - - - Interconnect 2Mbit connection 5 - - - - - - - - - 5 - - - - - Interconnect extension circuits IEC 2Mbit link 3 - - - - - - - - - 3 - - - - - Customer Sited Interconnect cct CSI 2Mbit link 4 - - - - - - - - - 4 - - - - - Interconnect extension circuits IEC 2Mbit per km 3 - - - - - - - - - 3 - - - - - Customer Sited Interconnect cct CSI 2Mbit per km 4 - - - - - - - - - 4 - - - - - In Span Interconnect circuits ISI transmission 2 - - - - - - - - - 2 - - - - - Nominated In Span I Connect cct ISI transmission 2 - - - - - - - - - 2 - - - - - Intra Building Circuit IBC connection 13 - - - - - - - - - 13 - - - - - Intra Building Circuit IBC rental 4 - - - - - - - - - 4 - - - - - PC rental 2Mbit link per km distribution 105 - - - 105 - - - - - - - - - - - PC rental 2Mbit link per km trunk 38 - - - 9 - - 29 - - - - - - - - PC rental 34Mbit link per km distribution 15 - - - - 15 - - - - - - - - - - PC rental 34Mbit link per km trunk 12 - - - - - - 12 - - - - - - - - PC rental 140Mbit link per km distribution 18 - - - - - 14 - - - - - - - - 4 PC rental 140Mbit link per km trunk 17 - - - - - 3 13 - - - - - - - 1 PC rental 622Mbit link per km trunk 23 - - - - - - 23 - - - - - - - - Point of Handover electronics 4 - - - - - - - - - - 4 - - - - PC rental 64Kbit link 45 - - - 45 - - - - - - - - - - - PC rental 2Mbit link 31 - - - 31 - - - - - - - - - - - PC rental 34Mbit link 3 - - - - 3 - - - - - - - - - - PC rental 140Mbit link 8 - - - - - 8 - - - - - - - - - PC rental 64Kbit link per km transmission 51 - - - 51 - - - - - - - - - - - 64Kbit PC link connection cct provision 1 - - - 1 - - - - - - - - - - - 2Mbit and above PC link connection cct provision 49 - - - 48 - - - - - - - - - - 1 PC rental 64Kbit link local end 26 - - - 25 - - - - - - 1 - - - - PC rental 34Mbit link local end 23 - - - - 21 - - - - - 2 - - - - PC rental 140Mbit link local end 11 - - - - - 10 - - - - - - - - 1 PC rental 2Mbit local end copper 19 - - - 18 - - - - - - 1 - - - - PC rental 2Mbit local end fibre 190 - - - 180 - - - - - - 10 - - - - 116 Total from annex 15 Wholesale analogue exchange line services Wholesale ISDN2 exchange line services Wholesale local access Traditional interface symmetric broadband origination up to and including 8Mbit s Traditional interface symmetric broadband origination above 8Mbit s up to and including 45Mbit s Traditional interface symmetric broadband origination above 45Mbit s up to and including 155Mbit s Wholesale trunk segments Call origination on fixed public narrowband networks Fixed call termination Technical areas Interconnect Circuits Technical Areas Point of Handover Alternative interface symmetric broadband origination up to and including 1Gbit s Wholesale broadband access market 1 - BT only operator Wholesale broadband access market 2 - 2 to 3 principal operators AS SMP Components Residual Non cost accounting, roundings and residual Appendix 1 - Other Information Appendix 1.3.
1 - Network Services Reconciliation 2011 continued Consolidation Statement a summary of all wholesale markets where there are cost accounting obligations Fully Allocated Cost m h Components PPC support services 6 - - - 1 1 2 1 - - - - - - - 1 Netstream equipment 8 - - - 7 - 1 - - - - - - - - - Wholesale & LAN extension services electronics 51 - - - - - - - - - - - 47 - - 4 Wholesale & LAN extension services fibre etc 346 - - - - - - - - - - - 338 - - 8 Wholesale & LAN extension services BNS 2 - - - - - - - - - - - 2 - - - Backhaul extension services electronics 7 - - - - - - - - - - - 6 - - 1 Backhaul extension services fibre etc 18 - - - - - - - - - - - 18 - - - Wholesale & LAN extension services BNS electroni 17 - - - - - - - - - - - 17 - - - Ethernet main links 96 - - - - - - - - - - - 88 - - 8 SG & A private circuits 20 - - - 11 1 2 4 - - 1 - - - - 1 SG & A partial private circuits 48 - - - 40 1 2 1 - - 2 - - - - 2 National OA non chargeable - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Emergency OA 999 non chargeable 8 - - - - - - - 8 - - - - - - - SDSL connections - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Wholesale Access specific 7 7 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Routeing & records 15 11 - 4 - - - - - - - - - - - - MDF Hardware jumpering 238 39 1 107 - - - - - - - - - 13 11 67 Software jumpering 3 1 - 1 - - - - - - - - - - - 1 E side copper capital 272 222 6 40 2 - - - - - - - - - - 2 E side copper current 59 43 2 10 - - - - - - - - - 1 - 3 D side copper capital 1,883 1,541 43 279 14 - - - - - - - - - - 6 D side copper current 169 124 5 30 1 - - - - - - - - 2 1 6 Local exchanges general frames capital 50 26 - 14 - - - - - - - - - 3 2 5 Local exchanges general frames current 52 27 - 14 - - - - - - - - - 3 2 6 PSTN line test equipment 5 5 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Dropwire capital & PSTN NTE 479 397 11 71 - - - - - - - - - - - - Business PSTN drop maintenance 19 19 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Residential PSTN drop maintenance 85 68 - 17 - - - - - - - - - - - - ISDN2 drop maintenance 4 - 4 - - - - - - - - - - - - - PSTN line cards 176 176 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ISDN2 line cards 27 - 27 - - - - - - - - - - - - - Pair gain 2 2 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ISDN2 NTE 7 - 7 - - - - - - - - - - - - - Broadband line testing systems 67 - - 24 - - - - - - - - - 12 8 23 DSLAM capital maintenance 307 - - 7 - - - - - - - - - 108 37 1 55 117 Total from annex 15 Wholesale analogue exchange line services Wholesale ISDN2 exchange line services Wholesale local access Traditional interface symmetric broadband origination up to and including 8Mbit s Traditional interface symmetric broadband origination above 8Mbit s up to and including 45Mbit s Traditional interface symmetric broadband origination above 45Mbit s up to and including 155Mbit s Wholesale trunk segments Call origination on fixed public narrowband networks Fixed call termination Technical areas Interconnect Circuits Technical Areas Point of Handover Alternative interface symmetric broadband origination up to and including 1Gbit s Wholesale broadband access market 1 - BT only operator Wholesale broadband access market 2 - 2 to 3 principal operators AS SMP Components Residual Non cost accounting, roundings and residual Appendix 1 - Other Information Appendix 1.3.
1 - Network Services Reconciliation 2011 continued Consolidation Statement a summary of all wholesale markets where there are cost accounting obligations Fully Allocated Cost m h Components - - ADSL connections 5 - - - - - - - - - - - - 1 1 3 SG & A other access 82 - - - - - - - - - - - - 27 17 38 Local Loop Unbundling room build - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Local Loop Unbundling hostel rentals 33 - - 33 - - - - - - - - - - - - Local Loop Unbundling hostel rentals power & vent 45 - - 45 - - - - - - - - - - - - Local Loop Unbundling tie cables 20 - - 20 - - - - - - - - - - - - Local Loop Unbundling systems development 2 - - 1 - - - - - - - - - - - 1 Directories 38 38 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Service assurance Retail - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Service Centres - Provision 99 36 1 8 - - - - - - - - 38 1 1 14 Sales product management 24 4 1 2 - - - - - - - - 6 1 1 9 Service Centres - Assurance 50 27 1 6 - - - - - - - - 6 2 1 7 Combi Card voice 17 17 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Combi Card broadband 163 - - - - - - - - - - - - 44 28 91 Access Cards ISDN2 services - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Core Metro voice 13 - - - - - - - 5 6 - - - - - 2 Border gateway & signalling firewall - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - MSAN-POSI Voice Link - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Access Cards other services 26 - - - - 5 - - - - - - 19 - - 2 MSAN-METRO Connectivity Link 41 - - - 2 - 2 - - - - - 35 - - 2 Core Metro connectivity 119 - - - 13 3 11 - - - - - - - - 92 Edge Ethernet ports 18 - - - 2 - 2 - - - - - - 3 2 9 iNode call set up and features 23 - - - - - - - 7 8 - - - - - 8 ATM customer interface 2Mbit 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 1 ATM customer interface 34Mbit 3 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 3 ATM customer interface 155Mbit 12 - - - - - - - - - - - - 4 1 7 ATM network interface 6 - - - - - - - - - - - - 1 1 4 ATM network switching 39 - - - - - - - - - - - - 11 4 24 Inter ATM transmissions 59 - - - - - - - - - - - - 16 10 33 Internal LLU Tie Cables 14 - - - - - - - - - - - - 4 2 8 Broadband backhaul circuits excl Virtual Paths 65 - - - - - - - - - - - - 34 9 22 Special Fault Investigation 72 - - - - - - - - - - - - 14 9 49 MSAN-BRAS Broadband Link 160 - - - - - - - - - - - 19 35 22 84 Core Metro broadband 161 - - - - - - - - - - - - 33 21 107 Geographic broadband adjustments - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Low Tisbo Equipment Depn 31 - - - 31 - - - - - - - - - - - High Tisbo Equipment Depn 2 - - - - 2 - - - - - - - - - - Very High Tisbo Equipment Depn 1 - - - - - 1 - - - - - - - - - Low Tisbo Excess Construction 3 - - - 3 - - - - - - - - - - - AISBO Excess Construction 4 - - - - - - - - - - - 4 - - - SMP Accounting Separation components 175 175 Residual components 2,550 2,550 Roundings 4 TOTAL 9,869 118 Total from annex 15 Wholesale analogue exchange line services Wholesale ISDN2 exchange line services Wholesale local access Traditional interface symmetric broadband origination up to and including 8Mbit s Traditional interface symmetric broadband origination above 8Mbit s up to and including 45Mbit s Traditional interface symmetric broadband origination above 45Mbit s up to and including 155Mbit s Wholesale trunk segments Call origination on fixed public narrowband networks Fixed call termination Technical areas Interconnect Circuits Technical Areas Point of Handover Alternative interface symmetric broadband origination up to and including 1Gbit s Wholesale broadband access market 1 - BT only operator Wholesale broadband access market 2 - 2 to 3 principal operators AS SMP Components Residual Non cost accounting, roundings and residual Appendix 1 - Other Information Appendix 1.3.
2 - BT Network Services Reconciliation 2010 Restated Consolidation Statement a summary of all wholesale markets where there are cost accountin ng obligations Non cost accounting, Total from Wholesale analogue Wholesale ISDN2 exchange line roundings and Fully Allocated Cost m h annex 15 exchange line services services Wholesale local access residual Components E side copper capital 93 81 2 8 1 E side copper current 81 60 2 11 7 D side copper capital 843 739 20 71 3 D side copper current 231 172 6 31 20 Local exchanges general frames capital 95 53 1 20 20 Local exchanges general frames current 71 39 1 15 16 PSTN line test equipment 13 13 1 1 Dropwire capital & PSTN NTE 469 415 12 41 1 Business PSTN drop maintenance 24 24 0 Residential PSTN drop maintenance 99 87 11 1 PSTN line cards 180 181 1 Pair gain 2 2 0 Routeing & records 23 21 1 1 0 MDF Hardware jumpering 250 33 1 93 123 Software jumpering 4 1 0 1 2 ADSL connections 13 2 11 Wholesale Access specific 37 36 1 0 ISDN2 drop maintenance 4 4 0 ISDN2 line cards 27 26 1 ISDN2 NTE 9 9 0 Directories 39 39 0 Service assurance Retail 0 0 0 0 Service assurance Global services 0 0 0 0 Service Centres - Provision 100 37 4 12 15 Sales product management 26 1 1 3 13 Service Centres - Assurance 50 22 2 6 13 External WLR SG & A 4 1 3 Internal WLR SG & A 2 2 0 Broadband line testing systems 52 13 3 9 DSLAM capital maintenance 335 6 329 Local Loop Unbundling room build 0 0 0 Local Loop Unbundling hostel rentals 23 23 0 Local Loop Unbundling hostel rentals power & vent 19 19 0 Local Loop Unbundling tie cables 10 9 1 Local Loop Unbundling systems development 21 9 12 Combi Card voice 61 62 1 Access Cards ISDN2 services 1 1 0 119 Appendix 1 - Other Information Appendix 1.3.
2 - Network Services Reconciliation 2010 continued Consolidation Statement a summary of all wholesale markets where there are cost accounting obligations Non cost Call origination on fixed Local-tandem conveyance and accounting, Total from public narrowband transit on fixed public Single transit on fixed public Fixed call roundings and Fully Allocated Cost m h annex 15 networks narrowband networks narrowband networks termination residual Components National OA non chargeable 1 1 0 Emergency OA 999 non chargeable 8 8 0 Local exchange concentrator 101 49 52 0 Local exchange processor 109 51 1 0 54 3 Remote - local transmission link 53 26 27 0 Remote - local transmission length c 74 36 38 0 Product management policy & planning 38 37 1 Main exchange switching 26 13 3 1 0 Local - tandem transmission link 27 27 0 Local - tandem transmission length c 20 20 0 Core Metro voice 16 7 0 1 7 1 Border gateway & signalling firewall 0 0 0 0 0 0 MSAN-POSI Voice Link 7 3 3 1 Edge Ethernet ports 37 0 0 0 0 35 iNode call set up and features 21 7 0 2 8 4 120 Appendix 1 - Other Information Appendix 1.3.
2 - Network Services Reconciliation 2010 continued Consolidation Statement a summary of all wholesale markets where there are cost accounting obligations Traditional interface Traditional interface symmetric Traditional interface symmetric Non cost symmetric broadband broadband origination above broadband origination above accounting, Total from origination up to and 8Mbit s up to and including 45Mbit s up to and including Wholesale trunk roundings and Fully Allocated Cost m h annex 15 including 8Mbit s 45Mbit s 155Mbit s segments residual Components E side copper capital ah 1 ah E side copper current ah 1 ah D side copper capital ah 10 ah D side copper current ah 2 ah Local exchanges general frames capital ah 1 ah Local exchanges general frames current ah 0 ah Dropwire capital & PSTN NTE ah 0 ah Residential PSTN drop maintenance ah 0 ah Routeing & records ah 0 ah MDF Hardware jumpering ah 0 ah Software jumpering ah 0 ah Service Centres - Provision ah 0 ah Sales product management ah 0 ah Service Centres - Assurance ah 0 ah SG & A other access 18 0 18 PC rental 2Mbit link per km distribution 100 100 0 PC rental 2Mbit link per km trunk 37 8 29 0 PC rental 34Mbit link per km distribution17 18 1 PC rental 34Mbit link per km trunk 13 0 14 1 PC rental 140Mbit link per km distribution 17 14 3 PC rental 140Mbit link per km trunk 16 2 13 1 PC rental 622Mbit link per km trunk 18 18 0 PC rental 64Kbit link 46 46 0 PC rental 2Mbit link 31 32 1 PC rental 34Mbit link 3 4 1 PC rental 140Mbit link 9 0 10 1 PC rental 64Kbit link per km transmission 38 38 0 64Kbit PC link connection cct provision 2 3 1 64Kbit PC link connection cct rearrangements 1 1 0 2Mbit and above PC link connection cct provision 64 64 0 0 0 PC rental 64Kbit link local end 34 33 1 PC rental 34Mbit link local end 23 23 1 PC rental 140Mbit link local end 13 12 1 PC rental 2Mbit local end copper 21 20 0 PC rental 2Mbit local end fibre 175 169 1 PPC support services 6 1 2 2 1 0 Low Tisbo equipment depreciation 38 38 0 Low Tisbo ECC equipment depreciation 3 3 0 Netstream equipment 7 6 1 0 High Tisbo equipment depreciation7 7 0 Very High Tisbo equipment depreciation 0 0 0 SG & A private circuits 33 24 1 1 5 2 SG & A partial private circuits 74 63 3 1 2 4 Broadband line testing systems ab 0 ab DSLAM capital maintenance ab 0 ab SDSL connections 0 0 0 Combi Card broadband 26 0 26 Access Cards other services 10 3 2 MSAN-METRO Connectivity Link 63 9 2 8 6 Core Metro connectivity 133 6 2 6 119 Edge Ethernet ports aa 1 0 1 aa 121 Appendix 1 - Other Information Appendix 1.3.
2 - Network Services Reconciliation 2010 continued Consolidation Statement a summary of all wholesale markets where there are cost accounting obligations Non cost Alternative interface symmetric accounting, Total from Technical areas broadband origination up to Technical Areas Point of AS SMP roundings and Fully Allocated Cost m h annex 15 Interconnect Circuits and including 1Gbit s Handover Components Residual residual Components E side copper capital ah 0 ah E side copper current ah 0 ah D side copper capital ah 0 ah D side copper current ah 0 ah Local exchanges general frames capital ah 0 ah PC rental 64Kbit link local end x 0 x PC rental 34Mbit link local end ag 1 ag PC rental 140Mbit link local end ai 0 ai PC rental 2Mbit local end copper x 1 x PC rental 2Mbit local end fibre x 5 x SG & A partial private circuits x 1 x Interconnect local end rental 2Mbit 4 4 0 Interconnect 2Mbit connection 6 6 0 Interconnect extension circuits IEC 2Mbit link 4 4 0 Customer Sited Interconnect cct CSI 2Mbit link 4 3 1 Interconnect extension circuits IEC 2Mbit per km 3 4 1 Customer Sited Interconnect cct CSI 2Mbit per km 3 3 0 In Span Interconnect circuits ISI transmission 2 2 0 Nominated In Span I Connect cct ISI transmission 2 2 0 Intra Building Circuit IBC connection 17 17 0 Intra Building Circuit IBC rental 10 9 1 Point of Handover electronics 5 5 0 Wholesale & LAN extension services electronics 85 80 5 Wholesale & LAN extension services fibre etc 184 184 0 Wholesale & LAN extension services BNS 1 1 0 Backhaul extension services electronics 15 14 1 Backhaul extension services fibre etc 15 15 0 Wholesale & LAN extension services BNS electronics 11 11 0 Ethernet main links 62 63 1 AISBO ECC equipment depreciation 3 3 0 Service Centres - Provision ah 32 ah Sales product management ah 8 ah Service Centres - Assurance ah 7 ah Access Cards other services ag 5 ag MSAN-METRO Connectivity Link x 1 37 x Core Metro connectivity x x Edge Ethernet ports aa 0 aa SMP Accounting Separation components 518 518 Residual components 2,498 2,498 Roundings 8 TOTAL 8,405 c Unit of length is 10 kilometres.
x Total for this component is shown under the Traditional interface symmetric broadband origination up to & including 8Mbit s market abo ove.
aa Total for this component is shown under the Fixed call termination market above.
ab Total for this component is shown under the Wholesale local access market above.
ag Total for this component is shown under the Traditional interface symmetric broadband origination above 8Mbit s up to and including 4 45Mbit s market above.
ah Total for this component is shown under the Wholesale residential analogue exchange line services market above.
ai Total for this component is shown under the Traditional interface symmetric broadband origination above 45Mbit s up to and including 155Mbit s market above.
122 Appendix 2 - Price Control Statements Appendix 2 - Price Control Statements Appendix 2 Price Control Statements 123 Appendix 2 - Price Control Statements Appendix 2.1 - Price Controls in Access and Other Wholesale Markets Annex 24 Unaudited This Appendix shows an extract from the most recent price control submissions to Ofcom to meet BT's price control obligations.
Price Control summary of calls information submitted to Ofcom for the year from 1 October 2009 to 30 September 2010.
RPI between June 2009 & Actual Basket Basket June 2010 Charge Control Controlling % Yield Call Termination -1.60% RPI 3.75% 2.15% 2.54m Call Origination -1.60% RPI 2.75% 1.15% 1.56m Interconnect Specific -1.60% RPI 3.75% 2.15% 0m PPP Basket -1.60% RPI 1.5% -0.10% 0m Price Control summary of PPC information submitted to Ofcom for the year from 1 October 2009 to 30 September 2010.
RPI between June 2009 & Actual Basket Basket June 2010 Charge Control Controlling % Yield TI Basket -1.60% RPI - 3.25% -4.85% -5.02% Equipment -1.60% RPI - 0% -1.60% -1.30% Ancillary -1.60% RPI - 0% -1.60% 0.00% Price Control summary of WLR information submitted to Ofcom for the year from 23 November 2009 to 31 March 2010.
Fixed Ceiling to 31 Actual Price Cap March 2010 31 March 2010 WLR Basic Rental 100.68 100.68 WLR Transfer 3.00 3.00 WLR Connection 67.00 67.00 Price Control summary of Wholesale Local Access information submitted to Ofcom for the year from 22 May 2009 to 31 March 2010.
Fixed Ceiling to 31 Actual Price Cap March 2010 31 March 2010 MPF Rental 86.40 86.40 SMPF Rental 15.60 15.60 124 Appendix 2 - Price Control Statements Appendix 2.1 - Price Controls in Wholesale Markets Annex 24 continued Controlling % to 31 Price Change to Basket March 2010 31 March 2010 MPF Ancillary 3.00% 0.84% SMPF Ancillary 3.00% 2.18% Co-Mingling 3.00% 3.96% Fixed Ceiling to 31 Actual Price Sub Cap March 2010 31 March 2010 MPF Transfer 38.00 38.00 MPF New Provide - from 22 May 2009 to 31 August 2009 99.95 99.95 MPF New Provide - from 1 September 2009 to 31 March 2010 76.00 76.00 SMPF Connection 38.00 38.00 Controlling % to 31 Price Change to Sub Cap March 2010 31 March 2010 MPF Cease 3.00% 2.86% SMPF Cease 3.00% 2.86% Price Control summary of AISBO information submitted to Ofcom for the year 1 October 2009 to 30 September 2010.
Price Change to Controlling % to 30 30 September Basket September 2010 2010 Ethernet core services RPI - 7% -41.45m Accommodation products 3.00% 0.69m Accommodation fee RPI - 0% -2.00% Ethernet ancillary services RPI - 0% -0.71m Price Change to Controlling % to 30 30 September Sub-cap September 2010 2010 BES RPI - 0% -4.22m 125 Glossary Glossary Glossary 126 Glossary Glossary continued Glossary Cost accounting Cost accounting obligations are to meet the requirements where there is an 21CN 21st Century Network.
obligation in relation to: Price controls.
Accounting The Primary Accounting Documents, DAM, DVM, LRIC: R&P and Wholesale Cost orientation.
Accounting Accounting separation requirements arise where there is an obligation to CP Communications Provider.
Separation not unduly discriminate and or there is a reasonable concern that a Dominant Provider may make cross-subsidies, e. g. the means by which a margin CPS Carrier Pre-Selection.
ADSL Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line.
AISBO Alternative Interface Symmetric Broadband Origination.
Current Cost The change to historical costs arising from the revaluation of assets on a curAnnual Report BT Group plc's Consolidated Group Financial Statements for the year ended Accounting rent cost basis.
In the statements for individual markets the adjustments 31 March.
These are available on the BT website at http: www.
"""CCA"" adjustcomprise the holding gains or losses arising from changes in asset values, ments together with the effect on asset values and depreciation of the appropriate ASBO Asymmetric Broadband Orgination."
allocation of current cost asset values between markets, Technical Areas and ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode.
Baskets Baskets are collections of services not considered to be competitive and for Cust Customers.
which prices are subject to specific charge controls.
DAM The Detailed Attribution Methods.
This sets out the detailed processes by BES Backhaul Extension Services.
which revenues and costs are attributed to the markets, Technical Areas and Wholesale services.
DLRIC LRIC plus a share of common costs.
DSAC Stand alone cost SAC excluding a share of core common costs.
CELA Central and East London Area.
DSLAM Digital Subscriber Line Access Multiplexer.
DVM The Detailed Valuation Methodology.
This sets out the methodology by Components Within these Statements, the term components includes both network comwhich current cost valuations are obtained.
EBITDA Earning before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
127 Glossary Glossary continued Glossary continued eq Equipment units.
Mean capital Mean capital employed is defined as total assets less current liabilities, employed excluding corporate taxes and dividends payable, and provisions other than EOI Equivalence of Input.
MCE those for deferred taxation.
The mean is computed from the start and end values for the period.
FRIACO Flat Rate Internet Access Call Origination.
Network Charge The basis on which interconnect charges have been set with effect from 1 ISI In-Span Interconnect.
"""NCC"" ITC Inter-Tandem Conveyance."
Other commuOther telecommunication companies operating in the UK, which purchase Line Lines.
nications protelecommunication services from BT.
viders LLCS Local Lines Costing Study.
PADS Primary Accounting Documents which set out the framework within which the Current Cost Financial Statements are prepared.
LLMR Leased Lines Market Review.
PECN Public Electronic Communications Network.
PIPeR Physical Inventory for Planning and eRecords.
Long Run IncreDefined as the cost caused by the provision of a defined increment of output mental Cost given that costs can, if necessary, be varied and that some level of output is PoH Point of Handover.
PPP Product management, policy and planning.
128 Glossary Glossary continued Glossary continued r Rooms.
Wholesale cost Cost accounting in Wholesale markets deals with products and services sold accounting to Communications Providers.
RBS Radio Base Station Backhaul.
"Relationships The BT publication ""Long Run Incremental Cost Model: Relationships and and Parameters Parameters"" describes in detail how BT has applied the principles contained - A numerical value of zero."
"""R&P"" within the LRIC Methodology section of the Accounting Documents to conzero A numerical value of 0.5m and 0.5 m. struct cost volume relationships and to calculate LRIC."
The R&P also contains appendices which detail the relationships and parameters used within the 1 A value of below 1m.
See Section 4 - Basis of Preparation.
SDSL Symmetric Digital Subscriber Line.
"Stand alone cost The stand alone cost of an activity or subset of activities is the cost incurred ""SAC"" in providing that activity or activities of services by itself."
Stand alone cost will include all direct variable, activity specific fixed costs, common fixed costs and joint costs associated with the activity or subset of activities in question.
SG&A Sales, General and Administration.
SMPF Shared Metallic Path Facilities.
TISBO Traditional Interface Symmetric Broadband Orgination.
Usage Factors Usage Factors refer to the usage of any network component, including conveyance components.
129 Additional Information Additional Information Additional Information 130 Additional Information Hard copy versions of the published Current Cost Financial Statements, Primary Accounting Documents, Detailed Attribution Methods, Detailed Valuation Methodology and Long Run Incremental Cost Model: Relationships and Parameters can be obtained from: Shareholder helpline Tel: Freefone 0808 100 4141 Fax: 01903 833371 Textphone: Freefone 0800 169 6907 From outside the UK: Tel: 44 121 415 7178 Fax: 44 1903 833371 Textphone: Freephone 44 121 415 7028 E-mail: bt@equiniti.
co. uk The Registrar Equiniti Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA United Kingdom Website: www.
com Electronic copies of the above documents are also available from the following website: www.
