REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDERS AND ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING different issue by proposing a separate resolution for each issue.
Relations with shareholders The proxy votes for and against each resolution, as well as votes Senior executives, led by the Chief Executive and the Group Finance withheld, will be counted before the AGM and the results will be Director and including, as appropriate, the other executive made available at the meeting.
As at the 2010 AGM, votes on all directors, hold meetings with BTs institutional shareholders and matters at the 2011 AGM, except procedural issues, will be taken prospective shareholders to discuss BTs strategy, financial on a poll.
Every vote cast, whether in person or by proxy at the performance and prospects.
The Chairman also meets with major meeting will be counted.
The outcome of voting on the resolutions shareholders, at their request, during the year.
This may also will be posted on our website as soon as possible after the meeting.
include meetings to discuss remuneration policies and governance It is our policy for all directors to attend the AGM if at all possible.
All non-executive directors have an invitation to attend Whilst, because of ill health or other pressing reasons, this may not investor meetings if they wish and during the year the Senior always be possible, in normal circumstances this means that the Independent Director has held meetings with major institutional chairs of the Audit & Risk, Nominating & Governance and shareholders and representative bodies about governance and Remuneration Committees are at the AGM and are available to remuneration policy.
Contact with institutional shareholders and answer relevant questions.
All the directors attended the 2010 with financial analysts, brokers and the media is controlled by AGM.
written guidelines to ensure the protection of inside information that has not already been made generally available to the market.
The resolutions to be proposed at the 2011 AGM at Old The directors are provided with reports and other written briengs Billingsgate, London on 13 July, together with explanatory notes, on shareholders and analysts views and are regularly informed by appear in the separate Summary financial statement & notice of the Company Secretary about the holdings of the principal meeting 2011 which is sent to all shareholders who have requested shareholders.
The Company Secretary also surveys private a copy.
Copies of this annual report are sent only to shareholders shareholders about the quality of our shareholder communications.
who have requested or request a copy.
All shareholders are notied In 2010 we randomly selected 9,000 private shareholders to give of the publication of these documents which are sent out in the them an opportunity to provide feedback and help us improve our most cost-effective way.
We aim to give as much notice of our AGM engagement with them.
In line with our cost transformation as possible and at least 21 clear days notice, as required by our objectives we are encouraging our private shareholders to receive Articles of Association.
In practice, these documents are being sent electronic shareholder communications.
to shareholders more than 20 working days before the AGM.
Established procedures ensure the timely release of inside Resolutions to re-appoint  LLP as BTs information and the publication of financial results and regulatory auditors and to authorise the directors to agree their remuneration financial statements.
All external announcements are also reviewed will also be proposed at the AGM.
for accuracy and compliance requirements by a committee of senior The presentation made by the Chairman and the Chief Executive executives, the Disclosure Committee, which is chaired by the will be broadcast live on the internet at www.
and will be available after the AGM.
Substantial shareholdings Authority to purchase shares At 6 May 2011 BT had received notications, under the Disclosure The authority given at last years AGM of the company held on and Transparency Rules issued by the Financial Services Authority, 22 July 2010 for BT to purchase in the market 775m of its shares, in respect of the following holdings of shares representing representing 10% of the issued share capital, expires on 13 July percentage holdings of BTs total voting rights as shown: 2011.
Shareholders will be asked to give a similar authority at the AGM.
Shares % of total voting rights During 2011, 9.7m treasury shares were transferred to meet BTs Invesco Limited 845,250,432 10.88 obligations under our employee share plans.
At 6 May 2011 a total BlackRock Inc. 398,607,977 5.14 of 389m shares were retained as treasury shares.
All the shares were purchased in an on-market programme of buying back BT shares, started in November 2003.
The programme was suspended AGM resolutions with effect from 31 July 2008.
Shareholders will be asked to vote on the annual report at the AGM.
Shareholders will also again be asked to vote separately on the By order of the Board Report on directors remuneration.
It is part of our policy to involve shareholders fully in the affairs of Andrew Parker the company and to give them the opportunity at the AGM to ask Company Secretary questions about BTs activities and prospects.
We also give 11 May 2011 shareholders the opportunity to vote on every substantially 86 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 88 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES 151 REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 89 REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 152 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF BT GROUP PLC 89 United Kingdom opinion 155 SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS AND ASSOCIATE 90 United States opinion 91 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 91 ACCOUNTING POLICIES 100 GROUP INCOME STATEMENT 101 GROUP STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 102 GROUP STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 103 GROUP CASH FLOW STATEMENT 104 GROUP BALANCE SHEET 105 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
Finance expense and finance income 116 10.
Financial instruments and risk management 139 30.
Financial commitments and contingent liabilities 150 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 2011 87
