REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND OPERATING COMMITTEE Sir Michael Rake Ian Livingston Tony Chanmugam Gavin Patterson Andrew Parker Tony Ball Clayton Brendish Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Chief Executive Company Director BT Retail Secretary Gavin Patterson Chairman a, e Chief Executive, BT Retail Sir Michael Rake Gavin Patterson was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2008 as d, e, f Chairman Chief Executive BT Retail and is a member of the Operating Sir Michael was appointed to the Board as Chairman on Committee.
He is also a member of the Committee for Sustainable 26 September 2007.
He also chairs the Nominating & Governance & Responsible Business.
He was formerly Managing Director, Committee and the Committee for Sustainable & Responsible Consumer Division, BT Retail.
He is a non-executive director of Business and is a member of the Pension Scheme Performance British Airways.
Before joining BT, he was managing director of the Review Group.
He was formerly chairman of KPMG International consumer division of Telewest.
Aged 43. from 2002 to 2007, and previously held other roles in KPMG from 1972.
Company Secretary He is chairman of easyJet, a non-executive director of Barclays, where he chairs the audit committee, McGraw Hill and the Financial Andrew Parker Reporting Council.
Sir Michaels other appointments include viceAndrew Parker, formerly General Counsel, BT Retail from 2004, was president of the RNIB, membership of the board of the appointed Company Secretary on 1 April 2008.
A solicitor, he has TransAtlantic Business Dialogue, the CBI International Advisory worked for BT since 1988 in a number of legal, regulatory and Board and the National Security Forum.
He is an employer-nominated trustee director of he was knighted in 2007 for his services to the accountancy the BT Pension Scheme.
Andrew previously worked in the City in profession.
Executive directors Operating Committee Ian Livingston a, f Chief Executive Ian Livingston, Chief Executive Ian Livingston was appointed as Chief Executive on 1 June 2008.
Tony Chanmugam, Group Finance Director He chairs the Operating Committee and is a member of the Pension Sally Davis, Chief Executive, BT Wholesale Scheme Performance Review Group.
He was formerly Chief Jeff Kelly, Chief Executive, BT Global Services Executive of BT Retail from 7 February 2005 and Group Finance Roel Louwhoff, Chief Executive, BT Operate Director from April 2002.
Before joining BT, he was group finance Gavin Patterson, Chief Executive, BT Retail director of Dixons Group from 1997.
He joined Dixons in 1991 after Clive Selley, Chief Executive, BT Innovate & Design working for 3i Group and Bank of America International.
His experience at Dixons spanned a number of operational and Key to membership of Board committees: financial roles, both in the UK and overseas.
He is a non-executive a Operating director of Celtic and chairman of the audit committee.
He is a b Audit & Risk Chartered Accountant.
Aged 46. c Remuneration d Nominating & Governance Tony Chanmugam e Sustainable & Responsible Business a Group Finance Director f Pension Scheme Performance Review Group Tony Chanmugam was appointed to the Board on 1 December g Equality of Access Board 2008 as Group Finance Director and is a member of the Operating Committee.
He was formerly Chief Financial officer of BT Retail and Managing Director of BT Enterprises and, from 1997 to 2004, he was Chief Financial officer and then Chief Operating officer of BT Global Solutions.
Tony was appointed a non-executive director and chairman of the audit committee of Barnet and Chase Farm Hospital Trust in April 2010.
He is a Chartered Management Accountant.
60 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND OPERATING COMMITTEE J Eric Daniels Rt Hon Phil Hodkinson Nicholas Rose Carl G Symon Jasmine Patricia Hewitt Whitbread Non-executive directors c, d b, d, e, f Tony Ball Phil Hodkinson Tony Ball was appointed to the Board on 16 July 2009.
He is a member Phil Hodkinson was appointed to the Board on 1 February 2006. of the Remuneration and the Nominating & Governance Committees.
He is chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee and is a member of He has held senior executive positions in broadcasting and the Nominating & Governance Committee, the Committee for telecommunications businesses in the UK, US and continental Europe.
Sustainable & Responsible Business, and the Pension Scheme From 1999 to 2003 he was chief executive of BSkyB.
He is chairman of Performance Review Group.
He is a non-executive director of HM the supervisory board of Kabel Deutschland.
He is also a board member Revenue & Customs, Travelex, Resolution and Business in the of the Olympic Delivery Authority London 2012 and a non-executive Community, and a trustee of Christian Aid and BBC Children in director of the Spanish cable company ONO.
Prior to his retirement in 2007, Phils roles included group finance director of HBOS, chairman of Insight Investment and b, d, e Clerical Medical, and chief executive of Zurich Life and Eagle Star Clayton Brendish Life.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries.
Clay Brendish was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2002.
He is a member of the Audit & Risk and the Nominating & Governance b Committees, and the Committee for Sustainable & Responsible Nicholas Rose Business.
He is non-executive chairman of Anite, SThree, and Echo Nick Rose was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2011 and is a Research and non-executive director of Herald Investment Trust.
He is member of the Audit & Risk Committee.
He has been a nonalso a trustee of Economist Newspapers.
Prior to his retirement in executive director of BAE Systems since February 2010 and retired 2001, Clay was executive deputy chairman of CMG having joined the as group finance director of Diageo in October 2010, having been board when it acquired Admiral.
Clay was co-founder and executive on the board since joining in 1999.
Prior to Diageo, Nick was a chairman of Admiral.
He also acted as an adviser to the Government on member of the board of GrandMet and in his early career spent 11 the efficiency of the Civil Service.
Aged 64. years with Ford Finance in a number of different roles.
Nick was appointed chairman of Edwards Vacuum on 24 March 2011. c, d J Eric Daniels Aged 53.
Eric Daniels was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2008.
He is a b, c, g member of the Remuneration and the Nominating & Governance Carl G Symon Committees.
He was group chief executive of Lloyds Banking Group Carl Symon was appointed to the Board on 14 January 2002, and formerly Lloyds TSB Group until March 2011 having been a appointed chairman of the Equality of Access Board when it director since 2001.
Immediately prior to joining Lloyds TSB Group, became operational on 1 November 2005.
He is a member of the he was chairman and chief executive of Zona Financiera.
Eric Audit & Risk and the Remuneration Committees.
He retired from worked for Citibank from 1975 to 2000, becoming chief operating IBM in May 2001 after a 32-year career, during which he held officer of Citibanks consumer bank, then chairman and chief senior executive positions in the US, Canada, Latin America, Asia executive of Travelers Life and Annuity following its merger with and Europe.
Carl is a non-executive director of BAE Systems and Citibank.
He was formerly chairman of the HMV Group and a nonexecutive director of Rolls-Royce.
A US national, he is aged 65. b, c, d, f Rt Hon Patricia Hewitt e Patricia Hewitt was appointed to the Board on 24 March 2008 and Jasmine Whitbread became Senior Independent Director in July 2009.
She chairs the Jasmine Whitbread was appointed to the Board on 19 January Remuneration Committee and the Pension Scheme Performance 2011 and is a member of the Committee for Sustainable & Review Group and is a member of the Audit & Risk and the Responsible Business.
She was appointed chief executive of Save Nominating & Governance Committees.
Patricia stepped down as an the Children International in 2010, having joined Save the Children MP at the 2010 election.
She joined Groupe Eurotunnel SA as an in 2005.
Jasmine held positions with Oxfam until 2005 and prior to independent non-executive director in May 2010.
She was Secretary this served as a managing director of Thomson Financial based in of State for Health from 2005 to 2007 and previously Trade and the US.
A British and Swiss dual national, she is aged 47.
Industry and Cabinet Minister for Women from 2001 to 2005.
Before entering Parliament in 1997, she was director of research EMEA at Andersen Consulting now Accenture and deputy director of the Institute for Public Policy Research.
A British and Australian dual national, she is aged 62.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 2011 61 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
