FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Independent Auditors Report to the members of In our opinion: BT Group plc the company the part of the Report on directors remuneration to be audited We have audited the parent company financial statements of BT has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2011 which comprise the Act 2006: and BT Group plc company balance sheet, the BT Group plc company reconciliation of movement in equity shareholders funds, the BT the information given in the Report of the directors for the Group plc accounting policies and related notes.
The financial financial year for which the parent company financial statements reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United statements.
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters As explained more fully in the Statement of directors where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in responsibilities set out on page 88, the directors are responsible for our opinion: the preparation of the parent company financial statements and for adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been is to audit the parent company financial statements in accordance received from branches not visited by us: or with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK the parent company financial statements and the part of the and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Report on directors remuneration to be audited are not in Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
agreement with the accounting records and returns: or This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 not made: or of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We we have not received all the information and explanations we do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for require for our audit.
any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly Other matter agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We have reported separately on the consolidated financial statements of BT Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2011.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material Philip Rivett Senior Statutory Auditor misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an for and on behalf of  LLP assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently London, United Kingdom applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant 11 May 2011 accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F for the year ended 31 March 2011 to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 March 2011: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 2011 151 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
