FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
Segment information The groups operating segments are reported based on financial information provided to the Operating Committee, as detailed on page 64, which is the key management committee and represents the chief operating decision maker.
The Operating Committee is chaired by the Group Chief Executive and the other members are the Group Finance Director and the Chief Executives of BT Retail, BT Wholesale, BT Global Services, BT Innovate & Design and BT Operate.
The Chief Executive of Openreach, the Company Secretary and the Group HR director also normally attend all meetings.
The groups organisational structure reects the different customer groups to which it provides communications products and services via its four customer-facing lines of business, supported by two internal service units.
The four customer-facing lines of business are the groups reportable segments and generate substantially all the groups revenue.
Their operations are summarised as follows: BT Global Services provides managed networked IT services to multinational corporations, domestic businesses and national and local government organisations operating in more than 170 countries worldwide.
BT Retail provides communication products and services to the consumer market and provides IT and communications services to SMEs.
BT Retail includes BT Ireland which operates across the major corporate, SME, consumer and wholesale markets throughout the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland.
BT Retail also includes BT Enterprises which comprises a number of individual businesses including BT Conferencing, BT Directories, BT Expedite, BT Redcare & Payphones and BT Openzone.
BT Wholesale provides products and a broad range of voice, broadband and data communications services, including managed services for xed and mobile network operators, internet service providers and telecoms resellers in the UK.
Openreach is responsible for the last mile of the UK access network the copper wires and bre connecting homes and businesses to their local telephone exchange via xed-line local and backhaul connections.
Openreach customers, which comprise UK communication providers and other BT lines of business, are offered fair, equal and open access to its networks.
BT Innovate & Design and BT Operate are internal service units which support the four customer-facing lines of business.
BT Innovate & Design is responsible for the development, design and delivery of the platforms, systems and processes which support the provision of the groups products and services.
BT Operate is responsible for managing BTs IT and network infrastructure platforms.
BT Innovate & Design and BT Operate operate on a full cost recovery basis.
The costs incurred by BT Innovate & Design and BT Operate are allocated to the customer-facing lines of business in line with the services they provide.
The depreciation and amortisation incurred by BT Operate in relation to the networks and systems they manage and operate on behalf of the customer-facing lines of business are allocated to the lines of business based on their respective utilisation.
Capital expenditure incurred by BT Innovate & Design for specic projects undertaken on behalf of the customer-facing lines of business is allocated based on the value of the directly attributable expenditure incurred.
Where projects are not directly attributable to a particular line of business, capital expenditure is allocated based on the proportion of estimated future economic benets.
Capital expenditure incurred by BT Operate is allocated to the customer-facing lines of business in line with the proportion of operating cost recoveries.
BT Innovate & Design and BT Operate and the groups centralised functions are not reportable segments as they did not meet the quantitative thresholds as set out in IFRS 8 Operating Segments for any of the years presented.
Intra group revenue generated from the sale of regulated products and services is based on market price.
Intra group revenue from the sale of other products and services is agreed between the relevant lines of business and thus line of business profitability can be impacted by transfer pricing levels.
The majority of the internal trading relates to Openreach and arises on rentals, and any associated connection or migration charges, of the UK access lines and other network products to the market-facing lines of business, both directly, and also indirectly, through BT Operate which is included within the Other segment.
Internal revenue arising in BT Retail relates primarily to BT Ireland and Enterprises.
Internal revenue arising in BT Wholesale relates to the sale of line cards and access electronic services to Openreach.
In addition to the four customer-facing lines of business, the remaining operations of the group are aggregated and included within the Other category to reconcile to the consolidated results of the group.
The Other category includes costs associated with the groups centralised functions including procurement and supply chain, eet and property management.
Provisions for the settlement of significant legal, commercial and regulatory disputes, which are negotiated at a group level, are initially recorded in the Other segment.
On resolution of the dispute, the full impact is recognised in the relevant lines of business results, offset in the group results by the utilisation of the provision previously charged to the Other segment.
Settlements which are particularly significant or cover more than one financial year may fall within the denition of specic items as detailed on page 91.
Information regarding the results of each reportable segment is provided below.
Performance is measured based on adjusted EBITDA, dened as EBITDA before specic items, as included in the internal financial reports reviewed by the Operating Committee.
EBITDA is dened as the operating profit or loss before depreciation, amortisation, net finance expense and taxation.
Adjusted EBITDA is considered to be a useful measure of the operating performance of the lines of business because it reects the underlying cash by eliminating depreciation and amortisation and also provides a meaningful analysis of trading performance by excluding specic items which are disclosed separately by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
Specic items are detailed in note 8 and are not allocated to the reportable segments as this reects how they are reported to the Operating Committee.
Finance expense and income is not allocated to the reportable segments as this activity is managed by the central treasury function which manages the overall net debt position of the group.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 2011 105 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
