FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS of post acquisition reserves, less any impairment in the value of measured reliably.
Where the group acts as an agent in a individual assets.
The income statement reects the groups share of transaction, it recognises revenue net of directly attributable costs.
the results of operations after tax of the associate or joint venture.
Services When a group entity transacts with its associate or a joint venture, Revenue arising from separable installation and connection services profits and losses resulting from the transactions with the associate is recognised when it is earned, upon activation.
Revenue from the or joint venture are recognised in the consolidated financial rental of analogue and digital lines and private circuits is recognised statements only to the extent of interests in the associate that are evenly over the period to which the charges relate.
Revenue from not related to the group.
calls is recognised at the time the call is made over the groups network.
iii Business combinations Subscription fees, consisting primarily of monthly charges for Acquisitions of businesses are accounted for using the acquisition access to broadband and other internet access or voice services, method of accounting.
The consideration transferred is measured at are recognised as revenue as the service is provided.
Revenue fair value, which is the aggregate of the fair values of the assets arising from the interconnection of voice and data trafc between transferred, liabilities incurred or assumed and the equity other telecommunications operators is recognised at the time of instruments issued in exchange for control of the acquiree.
transit across the groups network.
Acquisition related costs are generally expensed as incurred.
The acquirees identiable assets and liabilities are recognised at their Equipment sales fair value at the acquisition date.
Revenue from the sale of peripheral and other equipment is Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and recognised when all the significant risks and rewards of ownership measured at cost representing the excess of the aggregate of the are transferred to the buyer, which is normally the date the consideration, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the equipment is delivered and accepted by the customer.
acquiree, and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree if any over the net of the fair values of the Long-term contractual arrangements identiable assets and liabilities at the date of acquisition.
Revenue from long-term contractual arrangements is recognised based on the percentage of completion method.
The stage of Non-controlling interests that entitle their holders to a completion is estimated using an appropriate measure according proportionate share of the entitys net assets in the event of to the nature of the contract.
For long-term services contracts, liquidation may be initially measured either at fair value or at the revenue is recognised on a straight line basis over the term of the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the recognised contract.
However, if the performance pattern is other than straight amounts of the acquirees identiable net assets.
The choice of line, revenue is recognised as services are provided, usually on an measurement basis is made on a transaction by transaction basis.
For xed price contracts, including When the consideration in a business combination includes contracts to design and build software solutions, revenue is contingent consideration, it is measured at its acquisition date fair recognised by reference to the stage of completion, as determined value.
Changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration by the proportion of costs incurred relative to the estimated total that qualify as measurement period adjustments are adjusted contract costs, or other measures of completion such as the retrospectively, with corresponding adjustments against goodwill.
achievement of contract milestones and customer acceptance.
In Measurement period adjustments are adjustments that arise from the case of time and materials contracts, revenue is recognised as additional information obtained during the measurement period, the service is rendered.
which cannot exceed one year from the acquisition date, about Costs related to delivering services under long-term contractual facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date.
arrangements are expensed as incurred.
An element of costs The subsequent accounting for changes in the fair value of the incurred in the initial set up, transition or transformation phase of contingent consideration that do not qualify as measurement the contract is deferred and recorded within non-current assets.
period adjustments depends on how the contingent consideration These costs are then recognised in the income statement on a is classied.
Contingent consideration that is classied as equity is straight line basis over the remaining contractual term, unless not remeasured and its subsequent settlement is accounted for the pattern of service delivery indicates a different prole is within equity.
Contingent consideration that is classied as an asset appropriate.
These costs are directly attributable to specic or a liability is remeasured with the corresponding gain or loss contracts, relate to future activity, will generate future economic being recognised in profit or loss.
benets and are assessed for recoverability on a regular basis.
When a business combination is achieved in stages, the groups The percentage of completion method relies on estimates of previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair total expected contract revenues and costs, as well as reliable value at the acquisition date and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is measurement of the progress made towards completion.
Unless recognised in profit or loss.
the financial outcome of a contract can be estimated with reasonable certainty, no attributable profit is recognised.
In such Business combinations that took place prior to 1 April 2010 were circumstances, revenue is recognised equal to the costs incurred to accounted for in accordance with the previous version of IFRS 3. date, to the extent that such revenue is expected to be recoverable.
Recognised revenue and profits are subject to revisions during the iv Revenue contract if the assumptions regarding the overall contract outcome Revenue represents the fair value of the consideration received or are changed.
The cumulative impact of a revision in estimates is receivable for communication services and equipment sales, net of recorded in the period in which such revisions become likely and discounts and sales taxes.
Revenue from the rendering of services can be estimated.
Where the actual and estimated costs to and sale of equipment is recognised when it is probable that the completion exceed the estimated revenue for a contract, the full economic benets associated with a transaction will ow to the contract life loss is recognised immediately.
group and the amount of revenue and associated costs can be 92
