FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit rated bonds that have group establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of the maturity dates approximating the terms of the groups obligations.
amounts expected to be paid to tax authorities.
The calculation is performed by a qualied actuary using the Deferred tax is recognised, using the liability method, in respect of projected unit credit method.
The net obligation or asset temporary differences between the carrying amount of the groups recognised in the balance sheet is the present value of the dened assets and liabilities and their tax base, except to the extent that benefit obligation less the fair value of the plan assets.
the deferred tax asset or liability arises from the initial recognition The income statement charge is allocated between an operating of goodwill or from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a charge and net finance expense or income.
The operating charge transaction which is not a business combination and affects neither reects the service cost which is spread systematically over the accounting profit nor taxable profit.
working lives of the employees.
The net finance charge reects the Deferred tax liabilities are, where permitted, offset against deferred unwinding of the discount applied to the liabilities of the plan, tax assets within the same taxable entity or qualifying local tax offset by the expected return on the assets of the plan, based on group.
Any remaining deferred tax asset is recognised only when, conditions prevailing at the start of the year.
on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as probable Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in that there will be suitable taxable profits, within the same which they occur and are presented in the statement of jurisdiction, in the foreseeable future against which the deductible comprehensive income.
During 2011 this includes the impact of temporary difference can be utilised.
the change from RPI to CPI as detailed in note 23 on page 131.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that are expected to Actuarial valuations of the main dened benefit plan are carried out apply in the periods in which the asset is realised or liability settled, by an independent actuary as determined by the Trustee at based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or intervals of not more than three years, to determine the rates of substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
The pension cost is determined on the advice Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on of the groups actuary, having regard to the results of these Trustee investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except valuations.
In any intervening years, the actuaries review the where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be continuing appropriateness of the contribution rates.
controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not The group also operates dened contribution pension schemes and reverse in the foreseeable future.
the income statement is charged with the contributions payable.
Current and deferred tax are recognised in the income statement, except when the tax relates to items charged or credited directly in xvii Share-based payment equity, in which case the tax is also recognised in equity.
The group operates a number of equity settled share-based payment arrangements, under which the group receives services xix Dividends from employees as consideration for equity instruments share Final dividends are recognised as a liability in the year in which options and shares of the group.
Equity settled share-based they are declared and approved by the companys shareholders payments are measured at fair value excluding the effect of non in the annual general meeting.
Interim dividends are recognised market-based vesting conditions at the date of grant, but including when they are paid.
any market-based performance criteria and the impact of nonvesting conditions for example the requirement for employees to xx Provisions save.
The fair value determined at the grant date is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the groups Provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or estimate of the options or shares that will eventually vest and constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that adjusted for the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
an outow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are determined by Fair value is measured using either the Binomial options pricing discounting the expected future cash ows at a pre-tax rate that model or Monte Carlo simulations, whichever is most appropriate to reects current market assessments of the time value of money and the award.
the risks specic to the liability.
Financial liabilities within provisions Service and performance conditions are vesting conditions.
Any are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently carried at other conditions are non-vesting conditions which have to be taken amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Onerous lease into account to determine the fair value of equity instruments provisions have been measured at the lower of the cost to full the granted.
In the case that an award or option does not vest as a contract or the cost to exit it.
result of a failure to meet a non-vesting condition that is within the control of either counterparty, this is accounted for as a xxi Financial instruments cancellation.
Cancellations must be treated as accelerated vesting Recognition and derecognition of financial assets and and all remaining future charges are immediately recognised.
As financial liabilities the requirement to save under an employee sharesave arrangement Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the is a non-vesting condition, employee cancellations must be treated group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the as an accelerated vesting.
Financial assets are derecognised when the group no longer has rights to cash ows, the risks and rewards of ownership or xviii Taxation control of the asset.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the Current income tax is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
In or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries particular, for all regular way purchases and sales of financial assets, where the companys subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures the group recognises the financial assets on the settlement date, operate and generate taxable income.
The group periodically which is the date on which the asset is delivered to or by the group.
evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation, and the BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 2011 95 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial assets cash ows discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The impairment loss is only reversed if it can be Financial assets at fair value through income statement related objectively to an event after the impairment was recognised A financial asset is classied in this category if acquired principally and is reversed to the extent that the carrying value of the asset for the purpose of selling in the short-term held for trading or if does not exceed its amortised cost at the date of reversal.
Financial assets held in this category are initially recognised and subsequently measured at fair If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising the value, with changes in value recognised in the income statement in difference between its cost net of any principal payment and the line which most appropriately reects the nature of the item or amortisation and its fair value is transferred from equity to the transaction.
The direct transaction costs are recognised immediately income statement.
Reversals of impairment losses on debt in the income statement.
instruments are taken through the income statement if the increase in fair value of the instrument can be objectively related to an event Loans and receivables occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the income Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed statement.
Reversals in respect of equity instruments classied as or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market available-for-sale are recognised directly in equity.
other than those for which the group may not recover substantially If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has been all of its initial investment, other than because of credit incurred on an unquoted equity instrument that is not carried at deterioration, which are classied as available-for-sale.
fair value because its fair value cannot be objectively measured, or Loans and receivables are initially recognised at fair value plus on a derivative asset that is linked to and must be settled by transaction costs and subsequently carried at amortised cost using delivery of such an unquoted equity instrument, the amount of loss the effective interest method, with changes in carrying value is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount recognised in the income statement in the line which most and the present value of estimated future cash ows discounted at appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
the current market rate of return for a similar financial asset.
Available-for-sale financial assets Financial liabilities Non-derivative financial assets classied as available-for-sale are Trade and other payables either specically designated in this category or not classied in Financial liabilities within trade and other payables are initially any of the other categories.
Available-for-sale financial assets are recognised at fair value, which is usually the original invoiced initially recognised at fair value plus direct transaction costs and amount, and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the then re-measured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value, with effective interest method.
unrealised gains and losses except for changes in exchange rates for monetary items, interest, dividends and impairment losses, Loans and other borrowings which are recognised in the income statement recognised in equity Loans and other borrowings are initially recognised at fair value plus until the financial asset is derecognised, at which time the directly attributable transaction costs.
Where loans and other cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is taken to borrowings contain a separable embedded derivative, the fair the income statement, in the line that most appropriately reects value of the embedded derivative is the difference between the the nature of the item or transaction.
fair value of the hybrid instrument and the fair value of the loan or borrowing.
The fair value of the embedded derivative and the loan or Trade and other receivables borrowing is recorded separately on initial recognition.
Loans and Financial assets within trade and other receivables are initially other borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using recognised at fair value, which is usually the original invoiced amount, the effective interest method and, if included in a fair value hedge and are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective relationship, are revalued to reect the fair value movements on the interest method less provisions made for doubtful receivables.
hedged risk associated with the loans and other borrowings.
The Provisions are made specically where there is evidence of a risk of resultant amortisation of fair value movements, on fide-designation of the hedge, are recognised in the income statement.
non payment, taking into account ageing, previous losses experienced and general economic conditions.
Financial guarantees Cash and cash equivalents Financial guarantees are recognised initially at fair value plus transaction costs and subsequently measured at the higher of the Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and current balances with banks and similar institutions, which are readily convertible to amount determined in accordance with the accounting policy relating to provisions and the amount initially determined less, cash and which are subject to insignicant risk of changes in value and have an original maturity of three months or less.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash ow statement, cash and Derivative financial instruments cash equivalents are as dened above net of outstanding bank The group uses derivative financial instruments mainly to reduce overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are included within loans and other exposure to foreign exchange risks and interest rate movements.
The borrowings, in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for financial trading purposes.
However, derivatives that do not qualify Impairment of financial assets for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
The group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets are impaired.
Derivative financial instruments are classied as held for trading and are initially recognised and subsequently measured at fair value.
Where there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised arisen on assets carried at amortised cost, the carrying amount is immediately in the income statement in net finance expense.
reduced with the loss being recognised in the income statement.
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, The impairment loss is measured as the difference between that recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future 96 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS hedge.
Derivative financial instruments are classied as current assets Discontinuance of hedge accounting or current liabilities where they have a maturity period within 12 Discontinuance of hedge accounting may occur when a hedging months.
Where derivative financial instruments have a maturity instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or when the period greater than 12 months, they are classied within either hedge no longer qualies for hedge accounting or the group non-current assets or non-current liabilities.
revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged financial asset or liability remains or a highly probable transaction is Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host still expected to occur.
contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risk and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract Under a cash ow hedge, the cumulative gain or loss at that point and the host contract is not carried at fair value.
Changes in the fair remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above value of embedded derivatives are recognised in the income policy when the transaction occurs.
If the hedged transaction is no statement in the line which most appropriately reects the nature longer expected to take place or the underlying hedged financial of the item or transaction.
asset or liability no longer exists, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately in the income Hedge accounting statement.
Under a hedge of a net investment, the cumulative gain or loss remains in equity when the hedging instrument expires or is To qualify for hedge accounting, hedge documentation must be sold, terminated or exercised, or when the hedge no longer qualies prepared at inception and the hedge must be expected to be highly for hedge accounting or the group revokes designation of the hedge effective both prospectively and retrospectively.
The cumulative gain or loss is recognised in the income tested for effectiveness at inception and in subsequent periods in statement as part of the profit on disposal when the net investment which the hedge remains in operation.
in the foreign operation is disposed.
Under a fair value hedge, the cumulative gain or loss adjustment associated with the hedged risk Cash ow hedge is amortised to the income statement using the effective interest When a financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the method over the remaining term of the hedged item.
variability in cash ows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the Share capital derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity.
Ordinary shares are classied as equity.
Incremental costs directly For cash ow hedges of recognised assets or liabilities, the attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and deduction from the proceeds received.
Shares in the parent recognised in the same line in the income statement in the same company, BT Group plc, held by employee share ownership trusts period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects the and repurchased treasury shares are recorded in the balance sheet income statement.
as a deduction from shareholders equity at cost.
For highly probable transactions, when the transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non financial asset or Critical accounting estimates and key judgements non financial liability the associated cumulative gain or loss is The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs removed from equity and included in the initial cost or carrying requires the use of accounting estimates and assumptions.
It also amount of the non financial asset or liability.
requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of If a hedge of a highly probable transaction subsequently results in applying the groups accounting policies.
We continually evaluate the recognition of a financial asset or a financial liability, then the our estimates, assumptions and judgements based on available associated gains and losses that were recognised directly in equity information and experience.
As the use of estimates is inherent in are reclassied into the income statement in the same period or financial reporting, actual results could differ from these estimates.
periods during which the asset acquired or liability assumed affects The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity are the income statement.
Any ineffectiveness arising on a cash ow hedge of a recognised Long-term customer contracts asset or liability is recognised immediately in the same income Long-term customer contracts can extend over a number of financial statement line as the hedged item.
Where ineffectiveness arises on years.
During the contractual period recognition of costs and profits highly probable transactions, it is recognised in the line which most may be impacted by estimates of the ultimate profitability of each appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
If, at any time, these estimates indicate that any contract will be unprofitable, the entire estimated loss for the contract is Fair value hedge recognised immediately.
If these estimates indicate that any contract When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the will be less profitable than previously forecast, contract assets may variability in fair value of a recognised asset or liability, or unrecognised have to be written down to the extent they are no longer considered rm commitment, the change in fair value of the derivatives that are to be fully recoverable.
The group performs ongoing profitability designated as fair value hedges are recorded in the same line in the reviews of its contracts in order to determine whether the latest income statement, together with any changes in fair value of the estimates are appropriate.
Key factors reviewed include: hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk.
Transaction volumes or other inputs affecting future revenues which can vary depending on customer requirements, plans and Hedge of net investment in a foreign operation market position and other factors such as general economic Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of currency conditions: instruments designated as hedges of net investments in a foreign Our ability to achieve key contract milestones connected with the operation are taken to shareholders equity on consolidation to transition, development, transformation and deployment phases the extent that the hedges are deemed effective.
for customer contracts: Any ineffectiveness arising on a hedge of a net investment in a The status of commercial relations with customers and the foreign operation is recognised in net finance expense.
implication for future revenue and cost projections: and BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 2011 97 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our estimates of future staff and third party costs and the degree The value of the groups income tax liability is disclosed on the to which cost savings and efficiencies are deliverable.
The carrying value of assets comprising the costs of the initial set Deferred tax up, transition or transformation phase of long-term networked IT Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management judgement services contracts are disclosed in note 19. in determining the amounts to be recognised.
In particular, judgement is used when assessing the extent to which deferred tax Interconnect income and payments to other assets should be recognised with consideration given to the timing telecommunications operators and level of future taxable income.
In certain instances, BT relies on other operators to measure the trafc ows interconnecting with our networks.
Estimates are used The carrying value of the groups deferred tax assets and liabilities in these cases to determine the amount of income receivable from, are disclosed in note 24. or payments we need to make to, these other operators.
The prices at which these services are charged are often regulated and may be Goodwill subject to retrospective adjustment by regulators, and estimates The recoverable amount of cash generating units has been are used in assessing the likely effect of these adjustments.
determined based on value in use calculations.
These calculations require the use of estimates, including managements expectations Pension obligations of future revenue growth, operating costs and profit margins for BT has a commitment, mainly through the BTPS, to pay pension each cash generating unit.
benets to approximately 327,500 people over approximately 60 The carrying value of goodwill and the key assumptions used in years.
The cost of these benets and the present value of our pension performing the annual impairment assessment are disclosed in liabilities depend on such factors as the life expectancy of the note 13. members, the salary progression of our current employees, the return that the pension fund assets will generate in the time before they are Determination of fair values used to fund the pension payments, price ination and the discount Certain financial instruments such as investments, derivative rate used to calculate the net present value of the future pension financial instruments and certain elements of loans and payments.
We use estimates for all of these factors in determining borrowings, are carried on the balance sheet at fair value, with the pension costs and liabilities incorporated in our financial changes in fair value reected in the income statement.
The assumptions reect historical experience and our are estimated by reference in part to published price quotations judgement regarding future expectations.
and in part by using valuation techniques.
The value of the net pension obligation at 31 March 2011 and the The fair values of financial instruments are disclosed in note 29. key financial assumptions used to measure the obligation are disclosed in note 23.
Providing for doubtful debts BT provides services to consumer and business customers, mainly Useful lives for property, plant and equipment and software on credit terms.
We know that certain debts due to us will not be The plant and equipment in BTs networks is long lived with paid through the default of a small number of our customers.
cables and switching equipment operating for over 10 years and Estimates, based on our historical experience, are used in underground ducts being used for decades.
BT also develops software determining the level of debts that we believe will not be collected.
for use in IT systems and platforms that supports the products and These estimates include such factors as the current state of the services provided to our customers and that is also used within the economy and particular industry issues.
The annual depreciation and amortisation charge is sensitive to the estimated service lives allocated to each type of asset.
Asset lives The value of the provision for doubtful debts is disclosed in are assessed annually and changed when necessary to reect current note 19. thinking on their remaining lives in light of technological change, network investment plans including the groups bre roll-out Provisions programme, prospective economic utilisation and physical condition As disclosed in note 25, the groups provisions principally relate to of the assets concerned.
Changes to the service lives of assets obligations arising from property rationalisation programmes, implemented from 1 April 2010 had no significant impact in restructuring programmes, claims and litigation, and regulatory aggregate on the results for the year ended 31 March 2011. risks.
The carrying values of software, property, plant and equipment are Under our property rationalisation programmes we have identied disclosed in notes 13 and 14, respectively.
The useful lives applied a number of surplus properties.
Although efforts are being made to to the principal categories of assets are disclosed on page 94. sub-let this space, this is not always possible.
Estimates have been made of the cost of vacant possession and of any shortfall arising Income tax from any sub-lease income being lower than the lease costs.
Any The actual tax we pay on our profits is determined according to such shortfall is recognised as a provision.
complex tax laws and regulations.
Where the effect of these laws In respect of claims, litigation and regulatory risks, the group and regulations is unclear, we use estimates in determining the provides for anticipated costs where an outow of resources is liability for the tax to be paid on our past profits which we considered probable and a reasonable estimate can be made of the recognise in our financial statements.
We believe the estimates, likely outcome.
The ultimate liability may vary from the amounts assumptions and judgements are reasonable but this can involve provided and will be dependent upon the eventual outcome of any complex issues which may take a number of years to resolve.
final determination of prior year tax liabilities could be different from the estimates reected in the financial statements and may result in the recognition of an additional tax expense or tax credit in the income statement.
98 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Accounting standards, interpretations and Instruments effective 1 April 2011 amendments to published standards This interpretation claries the accounting when an entity adopted in the year ended 31 March 2011 renegotiates the terms of its debt with the result that the liability is The following new, revised and amended standards and settled in part or in full by the debtor issuing its own equity interpretations were adopted in 2011.
They have had no significant instrument to the creditor.
impact on the groups financial position or results of operations for the current or prior years but may impact the accounting for future Improvements to IFRSs 2010 effective 1 April 2011 transactions or arrangements.
This is the third set of amendments published under the IASBs annual improvements process and incorporate minor amendments IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations: to seven standards and interpretations.
IAS 27 Revised Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements: Amendments to IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners: Financial Reporting Standards effective 1 July 2011 Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and These amendments provide limited exemption from comparative Measurement: Eligible Hedged items: IFRS 7 disclosures for IFRS first-time adopters.
Amendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Classication of Rights Issues: and Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Improvements to IFRSs 2009. effective 1 April 2012 These amendments are intended to provide greater transparency Accounting standards, interpretations and around risk exposures when a financial asset is transferred but the amendments to published standards not transferor retains some level of continuing exposure in the asset.
yet effective The amendments also require disclosures where transfers of Certain new standards, interpretations and amendments to existing financial assets are not evenly distributed throughout the period.
standards have been published that are mandatory for the groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2011 or later periods.
Those which are considered to be relevant to the groups operations are set out below.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective 1 April 2013 IFRS 9 represents the first phase of the IASBs project to replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
It sets out the classication and measurement criteria for financial assets and financial liabilities and requires all financial assets, including assets currently classied under IAS 39 as available-forsale, to be measured at fair value through profit and loss unless the assets can be classied as held at amortised cost.
Qualifying equity investments held at fair value may have their fair value changes taken through other comprehensive income by election.
The group is currently assessing the impact of the standard on its results, financial position and cash ows.
Those standards, interpretations and amendments which are not currently expected to have a significant impact on the groups financial statements, are as follows: Amendments to IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures effective 1 April 2011 These amendments clarify the denition of a related party and provides some exemptions for government-related entities.
Amendment to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement effective 1 April 2011 This amendment permits a voluntary prepayment of a minimum funding requirement to be recognised as an asset.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 2011 99 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
