FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Subscriber acquisition costs Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or their useful economic life.
Residual values and Subscriber acquisition costs are expensed as incurred, unless they useful lives are reassessed annually and, if necessary, changes are meet the criteria for capitalisation, in which case they are recognised prospectively.
capitalised and amortised over the shorter of the expected customer life or contractual period.
xii Borrowing costs Estimated useful economic lives In respect of borrowing costs relating to qualifying assets which take The estimated useful economic lives assigned to the principal more than 12 months to complete, the group capitalises borrowing categories of intangible assets are as follows: costs during the construction phase as part of the cost of that asset.
Computer software 2 to 10 years Telecommunication licences 1 to 5 years xiii Asset impairment non financial assets Brands, customer lists and customer relationships 3 to 15 years Intangible assets with nite useful lives and property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment if events or changes in circumstances assessed at each reporting date indicate that the x Research and development carrying amount may not be recoverable.
When an impairment test Research expenditure is recognised in the income statement in the is performed, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to period in which it is incurred.
the higher of the net present value of the expected future cash Development expenditure, including the cost of internally ows value in use of the relevant cash generating unit and the fair value less cost to sell.
developed software, is recognised in the income statement in the period in which it is incurred unless it is probable that economic Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are benets will ow to the group from the asset being developed, the reviewed for impairment at least annually.
cost of the asset can be reliably measured and technical feasibility Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Capitalisation ceases when the asset being developed is ready for use.
If a cash generating unit is impaired, provision is made to reduce Research and development costs include direct and indirect labour, the carrying amount of the related assets to their estimated materials and directly attributable overheads.
recoverable amount, normally as a specic item.
Impairment losses are allocated rstly against goodwill, and secondly on a pro rata basis against intangible and other assets.
xi Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is included in the balance sheet at Where an impairment loss has been recognised against an asset, it may be reversed in future periods where there has been a change in historical cost, less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
On disposal of property, plant and equipment, the the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised, but only to the extent that the difference between the sale proceeds and the net book value at the date of disposal is recorded in the income statement.
assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, Cost if no impairment loss had been recognised.
This does not apply for goodwill, for which an impairment loss may not be reversed in any Included within the cost for network infrastructure and equipment circumstances.
are direct labour, contractors charges, materials and directly attributable overheads.
xiv Inventory Depreciation Inventory mainly comprises items of equipment held for sale or Depreciation is provided on property, plant and equipment on a rental and consumable items.
straight line basis from the time the asset is available for use, so as Equipment held and consumable items are stated at the lower to write off the assets cost over the estimated useful life taking into of cost and estimated net realisable value, after provisions for account any expected residual value.
Freehold land is not subject to obsolescence.
Cost is calculated on a first-in-first-out basis.
The lives assigned to principal categories of assets are as follows: xv Termination benets Land and buildings Termination benets leaver costs are payable when employment is Freehold buildings 40 years terminated before the normal retirement date, or when an employee Leasehold land and buildings Unexpired portion of accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benets.
The lease or 40 years, group recognises termination benets when it is demonstrably whichever is the committed to the affected employees leaving the group.
shorter Network infrastructure and equipment xvi Post retirement benets Transmission equipment: Duct 40 years The group operates a funded dened benefit pension plan, which is administered by an independent Trustee, for the majority of its Cable 3 to 25 years Fibre 5 to 20 years employees.
Exchange equipment 2 to 13 years The groups obligation in respect of dened benefit pension plans is Payphones and other network equipment 2 to 20 years calculated separately for each scheme by estimating the amount of Other future benefit that employees have earned in return for their Motor vehicles 2 to 9 years service to date.
That benefit is discounted to determine its present Computers and ofce equipment 3 to 6 years value, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted to arrive at the net pension obligation or asset.
The discount rate used is the 94
