FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Where a contractual arrangement consists of two or more separate currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in elements that have value to a customer on a standalone basis, Sterling, the presentation currency of the group.
revenue is recognised for each element as if it were an individual Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional contract.
The total contract consideration is allocated between the currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the separate elements on the basis of relative fair value and the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the appropriate revenue recognition criteria are applied to each settlement of such transactions and from the translation of element as described above.
monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at period end exchange rates are recognised in the income v Other operating income statement in the line which most appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
Where monetary items form part of Other operating income is income generated by the group that arises from activities outside of the provision of communication the net investment in a foreign operation and are designated as hedges of a net investment or as cash ow hedges, such exchange services and equipment sales.
Items reported as other operating income include income from repayment works, proceeds from scrap differences are recognised in equity.
and cable recovery, income generated by our eet operations, On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign undertakings are income from government grants, profits and losses on the disposal translated into Sterling at year end exchange rates.
The results of of business operations and property, plant and equipment and foreign undertakings are translated into Sterling at average rates of income generated from the exploitation of our intellectual exchange for the year unless this average is not a reasonable property.
approximation of the cumulative effects of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are vi Government grants translated at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange Government grants are recognised initially as deferred income at differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly in a their fair value where there is a reasonable assurance that the grant separate component of equity, the translation reserve.
will be received and the group will comply with the conditions In the event of the disposal of an undertaking with assets and associated with the grant.
Grants that compensate the group for liabilities denominated in a foreign currency, the cumulative expenses incurred are recognised in the income statement within translation difference associated with the undertaking in the other operating income in the same periods in which the associated translation reserve is charged or credited to the gain or loss on expenditure is recognised.
Grants that compensate the group for disposal recognised in the income statement.
the cost of an asset are recognised in the income statement in other operating income on a straight line basis over the useful life ix Intangible assets of the asset.
Identiable intangible assets are recognised when the group controls the asset, it is probable that future economic benets vii Leases attributable to the asset will ow to the group and the cost of the The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a asset can be reliably measured.
All intangible assets, other than lease is based on the substance of the arrangement and requires goodwill and indefinite lived assets, are amortised over their useful an assessment of whether the fullment of the arrangement is economic life.
The method of amortisation reects the pattern in dependent on the use of a specic asset or assets and whether which the assets are expected to be consumed.
If the pattern the arrangement conveys the right to use the asset.
cannot be determined reliably, the straight line method is used.
Leases of property, plant and equipment where the group holds substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classied as Goodwill finance leases.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the groups share of the identiable net assets Finance lease assets are capitalised at the commencement of including intangible assets of the acquired subsidiary.
Goodwill is the lease term at the lower of the present value of the minimum reviewed annually for impairment and carried at cost less lease payments or the fair value of the leased asset.
The obligations accumulated impairment losses.
relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are recognised as liabilities.
Leases are subsequently Computer software measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Computer software comprises computer software purchased from If a sale and leaseback transaction results in a finance lease, any third parties, and also the cost of internally developed software.
excess of sale proceeds over the carrying amount is deferred and Computer software purchased from third parties and internally recognised in the income statement over the lease term.
developed software is initially recorded at cost.
Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards are held by the lessor are classied as operating leases.
Rentals are charged Telecommunication licences to the income statement on a straight line basis over the period of Licence fees paid to governments, which permit the lease.
If a sale and leaseback transaction results in an operating telecommunication activities to be operated for dened periods, lease, any profit or loss is recognised in the income statement are initially recorded at cost and amortised from the time the immediately, except where a proportion of the profit or loss is network is available for use to the end of the licence period.
deferred or amortised because the sale price was not equal to fair value.
Brands, customer lists and customer relationships Intangible assets acquired through business combinations are viii Foreign currencies recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Assumptions are Items included in the financial statements of each of the groups used in estimating the fair values of acquired intangible assets and subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary include managements estimates of revenue and profits to be economic environment in which the entity operates the functional generated by the acquired businesses.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 2011 93 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
