FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Composition of the group Accounting policies The groups principal operating subsidiaries and associate are i Basis of preparation and presentation of the detailed on page 155. financial statements ii Basis of consolidation Compliance with applicable law and IFRS The group financial statements consolidate the financial statements These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in of BT Group plc the company and its subsidiaries, and they accordance with the Companies Act 2006, Article 4 of the IAS incorporate its share of the results of associated and joint ventures Regulation and International Accounting Standards IAS and using the equity method of accounting.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and related interpretations, as adopted by the European Union.
The Accounting for subsidiaries consolidated financial statements are also in compliance with IFRS A subsidiary is an entity that is controlled by another entity, known as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Control is the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benets from its Accounting convention activities generally accompanied by a shareholding of more than The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the historical one half of the voting rights.
cost basis, except for certain financial and equity instruments that have been measured at fair value.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identied separately from the groups equity.
NonPresentation of specic items controlling interests consist of the amounts of those interests at the The groups income statement and segmental analysis separately date of the original business combination and non-controlling identify trading results before specic items.
Specic items are share of changes in equity since the date of the combination.
those that in managements judgment need to be disclosed by The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
In determining whether an are consolidated from and up to the date of change of control.
event or transaction is specic, management considers quantitative Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements as well as qualitative factors such as the frequency or predictability of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures to bring the of occurrence.
This is consistent with the way that financial accounting policies used in line with those used by the group.
All performance is measured by management and reported to the intra group transactions including any gains or losses, balances, Board and the Operating Committee and assists in providing a income or expenses are eliminated in full on consolidation.
meaningful analysis of the trading results of the group.
The directors believe that presentation of the groups results in this way Changes in the groups ownership interests in subsidiaries that do is relevant to an understanding of the groups financial not result in the group losing control over the subsidiaries are performance as specic items are identied by virtue of their size, accounted for as equity transactions.
The carrying amounts of the nature or incidence.
Furthermore, the group considers a columnar groups interests and the non-controlling interests are adjusted to presentation to be appropriate, as it improves the clarity of the reect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiaries.
Any presentation and is consistent with the way that financial difference between the amount by which the non-controlling performance is measured by management and reported to the interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or Board and the Operating Committee.
Specic items may not be received is recognised directly in equity.
comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
When the group loses control of a subsidiary, the profit or loss on Items which have been considered to be specic items by virtue of disposal is calculated as the difference between i the aggregate of their size, nature or incidence include disposals of businesses and the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any investments, business restructuring programmes, asset impairment retained interest and ii the previous carrying amount of the assets charges, property rationalisation programmes and the settlement of including goodwill, and liabilities of the subsidiary and any nonmultiple tax years in a single payment.
In 2011 net interest on controlling interests.
pensions has been included in specic items because of its volatile nature, and also BT Global Services contract and financial review Interests in associates and joint ventures charges in 2009, by virtue of their size and nature.
Accordingly, An associate is an entity over which another entity has significant specic items for comparative periods have been re-presented to inuence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint reect this reclassication.
The impact of subsequent changes to the venture.
significant inuence is the power to participate in the contract and financial review charges from revisions in estimates and financial and operating policy decisions of an entity but is not assumptions are included within trading results before specic control or joint control over those policies.
items, and are separately disclosed if considered significant.
Specic A joint venture is an entity that is jointly controlled by two or more items for the current and prior years are disclosed in note 8. entities.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control over an economic activity, and exists only when the strategic Critical accounting estimates and key judgements financial and operating decisions relating to the activity require the The preparation of financial statements in conformity with unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts Investments in associates and joint ventures are initially recognised of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and at cost.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the group's share liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported of the net fair value of the identiable assets, liabilities and amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
contingent liabilities of an associate or joint venture at the date of Actual results could differ from those estimates.
The areas involving acquisition is recognised as goodwill, which is included within the a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where carrying amount of the investment.
assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying value of the groups financial statements are disclosed on pages 97 and 98 in Critical investment in associates and joint ventures includes the groups share accounting estimates and key judgements.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 2011 91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
