FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF BT GROUP PLC vi Cash BT Group plc accounting policies Cash includes cash in hand and bank deposits repayable on i Accounting basis demand.
As used in these financial statements and associated notes, the term company refers to BT Group plc.
These separate financial vii Share-based payments statements of the company are presented as required by the The company does not incur a charge for share-based payments.
The separate financial statements have been However, the issuance by the company of share options and awards prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting to employees of its subsidiaries represents additional capital Principles UK GAAP.
An addition to the companys The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis and investment in subsidiaries is recorded with a corresponding increase under the historical cost convention as modied by the revaluation in equity shareholders funds.
The additional capital contribution is of certain financial instruments at fair value.
determined based on the fair value of options and awards at the date of grant and is recognised over the vesting period.
As permitted by Section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006, the companys profit and loss account has not been presented.
Other information The BT Group plc consolidated financial statements for the year i Dividends ended 31 March 2011 contain a consolidated statement of cash The Board recommends that a final dividend in respect of ows.
Consequently, the company has taken advantage of the the year ended 31 March 2011 of 5.0p will be paid to shareholders exemption in FRS 1, Cash Flow Statements, not to present its own on 5 September 2011, taking the full year proposed dividend in cash ow statement.
respect of the 2011 financial year to 7.4p 2010: 6.9p.
This The BT Group plc consolidated financial statements for the dividend is subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General year ended 31 March 2011 contain related party disclosures.
Meeting and therefore the liability of approximately 388m 2010: Consequently, the company has taken advantage of the exemption 356m has not been included in these financial statements.
in FRS 8, Related Party Disclosures, not to disclose transactions with other members of the BT Group.
ii Employees The executive directors and the Chairman of BT Group plc were the The BT Group plc consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 contain financial instrument disclosures only employees of the company during 2011.
The costs relating to qualifying services provided to the companys principal subsidiary, which comply with FRS 29, Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Consequently, the company is exempted from the disclosure British Telecommunications plc, are recharged to that company.
requirements of FRS 29 in respect of its financial instruments.
iii Audit fees ii Investments in subsidiary undertakings The audit fee in respect of the parent company was 41,000 2010: 41,000.
Fees payable to  LLP for Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost and reviewed for impairment if there are indicators that the carrying non-audit services to the company are not required to be disclosed as they are included within note 7 to the consolidated financial value may not be recoverable.
statements of BT Group plc.
iii Taxation Full provision is made for deferred taxation on all timing differences which have arisen but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that there will be sufficient taxable profits from which the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
The deferred tax balances are not discounted.
iv Dividends Dividend distributions are recognised as a liability in the year in which the dividends are approved by the companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid: final dividends when authorised in general meetings by shareholders.
v Share capital Ordinary shares are classied as equity.
Repurchased shares of the company are recorded in the balance sheet as treasury shares and presented as a deduction from shareholders equity at cost.
