FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit rated bonds that have group establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of the maturity dates approximating the terms of the groups obligations.
amounts expected to be paid to tax authorities.
The calculation is performed by a qualied actuary using the Deferred tax is recognised, using the liability method, in respect of projected unit credit method.
The net obligation or asset temporary differences between the carrying amount of the groups recognised in the balance sheet is the present value of the dened assets and liabilities and their tax base, except to the extent that benefit obligation less the fair value of the plan assets.
the deferred tax asset or liability arises from the initial recognition The income statement charge is allocated between an operating of goodwill or from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a charge and net finance expense or income.
The operating charge transaction which is not a business combination and affects neither reects the service cost which is spread systematically over the accounting profit nor taxable profit.
working lives of the employees.
The net finance charge reects the Deferred tax liabilities are, where permitted, offset against deferred unwinding of the discount applied to the liabilities of the plan, tax assets within the same taxable entity or qualifying local tax offset by the expected return on the assets of the plan, based on group.
Any remaining deferred tax asset is recognised only when, conditions prevailing at the start of the year.
on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as probable Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in that there will be suitable taxable profits, within the same which they occur and are presented in the statement of jurisdiction, in the foreseeable future against which the deductible comprehensive income.
During 2011 this includes the impact of temporary difference can be utilised.
the change from RPI to CPI as detailed in note 23 on page 131.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that are expected to Actuarial valuations of the main dened benefit plan are carried out apply in the periods in which the asset is realised or liability settled, by an independent actuary as determined by the Trustee at based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or intervals of not more than three years, to determine the rates of substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
The pension cost is determined on the advice Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on of the groups actuary, having regard to the results of these Trustee investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except valuations.
In any intervening years, the actuaries review the where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be continuing appropriateness of the contribution rates.
controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not The group also operates dened contribution pension schemes and reverse in the foreseeable future.
the income statement is charged with the contributions payable.
Current and deferred tax are recognised in the income statement, except when the tax relates to items charged or credited directly in xvii Share-based payment equity, in which case the tax is also recognised in equity.
The group operates a number of equity settled share-based payment arrangements, under which the group receives services xix Dividends from employees as consideration for equity instruments share Final dividends are recognised as a liability in the year in which options and shares of the group.
Equity settled share-based they are declared and approved by the companys shareholders payments are measured at fair value excluding the effect of non in the annual general meeting.
Interim dividends are recognised market-based vesting conditions at the date of grant, but including when they are paid.
any market-based performance criteria and the impact of nonvesting conditions for example the requirement for employees to xx Provisions save.
The fair value determined at the grant date is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the groups Provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or estimate of the options or shares that will eventually vest and constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that adjusted for the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
an outow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are determined by Fair value is measured using either the Binomial options pricing discounting the expected future cash ows at a pre-tax rate that model or Monte Carlo simulations, whichever is most appropriate to reects current market assessments of the time value of money and the award.
the risks specic to the liability.
Financial liabilities within provisions Service and performance conditions are vesting conditions.
Any are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently carried at other conditions are non-vesting conditions which have to be taken amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Onerous lease into account to determine the fair value of equity instruments provisions have been measured at the lower of the cost to full the granted.
In the case that an award or option does not vest as a contract or the cost to exit it.
result of a failure to meet a non-vesting condition that is within the control of either counterparty, this is accounted for as a xxi Financial instruments cancellation.
Cancellations must be treated as accelerated vesting Recognition and derecognition of financial assets and and all remaining future charges are immediately recognised.
As financial liabilities the requirement to save under an employee sharesave arrangement Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the is a non-vesting condition, employee cancellations must be treated group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the as an accelerated vesting.
Financial assets are derecognised when the group no longer has rights to cash ows, the risks and rewards of ownership or xviii Taxation control of the asset.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the Current income tax is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
In or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries particular, for all regular way purchases and sales of financial assets, where the companys subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures the group recognises the financial assets on the settlement date, operate and generate taxable income.
The group periodically which is the date on which the asset is delivered to or by the group.
evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation, and the BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 2011 95 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
