Glossary of Terms and Definitions Return to Shareholders Share Price Discount Premium to Net Asset Value NAV per Share Total return to the investor, on a mid-market price to If the share price of an investment trust is lower than the NAV mid-market price basis, assuming that all dividends received per share, the shares are said to be trading at a discount.
The were reinvested, without transaction costs, into the shares of discount is shown as a percentage of the NAV per share.
The the Company at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
opposite of a discount is a premium.
It is more common for an investment trusts shares to trade at a discount than at a Return on Net Assets premium.
Total return on net asset value NAV per share, on a bid value to bid value basis, assuming that all dividends paid out Performance Attribution by the Company were reinvested, into the shares of the Analysis of how the Company achieved its recorded Company at the NAV per share at the time the shares were performance relative to its benchmark.
Performance Attribution Definitions: Benchmark Return Total return on the benchmark, on a mid-market value to Allocation Effect mid-market value basis, assuming that all dividends received Measures the effect of allocating assets to sectors or asset were reinvested, without transaction costs, into the shares of types differently to the weighting in the benchmark.
the underlying companies at the time the shares were quoted Selection Effect ex-dividend.
Measures the effect of investing in securities to a greater or The benchmark is a recognised index of stocks which should lesser extent than their weighting in the benchmark, or of not be taken as wholly representative of the Companys investing in securities which are excluded from the benchmark.
The Companys investment strategy does Gearing Cash Effect not track this index and consequently there may be some Measures the impact of borrowings or cash balances on the divergence between the Companys performance and that of Companys performance relative to its benchmark.
Currency Hedge Actual Gearing Factor Measures the effect on the Companys performance of a gain or Investments excluding holdings in liquidity funds, expressed as loss arising from the Companys hedging activities.
This shows the effect of gearing on the net asset value if the market value of the portfolio were to Management Fee Expenses increase by 100%.
The payment of fees and expenses reduces the level of total assets and therefore has a negative effect on the Companys Total Expense Ratio TER relative performance.
The TER is the ratio, expressed in percentage terms, of the management fee plus all other operating expenses, but Shares Issued excluding finance costs and any performance fee payable, to The issue of shares at a price in excess of the net asset value the average of the month end net assets during the year.
The per share, has a positive effect on the Companys relative TER is calculated in accordance with guidance issued by the performance.
The TER including performance fee payable is the ratio, expressed in percentage terms, of the management fee plus all other operating expenses plus any performance fee payable, but excluding finance costs, to the average of the month end net assets during the year.
JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 63 Information about the Company Financial Calendar Financial year end 31st December Final results announced March Half year end 30th June Half year results announced August Interim Management Statements announced April and October Dividend on ordinary shares paid May Annual General Meeting May Companys Registered Office History The Company has its origins in the Alabama, New Orleans, Texas Finsbury Dials and Pacific Junction Railways Company Limited which was 20 Finsbury Street formed in 1881 to acquire interests in, and to undertake the London EC2Y 9AQ completion of, three American railroads the Vicksburg and Telephone number: 020 7742 4000 Meridian, the Vicksburg, Shreveport and Pacific and the New For company secretarial and administrative matters, please Orleans and North Eastern.
In 1917 the Company was contact Andrew Norman.
reorganised, a proportion of the railroad interests were sold, and Custodian the investment powers were widened enabling its assets to be invested in several countries including the United Kingdom.
To JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A.
125 London Wall reflect the new objectives the name was changed to The Sterling Trust.
The Companys investment policy reverted to North London EC2Y 5AJ American securities in 1982 when the name was changed to The Registrars Fleming American Investment Trust plc.
The name was changed Equiniti Limited to JPMorgan Fleming American Investment Trust plc in April Reference 1077 2002 and to its present form in 2006.
JPMorgan has been the Aspect House Companys manager and secretary since 1966.
Spencer Road Company Numbers West Sussex BN99 6DA Telephone number: 0871 384 2316 Company registration number: 15543 London Stock Exchange number: 08456505 Calls to this number cost 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Other ISIN: GB0008465055 providers costs may vary.
Lines open 8.30 a. m. to 5.30 p. m. Monday Bloomberg code: JAM LN to Friday.
The overseas helpline number is 44 0 121 415 7047 Notifications of changes of address and enquiries regarding share Market Information certificates or dividend cheques should be made in writing to the The Companys net asset value NAV is published daily via the Registrar quoting reference 1077.
The Companys shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and the price is noted daily in the Registered shareholders can obtain further details on their Financial Times, The Times, The Daily Telegraph, The Scotsman, holdings on the internet by visiting www.
co. uk The Independent and on the J. P. Morgan website at Independent Auditor www.
co. uk, where the share price is updated every Deloitte LLP fifteen minutes during trading hours.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Website 2 New Street Square www.
co. uk London EC4A 3ZB Share Transactions Brokers The Companys shares may be dealt in directly through a stockbroker Collins Stewart Europe Limited or professional adviser acting on an investors behalf.
They may also 88 Wood Street be purchased and held through the J. P. Morgan Investment Account, London EC2V 7QR J. P. Morgan ISA and J. P. Morgan SIPP.
These products are all available Savings Product Administrators on the online wealth manager service, J. P. Morgan WealthManager For queries on the J. P. Morgan Investment Account, J. P. Morgan ISA available at www.
co. uk and J. P. Morgan SIPP, see contact details on the back cover of this report.
Manager and Company Secretary JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited A member of the AIC JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
