Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the financial JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM.
The statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
maintenance and integrity of the website maintained by JPMAM is, so far as it relates to the Company, the Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial responsibility of JPMAM.
The work carried out by the auditors statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance integrity of this website and, accordingly, the auditors accept with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice no responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
accounts since they were initially presented on the website.
Under Company law the Directors must not approve the The accounts are prepared in accordance with UK legislation, financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a which may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the return or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing Under applicable law and regulations the Directors are also these financial statements, the Directors are required to: responsible for preparing a Directors Report and Directors Remuneration Report that comply with that law and those select suitable accounting policies and then apply them regulations.
consistently: Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and the Directors Report confirm that, to the best of their prudent: knowledge: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have the financial statements, which have been prepared in been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted and explained in the financial statements: and Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Standards and applicable law, give a true and fair view of unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will the assets, liabilities, financial position and return or loss of continue in business.
the Company: and The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting the Directors Report includes a fair review of the records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys development and performance of the business and the transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy, at any position of the Company, together with a description of the time, the financial position of the Company and to enable principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking For and on behalf of the Board reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud Sarah Bates and other irregularities.
Director The accounts are published on the www.
co. uk 23rd March 2012 website, which is maintained by the Companys Manager, 34 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
