Glossary of Terms and Definitions Portfolio Total Return Net of Fees and Expenses In accordance with industry practice, dividends payable which have been declared but which are unpaid at the balance sheet Total return on net assets, that is net of the management fee date are deducted from the NAV per share when calculating and administration expenses, but excluding the effect of the diluted return on net assets.
Subscription shares which have converted during the year and the dilutive impact of Subscription shares in issue at the year Undiluted Return on Net Assets end.
Return on the undiluted net asset value NAV per share, on a Benchmark Return bid value to bid value basis, assuming that all dividends paid out by the Company were reinvested into the shares of the Total return on the benchmark, on a mid-market value to Company at the NAV per share at the time the shares were mid-market value basis, assuming that all dividends received quoted ex-dividend.
were reinvested into the shares of the underlying companies at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
In accordance with industry practice, dividends payable which have been declared but which are unpaid at the balance sheet The benchmark is a recognised index of stocks which should date are deducted from the NAV per share when calculating not be taken as wholly representative of the Companys the undiluted return on net assets.
The Companys investment strategy does not follow or track this index and consequently, there may be Actual Gearing Factor some divergence between the Companys performance and that of the benchmark.
Investments expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
This shows the effect of gearing on the net asset value per share Return to Ordinary Shareholders if the market value of the portfolio were to increase by 100%.
Total return to the Ordinary shareholder on a mid-market price Total Expense Ratio to mid-market price basis, assuming that all dividends paid out by the Company were reinvested, without transaction costs, Management fee and all other operating expenses excluding into the Ordinary shares of the Company at the time the shares interest and any performance fee payable, expressed as a were quoted ex-dividend.
percentage of the average of the month end net assets during the year 2008 and prior years: the average of the opening and Diluted Net Asset Value NAV per Ordinary Share closing net assets.
The diluted NAV per Ordinary share assuming that all Total Expense Ratio Including Performance Fee Payable outstanding Subscription shares were converted into Ordinary shares at the year end.
Management fee, all other operating expenses and any performance fee payable, but excluding interest, expressed as Diluted Return on Net Assets a percentage of the average of the month end net assets during the year 2008 and prior years: the average of the opening and Return on the diluted net asset value NAV per share, on a closing net assets.
bid value to bid value basis, assuming that all dividends paid out by the Company were reinvested into the shares of the Company at the NAV per share at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
66 JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Share Price Discount to Diluted Net Asset Value NAV per Ordinary Performance Attribution Definitions: Share Stock Selection If the share price of an investment trust is lower than the NAV Measures the effect of investing in securities to a greater or per share, the shares are said to be trading at a discount.
The lesser extent than their weighting in the benchmark, or of discount is shown as a percentage of the NAV per share.
The investing in securities which are not included in the opposite of a discount is a premium.
It is more common for an benchmark.
investment trusts shares to trade at a discount than at a Currency Effect premium.
Measures the impact of currency exposure differences between the Companys portfolio and its benchmark.
Return per Ordinary Share Diluted Gearing Cash The diluted return per Ordinary share represents the return on Measures the impact on returns of borrowings or cash ordinary activities after taxation divided by the weighted balances on the Companys relative performance.
average number of Ordinary shares in issue during the year as adjusted in accordance with the requirements of Financial Dividends Residual Reporting Standard 22 Earnings per share.
Represents timing differences in respect of cash flows and dividends.
Return per Ordinary Share Undiluted Management Fee Other Expenses The undiluted return per Ordinary share represents the return The payment of fees and expenses reduces the level of total on ordinary activities after taxation divided by the weighted assets, and therefore has a negative effect on relative average number of Ordinary shares in issue during the year.
Share Buybacks Active Position Measures the enhancement to net asset value per share of The active position shows the difference between the buying back the Companys shares for cancellation at a price Companys holding of an individual stock, sector or country, which is less than the Company's net asset value per share.
compared with that stock, sector or countrys weighting in the Exercise of Subscription Shares Companys benchmark.
A positive number indicates an active Measures the negative impact on the net asset value NAV per decision by the investment manager to own more of i. e. be share arising from the exercise of Subscription shares into overweight that stock, sector or country versus the benchmark Ordinary shares at a price which is less than the NAV per share.
and a negative number, a decision to hold less of i. e. be underweight a particular stock, sector or country versus the Subscription Share Dilution benchmark.
Measures the dilutive impact on the net asset value NAV per share arising from the potential exercise of all the outstanding Performance Attribution Subscription shares into Ordinary shares at a price which is less than the NAV per share.
Analysis of how the Company achieved its recorded performance relative to its benchmark.
JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
