Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the fifteenth Annual General so that the Directors of the Company may allot shares and Meeting of JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc will be held at grant Rights in pursuance of such offers or agreements as Trinity House, Tower Hill, London EC3N 4DH on Wednesday, if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
1st February 2012 at 12.00 noon for the following purposes: Authority to disapply pre-emption rights on allotment of relevant 1.
To receive the Directors Report, the Annual Accounts and securities Special Resolution the Auditors Report for the year ended 30th September 12.
THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 11 set out above, 2011. the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Sections 570 and 573 of the Act to 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 560 of year ended 30th September 2011. the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by 3.
To declare a final dividend on the Ordinary shares.
Resolution 11 or by way of a sale of Treasury shares as if Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such 4.
To re-elect Mr James Long as a Director.
allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to the 5.
To re-elect Mr Ronald Gould as a Director.
allotment of equity securities for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,090,383 representing approximately 6.
To re-elect Mr James Strachan as a Director.
5% of the issued Ordinary share capital as at the date of the 7.
To re-elect Mr Andrew Sykes as a Director.
passing of this resolution at a price of not less than the net asset value per share and shall expire upon the expiry of 8.
To elect Dr Linda Yueh as a Director.
the general authority conferred by Resolution 11 above, 9.
To re-appoint  LLP as Auditors to save that the Company may before such expiry make offers the Company.
or agreements which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and so that the 10.
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration Directors of the Company may allot equity securities in of the Auditors.
pursuant of such offers or agreements as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
Special Business Authority to repurchase the Companys shares Special Resolution To consider the following resolutions: 13.
THAT the Company be generally and, subject as hereinafter Authority to allot new shares Ordinary Resolution appears, unconditionally authorised in accordance with 11.
THAT the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby Section 701 of the Act to make market purchases within generally and unconditionally authorised, in substitution of the meaning of Section 693 of the Act of its issued Ordinary any authorities previously granted to the Directors, shares and Subscription shares on such terms and in such pursuant to and in accordance with Section 551 of the manner as the Directors may from time to time determine.
Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers of PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT the Company to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, i the maximum number of Ordinary shares and shares in the Company Rights up to an aggregate Subscription shares hereby authorised to be purchased nominal amount of 2,090,383, representing shall be 25,067,882 and 1,755,321 respectively, or if less, approximately 5% of the Companys issued Ordinary share that number of Ordinary shares or Subscription shares capital as at the date of the passing of this resolution, which is equal to 14.99% of the issued share capital of provided that this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the relevant share class as at the date of the passing of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in this Resolution: 2013 unless renewed at a general meeting prior to such ii the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary time, save that the Company may before such expiry make share or Subscription share shall be 25 pence and offers or agreements which would or might require shares 1 pence respectively: to be allotted or Rights to be granted after such expiry and 62 JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 iii the maximum price which may be paid for a share shall ii the price which may be paid for a Share shall be the be an amount equal to the highest of: a 105% of the relevant Tender Price as defined in the circular to be average of the middle market quotations for a share of sent to Shareholders in relation to each Conditional that class of share taken from and calculated by Tender Offer which in each case shall be both the reference to the London Stock Exchange Daily Official maximum and the minimum price for the purposes of List for the five business days immediately preceding section 701 of the 2006 Act : and the day on which the share is contracted to be iii unless renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall purchased: or b the price of the last independent expire at the conclusion of the annual general meeting trade: or c the highest current independent bid: of the Company to be held in 2014: iv any purchase of shares will be made in the market for b the Company's authority to make market purchases of its cash at prices below the prevailing net asset value per shares within the meaning of section 693 of the 2006 Act share as determined by the Directors : approved by Shareholders at the annual general meeting of v the authority hereby conferred shall expire on the Company held prior to the completion of the relevant 30th June 2013 unless the authority is renewed at the Conditional Tender Offer shall continue in effect and shall Companys Annual General Meeting in 2013 or at any not be affected by the passing of this Resolution nor shall other general meeting prior to such time: and any part of that authority be utilised in connection with the relevant Conditional Tender Offer: and vi the Company may make a contract to purchase shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry c terms defined in the Annual Reports and Accounts 2011 and of such authority which contract will or may be the Tender Offer Circular shall have the same meaning in executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such this resolution, save where the context otherwise requires.
authority and may make a purchase of shares pursuant to any such contract.
By order of the Board Authority to make two conditional tender offers Special Resolution Alison Vincent, for and on behalf of 14.
THAT: JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, a in accordance with the terms and conditions which Secretary are substantially the same as those for the Tender Offer 20th December 2011 which are set out in the Tender Offer Circular dated 20th December 2011, the Company be and is hereby authorised in accordance with section 701 of the 2006 Act to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 of the 2006 Act of its Shares pursuant to two Conditional Tender Offers as described in the Annual Report and Accounts 2011 in which this Notice of Annual General Meeting is included provided that: i the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised to be purchased pursuant to each Conditional Tender Offer shall not exceed 5 per cent.
of the issued share capital of the Company excluding Shares held in treasury at the relevant date to be determined by the Board in connection with each Conditional Tender Offer: JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 63 Notice of Meeting continued Notes 6.
Entry to the Meeting will be restricted to shareholders and their proxy or proxies, with guests admitted only by prior arrangement.
These notes should be read in conjunction with the notes on the reverse of the proxy form.
A corporation, which is a shareholder, may appoint an individual s to act as its representative s and to vote in person at the Meeting 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint see instructions given on the proxy form.
In accordance with the another person s who need not be a member of the Company to provisions of the Companies Act 2006, each such representative s exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at the may exercise on behalf of the corporation the same powers as the Meeting.
A member can appoint more than one proxy in relation to corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the the Meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the Company, provided that they do not do so in relation to the same rights attaching to different shares held by him.
It is therefore no longer necessary to nominate a 2.
A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but must designated corporate representative.
Representatives should bring attend the Meeting to represent you.
Your proxy could be the to the meeting evidence of their appointment, including any Chairman, another director of the Company or another person who authority under which it is signed.
has agreed to attend to represent you.
Details of how to appoint 8.
Members that satisfy the thresholds in Section 527 of the the Chairman or another person s as your proxy or proxies using Companies Act 2006 can require the Company to publish a the proxy form are set out in the notes to the proxy form.
If a voting statement on its website setting out any matter relating to: a the box on the proxy form is left blank, the proxy or proxies will audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors report exercise his their discretion both as to how to vote and whether and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or he they abstain s from voting.
Your proxy must attend the b any circumstances connected with an Auditor of the Company Meeting for your vote to count.
Appointing a proxy or proxies does ceasing to hold office since the previous AGM: which the members not preclude you from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
propose to raise at the meeting.
The Company cannot require the If you attend the Meeting in person, your proxy appointment will members requesting the publication to pay its expenses.
statement placed on the website must also be sent to the 3.
Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be lodged in Companys Auditors no later than the time it makes its statement accordance with the instructions given on the proxy form and available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at should reach Equiniti Limited no later than 12.00 Noon on Monday the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been 30th January 2012. required to publish on its website pursuant to this right.
You may change your proxy instructions by returning a new proxy 9.
Pursuant to Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company appointment.
The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments also must cause to be answered at the AGM any question relating to the applies in relation to amended instructions.
Any attempt to business being dealt with at the AGM which is put by a member terminate or amend a proxy appointment received after the attending the meeting except in certain circumstances, including if relevant deadline will be disregarded.
Where two or more valid it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order separate appointments of proxy are received in respect of the of the meeting or if it would involve the disclosure of confidential same share in respect of the same Meeting, the one which is last information.
received regardless of its date or the date of its signature shall be 10.
Under sections 338 and 338A of the 2006 Act, members meeting treated as replacing and revoking the other or others as regards the threshold requirements in those sections have the right to that share: if the Company is unable to determine which was last require the Company: i to give, to members of the Company received regardless of its date or the date of its signature shall be entitled to receive notice of the Meeting, notice of a resolution treated as replacing and revoking the other or others as regards which those members intend to move and which may properly be that share: if the Company is unable to determine which was last moved at the Meeting: and or ii to include in the business to be received, none of them shall be treated as valid in respect of that dealt with at the Meeting any matter other than a proposed share.
resolution which may properly be included in the business at the 5.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the Meeting.
A resolution may properly be moved, or a matter properly purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of included in the business unless: a in the case of a resolution only votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of any register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two working days prior to the inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution or Meeting the specified time.
If the Meeting is adjourned to a time otherwise : b it is defamatory of any person: or c it is frivolous or not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the vexatious.
A request made pursuant to this right may be in had original Meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of copy or electronic form, must identify the resolution of which determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for at the adjourned Meeting.
If however the Meeting is adjourned for the request, must be authenticated by the person s making it and a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered must be received by the Company not later than the date that is six on the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two working clear weeks before the Meeting, and in the case of a matter to be days prior to the adjourned Meeting or, if the Company gives notice included in the business only must be accompanies by a of the adjourned Meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
statement setting out the grounds for the request.
Changes to entries on the register after this time shall be 11.
A copy of this notice has been sent for information only to persons disregarded in determining the rights of persons to attend or vote who have been nominated by a member to enjoy information at the meeting or adjourned meeting.
64 JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 a Nominated 14.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this Notice of Person.
The rights to appoint a proxy can not be exercised by a meeting to communicate with the Company for any purposes other Nominated Person: they can only be exercised by the member.
However, a Nominated Person may have a right under an 15.
As at 19th December 2011 being the latest business day prior to agreement between him and the member by whom he was the publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital nominated to be appointed as a proxy for the Meeting or to have consists of 167,230,701 Ordinary shares, carrying one vote each and someone else so appointed.
If a Nominated Person does not have 11,709,950 Subscription shares with no voting rights.
Therefore the such a right or does not wish to exercise it, he may have a right total voting rights in the Company are 167,230,701. under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to 16.
As an alternative to completing a hardcopy Form of Proxy, you can the exercise of voting rights.
appoint a proxy or proxies electronically by visiting 12.
In accordance with Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the www.
You will need your Voting ID, Task ID and contents of this notice of meeting, details of the total number of Shareholder Reference Number this is the series of numbers shares in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting printed under your name on the Form of Proxy.
Alternatively, if rights at the AGM, the total voting rights members are entitled to you have already registered with Equiniti Limiteds online portfolio exercise at the AGM and, if applicable, any members statements, service, Shareview, you can submit your Form of Proxy at members resolutions or members matters of business received www.
Full instructions are given on both websites.
by the Company after the date of this notice will be available on the To be valid, your proxy appointment s and instructions should Companys website www.
reach Equiniti Limited no later than 12.00 Noon on Monday, 30th 13.
The register of interests of the Directors and connected persons in January 2012. the share capital of the Company and the Directors letters of Electronic appointment CREST members appointment are available for inspection at the Companys CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the registered office during usual business hours on any weekday CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted.
It will also be and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
No Director the CREST Manual.
See further instructions on the proxy form.
has any contract of service with the Company.
JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
