Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the and the accounts in accordance with applicable law and Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for regulations.
safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial and other irregularities.
statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance Under applicable law and regulations the Directors are also with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Remuneration Report and Statement of Corporate Under Company law the Directors must not approve the Governance that comply with that law and those regulations.
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Directors Report confirms that, to the best of his her the net return or loss of the Company for that period.
In knowledge: preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting consistently: Standards and applicable law, give a true and fair view of make judgements and accounting estimates that are the assets, liabilities, financial position and net return or reasonable and prudent: loss of the Company: and state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have the Directors Report includes a fair review of the been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed development and performance of the business and the and explained in the financial statements: and position of the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
For and on behalf of the Board The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting James M Long, records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys Chairman transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any 20th December 2011 time the financial position of the Company and to enable JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
