Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the twentieth Annual General renewed at a general meeting prior to such time, save that Meeting of JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc the Company may before such expiry make offers or will be held at The Armourers Hall, 81 Coleman Street, London agreements which would or might require shares to be EC2R 5BJ on Monday, 14th November 2011 at 3.00 p. m. for the allotted or Rights to be granted after such expiry and so following purposes: that the Directors of the Company may allot shares and grant Rights in pursuance of such offers or agreements as 1.
To receive the Directors Report, the Annual Accounts and if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
the Auditors Report for the year ended 30th June 2011.
Authority to disapply pre-emption rights on allotment of relevant 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the securities Special Resolution year ended 30th June 2011.
THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 11 set out above, 3.
To approve a final dividend of 3.5p per share.
the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Sections 570 to 573 of the Act to 4.
To reappoint David Gamble as a Director of the Company.
allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 560 of 5.
To reappoint Anatole Kaletsky as a Director of the the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by Company.
Resolution 11 or by way of a sale of Treasury shares as if Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such 6.
To reappoint Nigel Kenny as a Director of the Company.
allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to the 7.
To reappoint Percy Mistry as a Director of the Company.
allotment of equity securities for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,429,941 representing approximately 8.
To reappoint Alan Saunders as a Director of the Company.
5% of the issued Ordinary share capital as at the date of the 9.
To reappoint  LLP as Auditors to passing of this resolution at a price of not less than the net the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine asset value per share and shall expire upon the expiry of their remuneration.
the general authority conferred by Resolution 11 above, save that the Company may before such expiry make offers Special Business or agreements which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and so that the To consider the following resolutions: Directors of the Company may allot equity securities in Continuation Vote Ordinary Resolution pursuant of such offers or agreements as if the power 10.
THAT the Company continue in existence as an investment conferred hereby had not expired.
trust for a further three year period.
Authority to repurchase the Companys shares Special Resolution Authority to allot new shares Ordinary Resolution 13.
THAT the Company be generally and, subject as hereinafter appears, unconditionally authorised in accordance with 11.
THAT the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby Section 701 of the Act to make market purchases within generally and unconditionally authorised, in substitution of the meaning of Section 693 of the Act of its issued Ordinary any authorities previously granted to the Directors, shares and Subscription shares on such terms and in such pursuant to and in accordance with Section 551 of the manner as the Directors may from time to time determine.
Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company and to grant PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, i the maximum number of Ordinary shares and shares in the Company Rights up to an aggregate Subscription shares hereby authorised to be purchased nominal amount of 1,429,941, representing approximately shall be 17,147,852 and 2,693,439 respectively, or if less, 5% of the Companys issued Ordinary share capital as at the that number of Ordinary shares or Subscription shares date of the passing of this resolution, provided that this which is equal to 14.99% of the issued share capital of authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual the relevant share class as at the date of the passing of General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2012 unless this Resolution: 58 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Notes ii the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary share or Subscription share shall be 25 pence and These notes should be read in conjunction with the notes on the reverse of the proxy form.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint iii the maximum price which may be paid for a share shall another person s who need not be a member of the Company to exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at the be an amount equal to the highest of: a 105% of the Meeting.
A member can appoint more than one proxy in relation to average of the middle market quotations for a share of the Meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the that class of share taken from and calculated by rights attaching to different shares held by him.
reference to the London Stock Exchange Daily Official 2.
A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but must List for the five business days immediately preceding attend the Meeting to represent you.
Your proxy could be the Chairman, another Director of the Company or another person the day on which the share is contracted to be who has agreed to attend to represent you.
Details of how to purchased: or b the price of the last independent appoint the Chairman or another person s as your proxy or trade: or c the highest current independent bid: proxies using the proxy form are set out in the notes to the proxy form.
If a voting box on the proxy form is left blank, the proxy or iv any purchase of shares will be made in the market for proxies will exercise his their discretion both as to how to vote and cash at prices below the prevailing net asset value per whether he they abstain s from voting.
Your proxy must attend the Meeting for your vote to count.
Appointing a proxy or proxies share as determined by the Directors : does not preclude you from attending the Meeting and voting in v the authority hereby conferred shall expire on person.
If you attend the Meeting in person, your proxy appointment will automatically be terminated.
13th May 2013 unless the authority is renewed at the 3.
Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be lodged in Companys Annual General Meeting in 2012 or at any accordance with the instructions given on the proxy form.
other general meeting prior to such time: and 4.
You may change your proxy instructions by returning a new proxy appointment.
The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments also vi the Company may make a contract to purchase shares applies in relation to amended instructions.
Any attempt to under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry terminate or amend a proxy appointment received after the of such authority which contract will or may be relevant deadline will be disregarded.
Where two or more valid executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such separate appointments of proxy are received in respect of the same share in respect of the same Meeting, the one which is last received authority and may make a purchase of shares pursuant regardless of its date or the date of its signature shall be treated as to any such contract.
replacing and revoking the other or others as regards that share: if the Company is unable to determine which was last received, none of them shall be treated as valid in respect of that share.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of Jonathan Latter, for and on behalf of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two business days prior to the Secretary Meeting the specified time.
If the Meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the 4th October 2011 original Meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned Meeting.
If however the Meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two business days prior to the adjourned Meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned Meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
Changes to entries on the register after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of persons to attend or vote at the Meeting or adjourned Meeting.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 59 Notice of Meeting continued 6.
Entry to the Meeting will be restricted to shareholders and their must be received by the Company not later than the date that is six proxy or proxies, with guests admitted only by prior arrangement.
clear weeks before the Meeting, and in the case of a matter to be included in the business only must be accompanied by a 7.
A corporation, which is a shareholder, may appoint an individual s statement setting out the grounds for the request.
to act as its representative s and to vote in person at the Meeting see instructions given on the proxy form.
A copy of this notice has been sent for information only to persons who have been nominated by a member to enjoy information provisions of the Companies Act 2006, each such representative may exercise on behalf of the corporation the same powers as the rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 a Nominated Person.
The rights to appoint a proxy can not be exercised by a corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the Company, provided that they do not do so in relation to the same Nominated Person: they can only be exercised by the member.
However, a Nominated Person may have a right under an shares.
It is therefore no longer necessary to nominate a designated corporate representative.
agreement between him and the member by whom he was nominated to be appointed as a proxy for the Meeting or to have Representatives should bring to the Meeting evidence of their someone else so appointed.
If a Nominated Person does not have appointment, including any authority under which it is signed.
such a right or does not wish to exercise it, he may have a right 8.
Members that satisfy the thresholds in Section 527 of the under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to Companies Act 2006 can require the Company to publish a the exercise of voting rights.
statement on its website setting out any matter relating to: 12.
In accordance with Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the a the audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors contents of this notice of meeting, details of the total number of report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before shares in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting the AGM: or b any circumstances connected with Auditors of rights at the AGM, the total voting rights members are entitled to the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous AGM, exercise at the AGM and, if applicable, any members statements, which the members propose to raise at the Meeting.
The members resolutions or members matters of business received Company cannot require the members requesting the by the Company after the date of this notice will be available on the publication to pay its expenses.
Any statement placed on the Companys website www.
website must also be sent to the Companys Auditors no later than the time it makes its statement available on the website.
The register of interests of the Directors and connected persons in The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any the share capital of the Company and the Directors letters of statement that the Company has been required to publish on its appointment are available for inspection at the Companys website pursuant to this right.
registered office during usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted.
Pursuant to Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
No Director must cause to be answered at the AGM any question relating to the has any contract of service with the Company.
business being dealt with at the AGM which is put by a member attending the Meeting except in certain circumstances, including if 14.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this Notice of Meeting to communicate with the Company for any purposes other it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the Meeting or if it would involve the disclosure of confidential than those expressly stated.
As an alternative to completing a hard copy Form of Proxy Voting 10.
Under sections 338 and 338A of the 2006 Act, members meeting Instruction Form, you can appoint a proxy or proxies electronically the threshold requirements in those sections have the right to by visiting www.
You will need your Voting ID, Task require the Company: i to give, to members of the Company ID and Shareholder Reference Number this is the series of entitled to receive notice of the Meeting, notice of a resolution numbers printed under your name on the Form of Proxy Voting which those members intend to move and which may properly be Direction Form.
Alternatively, if you have already registered with moved at the Meeting: and or ii to include in the business to be Equiniti Limiteds online portfolio service, Shareview, you can dealt with at the Meeting any matter other than a proposed submit your Form of Proxy at www.
Full resolution which may properly be included in the business at the instructions are given on both websites.
A resolution may properly be moved, or a matter properly 16.
As at 30th September 2011 being the latest business day prior to included in the business unless: a in the case of a resolution only the publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of any consists of 114,395,281 Ordinary shares, carrying one vote each and inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution or 17,968,244 Subscription shares with no voting rights.
Therefore the otherwise : b it is defamatory of any person: or c it is frivolous or total voting rights in the Company are 114,395,281. vexatious.
A request made pursuant to this right may be in hard Electronic appointment CREST members copy or electronic form, must identify the resolution of which CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the request, must be authenticated by the person s making it and the CREST Manual.
See further instructions on the proxy form.
60 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
