Glossary of Terms and Definitions Portfolio return Benchmark return Return on net assets, net of management fees and Total return on the benchmark, on a mid-market value to administration expenses, but excluding both the effect of mid-market value basis, assuming that all dividends received Subscription shares which have been converted during the were reinvested in the shares of the underlying companies at year and the dilutive impact of Subscription shares in issue at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
The benchmark is a recognised index of stocks which should Return to Ordinary shareholders Unit holders not be taken as wholly representative of the Companys investment universe.
The Companys investment strategy does Total return to the Ordinary shareholder, or Unit holder, on a not follow or track this index and consequently, there may be mid-market price to mid-market price basis, assuming that all some divergence between the Companys performance and dividends received were reinvested, without transaction costs, that of the benchmark.
in the Ordinary shares of the Company at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Actual gearing factor Diluted net asset value NAV per Ordinary share Investments, excluding holdings in liquidity funds, expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
This shows the effect The NAV per Ordinary share assuming that all outstanding of gearing on the net asset value per share if the market value Subscription shares were converted into Ordinary shares at the of the portfolio were to increase by 100%.
Total expense ratio TER Diluted return on net assets The TER represents the Companys management fee and all Return on the diluted net asset value NAV per share, on a bid other operating expenses excluding interest, expressed as a value to bid value basis, assuming that all dividends paid out percentage of the average of the month end net assets during by the Company were reinvested in the shares of the Company the year and is calculated in accordance with guidance issued at the NAV per share at the time the shares were quoted by the Association of Investment Companies.
The method of calculating the TER has been changed and the In accordance with industry practice, dividends payable which prior year restated.
In 2009 and previous years, the TER have been declared but which are unpaid at the balance sheet represented the Companys management fee and other date are deducted from the diluted NAV per share when operating expenses excluding interest, expressed as a calculating the diluted return on net assets.
percentage of the average of the opening and closing net assets.
Undiluted return on net assets Return on the undiluted net asset value NAV per share, on a Share price discount premium to net asset value NAV bid value to bid value basis, assuming that all dividends paid If the share price of an investment trust is lower than the NAV out by the Company were reinvested in the shares of the per share, the Companys shares are said to be trading at a Company at the NAV per share at the time the shares were discount.
The discount is shown as a percentage of the NAV quoted ex-dividend.
The opposite of a discount is a premium.
It is more In accordance with industry practice, dividends payable which common for an investment trusts shares to trade at a discount have been declared but which are unpaid at the balance sheet than at a premium.
date are deducted from the undiluted NAV per share when calculating the undiluted return on net assets.
Performance attribution Analysis of how the Company achieved its recorded performance relative to its benchmark.
62 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Performance attribution definitions: Asset allocation Measures the impact of allocating assets differently to those in the benchmark, via the portfolios weighting in different countries, sectors or asset types.
Stock selection Measures the effect of investing in securities to a greater or lesser extent than their weighting in the benchmark, or of investing in securities which are not included in the benchmark.
Gearing cash Measures the impact on returns of borrowings or cash balances on the Companys relative performance.
Currency Measures the impact of currency exposure differences between the Companys portfolio and its benchmark.
Management fee other expenses The payment of fees and expenses reduces the Companys net assets and therefore has a negative effect on relative performance.
Performance fee The Company may be required to make provision for a performance fee payable under the terms of the performance fee agreement.
This will reduce the Companys net assets and therefore have a negative effect on relative performance.
Exercise of Subscription shares Measures the negative impact on the net asset value NAV per share arising from the exercise of Subscription shares into Ordinary shares at a price less than the NAV per share.
Subscription share dilution Measures the dilutive impact on the net asset value NAV per share arising from the potential exercise of all the outstanding Subscription shares into Ordinary shares at a price less than the NAV per share.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 63 Notes 64 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
