European Smaller pp54 60 European Smaller pp54 60 31 05 2011 17:09 Page 55 Notice of Meeting allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 560 of Notice is hereby given that the twenty-second Annual General the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by Meeting of JPMorgan European Smaller Companies Trust plc Resolution 8 as if Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to will be held at The Armourers Hall, 81 Coleman Street, London any such allotment, provided that this power shall be EC2R 5BJ on Friday 8th July 2011 at 12.00 noon for the limited to the allotment of equity securities for cash up to following purposes: an aggregate nominal amount of 538,984, representing 1.
To receive the Directors Report, the Annual Accounts and approximately 5% of the issued share capital as at the date the Auditors Report for the year ended 31st March 2011. of the passing of this resolution at a price of not less than the net asset value per share and shall expire upon the 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the expiry of the general authority conferred by Resolution 8 year ended 31st March 2011. above, save that the Company may before such expiry 3.
To reappoint Anthony Davidson a Director of the Company.
make offers or agreements which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and so that 4.
To reappoint Carolan Dobson a Director of the Company.
the Directors of the Company may allot equity securities in 5.
To reappoint Federico Marescotti a Director or the pursuant of such offers or agreements as if the power Company.
conferred hereby had not expired.
To declare a dividend of 4.00 pence per share.
Authority to repurchase shares Special Resolution 10.
THAT the Company be generally and subject as hereinafter 7.
To re-appoint  LLP as Auditors to appears unconditionally authorised in accordance with the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine Section 701 of the Act to make market purchases within their remuneration.
the meaning of Section 693 of the Act of its issued ordinary shares of 25 pence each in the capital of the Company.
Special Business PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT To consider the following resolutions: i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby Authority to allot new shares Ordinary Resolution authorised to be purchased shall be 6,463,498 or if less, 8.
THAT the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby that number of ordinary shares which is equal to generally and unconditionally authorised, in substitution of 14.99% of the Companys issued share capital as at the any authorities previously granted to the Directors, date of the passing of this resolution: pursuant to and in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers ii the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary for the Company to allot shares in the Company and to share shall be 25 pence: grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, iii the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary shares in the Company Rights up to an aggregate share shall be an amount equal to: a 105% of the nominal amount of 538,984, representing approximately average of the middle market quotations for an 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at the ordinary share taken from and calculated by reference date of the passing of this resolution, provided that this to the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual five business days immediately preceding the day on General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2012 unless which the ordinary share is purchased: or b the price renewed at a general meeting prior to such time, save that of the last independent trade: or c the highest current the Company may before such expiry make offers or independent bid: agreements which would or might require shares to be allotted or Rights to be granted after such expiry and so iv any purchase of ordinary shares will be made in the that the Directors of the Company may allot shares and market for cash at prices below the prevailing net asset grant Rights in pursuance of such offers or agreements as value per ordinary share as determined by the if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
Directors : Authority to disapply pre-emption rights on allotment of new v the authority hereby conferred shall expire on shares Special Resolution 7th January 2013 unless the authority is renewed at the 9.
THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 8 set out above, Companys Annual General Meeting in 2012 or at any the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby other general meeting prior to such time: and empowered pursuant to Sections 570 and 573 of the Act to JPMorgan European Smaller Companies Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 55 European Smaller pp54 60 European Smaller pp54 60 31 05 2011 17:09 Page 56 Notice of Meeting continued at the adjourned Meeting.
If, however, the Meeting is adjourned for vi the Company may make a contract to purchase a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred on the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two prior to the expiry of such authority and may make a business days prior to the adjourned Meeting or, if the Company purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to any such gives notice of the adjourned Meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
Changes to entries on the register after this time shall be contract notwithstanding such expiry.
disregarded in determining the rights of persons to attend or vote at the Meeting or adjourned Meeting.
Entry to the Meeting will be restricted to shareholders and their proxy or proxies, with guests admitted only by prior arrangement.
A corporation, which is a shareholder, may appoint an individual s to act as its representative s and to vote in person at the Meeting Jonathan Latter, for and on behalf of see instructions given on the proxy form.
In accordance with the JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, provisions of the Companies Act 2006, each such representative Secretary may exercise on behalf of the corporation the same powers as the 31st May 2011 corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the Company, provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
It is therefore no longer necessary to nominate a Notes designated corporate representative.
These notes should be read in conjunction with the notes on the Representatives should bring to the Meeting evidence of their reverse of the proxy form.
appointment, including any authority under which it is signed.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint 8.
Members that satisfy the thresholds in Section 527 of the another person s who need not be a member of the Company to Companies Act 2006 can require the Company to publish a exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at the statement on its website setting out any matter relating to: Meeting.
A member can appoint more than one proxy in relation to a the audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors the Meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before rights attaching to different shares held by him.
the AGM: or b any circumstances connected with Auditors of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous AGM, 2.
A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but must which the members propose to raise at the Meeting.
The attend the Meeting to represent you.
Your proxy could be the Company cannot require the members requesting the Chairman, another Director of the Company or another person publication to pay its expenses.
Any statement placed on the who has agreed to attend to represent you.
Details of how to website must also be sent to the Companys Auditors no later appoint the Chairman or another person s as your proxy or than the time it makes its statement available on the website.
proxies using the proxy form are set out in the notes to the proxy The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any form.
If a voting box on the proxy form is left blank, the proxy or statement that the Company has been required to publish on its proxies will exercise his their discretion both as to how to vote and website pursuant to this right.
whether he they abstain s from voting.
Your proxy must attend the Meeting for your vote to count.
Pursuant to Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company does not preclude you from attending the Meeting and voting in must cause to be answered at the AGM any question relating to the person.
business being dealt with at the AGM which is put by a member attending the Meeting except in certain circumstances, including if 3.
Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be lodged in accordance with the instructions given on the proxy form.
it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the Meeting or if it would involve the disclosure of confidential 4.
You may change your proxy instructions by returning a new proxy information.
The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments also 10.
Under Sections 338 and 338A of the 2006 Act, members meeting applies in relation to amended instructions.
Any attempt to terminate or amend a proxy appointment received after the the threshold requirements in those sections have the right to require the Company: i to give, to members of the Company relevant deadline will be disregarded.
Where two or more valid separate appointments of proxy are received in respect of the same entitled to receive notice of the Meeting, notice of a resolution which those members intend to move and which may properly be share in respect of the same Meeting, the one which is last received regardless of its date or the date of its signature shall be treated as moved at the Meeting: and or ii to include in the business to be dealt with at the Meeting any matter other than a proposed replacing and revoking the other or others as regards that share: if the Company is unable to determine which was last received, none resolution which may properly be included in the business at the Meeting.
A resolution may properly be moved, or a matter properly of them shall be treated as valid in respect of that share.
included in the business unless: a in the case of a resolution only 5.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of any purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution or votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys otherwise : b it is defamatory of any person: or c it is frivolous or register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two business days prior to the vexatious.
A request made pursuant to this right may be in hard Meeting the specified time.
If the Meeting is adjourned to a time copy or electronic form, must identify the resolution of which not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, original Meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and the request, must be authenticated by the person s making it and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast 56 JPMorgan European Smaller Companies Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 European Smaller pp54 60 European Smaller pp54 60 31 05 2011 17:09 Page 57 must be received by the Company not later than the date that is six clear weeks before the Meeting, and in the case of a matter to be included in the business only must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request.
A copy of this notice has been sent for information only to persons who have been nominated by a member to enjoy information rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 a Nominated Person.
The rights to appoint a proxy can not be exercised by a Nominated Person: they can only be exercised by the member.
However, a Nominated Person may have a right under an agreement between him and the member by whom he was nominated to be appointed as a proxy for the Meeting or to have someone else so appointed.
If a Nominated Person does not have such a right or does not wish to exercise it, he may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
In accordance with Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the contents of this notice of meeting, details of the total number of shares in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the AGM, the total voting rights members are entitled to exercise at the AGM and, if applicable, any members statements, members resolutions or members matters of business received by the Company after the date of this notice will be available on the Companys website www.
The register of interests of the Directors and connected persons in the share capital of the Company and the Directors letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted.
It will also be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
No Director has any contract of service with the Company.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this Notice of Meeting to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
As an alternative to completing a hard copy Form of Proxy Voting Direction Form, you can appoint a proxy or proxies electronically by visiting www.
You will need your Voting ID, Task ID and Shareholder Reference Number this is the series of numbers printed under your name on the Form of Proxy Voting Direction Form.
Alternatively, if you have already registered with Equiniti Limiteds online portfolio service, Shareview, you can submit your Form of Proxy at www.
Full instructions are given on both websites.
As at 27th May 2011 being the latest business day prior to the publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital consists of 43,118,739 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore the total voting rights in the Company are 43,118,739.
Electronic appointment CREST members CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
See further instructions on the proxy form.
JPMorgan European Smaller Companies Trust plc.
