European Smaller pp54 60 European Smaller pp54 60 31 05 2011 17:09 Page 58 Glossary of Terms and Definitions Net Asset Value NAV per Share Assuming the Reissuance of Return to Shareholders Treasury Shares Total return to the investor, on a mid-market price to The resulting NAV per share assuming all shares held in mid-market price basis, assuming that all dividends received Treasury were reissued in accordance with the Boards policy were reinvested, without transaction costs, in the shares of the on the reissuance of Treasury shares at that time.
Company at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Share Price Discount Premium to Net Asset Value NAV Per Share Return on Net Assets If the share price of an investment trust is lower than the NAV Total return on net asset value NAV per share, on a bid market per share, the Companys shares are said to be trading at a value to bid market value basis, assuming that all dividends discount.
The discount is shown as a percentage of the NAV.
paid out by the Company were reinvested in the shares of the The opposite of a discount is a premium.
It is more common for Company at the NAV per share at the time the shares were an investment trusts shares to trade at a discount than at a quoted ex-dividend.
Benchmark Return Performance Attribution Total return on the benchmark, on a mid-market value to Analysis of how the Company achieved its recorded mid-market value basis, assuming that all dividends received performance relative to its benchmark.
were reinvested, without transaction costs, in the shares of the underlying companies at the time the shares were quoted Performance Attribution Definitions: ex-dividend.
Asset Allocation The benchmark is a recognised index of stocks which should Measures the impact of allocating assets differently to those not be taken as wholly representative of the Companys in the benchmark, via the portfolios weighting in different investment universe.
The Companys investment strategy does countries, sectors or asset types.
not follow or track this index and consequently, there may be some divergence between the Companys performance and Stock Selection that of the benchmark.
Measures the effect of investing in securities to a greater or lesser extent than their weighting in the benchmark, or of Benchmark Index investing in securities which are not included in the The Companys investment universe is defined at the time of benchmark.
purchase by the countries and market capitalisation range of the constituents of the benchmark index, the HSBC Smaller Gearing Cash Effect European Companies ex UK Total Return Index.
At 31st March Measures the impact on returns of borrowings or cash 2011, the index consisted of 1,000 companies with a market balances on the Companys relative performance.
capitalisation of between 54 million and 3 billion, from Currency Effect 15 countries.
Measures the effect of currency exposure differences between Actual Gearing Factor the Companys portfolio and its benchmark.
Investments, excluding holdings in liquidity funds, expressed Management Fees Other Expenses as a percentage of shareholders funds.
This shows the effect The payment of fees and expenses reduces the level of total of gearing on the net asset value if the market value of the assets and therefore has a negative effect on relative portfolio were to increase by 100%.
Total Expense Ratio TER Share Buybacks The TER represents the Companys management fee and all Measures the enhancement to the net asset value NAV per other operating expenses excluding interest, expressed as a share created by repurchases of the Companys shares for percentage of the average of the month end net assets during cancellation, or repurchases into Treasury, at a discount to their the year.
The method of calculating the TER has been changed this year and the prior year restated.
In previous years, the NAV per share.
TER represented the Companys management fee and other operating expenses excluding interest, expressed as a percentage of the average of the opening and closing net assets.
The new methodology more accurately reflects the way the management fee is calculated, which is based on the Companys month end market capitalisation.
58 JPMorgan European Smaller Companies Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 European Smaller pp54 60 European Smaller pp54 60 31 05 2011 17:09 Page 59 Notes JPMorgan European Smaller Companies Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 59 European Smaller pp54 60 European Smaller pp54 60 31 05 2011 17:09 Page 60 Notes 60 JPMorgan European Smaller Companies Trust plc.
