Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 General information BTG plc the Company is a company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2011 comprise the results of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings together referred to as the Group and the Groups interest in associates.
The financial statements were approved for issue by the Board on 24 May 2011.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Groups accounting policies as approved by the Board and described below.
Accounting standards adopted in the year The following accounting standards have been adopted in the year: IFRS3 revised Business Combinations The adoption of IFRS3 revised has resulted in 3.0m of transaction costs being recognised through the Groups consolidated income statement in relation to the acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc as detailed in notes 7 and 38.
The costs were incurred with professional advisers directly in relation to the acquisition and reduce basic and diluted earnings per share by 1.1p.
IAS41 Biological Assets As part of the acquisition of land in Australia on which the Group manages sheep, a breeding flock of sheep was purchased.
These have been accounted for in accordance with IAS41 and are held at fair value.
At 31 March 2011 the carrying value of this breeding flock was 0.3m.
As in previous periods the Group continues to account for its production flock of sheep within property, plant and equipment in accordance with IAS16.
Other accounting standards adopted in the year The following amendments and standards have also been adopted, but have had no significant effect on the reported results or financial position of the Group: IFRS1 Revised simplification of the structure of IFRS1 without making any technical changes: Amendments to IFRS2 Group cash-settled share-based payments transactions: IAS27 this requires the effects of all transactions with non-controlling interests where there is no change in control to be recorded in equity: IFRIC18 clarification of the accounting for arrangements where an item of property, plant and equipment, provided by the customer, is used to provide an ongoing service: IAS38 Intangible Assets additional consequential amendments arising from revised IFRS3: and Improvements to IFRS various standards amended.
Accounting standards issued but not yet effective The Group does not consider that any of the other standards or interpretations issued but as yet not effective will have a significant impact on the financial statements.
Accounting policies adopted as a result of the acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc As a result of the acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc, the Group has adopted additional accounting policies in relation to areas that were not previously relevant to the Group: Held to maturity financial assets see 2 l : Revenues received in relation to development programmes see 2 r iv : and Borrowings see 2 z.
Going concern basis After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
This conclusion has been reached having considered the effect of liquidity risk on the Groups ability to operate effectively.
Currently, liquidity risk is not considered a significant business risk to the Group given its level of net cash and cash flow projections.
The Group does not currently require significant levels of debt financing to operate its business.
Further details of the Groups policies and objectives around liquidity risk are given in note 33 to the Accounts.
The key liquidity risks faced by the Group are considered to be the failure of banks where funds are deposited and the failure of key licensees or insurers.
79 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1 General information continued In addition to the liquidity risks considered above, the directors have also considered the following factors when reaching the conclusion to continue to adopt the going concern basis: The Groups principal licensees are global industry leaders in their respective fields and the Groups royalty-generating intellectual property consists of a broad portfolio of both licensees and industries: The Groups Marketed Products are life-saving in nature, providing some protection against an uncertain economic outlook: and The purchase of Biocompatibles International plc in January 2011 resulted in a net cash inflow of 10.8m plus held to maturity financial assets of 10.2m and a further diversification of market and development risk for the Group as a whole.
Acquisition adjustments and reorganisation costs The consolidated income statement includes a separate column to disclose significant acquisition adjustments and reorganisation costs arising on corporate acquisitions.
Adjustments relate to the acquisitions of: Biocompatibles International plc in January 2011: and Protherics PLC in December 2008.
The costs relate to the following: The release of the fair value uplift of inventory acquired: Amortisation arising on intangible assets acquired: Transaction costs incurred with professional advisers in relation to the completion of the acquisition: and Reorganisation costs comprising acquisition related redundancy programmes, property costs, and asset impairments.
2 Accounting policies The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all years presented unless otherwise stated.
a Basis of accounting and preparation of financial statements The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs.
The consolidated financial statements also comply fully with IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
The Group financial statements are presented in Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest 0.1m except where otherwise indicated and have been prepared on the historical cost basis modified to include revaluation to fair value of certain financial instruments and business combination assets as set out below.
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Judgements made by the directors in the application of these accounting policies that have significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in note 3. b Basis of consolidation i Subsidiary undertakings Subsidiary undertakings are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that presently are exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiary undertakings are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
ii Associates Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups proportionate share of the total recognised gains and losses of associates on an equity-accounted basis, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
When the Groups share of losses exceeds the carrying value of its interest in an associate, the Groups carrying amount is reduced to nil and no further losses are recognised except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of an associate.
80 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials 2 Accounting policies continued iii Acquisition accounting The purchase method is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed are measured initially at their fair values on the date of acquisition, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of identifiable net assets, including intangible assets acquired, is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the Groups share of net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
iv Merger reserve A merger reserve is used where more than 90% of the shares in a subsidiary are acquired and the consideration includes the issue of new shares by the Company, thereby attracting merger relief under s612 and s613 of the Companies Act 2006. v Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations that are not integral to the operations of the Company.
vi Fair value reserve The fair value reserve includes the cumulative net change in the fair value of available-for-sale investments.
If an investment suffers impairment due to a prolonged or significant decline in the fair value below acquisition cost, its share of the reserve is recycled to the income statement and any further declines in fair value of that investment are no longer charged to the reserve but immediately taken to the income statement.
vii Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
c Operating segments An operating segment is defined as a component of the Group i that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses: ii whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the Groups chief operating decision maker the Leadership Team to make resource allocation decisions and monitor its performance: and iii for which discrete financial information is available.
d Foreign currency i Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
Exchange gains losses on retranslation of foreign currency transactions and balances within trading intercompany balances are recognised in the income statement within Operating expenses.
ii Financial statements of foreign operations The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated into Sterling at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated into Sterling at rates approximating to the exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly in the translation reserve.
81 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Accounting policies continued iii Net investment in foreign operations Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations are taken to the translation reserve.
They are released into the income statement upon disposal of the investment.
e Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value and are designated as being measured at fair value through the income statement on inception.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement through Financial income or Financial expense as appropriate.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date, being the present value of the quoted forward price.
f Goodwill All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method.
Goodwill represents amounts arising on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings and associates.
In respect of business combinations that have occurred since 1 April 2004, goodwill represents the difference between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the identifiable assets, including intangible assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is tested annually for impairment see 2 m. In respect of associates, the carrying value of goodwill is included in the carrying value of the investment in the associate.
g Intangible assets i Initial recognition Intangible assets acquired as a result of a business combination are initially recognised at their fair value in accordance with IFRS3 Business Combinations.
Other intangible assets are initially recognised at cost.
Cost includes the cost of obtaining patent protection for intellectual property rights, the cost of acquisition of patents and the costs of the internal patent attorney specific to obtaining the initial grant of a patent.
Income from patents is derived through licensing and other agreements.
ii Amortisation Intangible assets are amortised in a manner calculated to write off the cost, on a straight-line basis, over the effective life of the asset.
In determining the appropriate life of the asset, consideration is given to the expected cash generating life of the asset or remaining patent life if different.
The effective life of each class of asset is determined as follows: Developed technology: expected cash generating life, taking into account specific product and market characteristics for each developed technology: Contractual relationships: period to expiry of the contract: In-process research and development: amortisation is not charged until the asset is generating an economic return, at which point the effective life is assessed by reference to the remaining patent life: Computer software: the shorter of the licence period and three years: and Patents: period to patent expiry.
In the event that an intangible asset is no longer used or a patent is abandoned, the balance of unamortised expenditure is written off immediately.
The following useful economic lives are applied: Developed technology 2 to 25 years Contractual relationships 2 to 15 years In-process research and development 12 to 25 years Computer software 3 years Patents 20 years 82 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials 2 Accounting policies continued iii Income statement disclosure Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets is included within operating expenses in the income statement.
iv Subsequent expenditure Expenditure subsequent to the initial acquisition of intangible assets is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates.
All other expenditure is expensed as incurred.
v Impairment If an intangible asset is considered to have suffered impairment in value it is written down to its estimated recoverable amount in accordance with the Groups policy on impairment see note 2 m. h Property, plant and equipment i Owned assets Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses see note 2 m. ii Depreciation Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis to write assets down to their residual value using the following useful economic lives: Buildings and improvements 10 to 20 years Leasehold improvements 2 to 10 years Plant and machinery 5 to 15 years Furniture and equipment 2 to 15 years Motor vehicles 5 years Computer hardware 3 to 5 years Depreciation is not charged until the asset is brought into use.
The residual value is reassessed annually.
iii Income statement disclosure Depreciation and impairment of tangible fixed assets is included within Operating expenses in the income statement.
Profits and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with the carrying amount.
These are included in profit loss on sale of tangible assets in the income statement.
iv Subsequent expenditure Expenditure subsequent to the initial acquisition of a tangible fixed asset is capitalised only when it is probable that the Group will realise future economic benefits from the asset.
v Impairment If a tangible asset is considered to have suffered impairment in value, it is written down to its estimated recoverable amount in accordance with the Groups policy on impairment see note 2 m. i Investments Investments in debt and equity securities held by the Group, classified as being available-for-sale, are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss being recognised directly in equity, except for impairment losses and, in the case of monetary items such as debt securities, foreign exchange gains and losses which are taken to the income statement.
When these investments are no longer recognised as assets, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised directly in equity is recognised in the income statement.
Where these investments are interest-bearing, interest calculated using the effective interest method is recognised in the income statement.
j Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The first in, first out method of valuation is used.
Cost comprises materials, direct labour and a share of production overheads appropriate to the relevant stage of production.
Provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving or defective items where appropriate.
Net realisable value is determined at the balance sheet date on commercially saleable products based on estimated selling price less all further costs to completion and all relevant marketing, selling and distribution costs.
83 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Accounting policies continued Inventories relating to research and development projects are fully written down in the income statement unless the Group considers it probable to realise economic value from their sale or use.
If the circumstances that previously caused these inventories to be written down below cost subsequently change and there is clear evidence of an increase in realisable value, the write down is reversed.
k Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables do not carry interest and are stated at amortised cost less impairment losses see 2 m. l Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management and for which the Group has a legal right of set-off are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
Cash deposits with a maturity of greater than three months are classified as held to maturity financial assets.
m Impairment Impairment testing is performed for all assets when there is an indicator of impairment.
In addition, for goodwill and unamortised intangible assets, impairment testing is performed both in the year of acquisition and annually at each balance sheet date.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cashgenerating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Other specific categories of asset are treated as follows: i Equity investments Impairment is deemed to arise when there is a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the equity instrument.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
ii Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are subject to impairment testing at each balance sheet date and whenever there are events that indicate that an impairment may have occurred.
An impairment loss is recognised if an assets carrying amount exceeds the greater of its value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
Impairment losses are recognised within operating expenses in the income statement.
iii Amortised intangible assets Amortised intangible assets are also tested for impairment whenever there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Intangible assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there are separately identifiable cash flows.
Any impairment losses are recognised immediately in the income statement.
When assessing the recoverable amount of an intangible asset the Group uses a risk adjusted discounted cash flow model.
iv Available-for-sale assets When a decline in the fair value of an available-for-sale asset has been recognised directly in equity and there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative loss that had been recognised directly in equity is recognised in the income statement.
The amount of the cumulative loss that is recognised in the income statement is the difference between the acquisition cost and current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income statement.
An impairment loss in respect of an investment in an equity instrument classified as available-for-sale is not reversed through the income statement.
If the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available-for-sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the income statement, the impairment loss shall be reversed, with the amount of the reversal recognised in the income statement.
84 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials 2 Accounting policies continued n Government grants Government grants towards staff re-training costs are recognised as income over the periods in which the related costs are incurred and are deducted in reporting the related expense.
Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are treated as deferred income and released to the income statement over the useful lives of the assets concerned.
o Employee benefits i Defined contribution plans Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
Payments made to state-managed retirement benefit schemes are dealt with in the same manner as payments to defined contribution plans where the Groups obligations under the plans are equivalent to a defined contribution retirement benefit plan.
The funds of the schemes are independent of the Groups finances.
ii Defined benefit plan For the Groups defined benefit pension plan, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Allowance is made in the assessment of the defined benefit obligation for future costs of administering the plan.
The assumptions used to determine the valuation are shown in note 29.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised outside the income statement and presented in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits have already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation, reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
The retirement benefit obligation includes an allowance for future administrative costs of running the scheme.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
Assets of the pension scheme are held separately from the Groups assets.
iii Share-based payments In accordance with the transition provisions of IFRS1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS2 Share-based Payments has been applied to all share-based grants made to employees after 7 November 2002 that had not vested as of 1 January 2005.
The share option programme allows Group employees to acquire shares of the Company, subject to certain criteria.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an expense of employment in the income statement with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at the date of grant and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options granted is measured using a bi-nomial lattice model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense in any year is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest.
However if share options fail to vest due to share prices not achieving the designated performance threshold for vesting, no such adjustment takes place.
p Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
A charge for reorganisation costs is taken to the income statement when the Group has approved a detailed and formal reorganisation plan, and the reorganisation has either commenced or the Group has a constructive obligation, for example having made an announcement publicly to the employee or the Group as a whole.
85 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Accounting policies continued q Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are not interest bearing and are stated at amortised cost except for the contingent value note which is recognised at fair value.
r Revenue recognition Revenue represents amounts received or receivable in respect of the sale of marketed products to customers during the year, net of trade discounts given and value added tax, and in respect of royalty arrangements.
A description of the various elements of revenue and the associated accounting policies is given below: i Marketed products The Group recognises revenue for marketed product sales when each condition of IAS18, paragraph 14 is wholly-satisfied.
Where sales arrangements specify a second element of revenue contingent upon a specified event, this revenue is not recognised until this event has occurred and it is certain that the economic benefit triggered by this event will flow to the Group.
In cases where product is sold to a customer with a right of replacement, the Group views the transaction as a multi-element arrangement and a portion of the value from the sale is deferred and allocated to the replacement right based on the fair value of the replacement right.
Revenue is recognised net of any trade discounts that may be given from time-to-time.
ii Royalties Revenues from the Groups licensed programmes are generated following the grant of a licence to a third-party to undertake additional development and commercialisation of a research and development programme or other intellectual property rights.
In addition to an upfront payment, BTG may be entitled to additional revenues such as milestone payments or royalties on revenues generated by the licensee.
Revenues associated with royalty arrangements may in turn be linked to additional obligations on BTG.
These revenues are accounted for in line with IAS18 as follows: Upfront and milestone payments Non-refundable upfront and milestone payments are recognised as the earnings process is completed.
This may result in full recognition in the year in which the income is received.
However, where the Group has ongoing performance obligations such as the delivery of products or services, upfront payments are deferred over the period in which these obligations are satisfied.
Associated costs of performance obligations are expensed in the period to which they relate.
In determining the performance obligations under the contract, consideration is given as to whether elements of the obligations meet the criteria for separate accounting.
The Group applies the substantive milestone method in accounting for subsequent milestone payments.
Milestone payments that are considered substantive are recognised into income in the year in which they are received.
Milestones that do not satisfy the criteria to be considered as substantive are amortised over the remaining period in which the Group expects to fulfil its performance obligations under the agreement.
The Group considers the following when assessing whether a milestone is considered substantive: Are the milestone payments non-refundable?
Does the achievement of the milestone involve a degree of risk that was not reasonably assured at the inception of the arrangement?
Is substantive effort involved in achieving the milestone?
Is the amount of the milestone payment reasonable in relation to the effort expended or the risk associated with the achievement of the milestone?
How does the time that passes between the payments compare to the effort required to reach the milestone?
Outlicensed product royalties Royalty income is generated by sales of products incorporating the Groups proprietary technology.
Royalty revenues are recognised once the amounts due can be reliably estimated based on the sale of underlying products and recoverability is assured.
Where there is insufficient historical data on sales and returns to fulfil these requirements, for example in the case of a new product, the royalty revenue will not be recognised until the Group can reliably estimate the underlying sales.
iii Sales assignments of IPR Outright sales or assignments of IPR are treated as disposals of non-current assets.
86 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials 2 Accounting policies continued iv Revenues received in relation to development programmes Revenue received in relation to development programmes is recognised based on the percentage of completion of the programme.
Where payments may be earned in such programmes, based on the achievement of uncertain milestones, revenue is restricted to the cumulative cash receivable for the programme.
s Research and development Research and development expenditure is charged to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred.
Expenditure incurred on development projects relating to the design and testing of new or improved products is recognised as intangible assets when it is probable that the project will generate future economic benefit, considering factors including its commercial and technological feasibility, status of regulatory approval, and the ability to measure costs reliably.
Other development expenditures are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Development expenditure previously recognised as an expense is not recognised as an asset in a subsequent period.
Development expenditure that has a finite useful life and which has been capitalised is amortised from the commencement of the commercial production of the product on a straight-line basis over the period of its expected benefit.
No development expenditure has been capitalised in either the current or prior year.
Property, plant and equipment used for research and development is depreciated in accordance with the Groups policy and the cost is included within Research and development in the income statement.
t Cost of sales Cost of sales includes the direct costs incurred in manufacturing and bringing products to sale in the market and revenue sharing costs.
Revenue sharing costs represent amounts due under royalty arrangements to licensors or assignees of technology and similar directly attributable items.
Amounts are recognised upon recognition by the Group of amounts due from a licensee.
They are recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the individual agreements relating to the relevant technology, in line with revenue recognition.
u Leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are initially recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Such assets are depreciated over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or the length of the lease.
Assets purchased under hire purchase agreements are accounted for similarly, except that these assets are depreciated over their estimated useful lives.
Rentals under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease within the appropriate functional expenditure heading.
v Financial income Net financial income comprises interest income less interest payable during the year, calculated using the effective interest rate method, and fair value adjustments relating to foreign exchange forward contracts.
w Income tax Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
87 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Accounting policies continued Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying value of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, where it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying value of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
x BTG Employee Share Trust Included within the Groups financial results are those of the BTG Employee Share Trust, the costs of which are expensed within the financial statements of the Trust as incurred.
In the Company accounts the cost of BTG shares held by the Trust is deducted from shareholders funds.
y Financial guarantees Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contracts as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
z Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently carried at amortised cost: any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate.
3 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty Critical accounting judgements In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, described in note 2, management and the Audit Committee discussed and agreed the selection, application and disclosure of the Groups critical accounting policies and the estimates used in the preparation of the accounts.
Revenue recognition As described in note 2, it is the Groups policy to recognise non-refundable upfront payments over the period in which any performance obligations are satisfied.
In December 2008, the Group acquired Protherics which had received 16.3m from AstraZeneca UK Ltd in a Patent and Know How Licence Agreement for CytoFab.
The Group considers that its obligations under the licence agreement consist of the licence, provision of development services, regulatory support and steering committee participation.
The Group considers that the development services and the regulatory support it can supply will cease with the approval of CytoFab by the FDA and while the steering committee continues to operate after product approval by the FDA, the Group has received confirmation that its participation after this date would become voluntary.
Based on the clinical development plan to be undertaken by AstraZeneca, the Group currently estimates that its performance under the agreement will be completed over the period to 31 December 2015 and, therefore, is recognising the 16.3m on a straight-line basis, over the estimated performance period.
In determining the revenue recognition period, management considered the detailed criteria for the recognition of revenue per IAS18, Revenue, and is satisfied that all requirements have been met by the Group.
88 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials 3 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued Acquisitions Judgements have been made in respect of the identification of intangible assets made on acquisitions based on pre-acquisition forecasts, analysis and negotiations.
In addition to the judgements and estimates made in establishing the intangible assets acquired and their value, in certain instances these assets are in development and are only amortised once the development phase has been completed, although these assets are subjected to impairment review in accordance with the accounting policy described in note 2 m. In addition to significant fair value adjustments in relation to intangible assets, the Group has recognised other fair value adjustments on assets and liabilities acquired.
Each adjustment has been calculated in line with the requirements of IFRS3 revised.
The most significant of these relate to: Inventory: where inventory acquired has been uplifted in value to be held at estimated selling price less costs to complete, costs of disposal and a reasonable profit allowance: and Deferred tax: where estimates of deferred tax liabilities arising on acquired intangible assets have been recognised.
Where appropriate an associated deferred tax asset, representing managements estimation of the value of tax losses that would be available to the Group to offset the deferred tax liability see below has also been recognised.
Deferred tax asset The Group recognised an additional deferred tax asset of 18.6m in relation to brought-forward US tax losses during the year ended 31 March 2011.
In accordance with IAS12, this asset has been set off against the Groups aggregate US deferred tax liability.
The asset was recognised following the completion of a tax-free reorganisation of certain of the Groups US taxable entities on 31 March 2011.
As a result of this, when performing its annual assessment of the probability of utilising such losses, management concluded that there was now sufficient certainty over the future utilisation of the losses to recognise a deferred tax asset.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below.
Impairment of goodwill and other intangibles Determining whether goodwill and other intangibles are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cashgenerating units to which goodwill or other intangible assets have been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires estimation of future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
There is a risk of a material adverse impact on the income statement should an impairment adjustment be required to be reflected in the financial statements.
See note 2 m for further details.
Fair value of listed and unlisted investments Note 20 explains the basis for estimating the fair value of listed and unlisted investments.
Pension assumptions Note 29 details the key actuarial assumptions used to establish the pension funding position.
These are the best estimates chosen based on historic experience and future expectations.
Should the discount rate used to establish scheme liabilities or the long-term expected rate of return on investment vary significantly then the pension fund valuation would be impacted.
Deferred tax The Group has significant deferred tax assets principally in relation to losses in the US and the UK.
The assets have been recognised on the basis that management estimates demonstrate that it is more likely than not that future taxable profit will arise in the jurisdictions in which the losses are available.
If actual events differ from managements estimates or the estimates are changed in the future this could have a significant effect on the balance sheet net asset position of the Group.
In recognising deferred tax assets and liabilities, management has taken into account expected changes in tax rates in each relevant jurisdiction.
89 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4 Operating segments The Groups operating segments, as identified and reported in line with the requirements of IFRS8, have been updated during the course of the year to reflect the acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc in January 2011.
There are no inter-segment transactions that are required to be eliminated on consolidation.
Period through to the acquisition of Biocompatibles All significant decisions are made by the Leadership Team which is BTGs chief operating decision-making body as defined by IFRS8, with implementation of that decision on a Group-wide basis then being the responsibility of each member of the team or of cross-functional global teams where appropriate.
The sales, manufacturing, business development, research and development and support functions are managed and operate on a global basis and are not dedicated to individual product, marketing or therapy areas.
In assessing performance and making resource allocation decisions, the Leadership Team reviews gross profit by segment, reflecting the two distinct routes available to it in realising commercial value from its assets.
All other financial information, including assets, is presented on a consolidated basis for the Group as a whole, substantially in the form of, and on the same basis as, the Groups IFRS financial statements.
Gross profit is generated from marketed products, such as CroFab and DigiFab, or from royalty arrangements such as Factor IX, Campath alemtuzumab and Two-Part Hip-Cup.
Royalty revenues are receivable on a broad portfolio of underlying intellectual property rights, covering amongst other things pharmaceutical products, medical devices and electronic components.
Research and development is an essential upstream activity of the Group, without which there could be no royalty or marketed product revenues.
Research and development activities are managed on a consolidated, Group-wide basis and are not managed by reference to the Groups operating segments.
Effect of acquisition of Biocompatibles The Group completed the acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc note 38 on 27 January 2011.
The Groups consolidated results for the financial year ended 31 March 2011 therefore contain approximately two months of trading in respect of Biocompatibles.
As a result of this acquisition, representatives from the Biocompatibles business joined the Leadership Team, the Groups chief operating decision-maker.
The proximity of the acquisition to the year end, however, meant that existing operating segments were not changed.
Financial performance of the Biocompatibles business in the period since acquisition has been monitored by the Leadership Team on a stand-alone basis.
Resource decisions have, to date, also been made having regard to the Biocompatibles business as a stand alone entity: though the full Leadership Team is involved in the decisionmaking process.
The Biocompatibles business has therefore been identified and disclosed as a separate operating segment.
Acquisition and reorganisation costs are not allocated to specific operating segments.
As the Group continues its integration of the recent Biocompatibles acquisition the management structure and reporting of results within the Company may change in the future to be more closely aligned to the three focus areas outlined in the Chief Executive Officers review on pages 16 to 19, being Specialty Pharmaceuticals, Interventional Medicine and Licensing and Biotechnology.
No decision has yet been made or implemented.
90 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials 4 Operating segments continued Year ended 31 March 2011 Acquisition adjustment and Marketed reorganisation products Royalties Sub-total Biocompatibles costs Total m m m m m m Revenue 35.4 70.0 105.4 6.0 111.4 Cost of sales 8.8 22.3 31.1 1.3 1.7 34.1 Gross profit 26.6 47.7 74.3 4.7 1.7 77.3 Operating expenses: Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles 8.2 1.8 10.0 Amortisation of repurchase of contractual rights 9.6 9.6 Foreign exchange losses 2.1 0.1 2.0 Other 31.1 2.6 33.7 Operating expenses: total 51.0 2.5 1.8 55.3 Research and development 30.6 1.5 32.1 Profit on disposal of intangible assets and investments 1.5 1.5 Acquisition and reorganisation costs 3.8 3.8 Amounts written off investments 1.4 1.4 Operating loss profit 7.2 0.7 7.3 13.8 Financial income 3.1 Financial expense 0.1 Loss before tax 10.8 Tax 20.0 Profit for the year 9.2 Unallocated assets 488.5 91 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4 Operating segments continued Year ended 31 March 2010 Marketed products Royalties Total m m m Revenue 34.3 64.2 98.5 Cost of sales 15.2 17.6 32.8 Gross profit 19.1 46.6 65.7 Operating expenses: Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles 9.1 Foreign exchange losses 4.0 Other 25.3 Operating expenses: total 38.4 Research and development 27.0 Profit on disposal of investments and intangible assets 1.1 Acquisition and reorganisation costs 0.7 Operating profit 2.1 Financial income 7.1 Financial expense 0.1 Profit before tax 9.1 Tax 2.2 Profit for the year 11.3 Unallocated assets 311.0 2 010 includes a 0.3m adjustment within marketed products representing the reversal of a fair value uplift of inventory purchased on acquisition of Protherics PLC recognised through the income statement when the product was sold.
Geographical revenue analysis Geographical analysis of revenue, based on the geographical location of customers: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 m m US 96.2 82.9 UK 9.3 8.3 Europe excluding UK 5.0 5.9 Other regions 0.9 1.4 111.4 98.5 Major customers Products that utilise the Groups intellectual property rights are sold by licensees.
Royalty income is derived from over 70 licences.
Two licences individually generated royalty income in excess of 10% of Group revenue, being 28.7m and 12.4m respectively 2010: One licence generated 26.6m.
The Groups marketed products are sold both directly and also through several distribution agreements in the US, Europe and Asia Pacific.
One distribution agreement individually generated income in excess of 10% of Group revenue, being 12.4m 2010: One distribution agreement generated 27.9m.
92 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials 5 Research and development expenses Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 m m Expenditure on internal development programmes 32.1 26.7 Share of results of research associates 0.3 32.1 27.0 6 Profit on disposal of intangible assets and investments Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 m m Profit on disposal of patents 1.5 1.1 Profit is shown net of 1.8m 2010: 0.4m to be shared with the inventive source.
Loss relief has absorbed the tax due in respect of the profit on disposals.
7 Acquisition and reorganisation costs Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 m m BTG plc and Biocompatibles International plc costs 3.8 BTG plc and Protherics PLC costs 0.7 3.8 0.7 The Group considers acquisition and reorganisation costs to include transaction costs of completing the acquisition in line with IFRS3 revised and those costs resulting directly from decisions to rationalise both operating sites and business operations.
Transaction costs of 3.0m 2010: nil have been expensed in relation to the acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc.
A further 1.1m has been debited directly to merger reserve note 24.
8 Amounts written off investments Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 m m Amounts written off investments 1.4 An impairment charge of 1.4m has been recognised in the consolidated income statement in relation to one of the Groups equity investments in an unlisted drug development company.
The impairment charge was triggered by a funding round conducted by the investee company at a price per share significantly below previous funding rounds.
It is the Groups policy to hold unlisted equity investments at fair value, which is deemed to be the most recent funding round price.
The magnitude of the reduction in price per share has resulted in an impairment charge reflected in the consolidated income statement rather than through the Groups fair value reserve within equity.
93 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 9 Operating loss profit Year ended 31 March 2011 Year ended 31 March 2010 Existing Continuing Existing Continuing operations Acquisitions operations operations Acquisitions operations m m m m m m Revenue 105.4 6.0 111.4 98.5 98.5 Cost of sales 31.1 3.0 34.1 32.8 32.8 Gross profit 74.3 3.0 77.3 65.7 65.7 Operating expenses 52.8 2.5 55.3 38.4 38.4 Research and development 30.6 1.5 32.1 27.0 27.0 Profit on disposal of intangible assets and investments 1.5 1.5 1.1 1.1 Acquisition and reorganisation costs 3.8 3.8 0.7 0.7 Amounts written off investments 1.4 1.4 Operating loss profit 12.8 1.0 13.8 2.1 2.1 I n accordance with IFRS3 Revised, Business Combinations, inventory acquired upon corporate acquisitions has been adjusted to fair value to reflect the profit earned based on the stage of manufacture at the date of acquisition see note 38.
In the year ended 31 March 2011, 1.7m 31 March 2010: 0.3m of fair value adjustments was incorporated within the cost of sales as the inventory was sold to customers.
Operating loss profit has been arrived at after charging crediting : Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 m m Depreciation and other amounts written off property, plant and equipment note 18 2.4 2.5 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets note 17 21.5 9.9 Amounts written off investments note 8 1.4 Net foreign exchange losses 2.0 4.0 Research and development expenses note 5 32.1 27.0 Staff costs note 10 26.8 19.5 Operating lease rentals payable on property 1.3 1.6 Operating lease rentals receivable on property 0.3 0.3 Reorganisation costs, including release of onerous lease provision note 7 3.8 0.7 The analysis of the auditors remuneration is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 000 000 Fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of the Companys annual consolidated accounts 123 85 The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 325 155 Other services pursuant to legislation 43 37 Tax services 47 54 Services relating to due diligence upon corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into by or on behalf of the Company or any of its associates 380 131 Other services 12 110 Fees in respect of the audit of the Groups pension funds 9 24 A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the corporate governance statement on pages 44 to 51 and includes an explanation of how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditor.
94 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials 10 Staff costs Staff costs including directors emoluments and reorganisation costs Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 m m Salaries 21.6 13.9 Social security costs 2.1 1.8 Defined contribution pension costs 1.3 1.6 Defined benefit pension costs 0.7 1.1 Equity-settled transactions 1.1 1.1 26.8 19.5 Staff costs in the year ended 31 March 2011 include those relating to Biocompatibles International plc for the period from acquisition to the end of the financial year, being approximately two months.
Key management personnel are considered to be the directors and their remuneration is disclosed within the remuneration report on pages 57 to 68.
In addition to the disclosures in the remuneration report, the charge to income in respect of equitysettled transactions of key management personnel, in accordance with IFRS2, was 0.6m 2010: 0.5m.
The average number of persons employed by the Group during the year including executive directors, analysed by category, was as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 m m Management 36 39 Research and production 213 194 Administration and business support 82 59 331 292 Staff numbers in the year ended 31 March 2011 include those relating to Biocompatibles International plc for the period from acquisition to the end of the financial year, being approximately two months.
11 Financial income Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 m m Interest receivable on money market and bank deposits 0.4 0.6 Fair value changes of foreign exchange forward contracts 2.7 6.5 Financial income 3.1 7.1 12 Financial expense Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 m m Interest payable on finance lease and hire purchase borrowings 0.1 0.1 95 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13 Tax An analysis of the tax charge credit for the year, all relating to current operations, is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 m m Current tax UK corporation tax charge credit 0.6 US income tax charge 0.2 Overseas tax on royalties 1.4 0.1 Adjustments in respect of prior years: UK income tax 0.5 US income tax Total current taxation 1.6 1.0 Deferred taxation Deferred tax asset recognised in the period following US reorganisation 18.6 Increase decrease in estimate of recoverable deferred tax asset 0.2 0.2 Release of deferred tax liability 2.8 1.4 Tax credit for the year 20.0 2.2 Reconciliation of the effective tax rate Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 m m Loss profit before tax 10.8 9.1 Tax using UK corporation tax rate of 28% 2010: 28% 3.0 2.5 Differences in effective overseas tax rates 1.2 Foreign tax paid 1.4 Timing differences 0.8 3.5 Non-deductible expenses 1.5 Additional tax credit for research and development expenditure incurred 0.6 0.5 Adjustments to tax in respect of prior years 0.6 Deferred tax assets recognised not recognised 19.4 4.1 Adjustment to tax rates 2.8 Estimated utilised losses 0.7 5.4 Tax credit for the year 20.0 2.2 An analysis of amounts included in the consolidated statement of financial position in respect of income taxes is shown below: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 m m Current assets UK Corporation tax receivable 1.0 0.5 Current liabilities US Income tax payable 0.2 Overseas tax payable on royalties 0.1 0.3 96 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials 13 Tax continued Deferred taxation The movements in the deferred tax asset and liabilities prior to the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as permitted by IAS12, Income Taxes during the year are as shown below.
The deferred tax asset and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle the balance net.
Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using a tax rate of 30% 2010: 30%.
The movement on the deferred tax account is as shown below: Deferred tax asset Australia Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 m m Deferred tax asset recognised at 1 April 0.6 0.7 Income statement credit debit 0.2 0.2 Exchange differences 0.1 0.1 Deferred tax asset recognised at 31 March 0.9 0.6 The deferred tax asset, which relates to trading losses incurred in Australia, has been recognised in the financial statements following the development of the Groups products in prior years and the directors are of the opinion, based on recent and forecast trading, that the level of profits in Australia in the forthcoming years will lead to the realisation of this asset.
Deferred tax liability The deferred tax liability of 30.7m 2010: 33.4m represents the net position after taking into account the offset of deferred tax assets against deferred tax liabilities in each jurisdiction.
Deferred tax liabilities arise on intangible assets recognised on acquisitions and deferred tax assets relate to brought forward trading losses.
The table below summarises the gross and net position at each balance sheet date: Deferred Deferred Net deferred tax assets tax liabilities tax liability m m m At 1 April 2009 17.6 52.8 35.2 At 1 April 2010 15.0 48.4 33.4 At 31 March 2011 55.4 86.1 30.7 The table below reconciles the movement in the deferred tax liability in the period: Deferred tax liability Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 m m At 1 April 33.4 35.2 Acquisitions note 38 20.4 Deferred tax asset recognised in the period following US reorganisation 18.6 Adjustment to tax rate 2.8 Released during the period 3.4 2.8 Increase decrease in tax losses available for offset 2.2 1.4 Exchange differences 1.7 0.4 At 31 March 30.7 33.4 97 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13 Tax continued The Group recognised an additional deferred tax asset of 18.6m in relation to brought forward US tax losses during the year ended 31 March 2011.
Deferred tax of 1.7m 2010: 0.4m has been recognised directly in equity, representing the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on deferred tax balances.
Unrecognised tax losses In addition to the losses on which the deferred tax asset has been recognised, the Group has additional taxable losses and other timing differences in the UK and the US which arose as a result of the research and development incurred during the start-up of the Groups activities.
These losses, which total 180.4m, are available for offset against future taxable profits in these territories.
Tax losses of 133.8m in the UK can be carried forward indefinitely.
Tax losses of 46.6m in the US can be carried forward for 20 years.
The first year in which losses will expire if remaining unutilised is 2016.
A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in respect of these losses and other temporary differences of 12.2m since there is uncertainty as to how quickly such losses and temporary differences would be utilised and consequently the recoverability of the deferred tax asset is uncertain.
The total amount of deferred tax asset not recognised, measured at 26%, is approximately: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 m m Tax losses 46.9 54.2 Deductible temporary differences 3.2 10.0 50.1 64.2 14 Dividends The Directors do not propose to declare a dividend for the year 2010: nil.
15 Earnings per share The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 Profit for the financial year m 9.2 11.3 Profit per share p Basic and diluted 3.4 4.4 Number of shares m Weighted average number of shares basic 268.5 255.9 Effect of share options on issue 2.5 1.9 Weighted average number of shares diluted 271.0 257.8 98 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials 15 Earnings per share continued The basic and diluted earnings per share from underlying earnings is based on the following data: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 Profit for the financial year m 9.2 11.3 Add back: Fair value adjustment on acquired inventory 1.7 0.3 Amortisation of acquired intangible fixed assets 6.6 7.7 Acquisition and reorganisation costs 3.8 1.6 Reorganisation of US corporate structure 18.6 Underlying earnings 2.7 17.7 Profit per share p Basic and diluted 1.0 6.9 Adjustments to profit are shown after taking into account the tax effect of such adjustments on the results as shown in the consolidated income statement as follows: No tax adjustment is required on the fair value of acquired inventory: The release of deferred tax liability of 3.4m 2010: 1.4m as shown in note 13 has been deducted from the amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible assets of 10.0m 2010: 9.1m as shown in the consolidated income statement: A reorganisation cost of 3.8m in the consolidated income statement has not been adjusted for tax as there is no expectation of the costs being deductible for tax in this financial year.
In the year ended 31 March 2010, 0.9m of tax effect of reorganisation costs has been adjusted on the basis that the tax charge would have been 0.9m higher had it not been for deductions available against reorganisation costs paid in that financial year: and An adjustment has been made for the one-off deferred tax credit recognised as a result of the completion of a tax-free reorganisation in the year.
16 Goodwill m At 1 April 2009 30.0 Additions 0.3 At 1 April 2010 30.3 Additions 28.9 At 31 March 2011 59.2 Accumulated impairment losses At 1 April 2009, 1 April 2010 and 31 March 2011 Net book value at 31 March 2011 59.2 Net book value at 1 April 2010 30.3 Net book value at 1 April 2009 30.0 Additions of 28.9m in the year ended 31 March 2011 relate to the acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc in January 2011 see note 38.
99 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16 Goodwill continued Impairment review goodwill and intangible assets An impairment review of the carrying value of goodwill and unamortised intangible assets was conducted as at 31 March 2011.
Goodwill arose on the acquisitions of Protherics PLC and Biocompatibles International plc see note 38.
This has been allocated across the Groups cash generating units, being its operating segments see note 4.
Goodwill recognised on acquisition of Protherics PLC has been allocated across operating segments in proportion to the anticipated benefits of that goodwill on the operating segment, having regard for the assets and liabilities acquired.
The carrying value of goodwill in relation to the Protherics PLC acquisition has been allocated as relating to marketed products, 15.6m 2010: 15.6m, and in relation to royalties, 14.7m 2010: 14.7m.
All goodwill, being 28.9m 2010: nil, arising on the acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc has been allocated to that operating segment.
The impairment review required the estimation of the recoverable amount based on the value in use of the underlying cash generating unit.
Near-term projections are based on the Groups approved three-year plan.
Longer-term projections through to the end of an assets estimated useful economic life are included due to the long-term nature of pharmaceutical product development and product life cycles.
The main assumptions on which the forecast cash flows were based include market share and gross margin for the marketed products, individual probability-adjusted cash flow models for all in-process R&D and an assessment of the net present value of future net royalty income for licensed patents.
Cash flow projections for all assets were included for a period equal to the estimated useful economic life of the assets.
No terminal values were applied.
All cash flows were discounted back to present value using a pre-tax discount rate of between 7% 2010: 7% for net royalty income and 28% 2010: 24% for in-process R&D, which takes into account the individual risk characteristics of each particular asset and related income stream.
For developed technology, near-term sales projections are based on past experience, adjusting for expected changes in future conditions, including those anticipated as a result of our knowledge of competitor activity and our assessment of future changes in the pharmaceutical industry.
Long-term sales projections assume near-term growth of 2% per annum for the first eight years and then a 20% per annum reduction thereafter through to the end of the assets estimated useful life.
For contractual relationships, the Group uses the same basic methodology as for developed technology but limits the projection period to the appropriate useful economic life of the contractual relationship.
For in-process R&D the key assumptions are the chance of product launch, market share and overall market size.
Industry average statistics are used to assess the chance of product launch, taking into account the stage of development of the asset, the therapeutic area targeted and any known specific characteristics of the asset.
Market share and overall market size are assessed by reference to independent industry market reports.
In assessing whether there has been an impairment, the net present value of future cash flows is compared to the carrying value in the accounts.
100 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials 17 Intangible assets In-process Repurchase Developed Contractual research and Computer of contractual technology relationships development software Patents rights Total m m m m m m m Cost At 1 April 2009 120.3 36.1 7.7 0.5 14.7 179.3 Additions 1.2 1.2 Disposals 0.5 2.8 3.3 Currency movements 2.9 0.9 0.1 3.9 At 1 April 2010 117.4 35.2 7.7 13.0 173.3 Additions 0.4 9.7 10.1 Acquired with Biocompatibles 118.8 6.7 11.0 0.3 136.8 Disposals 0.1 0.1 Currency movements 6.0 1.9 0.1 0.1 0.2 8.1 At 31 March 2011 230.2 40.0 18.8 0.3 13.2 9.5 312.0 Amortisation At 1 April 2009 1.6 1.4 0.5 10.0 13.5 Provided during the year 4.5 3.8 0.8 9.1 Impairments 0.8 0.8 Writeback on disposals 0.5 2.5 3.0 Currency movements 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 At 1 April 2010 6.3 5.4 0.8 8.1 20.6 Provided during the year 6.2 3.8 0.1 0.6 9.6 20.3 Impairments 1.2 1.2 Writeback on disposals 0.1 0.1 Currency movements 0.5 0.4 0.1 1.0 At 31 March 2011 12.0 8.8 0.9 9.8 9.5 41.0 Net book value At 31 March 2011 218.2 31.2 17.9 0.3 3.4 271.0 At 1 April 2010 111.1 29.8 6.9 4.9 152.7 At 1 April 2009 118.7 34.7 7.7 4.7 165.8 Amortisation relating to acquired intangibles is shown on the face of the income statement within amortisation of acquired intangibles.
All other amortisation and impairment are shown within Other in Operating expenses.
101 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 17 Intangible assets continued Developed technology Developed technology relates to both the antidote assets acquired in Protherics PLC comprising principally of the rights to CroFab and DigiFab: and the bead assets acquired in Biocompatibles International plc, comprising principally of the rights to the DC LC Beads.
The carrying value of individually significant assets within developed technology is: Remaining amortisation 31 March 31 March period at 2011 2010 31 March m m 2011 CroFab 75.9 83.8 22.7 years DigiFab 24.5 27.1 22.7 years DC LC Beads 105.4 14.8 years Contractual relationships Contractual relationships relate to contracts acquired in Protherics PLC and Biocompatibles International plc.
The carrying value and remaining amortisation period of individually significant contracts is: Remaining amortisation 31 March 31 March period at 2011 2010 31 March m m 2011 Licence agreement with AstraZeneca for AZD9773 CytoFab 24.9 28.6 11.7 years Repurchase of contractual rights On 27 August 2010 BTG signed an agreement with Nycomed US Inc. concerning the accelerated transition to BTG on 1 October 2010 of marketing rights to CroFab and DigiFab.
Under the terms of the agreement, BTG purchased the exclusive rights to sell the products for which a consideration of 9.7m was paid in October 2010.
The purchase price was capitalised and amortised over the six-month period ending 31 March 2011 representing the length of the exclusive period.
102 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials 18 Property, plant and equipment Plant and machinery, Assets in the Leasehold Freehold land furniture and course of improvements and buildings equipment construction Total m m m m m Cost or valuation At 1 April 2009 2.5 1.1 12.2 15.8 Additions 0.3 0.1 1.1 1.5 Disposals 0.9 1.5 2.4 Currency movements 0.5 1.0 1.5 At 1 April 2010 2.4 1.2 12.8 16.4 Additions 0.1 9.3 1.7 0.1 11.2 Acquired with Biocompatibles 0.3 1.2 3.1 4.6 Transfers 1.6 1.6 Disposals 0.7 0.7 Currency movements 0.8 0.3 0.1 1.2 At 31 March 2011 1.2 12.9 15.3 3.3 32.7 Depreciation At 1 April 2009 0.8 0.1 3.8 4.7 Provided during the year 0.3 0.2 2.0 2.5 Disposals 0.7 1.5 2.2 Currency movements 0.3 0.5 0.8 At 1 April 2010 0.7 0.3 4.8 5.8 Provided during the year 0.2 0.4 1.8 2.4 Transfers 0.7 0.7 Disposals 0.7 0.7 Currency movements 0.1 0.3 0.4 At 31 March 2011 0.2 1.5 6.2 7.9 Net book value at 31 March 2011 1.0 11.4 9.1 3.3 24.8 Net book value at 1 April 2010 1.7 0.9 8.0 10.6 Net book value at 1 April 2009 1.7 1.0 8.4 11.1 The net book value of plant and machinery and furniture, fixtures and equipment includes 1.8m 2010: 2.3m in respect of assets held under finance lease and hire purchase agreements.
Depreciation for the year on those assets was 0.3m 2010: 0.3m.
103 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 19 Investments in associates Investments which represent a holding greater than 20% are as follows: 31 March 31 March Class of 2011 2010 Share Country % held % held Mesophotonics Ltd Preferred UK 29.3 29.3 Senexis Ltd Preferred UK 48.0 48.0 The Groups share of post-acquisition total recognised losses in the above associates for the year ended 31 March 2011 was nil 2010: 0.3m.
Each of these companies is engaged in research and development activities.
The Groups share of post-acquisition total unrecognised losses in the above associates for the year ended 31 March 2011 was 0.5m 2010: nil.
2011 2010 m m At 1 April 0.3 Share of losses 0.3 At 31 March Summary financial information in respect of the Groups investments held in associates as at 31 March in each year under review is set out below: 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 m m Total assets 0.6 0.3 Total liabilities 0.1 0.1 Net assets 0.5 0.2 Revenues Losses for the year 0.9 0.8 20 Other investments 2011 2010 m m At 1 April 3.7 3.2 Additions 0.5 0.5 Fair value movements 0.1 Impairment charge 1.5 Disposals and loan repayments Currency movements 0.1 At 31 March 2.7 3.7 Other investments comprise non-current equity investments which are available-for-sale that are recorded at fair value at each balance sheet date.
The fair value of unlisted investments is estimated to be the valuation following the latest round of equity funding.
In the absence of specific market data the Group determines that cost is equal to fair value.
Where the fair value of an available-for-sale asset is impaired, the impairment charge is recognised in the income statement together with any amounts recycled from the fair value reserve see note 24.
These impairments initially arise from the prolonged or significant decline in the fair value of the equity investments below acquisition cost, subsequent to which any further decline in fair value is immediately taken to the income statement.
0.1m 2010: nil has been recycled from the fair value reserve on the sale or impairment of investments.
104 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials 21 Inventories 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 m m Raw materials and consumables 4.4 2.7 Work in progress 11.1 6.6 Finished goods 4.5 0.3 20.0 9.6 During the period a fair value adjustment of 1.7m 2010: 0.3m was recognised through cost of sales see note 38 leaving 2.1m of fair value uplift on the acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc remaining.
22 Trade and other receivables 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 m m Due within one year Investment in associates classified as held for sale 0.1 0.1 Revenues receivable, net of provisions 15.8 15.5 Other debtors 4.4 2.1 Prepayments and accrued income 12.4 2.7 32.7 20.4 Managing credit risk: Revenues receivable, net of provisions represents accrued royalty income for the period to 31 March 2011 and certain other amounts receivable under licence agreements.
The ageing of these amounts was as follows: 2011 2010 Gross Provision Gross Provision m m m m Not past due 14.3 14.8 0 to 30 days 0.4 0.2 31 to 90 days 0.2 90 days 1.8 0.7 1.2 0.9 Total 16.5 0.7 16.4 0.9 Provisions for bad debts of 0.7m 31 March 2010: 0.9m have been made to write down the value of doubtful receivables to estimated recoverable amounts.
The charge to income for the year to 31 March 2011 in respect of provisions for bad debts was nil 2010: 0.5m.
Investment in associates classified as held for sale Mesophotonics Ltd is in a Members Voluntary Liquidation MVL.
BTG has estimated the fair value of its investment in Mesophotonics to be 0.1m at 31 March 2011 31 March 2010: 0.1m based on the expectation of likely returns from the MVL.
105 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22 Trade and other receivables continued Summary financial information in respect of the Groups investments accounted for as investments in associates held for sale see note 19 is set out below: 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 m m Total assets 0.1 0.1 Total liabilities Net assets 0.1 0.1 Revenues Losses of associate for the year BTG recognised no loss for the year ended 31 March 2011 31 March 2010: nil.
23 Cash and cash equivalents and held to maturity financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 m m Bank balances 63.7 73.0 Call deposits 9.6 Cash and cash equivalents in statement of cash flows 63.7 82.6 Held to maturity financial assets Cash deposits with a maturity of greater than three months are classified as held to maturity financial assets.
31 March 31 March 2011 2010 m m Bank deposits 10.2 The effective interest rate on bank deposits was 2.4% and these deposits had an average maturity of seven months.
106 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials 24 Equity Share Share Merger Other Retained Total capital premium reserve reserves earnings equity m m m m m m At 1 April 2009 25.5 187.3 156.5 0.1 156.6 212.6 Profit for the year 11.3 11.3 Foreign exchange translation differences 0.8 0.8 Actuarial loss on pension liabilities 12.0 12.0 Total comprehensive income for the year 0.8 0.7 1.5 Transactions with owners: Issue of BTG plc ordinary shares 0.3 0.8 1.6 2.7 Movement in shares held by the Trust 0.3 0.3 Share-based payments 1.1 1.1 At 1 April 2010 25.8 188.1 158.1 0.9 155.9 215.2 Profit for the year 9.2 9.2 Foreign exchange translation differences 2.7 2.7 Actuarial gain on pension liabilities 3.9 3.9 Change in fair value of equity securities available-for-sale 0.1 0.1 Total comprehensive income for the year 2.8 13.1 10.3 Transactions with owners: Issue of BTG plc ordinary shares 0.1 0.1 Issued on acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc 6.9 159.7 166.6 Movement in shares held by the Trust 0.5 0.5 Share-based payments 0.6 0.6 At 31 March 2011 32.7 188.2 317.8 3.7 142.7 392.3 Other reserves are analysed as follows: Translation Fair value Total other reserve reserve reserves m m m At 1 April 2009 0.3 0.2 0.1 Total comprehensive income 0.8 0.8 At 1 April 2010 1.1 0.2 0.9 Total comprehensive income 2.7 0.1 2.8 At 31 March 2011 3.8 0.1 3.7 The merger reserve is used where more than 90% of the shares in a subsidiary are acquired and the consideration includes the issue of new shares by the Company, thereby attracting merger relief under s612 and s613 of the Companies Act 2006.
The balance on the merger reserve has arisen through the acquisitions of Biocompatibles International plc on 27 January 2011 see note 38 and Protherics PLC on 4 December 2008 and includes directly attributable costs of issuing shares of 1.1m relating to the acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc, of which 0.6m had been paid before 31 March 2011.
107 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24 Equity continued The issued and fully paid share capital of the Company is shown below: Ordinary shares of 10p each 2011 2010 Number m Number m At 1 April 257,637,576 25.8 255,337,900 25.5 Issued for cash 365,086 1,006,668 0.1 Issued in consideration of Biocompatibles acquisition note 38 68,723,244 6.9 Issued in consideration of Protherics acquisition 1,293,008 0.2 At 31 March 326,725,906 32.7 257,637,576 25.8 The share issues in the year were as a result of the acquisition of the Biocompatibles Group and the exercise of share options.
In the prior year 4,443,333 Protherics share options were exercised by current and former employees of the Protherics Group.
These shares were exchanged in the ratio 0.291 BTG shares for each Protherics share, resulting in the issue of 1,293,008 BTG shares.
The balance of 1,006,668 share options were exercised under BTG share option schemes.
All shares rank pari passu in all respects with existing ordinary shares.
Share options and warrants Details of outstanding share options are set out in note 30.
At 31 March 2011, there were unexercised warrants for 100,000 ordinary shares in Enact Pharma Limited, a subsidiary of Protherics which was acquired by the Company in December 2008.
These warrants expire on 9 July 2012 and are exercisable at 30p per ordinary share of Enact Pharma Limited.
Should these be exercised, the Company is entitled to repurchase these shares for consideration of 19,846 ordinary shares in BTG plc which creates an equivalent exercise price of 151.2p per ordinary BTG share.
25 Trade and other payables 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 m m Amounts falling due within one year Trade payables 8.2 7.4 Accruals and deferred income 38.8 33.0 Other creditors 2.8 0.4 49.8 40.8 Amounts falling due after more than one year Accruals and deferred income 5.4 8.4 Contingent value note note 38 1.1 Other creditors 0.4 0.1 6.9 8.5 108 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials 26 Derivative financial instruments 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 m m Contracts with positive fair values: Forward foreign exchange contracts 2.0 Derivative instrument assets 2.0 Contracts with negative fair values: Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.8 Derivative instrument liabilities 0.8 The Group utilises foreign currency derivatives to hedge significant future transactions and cash flows.
At 31 March 2011 the Group had forward contracts to sell US$49m in the period to March 2012 at rates in the range 1:$1.44 to 1:$1.60 and 1m in the period to August 2011 at rates in the range of 1:1.1982 to 1:1.1987.
The fair value of these derivative financial instruments was marked to market at 31 March 2011 at 2.0m.
At 31 March 2010 the Group had forward contracts to sell US$41m in the period to February 2011 at rates in the range 1:$1.49 to 1:$1.61.
The fair value of these derivative financial instruments was marked to market at 31 March 2010 at 0.8m.
The fair value gain loss for the year associated with these forward contracts was included within Financial income.
A 5% weakening of the US dollar as at 31 March 2011, all other variables being unchanged, would result in an additional 1.0m gain within Financial income in the income statement and a fair value asset of 3.0m within Derivative instruments within current assets.
A 5% strengthening of the US dollar would result in a 1.1m reduction within Financial income and a decrease in Derivative instruments to 0.9m within current assets.
A 5% movement of the Euro as at 31 March 2011, all other variables being unchanged, would not result in a significant impact.
27 Borrowings 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 m m Amounts falling due after more than one year 2.9 The carrying amounts of the Groups borrowings are denominated in Euros and are equal to fair value.
Borrowings are unsecured and accrue interest annually at 5%.
A repayment plan is in place such that the loan will be satisfied in full at the later of i 31March 2018 or ii seven years post FDA approval of a specific long-term product.
The Group had no undrawn committed borrowing facilities at 31 March 2011 2010: nil.
109 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28 Finance leases Minimum lease Present value of payments minimum lease payments 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m Group Amounts payable under finance leases: Within one year 0.4 0.8 0.4 0.7 In the second to fifth years inclusive 0.2 0.6 0.2 0.6 0.6 1.4 0.6 1.3 Less: future finance charges 0.1 Present value of lease obligations 0.6 1.3 0.6 1.3 Less: Amounts due for settlement within one year shown within current liabilities 0.4 0.7 0.4 0.7 Amount due for settlement after one year 0.2 0.6 0.2 0.6 The average lease term on inception is three to five years with an option to purchase equipment for a nominal amount at the conclusion of the lease agreement.
For the year ended 31 March 2011, the average effective borrowing rate for the Group was 8.4% 2010: 8.3%.
Interest rates are fixed at the contract date.
All leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
The fair value of the Groups lease obligations approximates to their carrying amount.
The Groups lease obligations are denominated in Sterling and Australian dollars.
The obligations under hire purchase agreements for the Group are secured by a charge over the leased assets.
29 Retirement benefit plans Defined benefit plan For eligible UK employees the Group operates a funded pension plan providing benefits based on final pensionable emoluments.
The plan was closed to new entrants as of 1 June 2004.
The assets of the plan are held in a separate trustee administered fund.
The plan has a history of granting increases to pensions in line with price inflation, and these increases are reflected in the measurement of the obligation.
The preliminary results of the formal valuation of the plan as at 31 March 2010 were updated to the accounting date by an independent qualified actuary in accordance with IAS19.
In July 2010, the government announced its intention that future statutory minimum pension indexation would be measured by the Consumer Prices Index, rather than the Retail Prices Index RPI.
The Group continues to value its pension fund liability on the basis of RPI.
This reflects its view that its legal obligation is generally to pay RPI-linked increases and that it has a constructive obligation to pay RPI-linked increases in all other cases, given its past practice of treating all members the same.
The expected rate of return on assets for the financial year ending 31 March 2011 was 5.6% pa 2010: 5.6% pa.
This rate is derived by taking the weighted average of the long-term expected rate of return on each of the asset classes that the plan was invested in at 31st March 2011, based on the plans long-term investment strategy at that date.
The estimated amount of total employer contributions expected to be paid to the plan during the year ended 31 March 2012 is 3.8m year ended 31 March 2011 actual: 4.0m.
The estimate is based on agreed contributions at the balance sheet date.
A revised schedule of contributions is being discussed with the plan trustees as part of the formal valuation of the plan as at 31 March 2010, which is due to be completed by 30 June 2011.
110 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials 29 Retirement benefit plans continued The following table sets out the key IAS19 assumptions used for the plan: 31 March 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 2009 Retail price inflation 3.7% p. a.
Pension increases in deferment inflation 3.7% p. a.
Pension increases in payment inflation 3.7% p. a.
Pension increases in payment inflation capped at 2.5% 2.3% p. a.
Life expectancy at age 60 of a male age 60 at the accounting date 87.3 88.2 88.1 Life expectancy at age 60 of a male age 40 at the accounting date 88.8 90.4 90.3 The amount included in the statement of financial position arising from the Groups obligations in respect of the plan is as follows: 31 March 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 2009 m m m Present value of defined benefit obligation 96.8 98.3 74.9 Fair value of plan assets 94.8 89.1 74.9 Net liability recognised in the statement of financial position 2.0 9.2 This amount is presented in the statement of financial position within non-current liabilities.
The amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of the plan are as follows: 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 m m Employers part of current service cost 0.4 0.2 Interest cost 5.3 5.0 Expected return on plan assets 5.0 4.1 Total expense included in income statement 0.7 1.1 The expense has been included in Operating expenses: other.
The allocation of the plans assets is as follows: 31 March 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 2009 % % % Equity instruments 17 19 25 Diversified growth funds 14 14 Debt instruments 68 66 70 Cash net current assets 1 1 5 100 100 100 111 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29 Retirement benefit plans continued Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: 2011 2010 m m Defined benefit obligation at 1 April 98.3 74.9 Employer part of current service cost 0.4 0.2 Interest cost 5.3 5.0 Contributions from plan members 0.1 0.1 Actuarial gain loss on plan liabilities 3.0 22.4 Benefits paid 4.3 4.3 Defined benefit obligation at 31 March 96.8 98.3 Changes in the fair value of the plan assets are as follows: 2011 2010 m m Fair value of plan assets at 1 April 89.1 74.9 Expected return on plan assets 5.0 4.1 Actuarial gains on plan assets 0.9 10.4 Contributions by the employer 4.0 3.9 Contributions by plan members 0.1 0.1 Benefits paid 4.3 4.3 Fair value of plan assets at 31 March 94.8 89.1 The actual return on the plans assets over the year was a gain of 5.9m 2010: 14.5m.
The amount recognised outside profit and loss in other comprehensive income for 2011 is an actuarial gain of 3.9m 2010: actuarial loss of 12.0m.
The cumulative amount recognised outside profit and loss as at 31 March 2011 is a loss of 7.8m 2010: 11.7m The history of experience adjustment is as follows: 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 m m m m m Present value of defined benefit obligations 96.8 98.3 74.9 81.8 80.6 Fair value of plan assets 94.8 89.1 74.9 76.9 74.9 Deficit in the plan 2.0 9.2 4.9 5.7 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Experience adjustments on plan assets Amount of gain loss m 0.9 10.4 7.4 0.4 1.2 Percentage of plan assets % 1 12 10 2 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities Amount of loss gain m 3.4 2.5 6.3 Percentage of the present value of plan liabilities % 4 3 8 112 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials 29 Retirement benefit plans continued Defined contribution plans The Group offers defined contribution pension plans for its UK, US, European and Australian employees.
The total income statement charge in relation to these plans was 1.3m 2010: 1.6m.
The Groups defined contribution plans are operated by external providers.
The only obligation of the Group with respect to these plans is to make the specified contributions.
30 Share-based payments Share options The Group makes awards under an equity-settled share option plan that entitles employees to purchase shares in the Company.
In accordance with the rules of the plan, options are granted at the market price of the shares on the date of grant with a vesting period of generally three years.
They may only be exercised upon the attainment of certain performance criteria.
If the performance criteria are not met by the date specified at the time of grant, the options do not vest and will lapse.
If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the options expire.
Furthermore, options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest unless the conditions under which they leave are such that they are considered to be a good leaver.
In this case their options remain exercisable for a limited period of time.
For further details of current awards, see the remuneration report on pages 57 to 68.
Option pricing For the purposes of valuing options to arrive at the share-based compensation charge, a binomial lattice option pricing model has been used.
The assumptions used in the model are as follows.
31 March 31 March 2011 2010 Risk-free interest rate 1.4% to 5.8% 2.0% to 5.8% Dividend yield Nil Nil Volatility 41% to 73% 41% to 73% Expected lives of options and awards granted under: Share option plan 5 years 5 years Sharesave plan 3.25 years 3.25 years Stock purchase plan 2.25 years 2.25 years Restricted share awards 2 to 3 years 2 to 3 years Performance share plan 2 to 3 years 2 to 3 years Deferred share bonus plan 3 years 3 years Weighted average fair value for share option plan grants in the year 119.8p 58.9p Weighted average fair value for sharesave grants in the year 86.6p 78.0p Weighted average fair value for stock purchase plan grants in the year 65.6p 61.7p Weighted average fair value for performance share awards in the year 119.8p 50.9p Weighted average fair value for deferred share bonus awards in the year 181.4p 174.0p The expected volatility is based on the historic volatility calculated based on the weighted average remaining life of the share options, restricted or performance shares, adjusted for any expected changes to future volatility due to publicly-available information.
Share options are granted under a service condition, a non-market condition and a market condition.
Service and non-market conditions are not taken into account in calculating the fair value measurement of the services received.
Performance shares are awarded under a service condition, a non-market condition and a market condition.
113 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30 Share-based payments continued Awards of share options and performance share awards made in 2009, 2010 and 2011 have a market condition based on a TSR measure using the FTSE 250 companies excluding investment trusts, companies in the financial services sector banking, insurance, broking, fund management, etc.
and companies in the consumer discretionary sector non-food retail, media, leisure, gambling.
Earlier share options and performance shares used the FTSE SmallCap excluding Investment Trusts index.
If the Companys share price at least matches the performance of the relevant index over the vesting period, the market-based performance condition will be considered to have been achieved.
The fair value of an award of shares under the share option and performance share plans have been adjusted to take into account this market-based performance condition using a pricing model based on expectations about volatility and the correlation of share price returns in the relevant index and which incorporates into the valuation the inter-dependency between share price and index performance.
This adjustment increases the fair value relative to the share price at the date of grant.
See the remuneration report on pages 57 to 68 for further information.
Restricted shares are awarded to certain management employees under a service condition and a non-market performance condition.
There are no market conditions related to the restricted share awards.
Details of options and awards under the Groups share plans are shown in the tables below.
2011 2010 Number Weighted Number Weighted of share average of share average options exercise price options exercise price 000 p 000 p Share options Outstanding at 1 April 597 157.3 882 128.0 Granted during year 358 201.3 379 179.3 Lapsed during year 6 106.3 108 146.6 Exercised during year 22 106.3 556 127.8 Outstanding at 31 March 927 175.8 597 157.3 Exercisable at 31 March 190 120.9 218 119.0 Sharesave plan Outstanding at 1 April 301 134.9 202 106.7 Granted during year 90 146.7 217 146.7 Lapsed during year 26 145.6 30 114.1 Exercised during year 56 94.2 88 106.4 Outstanding at 31 March 309 144.9 301 134.9 Exercisable at 31 March Stock purchase plan Outstanding at 1 April 30 162.2 30 106.1 Granted during year 30 173.2 22 154.3 Lapsed during year 11 175.1 3 77.6 Exercised during year 19 77.6 Outstanding at 31 March 49 166.0 30 162.2 Exercisable at 31 March 114 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials 30 Share-based payments continued Options outstanding at 31 March 2011 Latest Weighted exercise date Number exercise year ended 000 price p 31 March Share options granted in year ended 31 March 2002 2 776.5 2012 2005 133 102.3 2015 2007 55 143.5 2017 2010 379 179.3 2020 2011 358 201.3 2021 927 Sharesave plan options granted in year ended 31 March 2009 32 129.2 2012 2010 191 146.7 2013 2011 86 146.7 2014 309 Stock purchase plan options granted in year ended 31 March 2010 19 154.3 2012 2011 30 173.2 2013 49 Restricted share awards The Company established a restricted share scheme for the purpose of making awards to selected members of senior management below Board level.
The vesting period is either two or three years.
Awards are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the awards vest, unless the conditions under which they leave are such that they are considered to be a good leaver: in which case their award is released following their departure.
For further details see the remuneration report on pages 57 to 68.
Movement in the number of restricted shares awarded is as follows.
2011 2010 Number of Number of share awards share awards 000 000 Outstanding at 1 April 200 240 Exercised during year 183 40 Lapsed during year 17 Outstanding at 31 March 200 Exercisable at 31 March Performance share awards Following approval of the Performance Share Plan by shareholders at the 2006 AGM, the Company has made awards to the executive directors and other employees with a vesting period of two or three years.
Awards are forfeited if the director or other employee leaves the Group before the awards vest, unless the conditions under which they leave are such that they are considered to be a good leaver: in which case their award is released following their departure.
If the Remuneration Committee decide that a departing beneficiary of an award is a good leaver so their award may be released early, the award will only be released subject to the achievement of the performance conditions set out at the time of the granting of the award and may be subject to proration for time, at the discretion of the Committee.
115 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30 Share-based payments continued Movement in the number of performance share awards is as follows.
2011 2010 Number of Number of share awards share awards 000 000 Outstanding at 1 April 1,971 1,446 Granted during year 945 1,188 Lapsed during year 11 119 Exercised during year 284 544 Outstanding at 31 March 2,621 1,971 Exercisable at 31 March Deferred share bonus plan The Company established a deferred share bonus plan.
The executive directors, members of the Leadership Team and certain other senior staff have part of their annual bonus awarded in shares.
The shares will vest on the third anniversary of the grant date.
Awards are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the awards vest, unless the conditions under which they leave are such that they are considered to be a good leaver: in which case their award is released following their departure, though it may be pro-rated for time at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Movement in the number of deferred bonus shares awarded is as follows.
2011 2010 Number of Number of share awards share awards 000 000 Outstanding at 1 April 380 300 Granted during year 378 196 Exercised during year 167 116 Outstanding at 31 March 591 380 Exercisable at 31 March The Biocompatibles Group had a number of share schemes prior to the date of acquisition by the Company.
With the exception of the Share Incentive Plan SIP, all share schemes ceased just prior to that date and share awards under the various schemes vested and or exercised to the extent to which performance conditions had been achieved.
No grants or awards remained outstanding at the date of acquisition.
Shares invested in the SIP were exchanged for BTG shares in the same ratio as other shareholders received in the acquisition: 1.6733 BTG shares for each Biocompatibles share plus 10p cash.
Whilst no further contributions may be invested in the SIP post the date of acquisition, shares already held in the SIP may remain until the date of closure of the Plan in 2016.
As at 31 March 2011 788,297 ordinary shares in BTG plc, issued and subscribed for by the Biocompatibles International plc Share Incentive Plan Trust, had not vested unconditionally.
116 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials 31 BTG Employee Share Trust The Group includes an employee share trust, the BTG Employee Share Trust the Trust, which was established in Guernsey in 1992.
It holds shares for the general benefit of all employees who may eventually become legally entitled to them.
The Trust may distribute these shares to employees of the Group on the recommendation of the Company.
These distributions may be as a result of awards under the Restricted Share Scheme or the Deferred Share Bonus Plan.
At 31 March 2011 the Trust has 590,635 shares set aside under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan.
32 Provisions 2011 2010 Leases Reorganisation Total Leases Reorganisation Total m m m m m m At 1 April 1.1 0.7 1.8 4.3 4.0 8.3 Acquired with Biocompatibles 1.3 1.3 Provisions utilised during year 0.4 0.9 1.3 1.6 3.2 4.8 Provisions made during year 1.2 1.2 0.5 0.5 Provisions released during year 1.5 0.3 1.8 Difference on exchange 0.1 0.3 0.4 At 31 March 2.0 1.0 3.0 1.1 0.7 1.8 Balance due within one year 0.8 1.0 1.8 0.4 0.7 1.1 Balance due after more than one year 1.2 1.2 0.7 0.7 2.0 1.0 3.0 1.1 0.7 1.8 Lease provisions relate to onerous leases and represent the net present value of future obligations and where relevant, not covered by income from tenants see 2 m. The provision for reorganisation costs arose as a result of the Groups rationalisation activities following the acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc on 27 January 2011 and Protherics PLC on 4 December 2008 note 38.
The provision principally comprises redundancy and other site closure costs.
117 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33 Financial risk management objectives and policies Overview The Group has exposure to credit, liquidity and market risks from its use of financial instruments.
This note sets out the Groups key policies and processes for managing these risks.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a licensee fails to meet its contractual obligations or a customer fails to pay for goods and services received.
The Groups primary objective with respect to credit risk is to minimise the risk of default by licensees or customers.
A substantial element of the Groups revenue is derived from royalties which are only payable if a licensee is generating income from sales of licensed products.
In such instances the Groups exposure to credit risk is considered to be inherently relatively low, although is influenced by the unique characteristics of individual licensees.
The Groups policy is to provide against bad debts on a specific licence by licence basis.
Following the transition from a distribution agreement to direct sales during the year, the majority of the marketed product revenues are currently generated from sales to several key wholesalers in the US.
Management maintains regular communication with the customers and monitors both sales to and payments from customers to minimise the credit risk exposure.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities as they fall due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
The Group has limited debt facilities in the form of borrowings see note 27 and assets held under finance leases note 28 but has substantial cash balances to fund its operations.
The Groups policy is to place surplus cash resources on short-term fixed interest deposits, to the extent that cash flow can be reasonably predicted.
Term deposits are denominated in Sterling with institutions rated as A or higher by both Moodys and Standard & Poors.
Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices will affect the Groups income or the value of its holdings in financial instruments.
The Group has little exposure to interest rate risk other than that returns on short-term fixed interest deposits will vary with movements in underlying bank interest rates.
The Groups principal market risk exposure is to movements in foreign exchange rates.
Foreign currency risk The Group has several overseas subsidiary undertakings, the revenues and the expenses of which are denominated in local currencies being US dollars, Euros and Australian dollars.
As a result the Groups Sterling income statement, balance sheet and cash flows may be affected by movements in Sterling exchange rates with these currencies.
The Groups primary objective with respect to managing foreign exchange risk is to provide certainty over the value of future cash flows.
A significant element of the Groups revenue is denominated in US dollars with the remainder split between Sterling, Euros, Yen and other currencies.
The majority of the Groups operating expenses are in Sterling along with smaller elements in US dollars, Euros and Australian dollars.
Where possible, anticipated foreign currency operating expenses are matched to foreign currency revenues.
The excess exposure over and above this natural hedge, to the extent that cash flows are predictable, is managed using forward contracts see note 26.
118 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials 33 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Sensitivity analysis A 5% weakening of the US dollar at 31 March 2011 would have resulted in the following increases decreases in equity and profit or loss: 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 m m Profit or loss 5.7 1.3 Equity 0.9 5.2 Interest rate risk The Group seeks to mitigate partially against increased interest rates whilst maintaining a degree of flexibility to benefit from decreasing rates of interest by holding a mix of fixed and floating rate financial liabilities.
The Group seeks to maximise the amount of interest income from its cash balances by using a variety of short-term, fixed high-interest deposit and money-market accounts.
The Group does not consider the impact of interest rate risk to be material to its results or operations and accordingly no sensitivity analysis is shown.
Market price risk It is, on occasion, deemed appropriate to take equity stakes in early-stage companies utilising the Groups technology as part of the overall licensing arrangement and small loans may be granted to these companies to further technology development.
These investments will be realised at an appropriate time in the development cycle.
Regular reports are made to the Board on the status of investments.
These investments form part of the Groups overall technology portfolio and do not materially affect liquidity.
Capital management The Group defines the capital that it manages as the Groups total equity.
The Groups objectives when managing capital are: To safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern: To provide an adequate return to investors based on the level of risk undertaken: To have available the necessary financial resources to allow the Group to invest in areas that may deliver future benefits for inventive sources and returns to investors: and To maintain sufficient financial resources to mitigate against risks and unforeseen events.
The Group believes it has sufficient ongoing cash and cash equivalents to meet its stated capital management objectives.
The Groups capital and equity ratio are shown in the table below.
31 March 31 March 2011 2010 m m Total equity capital and reserves attributable to BTG shareholders 392.3 215.2 Total assets 488.5 311.0 Equity ratio 80.3% 69.2% The Group is not subject to regulatory capital adequacy requirements as known in the financial services industry.
119 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Financial instruments The Groups financial instruments comprise cash, short-term deposits, foreign currency forward contracts, contingent value notes and various items such as trade debtors and creditors which arise directly from operations.
In addition, a number of debt and equity investments, both quoted and unquoted as shown in notes 19 and 20, are held in technology-based companies along with borrowings including obligations under finance leases.
Fair values The fair values of the Groups financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying values shown in the statement of financial position, are as follows: Forward Total Designated contracts at Available Amortised carrying Fair at fair value fair value for sale cost value value m m m m m m 31 March 2010 Cash and cash equivalents 82.6 82.6 82.6 Forward contracts 0.8 0.8 0.8 Other investments 3.7 3.7 3.7 Trade and other receivables 0.1 20.3 20.4 20.4 Trade and other payables 49.3 49.3 49.3 31 March 2011 Cash and cash equivalents 63.7 63.7 63.7 Held to maturity financial assets 10.2 10.2 10.2 Forward contracts 2.0 2.0 2.0 Other investments 2.7 2.7 2.7 Trade and other receivables 0.1 32.6 32.7 32.7 Trade and other payables 1.1 55.6 56.7 56.7 Borrowings note 27 2.9 2.9 2.9 The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable: Level 1 quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities: Level 2 observable inputs other than quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities: Level 3 unobservable inputs.
120 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials 33 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Fair value hierarchy of financial assets and liabilities Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m At 31 March 2010 Financial assets recognised at fair value Investments 3.7 3.7 Financial liabilities recognised at fair value Forward contracts 0.8 0.8 At 31 March 2011 Financial assets recognised at fair value Investments 2.7 2.7 Forward contracts 2.0 2.0 Financial liabilities recognised at fair value Contingent value notes 1.1 1.1 Level 1 financial assets and liabilities represent forward foreign exchange contracts to sell US dollars and Euros which are marked-to-market at each balance sheet date.
Level 2 financial assets represent other investments held at fair value see note 20.
Level 3 financial liabilities represent the contingent loan note upon acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc see note 38.
No gain or loss for the year related to this liability has been recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Contractual maturity analysis of financial liabilities 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 m m Forward foreign exchange contracts that mature within: 0 to 3 months 0.8 3 to 6 months 0.4 0.8 6 to 12 months 0.8 2.0 0.8 Net gains and losses on financial assets and liabilities Foreign exchange losses of 2.0m 2010: losses of 4.0m were recognised within operating profit in relation to settlement of trade receivables and payables.
The Group recognised a fair value gain of 2.7m 2010: gain of 6.5m relating to forward foreign exchange contracts within Financial income.
Fair value gains of 0.1m 2010: nil were recycled from the fair value reserve within equity in relation to investments impaired during the year.
Estimation of fair values The following summarises the methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments reflected in the table.
Other investments These comprise both listed and unlisted investments, available-for-sale.
The figure recorded in the statement of financial position note 20 is the best estimate of fair value.
121 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Borrowings and finance leases The fair values of such balances are estimated by discounting the future cash flows at the market rate.
Trade receivables, trade payables and cash and cash equivalents Trade payables and receivables have a remaining life of less than one year so their value recorded in the statement of financial position is considered to be a fair approximation of fair value.
The contingent value notes are fair valued at each reporting period.
34 Operating leases Total non-cancellable operating lease rentals are due in the following periods: 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 Vehicles, plant Vehicles, plant Property and equipment Property and equipment m m m m Within one year 1.7 0.7 Between two and five years 5.3 1.3 Greater than five years 1.1 8.1 2.0 Operating lease payments represent rentals payable for certain of its office properties, vehicles, plant and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The Group leases a number of offices and facilities in the UK, the US, Germany, and Australia.
These leases have terms of up to eight years.
The leases contain options to extend for further periods.
In the event of renewal, the lease contracts contain market review clauses.
None of the property leases provide the Group with an option to purchase the leased asset at the expiry of the lease period.
The Group has entered into sub-leasing agreements with third-parties for space in some of its UK and US offices.
Rental of 0.3m was receivable under these agreements in the year ended 31 March 2011 2010: 0.3m.
No minimum future lease payments will be received over the respective terms of the sub-leases 2010: 0.2m.
122 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials 35 Other financial commitments The Group has entered into agreements with a number of early-stage companies and venture capital funds.
At 31 March 2011 the Group is committed to invest 0.4m under these agreements 2010: 0.7m.
As with any business whose core assets are intellectual property, the Group will from time-to-time resort to litigation or threats of litigation, or other legal processes, to defend its rights.
Litigation costs are regarded as a cost of doing business and will vary from year-to-year.
In the current year the Group incurred 4.0m in litigation costs 2010: 1.4m.
The Company has entered into an agreement to guarantee payments under the lease of a US subsidiary undertaking.
The Company has provided a guarantee to certain subsidiary undertakings in respect of the BTG Pension Fund to make payments to the Fund up to a maximum amount equal to the lowest non-negative amount which, when added to the assets of the Fund would result in the Fund being at least 105% funded on the date on which any liability arose, calculated on the basis set out in section 179 of the Pensions Act 2004, were a valuation to be conducted at that date.
36 Related parties Identity of related parties The Group has a related-party relationship with its subsidiary undertakings see note 2 b, its associates see note 2 b and its directors.
During the year the Group invested a further 0.5m in its investments see note 20.
No dividends were received from associates in the years ended 31 March 2011 or 2010.
In relation to the related-party relationship identified on page 49 concerning Giles Kerr, payments made by BTG to Oxford University and Isis Innovations Ltd under the relevant licence agreements were 1.8m during the year ended 31 March 2011.
There were no amounts still outstanding and payable by BTG under these agreements as at 31 March 2011.
In relation to the related-party relationship identified on page 49 concerning Melanie Lee, payments made by BTG to Cancer Research Technology Ltd under the relevant licence agreements were 0.1m during the year ended 31 March 2011.
Dr Peter Geigle, although not considered key management personnel, is a director of CellMed AG.
Dr. Geigle is also an executive board member of Geigle Verwaltungs GmbH, a company that leases the premises to CellMed AG.
The rental cost for the two months since acquisition was 0.1m.
This arrangement is on an arms-length basis at a commercial rate.
There were no amounts outstanding as at 31 March 2011 under this agreement.
123 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 37 Group entities The significant subsidiary undertakings of BTG plc at 31 March 2011 are all wholly owned, incorporated in the UK and registered in England and Wales, unless shown otherwise.
All subsidiary undertakings operate in their country of incorporation and are consolidated in the Groups financial statements.
Class of capital Principal activity BTG International Holdings Ltd Ordinary Investment in IPR management companies Provensis Ltd Ordinary Development and commercialisation of IPR BTG International Ltd Ordinary Development, management and commercialisation of IPR BTG Employee Share Schemes Ltd Ordinary Trustee company Guernsey BTG Investment Holdings Ltd Ordinary Investment in IPR management companies BTG International Inc. Common stock Development, management and Delaware US and paid in capital commercialisation of IPR British Technology Group Ordinary Development, management and Inter-Corporate Licensing Ltd commercialisation of IPR BTG Management Services Ltd Ordinary Investment and management formerly Protherics Limited of group companies Protherics Medicines Development Limited Ordinary Development, management and commercialisation of IPR Protherics Inc. Common stock Research, development, manufacture and sale Delaware US of pharmaceutical products and potential drugs Enact Pharma Limited Ordinary Development, management and commercialisation of IPR Protherics UK Limited Ordinary Research, development, manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical products and potential drugs BTG Australasia Pty Limited Ordinary Manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical products formerly Protherics Australasia Pty Limited and potential drugs Australia Protherics Utah Inc. Common stock Research, development, manufacture and sale Tennessee US of pharmaceutical products and potential drugs Protherics Salt Lake City Inc. Common stock Development, management and Utah US commercialisation of IPR Biocompatibles International Limited Ordinary Investment and management of group companies Biocompatibles UK Limited Ordinary Commercialisation of Bead products Biopolymerix Inc. Common stock Research and development Delaware US Biocompatibles Inc. Common stock Commercialisation of Brachytherapy products Delaware US CellMed AG No par value shares Research and development Germany Indicates direct subsidiary of BTG plc.
British Technology Group Inter-Corporate Licensing Ltd incorporates a US branch.
124 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials 38 Acquisition of business operations On 27 January 2011, the Company acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Biocompatibles International plc subsequently re-registered as Biocompatibles International Limited, a listed UK Group.
Biocompatibles International Limited is the parent company of the Biocompatibles Group, a leading international medical technology company in the field of drug device combination products.
The acquisition provides an excellent opportunity to combine Biocompatibles fast growing specialist products with BTGs existing commercial infrastructure.
The enhanced resources of the enlarged Group will allow accelerated investment in Biocompatibles products and development pipeline.
This transaction has been accounted for by the purchase method of accounting.
The acquisition was settled by the issuance of 68,723,244 new BTG plc ordinary share of 10 pence each plus either 10 pence in cash for each Biocompatibles share or a contingent value note.
Equity settled consideration The fair value of equity settled consideration was 167.7m, based on the share price of 2.44 in existence at the time of the acquisition.
Cash consideration Shareholders owning 30,349,200 Biocompatibles shares 73.9% of all Biocompatibles shares acquired opted to receive 10 pence in cash per share, resulting in a cash payment of 3.0m.
Contingent value vote CVN As an alternative to 10 pence cash consideration, Biocompatibles shareholders could elect to receive an entitlement to a contingent right to payment of the Sterling equivalent of 0.56 per Biocompatibles share in cash by participating in the value that may potentially be achieved from part of Biocompatibles programme to develop the GLP-1 Compound which it has partnered with AstraZeneca.
Shareholders owning 10,722,465 Biocompatibles shares 26.1% of all Biocompatibles shares acquired opted to receive the CVN.
The CVN will be paid in full if, prior to 31 December 2012, either: AstraZeneca exercises an option to license the GLP-1 compound on agreed terms: or BTG, otherwise than on the agreed terms of the option, enters into any other licence, sale or other disposal or other arrangement with similar effect with AstraZeneca with respect to the rights of the GLP-1 compound The liability will be paid in full or not at all.
The fair value of each CVN has been assessed at acquisition date as being 10 pence per Biocompatibles share, based on probability adjusted net present value calculations of AstraZeneca exercising its option to license the GLP-1 compound.
This fair value is also supported by the alternative offer to shareholders of 10 pence in cash.
The fair value of the CVN is shown in note 25 to the accounts at 1.1m.
Subsequent to the year end the Company received notification from AstraZeneca of its termination of the option agreement note 39.
The carrying value of the CVN will be adjusted during the financial year ended 31 March 2012.
125 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 38 Acquisition of business operations continued Net assets acquired Details of the net assets acquired arising from the acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc are set out in the table below: Fair value Book value adjustment Fair value m m m Non-current assets: Intangible assets 9.5 127.3 136.8 Goodwill 2.8 2.8 Property, plant & equipment 4.6 4.6 Current assets: Inventories 0.9 3.8 4.7 Trade and other receivables 6.0 6.0 Cash and cash equivalents 17.4 17.4 Held to maturity financial assets 10.2 10.2 Current liabilities: Trade and other payables 3.7 3.7 Deferred income 9.3 0.3 9.0 Non-current liabilities: Trade and other payables 0.9 0.9 Borrowings 2.8 2.8 Deferred tax liabilities 1.1 19.3 20.4 Total assets acquired 33.6 109.3 142.9 Goodwill 28.9 Total consideration 171.8 Settled by equity 167.7 Contingent consideration 1.1 Cash paid 3.0 Cash and cash equivalents included in undertaking acquired 17.4 Cash consideration paid 3.0 Net cash inflow per cash flow statement 14.4 Directly attributable costs settled 3.6 Net cash inflow arising on acquisition 10.8 T otal costs relating to the acquisition were 4.1m, of which 3.6m had been paid by 31 March 2011.
The remainder was settled in April 2011.
Of the total costs of 4.1m, 3.0m have been included in Acquisition and reorganisation costs in the consolidated income statement note 7 and 1.1m have been debited to merger reserve note 24.
The goodwill arising on acquisition resulted from assets which could not be recognised separately including early-stage pipeline products and a highly skilled workforce.
The fair value adjustments are considered final.
The main elements of the significant fair value adjustments are described below: Intangible assets in respect of the marketed products, in-process research and development and contractual relationships in accordance with IFRS3 Revised Business Combinations: Revaluation of inventory reflecting profit accrued up to the stage of production at the time of the transaction: and Deferred tax liabilities in relation to the acquired intangible assets over and above 21.2m of deferred tax assets in recognition of acquired accumulated tax losses.
126 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials 38 Acquisition of business operations continued Profit forecast The following profit forecast statement was made in the acquisition Prospectus: The BTG Directors and the Biocompatibles Directors are of the view that Biocompatibles will achieve adjusted operating profit for the year ending 31 December 2010 of not less than 2.0 million.
In accordance with Listing Rule 9.2.
18 the Company can confirm that the actual adjusted operating profit achieved by Biocompatibles for the year ending 31 December 2010 was 2.2m.
Revenue and profit impact of the acquisition As disclosed in the consolidated income statement, the Biocompatibles Group contributed revenue of 6.0m and operating profit of 0.7m in the period since acquisition.
If the acquisition had taken place on 1 April 2010, the first day of the reporting period under review, revenue and profit after tax of the combined entity would have been 139.3m and 11.8m respectively.
39 Post balance sheet event On 13 May 2011 the Group announced that they had been informed by AstraZeneca that AstraZeneca had terminated the development and option agreement relating to CM-3, a GLP-1 analogue being developed by BTGs CellMed subsidiary for use in type 2 diabetes and other indications.
As part of BTGs acquisition of Biocompatibles in January 2011, 487 Biocompatibles shareholders elected to receive in aggregate 10,722,465 contingent value notes CVNs providing a right to a payment of the Sterling equivalent of 0.56 per Biocompatibles share if AstraZeneca exercised its option to enter a licence agreement relating to CM-3 on the pre-agreed terms.
As a result of AstraZenecas decision to terminate the development and option agreement, it is highly unlikely that any payment will be made in relation to the CVNs.
The payment obligation would only now arise if BTG enters into another form of licence, sale or other disposal of the GLP-1 asset to AstraZeneca prior to 31 December 2012.
In light of AstraZenecas decision to terminate the development and option agreement, the BTG Board does not believe that there is any realistic possibility that this will occur.
At 31 March 2011 the carrying value of the intangible asset associated with the GLP-1 asset was 8.8m.
In addition, the Group had recognised a liability of 1.1m in relation to the CVNs.
Accordingly, in its consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 March 2012, the Group will recognise an impairment charge of 8.8m and will derecognise the 1.1m liability in respect of the CVNs.
127 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials
