Cautionary statement This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to BTGs business, performance and prospects.
Statements and other information included in this report that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements.
Words such as expects, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, seeks, estimates and potential, variations of these words and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current expectations and involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend upon circumstances which may or may not occur in the future.
There are a number of factors which could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
Current principal risks and uncertainties are described on pages 25 to 29 of this report.
Any of the assumptions underlying these forward-looking statements could prove inaccurate or incorrect and therefore any results contemplated in the forward-looking statements may not actually be achieved.
BTG undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
140 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 01 We are 02 Expanding 04 Developing 06 Partnering 08 Delivering Business review 10 Report from the directors on 12 Group highlights the key strategic, financial and 14 Chairmans statement operational developments 16 Chief Executive Officers review during the year.
20 Business review 25 Principal risks and uncertainties 30 Corporate responsibility report Directors and governance 36 The report from the directors, 38 Board of directors our governance and 40 Directors report remuneration reports.
44 Corporate governance 52 Audit Committee report 56 Nomination Committee report 57 Remuneration report 69 Statement of directors responsibilities 70 I ndependent auditors report to the members of BTG plc Financials 72 The financial statements 74 Consolidated income statement and accompanying notes.
75 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 76 Consolidated statement of financial position 77 Consolidated statement of cash flows 78 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 79 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 128 Company statement of financial position 129 Company statement of cash flows 130 Company statement of changes in equity 131 Notes to the company financial statements 135 Appendix 1: Unaudited pro-forma consolidated income statement Printed in the UK using soya-based inks and water sealants: the paper 136 Five-year financial record manufacturing mill is accredited with 138 Shareholder information ISO 14001 Environmental Management 140 Cautionary statement systems and is Forest Stewardship Council certified.
Designed and produced by Bostock and Pollitt Limited, London Printed by Quadracolor BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Because people depend on us
