Directors and governance Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Statement of directors responsibilities directors are also responsible for preparing in respect of the Annual Report and the a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration financial statements Report and Corporate Governance The directors are responsible for preparing Statement that complies with that law and the Annual Report and Accounts and the those regulations.
Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable The directors are responsible for the law and regulations.
maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company law requires the directors to Companys website.
Legislation in the UK prepare Group and Parent Company financial governing the preparation and dissemination statements for each financial year.
Under of financial statements may differ from that law they are required to prepare the legislation in other jurisdictions.
Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and Directors responsibility statement applicable law and have elected to prepare pursuant to DTR4 the Parent Company financial statements We confirm that to the best of our on the same basis.
knowledge: The financial statements, prepared in Under company law the directors must not accordance with the applicable set of approve the financial statements unless they accounting standards, give a true and fair are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial view of the state of affairs of the Group and position and profit or loss of the Company Parent Company and of their profit or loss for and the undertakings included in the that period.
In preparing each of the Group consolidation taken as a whole: and and Parent Company financial statements, The directors report includes a fair review the directors are required to: of the development and performance Select suitable accounting policies and of the business and the position of the then apply them consistently: issuer and the undertakings included Make judgements and estimates that in the consolidation taken as a whole, are reasonable and prudent: together with a description of the State whether they have been prepared principal risks and uncertainties that in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by they face.
the EU: and Prepare the financial statements on By order of the Board the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group Dr Louise Makin Rolf Soderstrom and the Parent Company will continue in Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer business.
24 May 2011 69 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors and governance
