Financial Statements 121 Notes to the Parent Company FinancialStatements 1.
General information, statement of compliance and basis of preparation Bumiplc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom under the CompaniesAct 2006 and is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Companys registered address is 2nd Floor, 4 Grosvenor Place, London SW1X 7HJ.
The Companys registered number is 7460129.
The financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee Interpretations IFRICs as adopted by the European Union.
They also comply with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRSs.
The financial statements are presented in US dollars, rounded to the nearest million.
They are prepared under the historic cost convention, as modied by financial assets and liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out in note 2.
Accounting policies The Company is the ultimate parent entity of the Group.
The Companys financial statements are included in Bumiplcs consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011.
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act, the Company has not presented its own income statement or statement of comprehensive income.
The Companys profit for the period was $30m.
The accounting policies applied in the preparation of these Company financial statements are, where relevant, the same as those set out in note 2 to the Group financial statements with the addition of the following: Investments Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less provision for impairment.
Investment in subsidiary 2011 $m At incorporation Additions 4,079 At 31 December 4,079 The Companys sole investment is in Vallar Ltd formerly Vallar plc, which is a 100% owned subsidiary incorporated in Jersey and is an intermediate group holding company.
Details of indirectly held subsidiaries and the associate are disclosed in note 31 of the Group financial statements.
Financial risk management The Companys sole significant risk is liquidity risk, relying on intercompany funding.
This is managed through effective cash ow forecasting.
Bumi plc | Financial Statements 122 Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Parent Company FinancialStatements continued 5.
Share capital and share premium Number Ordinary Share of shares shares premium 000s $m $m At incorporation Issue of ordinary shares 240,957 4141 At 31 December 2011 240,957 4141 The ordinary shares have a par value of 0.01 per share.
All issued shares are fully paid.
All shares have the same rights.
A further 50,000 of Deferred Redeemable Shares of 1.00 were issued on 28 February 2011.
For further details please refer to note 25 of the Group financial statements.
Related party transactions Subsidiaries The Company transacts and has outstanding balances with its subsidiaries.
Amounts due to subsidiaries are disclosed on the face of the Company balance sheet.
These amounts are repayable on demand and are non-interest bearing.
Key management personnel Key management personnel are deemed to be the members of the Board of Directors of the Company.
It is this Board which has responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Company.
Key management personnel compensation is disclosed in the Remuneration Report of the Group.
There were no other material related party transactions.
Financial Statements 123 Other Information Other Information 126 Shareholder Information 125
