Financial Statements 79 Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
Denition When reference is made to the Top Company in these financial statements, it means Vallar Ltd formerly Vallar plc up until 27 June 2011 and Bumiplc from 28 June 2011.
When reference is made to the Group in these financial statements, it means Vallar Ltd formerly Vallar plc and its subsidiaries to 27 June 2011 and Bumiplc and its subsidiaries from 28 June 2011.
When reference is made to the Company in these financial statements it means Bumiplc.
Bumiplc is the ultimate parent company of the Bumiplc group of companies Bumi.
It is incorporated, domiciled and registered in England and Wales as a public company limited by shares.
The ordinary shares of the Company are traded on the London Stock Exchange and its registered office is 2nd Floor, 4 Grosvenor Place, London SW1X 7HJ.
Bumiis the new holding company of the Vallar Ltd formerly Vallar plc group of companies.
The main subsidiary PTBerau Coal Energy Tbk PTBerau is a coal mining group of companies listed on the Indonesia Stock Exchange.
The Company also holds an investment in an associate, PTBumi Resources Tbk PTBumi, which is also listed on the Indonesia Stock Exchange and is also engaged in coal mining operations and exploration and development of mineral mining concessions.
Scheme of arrangement On 10 March 2011, Vallar Ltd formerly Vallar plc announced its intention to put in place a new parent company for the Group, Bumi, being a company incorporated in England and Wales that is tax resident in the United Kingdom.
The introduction of the new holding company was implemented by means of a scheme of arrangement under Article 125 of the Companies Jersey Law the Scheme.
The Scheme became effective on 28 June 2011.
Upon implementation of the Scheme, Bumihad the same proportionate interest in the profits, net assets and dividends of PTBerau and PTBumi and their respective subsidiaries as Vallar Ltd formerly Vallar plc had prior to the effective date of the Scheme.
The Scheme falls outside the scope of IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
Accordingly, following the guidance regarding the selection of an appropriate accounting policy provided by IAS 8 Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors, the Scheme has been accounted for using the principles of merger accounting.
With merger accounting, the carrying values of the assets and liabilities of the parties to the combination are not required to be adjusted to fair value on consolidation and the difference between the carrying values and nominal value of shares issued is recorded in a merger reserve.
Principal accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation a Statement of compliance These consolidated financial statements of Bumihave been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and International Financial Reporting Standards Interpretations Committee Interpretations IFRICs as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modied by the revaluation of financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed in note 3.
These consolidated financial statements are presented in millions of US dollars $ except where otherwise indicated in the auditors remuneration and related party transactions notes.
Bumi plc | Financial Statements 80 Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2.
Principal accounting policies continued b Comparative numbers In accordance with the requirements of merger accounting, the comparative information in these consolidated financial statements has been extracted from the Vallar Ltd formerly Vallar plc consolidated financial statements for the nine months ended 31 December 2010 and translated to US dollars.
Those financial statements incorporated the results of Vallar Ltd formerly Vallar plc and its subsidiary undertakings for the period thenended.
c Going concern The Directors have, at the time of approving these consolidated financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus, the Group continues to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing these consolidated financial statements.
New accounting standards The Group applied all applicable standards and interpretations published by the IASB and as endorsed by the European Union for the year beginning 1 January 2011.
The Group did not early adopt any standard or interpretation published by the IASB and endorsed by the European Union for which the mandatory application date is after 1 January 2011.
The following new standards, interpretations and amendments to standards and interpretations have been issued, subject to EU endorsement, but are not effective for the financial year beginning 1 January 2011 and have not been early adopted by the Group: Effective date for periods beginning on or after Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income 1 July 2012 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2015 IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements 1 January 2013 IAS 27 Revised 2011 Separate financial statements 1 January 2013 IFRS 11 Joint arrangements 1 January 2013 IAS 28 Revised 2011 Investments in associates and joint ventures 1 January 2013 IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities 1 January 2012 IFRS 13 Fair value measurement 1 January 2013 IFRIC Interpretation 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine 1 January 2013 The impact on the Groups financial statements of the future standards, amendments and interpretations is still under review, but the Group does not currently expect any of these changes to have a material impact on the results or net assets of the Company or the Group with the exception of IFRIC Interpretation 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine.
This interpretation considers when and how to account separately for benets arising from the production stage stripping activity, as well as how to measure these benets both initially and subsequently.
The interpretation, also addresses the recognition of production stripping costs as an asset, initial measurement of the stripping activity asset and subsequent measurement of the stripping activity asset.
The full impact is still being assessed by the Group.
Consolidation The consolidated financial information consists of the consolidation of the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries.
a Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
All intragroup transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
b Associates An associate is an entity in which the Group has an equity interest and over which it has the ability to exercise significant inuence.
Under the equity method, investments in associates are carried at cost plus post acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
The income statement reects the Groups share of the results of the associate, which is net of interest and taxation and presents this as a single line item in arriving at Group profit before finance items and income tax on the face of the income statement.
The Groups share of post acquisition movements in other comprehensive income is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
c Transactions with non-controlling interests The Group treats transactions with non-controlling interests as transactions with equity owners of the Group.
For purchases from non-controlling interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
d Transactions between entities under common control Business combinations involving entities under common control are accounted for as if the acquisition had occurred at the beginning of the earliest comparative year presented or at the date that common control was established, if later.
The assets and liabilities acquired are recognised at the carrying amounts recognised previously in the Groups controlling shareholders financial statements.
Any differences on consolidation are recognised directly in equity.
2.4. Business combinations and goodwill The Group uses the purchase method of accounting to account for business combinations in accordance with IFRS 3 revised.
The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group.
The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement.
Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
Identiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
The Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the Groups share of the identiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If this is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired in the case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly in the incomestatement.
Bumi plc | Financial Statements 82 Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2.
Foreign currency translation a Change in functional currency With the proposed acquisition of PTBerau and PTBumi agreed in November 2010, the Directors concluded that the most appropriate functional currency of Vallar Ltd formerly Vallar plc is US dollars.
This reected the fact that the majority of Vallar plc business became inuenced by pricing in international commodity markets, with a US dollar economic environment.
The previous functional currency of Vallar plc was the British pound.
On the date of the change of functional currency, from 1 January 2011, all assets, liabilities, issued capital and other components of equity and income statement items were translated into USdollars at the prevailing exchange rate.
As a result of the change in functional currency, the Companys functional and presentation currency are now the same.
Comparative amounts have been re-presented.
b Presentation currency The Groups financial statements are presented in millions of US dollars $ in line with its functional currency.
c Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions or valuation where items are remeasured.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at period end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
Revenue recognition Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable from the sale of goods coal in the ordinary course of the Groups activities.
Revenue is shown net of applicable sales taxes, returns, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group.
Under the terms of PTBeraus Coal Contract of Work CCoW, the Government of Indonesia the Government is entitled to 13.5% of the coal production of PTBerau.
Rather than deliver coal to the Government, as agreed PTBerau markets and sells the Governments coal entitlement and pays the Government the cash proceeds less certain charges.
Revenue in the income statement includes the proceeds of the sales of the Governments entitlement as the Group suffers the credit risk associated with these sales.
The Governments entitlement is recognised as a royalty expense as part of the cost of sales.
Sales revenue is only recognised on individual sales when persuasive evidence exists that all of the following criteria are met: the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the product have been transferred to the buyer: neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership, nor effective control over the goods sold, has been retained: the amount of revenue can be measured reliably: it is probable that the economic benets associated with the sale will ow to the Group: and the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the sale can be measured reliably.
These conditions are satisfied when title passes to the customer.
In most instances sales revenue is recognised when the product is delivered to the destination specified by the customer, which is the vessel on which it will be shipped, the destination port or the customers premises.
The sale prices are based on the Newcastle Free on Board FOB benchmark with relevant adjustment for caloric value, moisture, ash and sulphur content and other factors.
Occasionally, products are provisionally priced.
When the price adjustment for a particular year has not been agreed with the customer at the time a delivery is to be made, the Group will continue to invoice coal at the prior years price and adjust the price after reaching an agreement with the customer.
When this occurs, the Group records the sales revenue on a prevailing market price for the coal and adjusts the sales revenue amount when a price agreement is reached with the customer.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure and assets Exploration and evaluation activity involves the search for coal and mineral resources, the determination of technical feasibility and the assessment of commercial viability of an identied resource.
Exploration and evaluation activity includes: Gathering exploration data through topographical, geochemical and geophysical studies Exploratory drilling, trenching and sampling Determining and examining the volume and grade of the resource Surveying transportation and infrastructure requirements Administration costs that are not directly attributable to a specic exploration area are charged to the income statement.
Licence costs paid in connection with a right to explore in an existing exploration area are capitalised and amortised over the term of the permit.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure is charged to the income statement as incurred except in the following circumstances, in which case the expenditure is capitalised.
In respect of coal and mineral activities: the acquisition of a concession or licence area of interest at the exploration and evaluation stage from a thirdparty, which is measured at fair value on acquisition: otherwise when the existence of a commercially viable mineral deposit has been established.
Capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is not depreciated as the asset is not available for use, but is monitored for indications of impairment.
Where a potential impairment is indicated, an assessment is performed for each area of interest in conjunction with the group of operating assets representing a cash generating unit to which the exploration is attributed.
To the extent that capitalised expenditure is not expected to be recovered it is charged to the income statement.
Cash ows associated with capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure are classied as investing activities in the consolidated statement of cash ows, and exploration and evaluation expenditure related cash ows that are expensed are classied as operating cash ows.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation.
The cost of property, plant and equipment comprises the purchase price, any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management and the estimated costs of decommissioning the assets and site rehabilitation costs to the extent that they relate to the asset and are the responsibility of the Group.
The cost of an item of property, plant and equipment is capitalised into its various components where the useful life of the components differ from the main item of property, plant and equipment to which the component can be logically assigned.
Expenditure incurred to replace or modify a significant component of property, plant and equipment is capitalised and any remaining carrying value of the component replaced is written off as an expense in the income statement.
Subsequent expenditure on property, plant and equipment is only capitalised when the expenditure enhances the value or output of the asset beyond original expectations and it can be measured reliably.
Costs incurred on repairing and maintaining assets are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Gains and losses on the disposal of property, plant and equipment, which are represented by the proceeds on disposal of such assets less their carrying values at that date, are recognised in the income statement.
Bumi plc | Financial Statements 84 Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2.
Principal accounting policies continued When proven reserves are determined and development is sanctioned, capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is reclassied as mining properties, and is disclosed as a component of property, plant and equipment.
All subsequent development expenditure relating to the construction of infrastructure required to operate the mine is capitalised and classied as assets under construction.
Development expenditure is net of proceeds from the sale of ore extracted during the development phase.
On completion of the development phase, all assets included in assets under construction are reclassied as either plant and equipment or miningproperties.
Mining properties includes assets in production and in development assets transferred from exploration and evaluation expenditure, deferred stripping performed in the development of the mine, and the fair value of mineral resources acquired through business combinations.
Mining properties in development and acquired mineral resources are not depreciated until production commences.
Property, plant and equipment, including mining properties, are depreciated over their useful lives, the lease term, or the term of the CCoW, whichever is shorter.
Depreciation commences when an asset is available for use.
The major categories of property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a straight line basis, except for the mining properties in production, which are depreciated on a units of production UoP basis as follows: Category Estimated Useful Life Land and buildings 20 years Plant and equipment 3 to 30 years Furniture, xtures and ofce equipment 3 to 8 years Assets under construction not depreciated Mining properties over CCoW on a UoP basis Residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Changes to the estimated residual values or useful lives are accounted for prospectively.
Costs associated with commissioning new assets, in the period before they are capable of operating in the manner intended by management, are capitalised.
Development costs incurred after the commencement of production are capitalised to the extent they are expected to give rise to a future economic benefit.
Interest on borrowings related to construction or development projects is capitalised until the point when substantially all the activities that are necessary to make the asset ready for its intended use are complete.
Deferred stripping It is necessary to remove overburden and other waste materials to open the mining area before production commences.
The process of removing overburden and waste materials is referred to as stripping.
Where a mine operates several open pits that are regarded as separate operations for the purpose of mine planning, stripping costs are accounted for separately by reference to the ore from each separate pit.
If, however, the pits are highly integrated for the purpose of mine planning, the second and subsequent pits are regarded as extensions of the first pit in accounting for stripping costs.
In such cases, the initial stripping i. e. overburden and other waste removal of the second and subsequent pits is considered to be production phase stripping relating to the combined operation.
The Groups determination of whether multiple pit mines are considered separate or integrated operations depends on each mines specic circumstances.
In the development stage of a mine, before production commences, stripping costs are capitalised as part of mining properties and amortised on a UoP basis over the life of the mine.
This includes any advance payments to contractors, where mining activities are outsourced, to compensate for the relatively high cost of overburden removal, which arises in the early stages of a mines life.
Stripping costs incurred in the production phase are deferred to the extent that the actual stripping ratio in the period exceeds the life of mine stripping ratio.
These deferred costs are then released to the income statement as production costs, in those periods where the actual stripping ratio is less than the life of mine stripping ratio.
Financial Statements 85 The life of mine stripping ratio is calculated as the total expected amount of overburden to be removed over the life of the mine, divided by the total expected amount of coal to be mined over the life of the mine.
The life of mine stripping ratio is reviewed regularly and, where necessary, amended to reect changes in the economically mineable coal reserves, and a more detailed understanding of the overburden to be removed.
The accounting effects of changes to the life of mine stripping ratio are applied prospectively.
Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life such as goodwill or intangible assets not ready for use are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identiable cash ows cash generating units.
Non-financial assets other than goodwill that suffered impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
Financial instruments Financial assets The Group classies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables or as available for sale.
The classication depends on the nature and purpose for which the financial instruments were acquired.
Management determines the classication of its financial instruments at initial recognition.
The designation of financial instruments is re-evaluated at every reporting date.
a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Derivatives are included in this category unless they are designated as hedges.
The Group does not designate any other financial assets as fair value through profit or loss.
Assets in this category are classied based on their maturity.
The Group does not acquire financial assets for the purpose of selling in the short term.
Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value.
Gains and losses on initial recognition resulting from fair values that do not include any observable market conditions for the same instrument are deferred and recognised in the income statement in full on completion.
b Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are classied as current assets or non-current assets based on their maturity date.
Loans and receivables comprise cash and cash equivalents and trade and other receivables excluding prepayments in the balance sheet.
Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost less any impairment.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, deposits held at call with banks, and other short term highly liquid investments.
Cash equivalents are short term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash, generally have an original maturity of 90 days or less and are subject to an insignicant risk of adverse changes in value.
However, certain deposits of greater duration can be classied as cash equivalents if the funds can be withdrawn at short notice with an insignicant risk of adverse changes in value.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method, reduced by any provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due.
Indicators of impairment would include significant financial difficulties of the debtor, likelihood of the debtors insolvency, default in payment or a significant deterioration in credit worthiness.
Any impairment is recognised in the income statement.
When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited to the income statement.
Included in this account are the trade receivables which pertain to amounts due from customers for coal sold in the ordinary course of business.
Bumi plc | Financial Statements 86 Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2.
Principal accounting policies continued c Available for sale financial assets Available for sale financial assets include the Groups investments in non-consolidated companies and equity or debt instruments that do not satisfy the criteria for classication in another category.
These items are measured at fair value on initial recognition plus transaction costs.
At each balance sheet date, available for sale financial assets are measured at fair value.
For listed companies, fair value is determined based on the quoted market price at the balance sheet date.
For unlisted companies, fair value is measured based on standard valuation techniques such as discounted future cash ows.
Changes in fair value are recorded directly in other comprehensive income, except when the decline in the value of the investment below its historical acquisition cost is judged significant or prolonged enough to require an impairment.
In this case, the loss is recognised in the income statement under impairment charges.
Only impairment losses recognised on debt investments may be reversed through the income statement.
Interest on available for sale financial assets is calculated using the effective interest method recognised in the income statement.
Dividends on available for sale financial assets are recognised in the income statement as part of finance income when the Groups right to receive payment is established.
When financial assets classied as available for sale are sold, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in equity are included in the income statement.
Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are classied as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss or at amortised cost, as appropriate.
Financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and, in the case of financial liabilities at amortised cost, inclusive of directly attributable transaction costs.
The subsequent measurement of financial liabilities depends on their classication as follows: a Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include mainly derivative liabilities unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments.
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are stated at fair value, with changes in fair value during a reporting period immediately recognised in the income statement.
b Financial liabilities at amortised cost After initial recognition, trade and other payables, interest bearing loans, notes and borrowings are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method taking into account principal repayments or reductions.
The calculation also takes into account any premium or discount paid or received either on acquisition or on redemption.
It also includes transaction costs and fees that are an integral part of the effective interest rate.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised.
Included in this category are trade and other payables and borrowings.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers.
Trade and other payables are classied as current liabilities if payment is due within one year otherwise they are presented as non-current liabilities.
Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently carried at amortised cost, any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowing using the effective interest method.
Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are recognised as transaction costs of the loan to the extent it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down.
In this case, the fee is deferred until the draw down occurs.
To the extent there is no evidence that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee is capitalised as a pre payment for liquidity services and amortised over the period of the facility to which it relates.
Financial Statements 87 c Derecognition of financial liabilities The Group derecognise financial liabilities when, and only when, the Groups obligations are discharged, transferred, cancelled or expired.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value, primarily on a weighted average cost basis.
Cost of coal inventories is determined by a twelve month rolling weighted average of historical production costs, while cost of spare parts inventories are valued at cost, determined on a moving average basis.
Stores and consumable supplies are charged to production in the period they are used.
Allowance for inventory obsolescence is provided to reduce the carrying values of inventories to their net realisable value based on the review of the status of the inventories at the end of the period.
Leases The Group leases certain property, plant and equipment.
Leases of property, plant and equipment, where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, are classied as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the commencement of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
All other leases are classied as operating leases.
Payments under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
For finance leases, each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in other long term payables.
The interest element of the finance cost is charged to the income statement over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
Property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when i the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events: ii it is probable that an outow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and iii the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre tax rate that reects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specic to the obligation.
The increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as interest expense.
a Environmental rehabilitation provision The Group has an obligation to undertake restoration, rehabilitation and environmental work when environmental disturbance is caused by the development or ongoing production of a mining property.
It is anticipated that these costs will be incurred over a period in excess of 20 years.
Rehabilitation costs are a normal consequence of mining, and are provided for as and when a legal or constructive obligation to incur costs associated with rehabilitation arises.
The environmental rehabilitation provision consists of costs associated with continuous mine reclamation during mine operations.
Long term environmental rehabilitation provisions are measured based on the net present value of the estimated future costs.
Although the ultimate cost to be incurred is uncertain, the Groups businesses estimate their respective costs based on feasibility and engineering studies using current restoration standards and techniques, taking into account the Groups environmental policy and current Indonesian environmental and regulatory requirements, including the requirements of the CCoW.
The unwinding of the discount applied in establishing the net present value of provisions is charged to the income statement in each accounting period as a nancing cost.
Bumi plc | Financial Statements 88 Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2.
Principal accounting policies continued b Mine closure provisions Mine closure provisions, which include decommissioning, demobilisation and other closure activities, are recognised when the economic life of the mine ends within the period of the existing life of the CCoW because they relate to the facilities which are in use over the life of the mine.
The initial mine closure provision together with other movements in the provisions for environmental costs, including those resulting from new disturbance, updated cost estimates, changes to the estimated lives of operations and revisions to discount rates are capitalised in mining properties, within property, plant and equipment.
These costs are then depreciated over the useful life of the assets to which they relate on a UoP basis.
Taxation The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where the Group and its subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Deferred income tax is recognised, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial information.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, associates and assets arising on consideration except for deferred income tax liabilities where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is provided in respect of fair value adjustments on acquisitions.
These adjustments may relate to assets such as mining rights or resources that, in general, are not eligible for income tax allowances.
In such cases, the provision for deferred tax is based on the difference between the carrying value of the asset and its nil income tax base.
The existence of a tax base for capital gains tax purposes is not taken into account in determining the deferred tax provision relating to such mining rights or resources because it is expected that the carrying amount will be recovered primarily through use and not from disposal.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Ordinary shares Ordinary shares are classied as equity.
Where any group company purchases the Companys ordinary shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys owners until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
Merger Reserve Upon implementation of the Scheme, the Groups ordinary shares have been re-presented as that of Bumiplc, with a nominal value of 6.
The difference between Vallar Ltds formerly Vallar plc net assets and the nominal value of the shares in issue is recorded in the merger reserve.
In addition, certain consolidation adjustments are also recorded in the merger reserve.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the use of critical estimates and assumptions to determine the value of assets and liabilities, and contingent assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date, and revenues and expenses reported during the period.
Due to uncertainties inherent in the estimation process, the Group regularly revises its estimates in light of currently available information.
Final outcomes could differ from those estimates.
The main estimates used in preparing the Groups consolidated financial information are presented below.
Determination of coal reserve estimates The Group reports its coal reserves in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves, December 2004 the JORC Code, prepared and published by The Joint Ore Reserves Committee of The Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy, Australian Institute of Geoscientists and Minerals Council of Australia.
The term coal reserve is dened in the JORC Code as the economically mineable part of a measured and or indicated coal resource.
Coal reserves are subdivided in order of increasing confidence into probable coal reserves and proved coal reserves.
Under the JORC Code, the term coal resource refers to a concentration or occurrence of coal of intrinsic economic interest in or on the Earths crust in such form and quantity that there are reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction.
The location, quantity, grade, geological characteristics and continuity of a coal resource are known, estimated or interpreted from specic geological evidence and knowledge.
Coal resources are subdivided, in order of increasing geological confidence, into inferred, indicated and measured categories.
Reserves determined in this way are used in the calculation of depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges, the assessment of life of mine stripping ratios and in forecasting the timing of the payment of close down and restoration costs and clean up costs.
In assessing the life of a mine for accounting purposes, mineral resources are only taken into account where there is a high degree of confidence for economic extraction.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating coal reserves, and assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation may change signicantly when new information becomes available.
Changes in the forecast prices of commodities, exchange rates, production costs or recovery rates may change the economic status of reserves and may, ultimately, result in the reserves being restated.
Recoverable amount of property, plant and equipment and goodwill The recoverable amount of goodwill and property, plant and equipment is based on estimates and assumptions regarding, in particular, the expected market outlook and future cash ows associated with the assets.
Predicted future cash ows include estimates of future costs to produce proven and probable reserves, future commodity prices, foreign exchange rates and discount rates.
Any changes in these assumptions may have a material impact on the measurement of the recoverable amount and could result in an impairment.
Denition of underlying earnings and underlying earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation underlying EBITDA The Group presents underlying earnings and underlying EBITDA as an additional measure to provide greater understanding of the underlying business performance of its operations.
The adjustments made to net earnings to arrive at underlying earnings and underlying EBITDA are explained in note 7.
Capitalisation and deferral of production stripping costs The Group defers stripping costs incurred during the production stage of its operations when the actual stripping ratio for a specic period exceeds the expected average stripping ratio over the life time of the mine or pit.
Such deferred costs are then charged against reported profits to the extent that, in subsequent periods, the current period ratio falls below the average stripping ratio.
The expected average ratio is based on proven and probable reserves of the mine.
The expected average stripping ratio is highly dependent on the design of the mine and on the technical and economic parameters of the project.
The Group regularly reviews the expected average stripping ratio of the mine.
Bumi plc | Financial Statements 90 Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 3.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued 3.5.
Taxation Taxes are paid by the Groups subsidiary in Indonesia under a number of different regulations and laws, which are subject to varying interpretations.
In addition, these can change frequently and the judicial system does not have well developed rules of precedent.
This, in turn, may result in transactions and activities that have not been challenged in the past being scrutinised in greater detail and additional taxes may be assessed based on new interpretations of the legislation and tax positions.
Accordingly, managements interpretation of such legislation as applied to the transactions and activity of the Groups subsidiary, may be challenged by the relevant authorities.
Under Indonesian tax laws, scal periods up until 2007 remain open for 10 years, or until the end of 2013 whichever is earlier and scal periods ending after 2007 remain open for five years after the time that the tax becomes due.
At the date of these financial statements, the Groups subsidiary, PTBerau has received several tax assessment letters that are not yet nalised.
PTBerau has led objections and or appeals that are still in process or pending decisions, the outcomes of which are not presently determinable.
Management believes that its interpretation of the relevant legislation is appropriate and the tax position included in these financial statements will be sustained.
Purchase Price Allocation: goodwill and fair values of assets acquired in a businesscombination According to the denitions of IFRS 3 Business Combinations the value to be used in the application of the acquisition method is the fair value.
Fair value is dened as the amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or a liability settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms length transaction.
Guidance on fair value measurements with respect to assets acquired in a business combination indicates that quoted market prices in active markets provide the most reliable estimate of fair value.
If no market exists for an asset, the fair value is the amount that the entity would have paid for the asset, at the acquisition date, in an arms length transaction between knowledgeable and willing parties, on the best information available, including the outcome of recent transactions for similar assets and the results of using other fair value measurement techniques, such as discounting estimated future net cash ows from the asset.
The Purchase Price Allocation process involves significant management judgements and estimations.
Allocation of the purchase price affects the future results of the Group, as assets with nite useful lives are amortised whereas goodwill and assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortised, and could result in differing amortisation charges based on the allocation to goodwill and assets with nite useful lives.
Similar judgements and estimations were also made in relation to the acquisition of the interest in PTBumi.
Segmental analysis In accordance with the provisions of IFRS 8 Operating Segments, the operating segments used to present segment information were identied on the basis of internal reports used by the Board of Directors to allocate resources to the segments and assess their performance.
The Board of Directors is the Groups chief operating decision maker within the meaning of IFRS 8.
The Board of Directors considers the business from a product perspective and has determined that the Group has a single reportable segment, being coal mining.
Information on financial performance and net assets is presented in the income statement and balance sheet.
Revenue Non-current assets Year to 31 December 2011 31 December 2011 $m % $m % China 763 54 Taiwan 203 15 Indonesia 175 12 6,384 100 India 103 7 South Korea 98 7 Hong Kong 65 5 United Kingdom 1 Total 1,407 100 6,385 100 Financial Statements 91 5.
Net operating costs Year to 9 months to 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 $m $m Changes in inventories of nished goods and work in progress 12 Stripping and mining costs 519 Employee costs 34 Freight and handling costs 101 Net foreign exchange gains 11 Coal processing and other production costs 53 Government royalties paid and payable 164 Depreciation and amortisation expense 120 Costs associated with corporate transactions 66 32 Professional and legal fees including auditors remuneration 33 9 Operating lease rentals 3 6.
Auditors remuneration Services provided by the Companys auditor During the year the Group, including its overseas subsidiaries, obtained the following services from the Companys auditor.
Year to 9 months to 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 $m $m Fees payable to the Companys auditor in relation to: The audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 1.9 0.1 The audit of subsidiaries 0.2 Fees related to the audit of the Company and its subsidiaries 2.1 0.1 1 Audit related assurance services 0.9 Total fees for audit and audit related services 3.0 0.1 2 Services related to transactions 8.7 3.6 3 Taxation advisory services 0.8 0.4 4 All other non-audit services 0.7 Total fees 13.2 4.1 1 Includes fees in respect of the review of Bumi plcs interim financial statements, and quarterly reviews of PT Berau financial information, as required by the Indonesia Stock Exchange.
2 Comprises fees in respect of work as reporting accountants for the acquisition of PT Berau, the investment in PT Bumi, the premium listing of Bumi plc and the proposed acquisition of BRM that did not proceed: also includes work in relation to a bond offering by PT Berau 2010: includes fees in respect of the acquisition of PT Berau, the investment in PT Bumi and acting as reporting accountants in connection with prospectuses issued by Vallar plc.
3 Includes taxation related advice in relation to transactions.
4 Includes fees of $0.3m in respect of advice on the Groups Health, Safety, Environment and Communities programme and $0.3m in relation to advice regarding the Groups response to the UK Bribery Act.
The prior year comparatives reect those of the Vallar plc consolidated financial statements.
Bumi plc | Financial Statements 92 Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 7.
Underlying earnings and underlying EBITDA Underlying earnings and underlying EBITDA exclude separate items.
Separate items are those items of financial performance that the Group believes should be separately disclosed.
Separate items include when applicable, impairment of goodwill and other assets, costs of acquiring and integrating acquisitions, fundamental restructuring of business, profit or loss on disposal of a business or significant other asset, material claims and settlements and significant gains and losses on derivative instruments.
Year to 9 months to 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 $m $m Loss attributable to owners of the parent 319 108 Exclusions from underlying earnings: Movement on acquisition related financial instruments 286 62 Corporate transaction costs 66 32 Separate Items 352 94 Underlying earnings loss 33 14 Add back deduct : Depreciation and amortisation 120 Finance income 13 1 Finance costs 83 Income tax 167 Non-controlling interest 37 Underlying EBITDA 427 15 8.
Employee numbers and payroll costs The average number of employees, excluding contractors and associates employees by principal location of employment was: Year to 9 months to 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Indonesia 799 United Kingdom 10 10 809 10 Payroll costs in respect of the employees included in the tables above were: Year to 9 months to 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 $m $m Wages and salaries 28 Social security costs Post employment benets Share based payments Total payroll costs 28 Financial Statements 93 9.
Finance income and costs Year to 9 months to 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 $m $m Finance income Interest receivable and other finance income 13 1 Total finance income 13 1 Finance costs Interest payable and other finance costs 83 Total finance costs 83 Movement on acquisition related financial instruments 286 62 Net finance costs 356 61 10.
Taxation Year to 9 months to 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 $m $m Tax charged to the consolidated income statement in the year: Current tax UK Corporation Tax at 26.25% 2010: 28% Current year period Overseas tax Current year period 203 Deferred tax origination and reversal of temporary differences 36 Total tax charged to consolidated income statement 167 The movement in deferred tax, from $1,313m recognised as fair value at date of acquisition to $1,277m at the end of the year, relates to the release of $36m of the deferred tax liability linked to the depreciation of mining properties recognised in the Purchase Price Allocation following the acquisition of PTBerau.
The Groups tax charge was higher than the UK statutory rate and can be reconciled as follows: Year to 9 months to 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 $m $m Loss before tax 115 108 Add back: Share of net loss from associate 39 76 108 UK Corporation Tax at 26.25% 2010: 28% 20 30 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 111 30 Tax losses for which no deferred tax asset was recognised 5 Short term timing differences 4 Dividend withholding taxes 4 Effect of differences between local and United Kingdom tax rates 71 Total tax charged to consolidated income statement 167 Bumi plc | Financial Statements 94 Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 10.
Taxation continued In the prior year, Vallar Ltd formerly Vallar plc was incorporated and subject to Jersey income tax at a rate of0%.
In the Budget on 23 March 2011, it was announced that the UK corporation tax rate will reduce from 28% to 23% over a period of three years from 2011.
The first reduction in UK corporation tax from 28% to 26% relating to the period from 1 April 2011 to 31 March 2012 was substantially enacted on 29 March 2011.
The second reduction in UK corporation tax from 26% to 25% relating to the period from 1 April 2012 onwards was substantially enacted on 5 July 2011.
A further reduction from 25% to 24% from 1 April 2012 was announced in the budget on 21 March 2012.
The Indonesian corporate tax rate is 25%, with the exception of the tax charged within a CCoW which incurs a tax rate of 45%.
No income tax has been charged or credited directly to equity or other comprehensive income during the year or preceding period.
Earnings per share EPS The calculation of earnings per ordinary share is based on profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company and the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
In addition to the earnings per share required by IAS 33 Earnings per Share, underlying EPS has also been calculated and is based on earnings excluding the effect of separately disclosed items.
It has been calculated to allow shareholders to have a better understanding of the trading performance of the Group.
Details of the underlying EPS are set out below: Year to 9 months to 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 $m $m Loss attributable to ordinary shareholders 319 108 Separate items note 7 352 94 Underlying earnings loss 33 14 Number of shares millions 1 Basic weighted average number of ordinary shares 192 67 Potentially dilutive share options Diluted weighted average number of shares 192 67 $$ Basic loss per share 1.66 1.61 Effect of potentially dilutive share options Diluted loss per share 1.66 1.61 Basic underlying earnings loss per share 0.17 0.21 Effect of potentially dilutive share options Diluted underlying earnings loss per share 0.17 0.21 1 Basic weighted average number of ordinary shares in the prior year is stated as the number of ordinary shares in issue at 31 December 2010, which the Directors believe provides a more relevant basis for the EPS than a weighted average.
Intangible assets Exploration and evaluation assets Goodwill $m $m Cost At 1 January 2011 Acquired through business combinations 1,320 Additions 4 At 31 December 2011 4 1,320 Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses At 1 January 2011 Charge for the year At 31 December 2011 Net book value at 31 December 2011 4 1,320 Impairment tests for goodwill Goodwill arising through acquisitions has been allocated to individual or groups of cash generating units CGUs, each representing the lowest level in the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
The carrying value of the Groups goodwill of $1,320m has predominantly arisen on the acquisition of PTBerau on 4 March 2011 see note 13, which is treated as a single CGU.
The Groups annual impairment review resulted in no impairment charge for 2011.
PTBeraus recoverable amount has been assessed based on fair value less costs to sell using discounted cash ows, in line with the policy in note 2.
Expected future cash ows are inherently uncertain and could materially change over time.
They are signicantly affected by a number of factors, including reserves and production estimates, commodity prices, discount rates, future operating costs and capital expenditure.
Cash ow projections are based on financial budgets and production plans to the end of the CCoW, including two 10 year extensions, appropriately risk adjusted.
The key assumptions relating to the calculation of PTBeraus fair value less costs to sell are the long term thermal coal price, operating costs, and discount rates.
Future selling prices and operating costs have been estimated in line with the Group policy.
Management believes that, currently, there are no reasonably possible changes in any of the key assumptions that would lead to the recoverable amount being below the carrying amount, except for the long term thermal coal price.
The forecast benchmark thermal coal price is within the range published by market analysts of $108 to $125 per tonne, in nominal terms.
This price is then adjusted for various coal quality parameters, such as caloric value, moisture, ash content, sulphur content, to derive the expected realised selling prices, on a FOBbasis.
Post tax cash ows were estimated for the period of the CCoW, based on a post tax discount rate of between 9.7% and 10.3%, expressed in nominal terms.
The operating costs included in the fair value assessment are calculated based on PTBeraus production plans for the remainder of the CCoW including extensions.
Price assumptions for inputs are based on analysis of market fundamentals and are made consistent with related output price assumptions.
Based on the assessment of fair value less costs to sell, the recoverable amount signicantly exceeds the carrying value at 31 December 2011.
This calculation is highly sensitive to changes in the key assumptions, and a 10.5% decrease in the long term thermal coal price, in isolation, would lead to the fair value less costs to sell of PTBerau being equal to its carrying amount.
However, management believe that a decrease in the long term thermal coal price would coincide with an associated beneficial impact on input costs which would, to a certain extent, offset the impact of the change in the long term thermal coal price.
Bumi plc | Financial Statements 96 Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 13. Business combinations 13.1.
Investment in subsidiary Acquisition of PTBerau On 4 March 2011, Vallar Ltd formerly Vallar plc completed the acquisition of 26,175,000,000 PTBerau shares representing 75% of the issued ordinary shares of PTBerau at IDR 540 per PTBerau share, by payment of $739m in cash for 35% of PTBerau and the issue to the vendor of 52,297,680 Bumiplc ordinary shares in consideration for 40% of PTBerau.
On 4 March 2011, Vallar Ltd formerly Vallar plc obtained control of PTBerau.
Legal completion followed on 8 April 2011 when shares were exchanged.
PTBerau is a holding company that indirectly owns 90% of PTBerau Coal, the fifth largest coal producer in Indonesia in terms of production volume.
PTBerau Coal engages in open cut mining of coal in its concession area in East Kalimantan, where it holds coal mining rights until 26April 2025 under a CCoW.
On 14 June 2011, Vallar Ltd formerly Vallar plc increased its holding in PTBerau through a mandatory cash offer for the remaining shares following the acquisition described above.
Vallar Ltd formerly Vallar plc acquired an additional 3,398,999,404 shares in PTBerau for $214m and its total ownership following this acquisition is 29,573,999,404 shares, representing 85% of the issued ordinary shares of PTBerau.
In the period from 4 March 2011, the date of acquisition, to 31 December 2011, the business has contributed $1,407m of revenues and $296m of profit before tax.
If the acquisition had occurred on the first day of this reporting period, the contributions would have been $1,657m of revenues and $376m of profit before tax.
Final details of net assets acquired and fair value adjustments are set out as follows.
Financial Statements 97 Book value prior to Fair value Final acquisition adjustments fair value $m $m $m Non-current assets Goodwill 410 410 Goodwill arising on acquisition 1,310 1,310 Property, plant and equipment 610 2,441 3,051 1 Available for sale financial asset 75 75 Due from related parties 6 6 Other non-current assets 2 2 Total non-current assets 1,103 3,266 4,369 Current assets Inventories 15 5 20 Trade and other receivables 411 411 Other current assets 20 20 Cash and cash equivalents 489 489 Total current assets 935 5 940 Total assets 2,038 3,271 5,309 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 442 4 446 Borrowings 52 19 71 Current taxation 201 201 Total current liabilities 695 23 718 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 765 54 819 Deferred tax liabilities 115 1,198 1,313 Provisions 7 7 Total non-current liabilities 887 1,252 2,139 Total liabilities 1,582 1,275 2,857 Net attributable assets including goodwill 456 1,996 2,452 2 Fair value of non-controlling interest 864 Bumi plc share 75% 1,588 Consideration satisfied by: Cash paid in November 2010 739 3 Adjustment to fair value of consideration 269 Transfer from financial instruments to consideration 470 Fair value of shares issued 1,118 Total consideration 1,588 Other subsidiaries acquired 19 Cash inow on acquisitions: Net cash of acquired companies 489 Cash paid for other subsidiaries net of cash acquired 17 Net acquisition of subsidiaries per cash ow statement 472 Bumi plc | Financial Statements 98 Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 13. Business combinations continued 1 In nalising the allocation of the purchase price to the identiable assets and liabilities of PT Berau, the Directors have decided to allocate zero value to the available for sale financial asset.
With a corresponding increase in the value attributable to the coal mining properties at acquisition, there is no overall effect on the value of net assets acquired.
2 The fair value of the non-controlling interest is calculated with reference to the PT Berau share price on the date of acquisition.
3 Adjustments to the fair value of consideration relate to movements in the PT Berau share price, Vallar Ltd formerly Vallar plc share price and the Indonesian Rupiah exchange rate between the date of the Berau Sale and Purchase of Shares Agreement on 16 November 2010 and the completion of the acquisition of PT Berau.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is associated with the recognition of a deferred tax liability in respect of the fair value of mining properties.
Acquisition costs incurred on the PTBerau transactions expensed in the year were $21m.
Other acquisitions On 18 May 2011, the Group acquired 100% of PTMutiara Tanjung Lestari, a company incorporated in Indonesia engaged in mining services, for $11m.
The whole of the consideration was satisfied in cash and the fair value of the assets acquired was $2m, with the difference representing goodwill arising on expected synergies.
Also on 18 May 2011, the Group acquired 100% ownership of PTPelayaran Sandita Parkasa Maritim, a company incorporated in Indonesia engaged in shipping services, for $8m.
The whole of the consideration was satisfied in cash and the fair value of the assets acquired was $7m, with the difference representing goodwill arising on expected synergies.
Investment in associate Acquisition of shares in PTBumi On 4 March 2011, Vallar Ltd formerly Vallar plc completed its acquisition of 5,193,350,000 PTBumi Shares representing 25% of the issued ordinary share capital of PTBumi at IDR 3,025 per PTBumi Share, in consideration of the payment, 90,072,216 ordinary shares were issued.
Final details of net assets acquired and fair value adjustments are set out below: Book value prior to Fair value Final acquisition adjustments fair value $m $m $m Net assets acquired Goodwill 243 243 Goodwill arising on acquisition 3,862 3,862 Property, plant and equipment 2,267 7,146 9,413 Exploration and evaluation assets 390 390 Investments in associates 1,167 515 1,682 1 Other non-current assets 932 101 831 Inventories 107 111 218 Available for sale financial assets 373 3 376 Trade and other receivables 923 103 820 Derivative financial instruments 488 6 494 Other current assets 221 136 85 Cash and cash equivalents 207 94 301 Trade and other payables 977 41 1,018 Current tax 298 298 Derivative financial instruments 133 36 97 Borrowings 4,102 463 4,565 Deferred tax liabilities 385 3,646 4,031 Provisions 154 30 184 Other liabilities 233 51 182 Non-controlling interests 247 329 576 Net attributable assets including goodwill 789 6,342 7,131 Bumi plc share 25% 1,783 satisfied by: Fair value of shares issued 1,910 2 Adjustment to fair value of shares issued 127 Total consideration non-cash 1,783 1 In nalising the allocation of the purchase price to the identiable assets and liabilities of PT Bumi, the Directors have reduced the value of the business development funds on acquisition by $247m.
There is a corresponding increase in the value of coal mining properties, with no overall effect on the value of net assets acquired.
2 Adjustments to the fair value of shares relate to movements in the PT Bumi share price, Vallar Ltd formerly Vallar plc share price and the Indonesian Rupiah exchange rate between the date of the PT Bumi Sale and Purchase of Share Agreement on 16 November 2010 and the completion of the acquisition of PT Bumi on 4 March 2011.
Acquisition costs incurred on the PTBumi transaction expensed in the year were $21m.
Bumi plc | Financial Statements 100 Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 14.
Property, plant and equipment Plant, furniture, xtures 1 Mining Land and and ofce Assets under properties buildings equipment construction Total $m $m $m $m $m Cost At 1 January 2011 On acquisition of subsidiary 2,948 15 20 75 3,058 Additions 34 12 55 101 Transfers 9 8 17 Disposals At 31 December 2011 2,982 24 40 113 3,159 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2011 Depreciation for the year 115 2 3 120 Disposals At 31 December 2011 115 2 3 120 Net book value at 31 December 2011 2,867 22 37 113 3,039 1 Mining properties include deferred stripping costs of $36m.
Amortisation of deferred stripping costs of $34m is included within depreciation for the year.
In accordance with the CCoW, certain xed assets recorded in the consolidated financial statements remain the property of the Government of Indonesia.
However, PTBerau has an exclusive right to use the xed assets over the CCoW period.
Depreciation expense of $120m has been charged to cost of sales.
No borrowing costs were capitalised during the period of this report.
Property, plant and equipment includes no amounts under finance leases.
Investment in associate 2011 $m At 1 January Acquisition of 25% interest in PT Bumi 1,783 3.9% step up on 5 July 2011 282 0.3% step up on 15 July 2011 24 Share of loss 39 Share of other comprehensive income 2 Dividends received 30 Other equity movements At 31 December 2,022 On 5 and 15 July 2011, the Group acquired a further 13,880,802 and 1,179,745 of shares in PTBumi for a total non-cash consideration of $306m as part of a share for share exchange.
As at 31 December 2011, the market value of the Groups interest in PTBumi, which is listed on the Indonesia Stock Exchange, was $1,470m.
The Group does not believe this value represents the fair value of the underlying business, as stock markets are subject to short term volatility and this market value does not reect the premium attached to the holding of a significant inuence.
Additionally, future discounted cash ows also support the carrying value of the investment in associate.
The Groups share of the results of its associate, and its aggregated assets including goodwill and liabilities as at 31December 2011 are as follows: Interest Country of Assets Liabilities Revenue Loss held Name incorporation $m $m $m $m % PT Bumi Indonesia 5,208 3,132 974 39 29.2 16.
Inventories 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 $m $m Raw materials and consumables 7 Work in progress Finished products 23 Total inventories 30 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to $562m 2010: $nil.
Bumi plc | Financial Statements 102 Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 17.
Trade and other receivables 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Due within Due within one year one year $m $m Trade receivables 128 Tax recoverable 309 Other receivables 44 Prepayments and accrued income 14 Total trade and other receivables 495 Trade and other receivables includes VAT recoverable of $309m.
This represents amounts claimed by PTBerau Coal from the Government of Indonesia.
This amount is part of an ongoing dispute with the Government which resulted from a change in the VAT law in 2001 when coal became a VAT exempt supply.
This change meant that PTBerau Coal can no longer claim credits for its input VAT on purchases.
However, under the CCoW, PTBerau Coal is indemnified against Indonesian taxes not in effect at the time of signing of the CCoW.
On this basis, PTBerau Coal claimed reimbursement for input VAT paid from 2001.
The claims were rejected and PTBerau Coal began setting off the VAT receivable against royalty payments due under the CCoW.
The VAT receivable and royalty payable amounts have been disclosed separately on a gross basis within trade and other receivables and trade and other payables, respectively.
The Groups exposure to credit and currency risks related to trade and other receivables are disclosed in note 23.
Cash and cash equivalents 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 $m $m Cash at bank and in hand 480 26 Short term bank deposits 128 298 Total cash and cash equivalents 608 324 Cash and cash equivalents include amounts that are held as collateral for bank loans and senior notes.
Trade and other payables 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 $m $m Trade payables 132 Amounts owed to related parties 1 Royalties 315 Tax and social security 18 Other payables 7 9 Accruals and deferred income 152 Total trade and other payables 625 9 Royalties payable includes $309m, accumulated from 2001 to December 2011 for offset against VAT input recoverable from the Government of Indonesia, as disclosed in note 17.
Amounts owed to related parties are unsecured with no xed payment date and are interest free.
Financial Instruments by category Financial assets The carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets are as follows: 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 Estimated Carrying Estimated Carrying fair value value fair value value Financial assets $m $m $m $m At fair value through profit or loss Financial derivatives 659 659 Loans and receivables Cash and cash equivalents 608 608 324 324 Trade and other receivables 172 172 Total financial assets 780 780 983 983 Financial liabilities The carrying amounts and fair values of financial liabilities are as follows: 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 Estimated Carrying Estimated Carrying fair value value fair value value Financial liabilities $m $m $m $m At amortised cost Trade and other payables 140 140 99 Borrowings 850 830 Total financial liabilities 990 970 99 Fair value hierarchy An analysis of financial assets carried at fair value is set out below: 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Financial assets $m $m At fair value through profit or loss Level 1 659 Total financial assets 659 Level 1 assets are valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments.
This category includes exchange traded derivatives.
Bumi plc | Financial Statements 104 Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 21.
Borrowings An analysis of borrowings is set out below: 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 Due within Due after Due within Due after one year one year Total one year one year Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Bank loans 76 269 345 Senior secured notes 9476 485 Total 85 745 830 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 $m $m Debt falling due: In one year or less 85 Between one and two years 115 Between two and five years 630 Total borrowings 830 The carrying amounts of the Groups borrowings are all denominated in US dollars.
a Bank Loans On 23 July 2010, PTBerau entered into a $400m Senior Secured Credit Facility with Credit Suisse AG, Singapore Branch.
PTBerau drew down the entire $400m available under this facility.
The facility comprises two tranches: i Tranche A in a principal amount of $300m and ii Tranche B in a principal amount of $100m.
Interest for the Tranche A loans is payable quarterly and accrues at the rate of London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR plus a margin of 4.75% per annum.
Interest for Tranche B loans is payable quarterly and accrues at the rate of LIBOR plus a margin of 5.75% per annum, an additional utilisation fee is also payable on this tranche of 2.25% per annum.
b Senior Secured Notes On 8 July 2010, PTBerau issued $350m of 12.5% Guaranteed Senior Secured Notes Senior Notes.
PTBerau then issued an additional $100m of 12.5% Guaranteed Senior Secured Notes on 29 July 2010.
The maturity date of the notes is 8 July 2015.
The Senior Notes bear interest from 8 July 2010 at the rate of 12.5% per annum, payable semiannually.
There were no undrawn committed borrowing facilities at 31 December 2011 2010: $nil.
Financial instruments The Groups financial instruments comprise of: Acquisition of Acquisition of Step up of PT Berau PT Bumi PT Bumi Total $m $m $m $m On incorporation Fair value of financial instrument 1 on initial recognition 701 118 819 Subsequent fair value loss gain charged to the income statement 126 64 62 Deferred loss gain on initial recognition recognised in balance sheet 20 118 98 As at 31 December 2010 595 64 659 Fair value of financial instrument on initial recognition 21 21 Subsequent fair value loss gain charged to the income statement 105 309 10 404 Deferred gain on initial recognition recognised in balance sheet 21 21 Write off deferred gain loss on initial recognition to income statement 20 118 21 119 Transfer to cost of investment 470 127 31 374 As at 31 December 2011 1 Retranslated due to change in presentation currency.
a Under the PTBerau Sale and Purchase of Shares Agreement, the Group paid $739m, on 16 November 2010 and committed to exchange 52,297,680 of the Top Companys shares as consideration for 75% of the equity of PTBerau on 8 April 2011.
The cash advance and embedded share for share exchange derivative were classied, together, as a financial instrument at fair value through profit or loss.
The initial fair value loss of $20m arising on 16 November 2010, calculated as the difference between the fair value of the PTBerau shares to be received and the cash paid plus fair value of the Top Companys shares to be issued was deferred until control of PTBerau passed to the Group on 4 March 2011.
On that date it was recognised in the income statement.
The subsequent fair value loss of $105m $126m loss in the 9 months to 31 December 2010 was recognised in the income statement.
Also on 4 March 2011, when control of PTBerau passed to the Group, the financial asset of $470mwas transferred to the cost of the investment in PTBerau.
b Under the PTBumi Sale and Purchase of Shares Agreement, the Group committed to a share for share exchange as consideration for 25% of PTBumi.
The number of shares to be exchanged was xed on 16 November 2010, but share exchange and completion occurred on 4 March 2011.
The share for share exchange is classied as a derivative financial instrument.
The initial fair value gain of $118m arising on 16 November 2010, calculated as the difference between the fair value of the PTBumi shares to be received and fair value of the Top Companys shares to be issued, was deferred until the transaction closed on 4 March 2011, at that point it was recognised in the income statement.
The subsequent fair value loss of $309m for the period to 31 December 2011 $64m gain in the 9 months to 31 December 2010 was recognised in the income statement.
Also on 4 March 2011, when the Group gained significant inuence over PTBumi, an amount of $127m was set against the cost of the investment in PTBumi.
c On 27 June 2011, the Group entered into sale and purchase agreements with a number of shareholders in PTBumi pursuant to which Bumiplc agreed to purchase shares in the capital of PTBumi representing approximately 4.2% of the issued ordinary share capital of PTBumi in consideration for the issue, to the Selling PTBumi Shareholders of 15,059,827 Bumiplc Voting Ordinary Shares, disclosed in note 15.
These transactions closed on 5 July 2011 and 15 July 2011, at which point the Groups total shareholding in PTBumi was increased to 29.2%.
The initial fair value gain of $21m arising on 27 June 2011, calculated as the difference between the fair value of the Bumiplc shares to be received and fair value of the Companys shares to be issued, was deferred until the transactions closed on 5 July 2011 and 15 July 2011.
The subsequent fair value gain of $10m was recognised in the income statement for the year to 31 December 2011.
On 5 July 2011 and 15 July 2011, when control of the shares passed to the Group the financial asset of $31m was transferred to the cost of the investment in PT Bumi.
Bumi plc | Financial Statements 106 Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 23.
Financial risk factors The Groups policies with regard to financial risk management are clearly dened and consistently applied.
They are a fundamental part of the Groups long term strategy covering areas such as foreign exchange risk, commodity price risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and capital risk management.
Market risk a Foreign exchange risk Management believes the Group is naturally hedged against foreign exchange risk.
The percentage of costs in US dollars is aligned with the revenues the Group receives in US dollars.
This relationship also holds true for the Groups revenues and costs in the Indonesian Rupiah.
At 31 December 2011, it is estimated a general increase of 5% in the value of US dollar against the Indonesian Rupiah would have decreased the Groups operating profit by approximately $2.6m.
This analysis assumes all other variables remain constant.
A 5% increase has been used based on management judgement and historical experience to best reect future movements.
b Commodity price risk The movement in coal prices is determined by macro economic factors, with short term global supply and demand conditions further adding to volatility.
The Group has taken steps to mitigate this risk by modelling the impact of movements in coal prices, closely monitoring the cost components, and adjusting plans and activities accordingly.
The Groups normal policy is to sell its products at prevailing market prices.
Exceptions to this rule are subject to strict limits laid down by the Board and to internal controls.
The Board does not generally believe commodity price hedging would provide long term benefit to shareholders.
Contract prices for coal are generally agreed annually with customers, although volume commitments vary by product.
c Interest rate risk The Groups interest rate risk arises from long term borrowings.
Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash ow interest rate risk, which is offset by cash held at variable rates.
Borrowings issued at xed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
A 1% increase in the oating interest rate would have a positive $2.6m impact on the consolidated profit for the year, as the Groups debt is largely at a xed rate.
A 1% increase in interest rates has been used based on management judgement and historical experience to best reect future movements.
23.3. Credit risk Credit risk is managed on a group basis.
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, deposits with banks and financial institutions and receivables.
The Group places funds with banks and financial institutions only if independently rated with a minimum rating of B1.
The maximum exposure the Group faces due to credit risks on cash and cash equivalents is as follows: 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 $m $m Cash and cash equivalents AAA 134 AA- 385 324 A 83 Other 6 Total cash and cash equivalents 608 324 Financial Statements 107 The Group requires all customers to provide irrevocable letters of credit or pay by confirmed electronic transfer, amethod that is only applicable to Indonesian Government State Owned Enterprises.
The historical level of customer default is minimal and as a result the credit quality of year end trade receivables is considered to be high.
Of the year end trade receivables balance, the following were past due at 31 December: 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 $m $m Not yet due 108 Less than one month 20 Total trade receivables 128 The overdue receivables ageing prole above is typical of the industry in which certain of the Groups businesses operate.
Given this, the existing insurance cover including letters of credit from financial institutions and the nature of the related counterparties, these amounts are considered recoverable.
There was no impairment provision at 31 December 2011 2010: $nil.
Liquidity risk Cash ow forecasting is performed in the operating entities of the Group and aggregated by Group Finance.
Group Finance monitors rolling forecasts of the Groups liquidity requirements to ensure it has sufficient cash to meet operational needs while maintaining sufficient headroom on its debts at all times so that the Group does not breach borrowing limits or covenants on any of its borrowing facilities.
Such forecasting takes into consideration the Groups debt nancing plans, covenant compliance, compliance with internal balance sheet ratio targets and external regulatory and legal requirements.
The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash ows: Carrying Contractual Six months 612 More than amount cash ows or less months 12 years 25 years five years At 31 December 2011 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Non-derivative financial liabilities Bank loans 345 392 41 56 122 173 Senior notes 485 648 28 28 56 536 Trade payables 625 625 625 Total 1,455 1,665 694 84 178 709 There were no financial liabilities at 31 December 2010.
The table below provides information about the contractual undiscounted maturities and interest rate prole of the Groups bank loans and senior notes at 31 December 2011: Carrying 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 amount $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Bank loans 235 105 2 3 345 Average interest rate 5.0% 8.3% 8.0% 7.5% Senior notes 485 485 Average interest rate 12.5% Total 235 590 2 3 830 The Group had no bank loans and senior notes at 31 December 2010.
Bumi plc | Financial Statements 108 Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 23.
Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to provide returns for shareholders and benets for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
31 December 31 December 2011 2010 $m $m Borrowings 830 - Share capital and share premium 145 622 1 Reserves 3,799 321 Total capital 4,774 943 1 Reserves include retained earnings, share based payment reserve and merger reserve.
The Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.
Deferred tax Deferred tax assets The Group has deferred tax assets relating to unused tax losses of $28m 2010: $nil and unremitted earnings from the associate of $7m 2010: $nil.
These deferred tax assets have not been recognised as it is not expected that taxable profits will be available against which these assets can be utilised.
Deferred tax liabilities The movement in deferred tax liabilities during the year is as follows: Mining properties Other Total $m $m $m At 1 January 2011 Acquired through business combinations 1,310 3 1,313 Credited to the income statement 36 36 At 31 December 2011 1,274 3 1,277 Financial Statements 109 25.
Share capital, share premium and merger reserve Redeemable Deferred Shares Par value Ordinary Share Merger Issued and fully paid Ordinary shares thousands thousands restated shares premium reserve Suspended Voting Voting Total Total $m $m $m On incorporation on 31 March 2010 6.00 Ordinary shares issued on 9 July 2010 following completion of initial public offering 68,718 68,718 6.00 635 437 Ordinary shares repurchased and cancelled on 16 August 2010 1,375 1,375 6.00 13 9 Balance as at 31 December 2010 67,343 67,343 622 428 Shares issued in relation to PT Bumi transaction on 4 March 2011 28,861 61,211 90,072 6.00 878 1,031 Transfer between categories of ordinary shares 11,902 11,902 6.00 Shares issued in relation to PT Berau transaction on 8 April 2011 27,773 24,525 52,298 6.00 514 604 Shares allotted 50 1.00 PT Bumi step up transaction on 5 July 2011 13,880 13,880 6.00 136 119 Transfer between categories of ordinary shares 5,949 5,949 Capital reduction adjustment on 7 July 2011 2,146 PT Bumi step up transaction on 15 July 2011 1,180 1,180 0.01 22 Share options exercised by Directors 120 120 0.01 Transfer between categories of ordinary shares 557 557 0.01 Exchange of Founder Shares 16,064 16,064 0.01 185 Transfer between categories of ordinary shares 6,885 6,885 0.01 Balance as at 31 December 2011 180,514 60,443 240,957 50 4 141 2,248 25.1.
Ordinary Shares On 31 March 2010, two ordinary shares of 1 each were subscribed for at par value.
On 9 July 2010, a written resolution of the sole member of the Top Company authorised the issue of 68,718,229 ordinary 1 shares at a price of 10 per share.
On 16 August 2010, pursuant to the terms of a repurchase option, the Company repurchased 1,375,495 ordinary shares of 1 each in the Top Company at a price of 10 per ordinary share.
PTBumi transaction The PTBumi transaction closed on 4 March 2011.
At the closing of this transaction, the Top Company issued 90,072,216 Top Company Shares to the Bakrie Group for 25% of PTBumi, of which 28,861,172 were Top Company Voting Ordinary Shares and 61,211,044 were Top Company Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares.
Bumi plc | Financial Statements 110 Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 25.
Share capital, share premium and merger reserve continued PTBerau transaction At the closing of the PTBerau transaction on 8 April 2011, PTBukit Mutiara transferred title to, and registered ownership of, shares comprising 75% of PTBerau to Vallar Investments UK Ltd and the Top Company issued 52,297,680 Top Company Shares, of which 27,772,829 were Top Company Voting Ordinary Shares issued to PTBukit Mutiara and 24,524,851 were Top Company Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares issued to the Bakrie Group pursuant to PTBukit Mutiara requirements.
As part of the PTBerau transaction, the Top Company also agreed to pay $739m in cash consideration.
Of this amount, approximately $639m was paid to PTBukit Mutiara on 18 November 2010 and, following the closing of the PTBumi transaction, the balance was released to PTBumi, repaying part of a loan owed by PTBukit Mutiara to PTBumi.
The closing of the PTBerau transaction triggered a mandatory cash offer for the remaining issued share capital of PTBerau, which has now completed, with the Groups aggregate holding in PTBerau increasing to 84.7% as a result.
Transfer between classes of shares The Top Company Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares convert into Voting Ordinary Shares on a one for one basis automatically on issue of new Voting Ordinary shares by the Company.
This is to ensure that PTBakrie Brothers Tbk, Long Haul Holdings and affiliates percentage ownership in the Top Company Voting Ordinary Shares remains at 29.9%.
Increase in investment in PTBumi On 27 June 2011, the Group entered into sale and purchase agreements with a number of shareholders in PTBumi pursuant to which Bumiplc agreed to purchase shares in PTBumi representing approximately 4.2% of the issued share capital of PTBumi in consideration for the issue to the selling PTBumi shareholders of 15,059,827 Bumiplc Voting Ordinary Shares.
These purchases were completed during July 2011.
Capital reduction On 7 July 2011, the Company undertook a capital reduction.
Repurchase of non-controlling interest On 6 October 2011, the Founder Shares, a separate share class of Vallar Holding Company Ltd, were exchanged for 6.67% of the fully diluted ordinary shares of the Company, with a value of $185m.
Further details are set out in a prospectus issued by Vallar Ltd formerly Vallar plc on 24 February 2011 and the 2010 Annual Report for Vallarplc, which was issued on 28 April 2011.
Redeemable Deferred Shares The Redeemable Deferred Shares were allocated and issued in order for Bumiplc to satisfy the minimum share capital requirement for the Company to be reregistered as a public company under the Companies Act 2006, which was effected on 1 March 2011.
There are 50,000 Redeemable Deferred Shares of 1 each in the capital ofBumiplc that carry no voting rights and have no economic value.
The difference between the Vallar Ltds formerly Vallar plc net assets and the nominal value of the shares in issue is recorded in the merger reserve.
No dividends have been paid or proposed for the year.
Founder Securities Founder Securities are a further separate class of equity share capital in Vallar Holding Company Ltd.
The holders of the Founder Securities have the right to exchange the Founder Securities for ordinary shares in the Company to a value of 15% of the increase in value from the initial public offering value of 10.
The original performance conditions attached to these shares were met in the year.
Further details are set out in a prospectus issued by Vallar Ltd formerly Vallar plc on 24 February 2011 and the 2010 Annual Report for Vallar plc, which was issued on 28 April 2011.
Non-controlling interests 2011 2010 $m $m At 1 January 31 Issue of Founder Shares and Securities 31 Acquired through business combination 864 Share of profit in the year 37 Purchase of non-controlling interests mandatory cash offer PT Berau 206 Purchase of non-controlling interests Founder Shares 23 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 12 At 31 December 691 31 Transactions with non-controlling interests are dealt with in note 30 Related party transactions.
Reconciliation of loss before tax to cash ows from operations Year to 9 months to 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 $m $m Loss before income tax 115 108 Add back deduct : Depreciation and amortisation 120 Movement on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss 286 62 Net finance costs income 70 1 Costs associated with initial public offering 32 Share of loss from associate 39 Foreign exchange gains in operating costs 11 Increase in inventories 10 Increase in operating receivables 56 Increase in operating payables 129 9 Increase in provisions 18 Deferred stripping 35 Cash ows generated from used in operations 435 6 27.2.
Reconciliation of net cash ow to movement in net debt cash Debt 1 January acquired on Exchange 31 December 2011 acquisition Cash ows adjustments 2011 $m $m $m $m $m Cash 324 273 11 608 Borrowings 775 55 830 Total net debt cash 324 775 218 11 222 Bumi plc | Financial Statements 112 Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 28.
Contingent liabilities and contingent assets Contingent liabilities The Group is subject to various claims in the normal course of business.
These include but are not restricted to land claims.
Occasionally local residents issue claims against the Group and the associate with regard to the mining on areas of land where ownership is in dispute between the Group and local inhabitants.
The majority of cases are resolved with no material liability assumed by the Group and the associate.
No contingent liabilities were secured on the assets of the Group at 31 December 2011 or 31 December 2010.
Other Specic Contingent Liabilities Offset of Coal Production Royalties with input VAT The Group has a contingent liability in respect of the coal sharing royalties payable to the Government ofIndonesia which have been offset against VAT recoverable amounting to $309m.
Please see note 17 for furtherdetails.
Contractual mine service fee agreement claim PTBumi has an ongoing dispute with a contractor regarding the contractual mining service fee and its escalation formula.
The contractor is claiming the escalation formula no longer reects the actual increase in its operating costs.
The associate believes the contractors rate is supported by other comparative mining contractors rates.
Contingent assets There were no significant contingent assets in the Group or the associate at 31 December 2011 or 31 December 2010.
Commitments At 31 December the Group had the following outstanding capital commitments and commitments under non-cancellable operating leases: 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Capital commitments $m $m Contracted but not provided: Assets under construction 149 149 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Operating leases $m $m Expiry date Within one year 16 Greater than one year, less than two years 4 Greater than two years, less than five years 3 Greater than five years 23 Operating leases relate principally to land and buildings, vehicles and shipping vessels.
Related party transactions During the year ended 31 December 2011, the Group entered into the following transactions in the ordinary course of business with related parties and entities related to them: Nathaniel Rothschild Nathaniel Rosan Indra and James Rothschild Roeslani Bakrie Campbell Total 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 $m $m $m $m $m Purchase of goods 23.7 23.7 Purchase of services 4.9 0.5 2.9 8.3 Finance income 0.4 0.4 4.9 0.1 23.7 2.9 31.6 At 31 December 2011, the following balances were held with related parties: Nathaniel Rothschild Nathaniel Rosan Indra and James Rothschild Roeslani Bakrie Campbell Total 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 $m $m $m $m $m Assets Cash and cash equivalents 3.9 3.9 Liabilities Trade and other payables 0.1 1.2 1.3 3.9 0.1 1.2 2.6 Transactions with Directors Nathaniel Rothschild The Group conducted transactions with entities related to Nathaniel Rothschild, the sole activity being the payment of business expenses.
Rosan Roeslani The Group conducted transactions with entities related to Rosan Roeslani, the key activities being insurance services and the lease of office buildings.
PTBank Pundi Indonesia Tbk is a bank related to Rosan Roeslani.
Term deposits at the PTBank Pundi Indonesia Tbk have market interest rates.
Indra Bakrie The Group conducted transactions with PT Petromine Energy Trading, a subsidiary of PT Bakrie and Brothers Tbk, a listed entity on the Indonesia Stock Exchange, which is related to the Bakrie family.
The sole activity is the supply of fuel.
Nathaniel Rothschild and James Campbell The Group conducted transactions with an entity related to Nathaniel Rothschild and James Campbell, the sole activity being the supply of professional services.
The agreement to provide professional services was terminated in the year.
In 2010, the Group paid fees of $7.7m to entities related to Nathaniel Rothschild and James Campbell.
All transactions are considered by the Directors to be undertaken at standard market rates.
Other transactions During the year, Vallar Capital LP, a related party, exercised its right to exchange the Founder Shares, a separate share class of Vallar Holding Company Ltd, for 6.67% of the fully diluted ordinary shares of the Company.
Please see note 25 for further details.
There were no material transactions with the associate during the year.
Bumi plc | Financial Statements 114 Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 30.
Related party transactions continued Key management personnel In accordance with IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures, key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly, excluding any Director executive and non-executive of the Group.
Disclosure of Directors emoluments, pension entitlements, share options and long term incentive plan awards required by the Companies Act 2006 and those specified for audit by Regulation 11 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 are included in the Remuneration Report.
Compensation for key management was as follows: Year to 9 months to 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 $m $m Wages and salaries 1.4 Social security costs Post employment benets Share based payments Termination benets 1.4 Transactions between PTBumi and Bumiplc Directors The Group is voluntarily disclosing these further transactions to increase the transparency of the financial statements.
These amounts are stated at 100% of balances and transactions held by PTBumi.
Rosan Indra 1 1 Roeslani Bakrie Total 2011 2011 2011 $m $m $m Purchase of goods 508 508 Finance income 27 27 27 508 481 Rosan Indra 1 1 Roeslani Bakrie Total 2011 2011 2011 $m $m $m Assets Loans receivable 259 259 Other financial assets 242 242 Liabilities Trade and other payables 44 44 501 44 457 1 Includes all entities related to stated individuals.
Rosan Roeslani PTBumi has an investment with PTRecapital Asset Management, a company related to Rosan Roeslani.
PTBumi also has a loan with PTBukit Mutiara, a company related to Rosan Roeslani.
The loan facility has a principal amount of up to $300m and attracts an interest rate of 12% per annum payable quarterly.
Indra Bakrie PTBumi conducted transactions with PTPetromine Energy Trading, a subsidiary of PT Bakrie and Brothers Tbk, a listed entity on the Indonesia Stock Exchange, which is related to the Bakrie family.
Principal subsidiaries and associated company Country of Effective ownership Subsidiary undertakings incorporation Business percentage 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 PT Berau Coal Energy Tbk Indonesia Coal 84.7 PT Berau Coal Tbk Indonesia Coal 76.2 Vallar Investments UK Ltd UK Management 100 100 Services Co 1 Vallar Holding Company Ltd Jersey Holding Co 100 100 Vallar Ltd Jersey Holding Co 100 100 Associated undertaking PT Bumi Resources Tbk Indonesia Coal 29.2 1 The Founder Shares and Securities represent a separate share class in Vallar Holding Company Ltd and do not convey any voting rights therefore do not affect the ownership percentage of Vallar Holding Company Ltd. 32.
Subsequent event On 13 March 2012, PTBerau issued xed rate guaranteed senior notes of $500m, with a term of five years and a coupon rate of 7.25% payable semiannually.
PTBerau used the net proceeds to repay the balance outstanding on its bank loan and will use the remainder of the proceeds to fund capital expenditure and other operating expenses.
