Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report maintenance and integrity of the website maintained by and accounts in accordance with applicable law and JPMAM is, so far as it relates to the Company, the regulations.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial integrity of this website and, accordingly, the auditors accept statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors no responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance accounts since they were initially presented on the website.
with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice The accounts are prepared in accordance with UK legislation, United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
which may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Under Company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a Under applicable law and regulations the Directors are also true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of responsible for preparing a Directors Report and Directors the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing Remuneration Report that comply with that law and those these financial statements, the Directors are required to: regulations.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in consistently: the Directors Report confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed Standards and applicable law, give a true and fair view of and explained in the financial statements.
the assets, liabilities, financial position and return or loss of The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting the Company: and records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys the Directors Report includes a fair review of the transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any development and performance of the business and the time the financial position of the Company and to enable position of the Company, together with a description of the them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud For and on behalf of the Board and other irregularities.
Pamela Idelson Smith The accounts are published on the www.
co. uk Chairman website, which is maintained by the Companys Manager, 16th December 2011 JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM.
The 30 JPMorgan Russian Securities plc.
