Glossary of Terms and Definitions Return to Shareholders Actual Gearing Factor Total return to the shareholder, on a mid-market price to Investments excluding holdings in liquidity funds, expressed mid-market price basis.
as a percentage of shareholders funds.
This shows the effect of gearing on the net asset value if the market value of the Return on Net Assets portfolio were to increase by 100%.
Return on the net asset value per share, on a bid value to bid value basis.
Total Expense Ratio Management fee and all other operating expenses excluding Benchmark Return interest, expressed as a percentage of the average of the Total return on the benchmark, on a mid-market value to month end net assets during the year 2008 and prior years: mid-market value basis, assuming that all dividends received the average of the opening and closing net assets.
were reinvested into the shares of the underlying companies at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
The benchmark Active Position is a recognised index of stocks which should not be taken as The active position shows the difference between the wholly representative of the Companys investment universe.
Companys holding of an individual stock or sector compared The Companys investment strategy does not track this index with that stock or sectors weighting in the Companys and consequently, there may be some divergence between the benchmark index.
A positive number indicates an active Companys performance and that of the benchmark.
decision by the Manager to own more of i. e. be overweight a particular stock or sector versus the benchmark and a negative Share Price Discount Premium to Net Asset Value NAV per Share number indicates a decision to hold less of i. e. be If the share price of an investment trust is lower than the NAV underweight a particular stock or sector versus the per share, the shares are said to be trading at a discount.
discount is shown as a percentage of the NAV per share.
The opposite of a discount is a premium.
It is more common for an investment trusts shares to trade at a discount than at a premium.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 55 Information about the Company Financial Calendar Financial year end 31st October Final results announced December Half year end 30th April Half year results announced June Interim Management Statement announced March September Dividend if any February Annual General Meeting January History Custodian The Company was launched in December 2002 by a placing and offer JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. for subscription.
It is the successor company to The Fleming Russia 125 London Wall Securities Fund Limited, which was a closed-ended investment London EC2Y 5AJ company incorporated in Jersey and listed on the Irish Stock Exchange.
The Company adopted its present name on 1st March 2006.
Registrars Equiniti Limited Company Numbers Reference 2610 Company registration number: 4567378 Aspect House London Stock Exchange number: 3216473 Spencer Road ISIN: GB0032164732 Lancing Bloomberg code: JRS LN West Sussex BN99 6DA Telephone: 0871 384 2030 Market Information Calls to this number cost 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Other The Company lists its shares on the London Stock Exchange.
The providers costs may vary.
Lines open 8.30 a. m. to 5.30 p. m. Monday market price is shown daily in The Scotsman, the Financial Times, The to Friday.
The overseas helpline number is 44 0 121 415 7047.
Times, The Daily Telegraph, The Independent, and on the JPMorgan website at www.
co. uk, where the share price is updated Notifications of changes of address and enquiries regarding share every fifteen minutes during trading hours.
certificates or dividend cheques should be made in writing to the Registrar quoting reference 2610.
Website Registered shareholders can obtain further details on their holdings on www.
co. uk the internet by visiting www.
co. uk Share Transactions Independent Auditor The Companys shares may be dealt in directly through a stockbroker Ernst & Young LLP or professional adviser acting on an investors behalf.
They may also Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor be purchased and held through the J. P. Morgan Investment Account, 1 More London Place J. P. Morgan ISA and J. P. Morgan SIPP.
These products are all available London SE1 2AF on the online wealth manager service, J. P. Morgan WealthManager available at www.
co. uk Brokers Cenkos Securities plc Manager and Company Secretary 6,7, 8 Tokenhouse Yard JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited London EC2R 7AS Companys Registered Office Savings Product Administrators Finsbury Dials For queries on the J. P. Morgan Investment Account, J. P. Morgan ISA and 20 Finsbury Street J. P. Morgan SIPP, see contact details on the back cover of this report.
London EC2Y 9AQ Telephone: 020 7742 6000 Please contact Alison Vincent ACIS for company secretarial and administrative matters at the Companys registered office.
A member of the AIC JPMorgan Russian Securities plc.
