Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the ninth Annual General Meeting of Authority to disapply pre-emption rights on allotment of relevant JPMorgan Russian Securities plc will be held at 20 Moorgate, securities Special Resolution London EC2R 6DA on Friday, 27th January 2012at2.30 p. m. for 11.
THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 10 set out above, the following purposes: the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 570 and 573 of the Act to 1.
To receive the Directors Report, the Annual Accounts and allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 560 of the Auditors Report for the year ended 31st October 2011. the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the Resolution 10 or by way of a sale of Treasury shares as if year ended 31st October 2011.
Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to the 3.
To re-elect Pamela Idelson Smith a Director of the allotment of equity securities for cash up to an aggregate Company.
nominal amount of 27,562, representing approximately 4.
To re-elect Alexander Easton a Director of the Company.
5% of the issued ordinary share capital as at the date of the passing of this resolution at a price of not less than the net 5.
To re-elect George Nianias a Director of the Company.
asset value per share and shall expire upon the expiry of 6.
To re-elect Lysander Tennant a Director of the Company.
the general authority conferred by Resolution 10 above, save that the Company may before such expiry make offers, 7.
To elect Robert Jeens a Director of the Company.
or agreements which would or might require equity 8.
To elect Gillian Nott a Director of the Company.
securities to be allotted after such expiry and so that the Directors of the Company may allot equity securities in 9.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as Auditors to the pursuant of such offers, or agreements as if the power Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their conferred hereby had not expired.
Authority to repurchase the Companys shares Special Resolution Special Business 12.
THAT the Company be generally and, subject as hereinafter appears, unconditionally authorised in accordance with To consider the following resolutions: Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make Authority to allot new shares Ordinary Resolution market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 of the 10.
THAT the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby Act of its issued ordinary shares of 1 pence each in the generally and unconditionally authorised, in substitution of capital of the Company.
any authorities previously granted to the Directors, PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT pursuant to Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers for the Company to allot i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby relevant securities within the meaning of Section 551 of the authorised to be purchased shall be 8,265,832 or if less, Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 27,562, that number of ordinary shares which is equal to representing approximately 5% of the Companys issued 14.99% of the Companys issued share capital as at the ordinary share capital as at the date of the passing of this date of the passing of this Resolution: resolution, provided that this authority shall expire at the ii the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company share will be 1 pence: to be held in 2013 unless renewed at a general meeting prior to such time, save that the Company may before such iii the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary expiry make offers, agreements or arrangements which share shall be an amount equal to the highest of: would or might require relevant securities to be allotted a 105% of the average of the middle market after such expiry and so that the Directors of the Company quotations for an ordinary share taken from and may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such offers, calculated by reference to the London Stock Exchange agreements or arrangements as if the authority conferred Daily Official List for the five business days immediately hereby had not expired.
preceding the day on which the ordinary share is 52 JPMorgan Russian Securities plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Notes purchased: or b the price of the last independent trade: or c the highest current independent bid: These notes should be read in conjunction with the notes on the reverse of the proxy form.
iv any purchase of ordinary shares will be made in the 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint market for cash at prices below the prevailing net asset another person s who need not be a member of the Company to exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at the value per ordinary share as determined by the Meeting.
A member can appoint more than one proxy in relation to Directors at the date following not more than seven the Meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the days before the date of purchase: rights attaching to different shares held by him.
A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but must v the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the attend the Meeting to represent you.
Your proxy could be the Companys Annual General Meeting to be held in 2013 Chairman, another director of the Company or another person who unless the authority is renewed at a general meeting has agreed to attend to represent you.
Details of how to appoint the Chairman or another person s as your proxy or proxies using prior to such time: and the proxy form are set out in the notes to the proxy form.
If a voting vi the Company may make a contract to purchase box on the proxy form is left blank, the proxy or proxies will exercise his their discretion both as to how to vote and whether ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred he they abstain s from voting.
Your proxy must attend the prior to the expiry of such authority and may make a Meeting for your vote to count.
Appointing a proxy or proxies does purchase of shares pursuant to any such contract not preclude you from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
If you attend the Meeting in person, your proxy appointment will automatically be terminated.
Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be lodged in accordance with the instructions given on the proxy form.
You may change your proxy instructions by returning a new proxy Alison Vincent ACIS, for and on behalf of appointment.
The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments also JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, applies in relation to amended instructions.
Any attempt to Secretary terminate or amend a proxy appointment received after the relevant deadline will be disregarded.
Where two or more valid 16th December 2011 separate appointments of proxy are received in respect of the same share in respect of the same Meeting, the one which is last received regardless of its date or the date of its signature shall be treated as replacing and revoking the other or others as regards that share: if the Company is unable to determine which was last received regardless of its date or the date of its signature shall be treated as replacing and revoking the other or others as regards that share: if the Company is unable to determine which was last received, none of them shall be treated as valid in respect of that share.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two business days prior to the Meeting the specified time.
If the Meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the original Meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned Meeting.
If however the Meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two business days prior to the adjourned Meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned Meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
Changes to entries on the register after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of persons to attend or vote at the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 53 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 6.
Entry to the Meeting will be restricted to shareholders and their clear weeks before the Meeting, and in the case of a matter to be proxy or proxies, with guests admitted only by prior arrangement.
included in the business only must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request.
A corporation, which is a shareholder, may appoint an individual s 11.
A copy of this notice has been sent for information only to persons to act as its representative s and to vote in person at the Meeting see instructions given on the proxy form.
In accordance with the who have been nominated by a member to enjoy information rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 a Nominated provisions of the Companies Act 2006, each such representative s may exercise on behalf of the corporation the same powers as the Person.
The rights to appoint a proxy can not be exercised by a Nominated Person: they can only be exercised by the member.
corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the Company, provided that they do not do so in relation to the same However, a Nominated Person may have a right under an agreement between him and the member by whom he was shares.
It is therefore no longer necessary to nominate a designated corporate representative.
Representatives should bring nominated to be appointed as a proxy for the Meeting or to have someone else so appointed.
If a Nominated Person does not have to the meeting evidence of their appointment, including any authority under which it is signed.
such a right or does not wish to exercise it, he may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to 8.
Members that satisfy the thresholds in Section 527 of the the exercise of voting rights.
Companies Act 2006 can require the Company to publish a statement on its website setting out any matter relating to: a the 12.
In accordance with Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors report contents of this notice of meeting, details of the total number of and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or shares in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting b any circumstances connected with an Auditor of the Company rights at the AGM, the total voting rights members are entitled to ceasing to hold office since the previous AGM: which the members exercise at the AGM and, if applicable, any members statements, propose to raise at the meeting.
The Company cannot require the members resolutions or members matters of business received members requesting the publication to pay its expenses.
Any by the Company after the date of this notice will be available on the statement placed on the website must also be sent to the Companys website www.
Companys Auditors no later than the time it makes its statement 13.
The register of interests of the Directors and connected persons in available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the share capital of the Company and the Directors letters of the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been appointment are available for inspection at the Companys required to publish on its website pursuant to this right.
registered office during usual business hours on any weekday 9.
Pursuant to Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted.
It will also be must cause to be answered at the AGM any question relating to the available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
No Director business being dealt with at the AGM which is put by a member has any contract of service with the Company.
attending the meeting except in certain circumstances, including if 14.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this Notice of it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order meeting to communicate with the Company for any purposes other of the meeting or if it would involve the disclosure of confidential than those expressly stated.
As an alternative to completing a hardcopy Form of Proxy Voting 10.
Under Sections 338 and 338A of the 2006 Act, members meeting Direction Form, you can appoint a proxy or proxies electronically the threshold requirements in those sections have the right to by visiting www.
You will need your Voting ID, require the Company: i to give, to members of the Company Task ID and Shareholder Reference Number this is the series of entitled to receive notice of the Meeting, notice of a resolution numbers printed under your name on the Form of Proxy Voting which those members intend to move and which may properly be Direction Form.
Alternatively, if you have already registered with moved at the Meeting: and or ii to include in the business to be Equiniti Limiteds online portfolio service, Shareview, you can dealt with at the Meeting any matter other than a proposed submit your Form of Proxy at www.
Full resolution which may properly be included in the business at the instructions are given on both websites.
A resolution may properly be moved, or a matter properly 16.
As at 15th December 2011 being the latest business day prior to included in the business unless: a in the case of a resolution only the publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of any consists of 55,124,132 Ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution or Therefore the total voting rights in the Company are 55,124,132. otherwise : b it is defamatory of any person: or c it is frivolous or vexatious.
A request made pursuant to this right may be in hard Electronic appointment CREST members copy or electronic form, must identify the resolution of which CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the request, must be authenticated by the person s making it and the CREST Manual.
See further instructions on the proxy form.
must be received by the Company not later than the date that is six 54 JPMorgan Russian Securities plc.
