64 64 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Introduction The principal activity of Jupiter Fund Management plc the Company is to act as a holding company for a group of investment management companies.
The Company and its subsidiaries together the Group offer a range of asset management products.
Through its subsidiaries, the Group acts as investment manager to authorised unit trusts, SICAVs, investment trust companies, pension funds, private clients and other specialist funds.
The Group has offices in the United Kingdom, Bermuda, Germany, Jersey and Singapore.
Jupiter Fund Management plc is a company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales and is the ultimate parent of the Group.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and IFRIC Interpretations IFRS as adopted by the EU and with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently to all periods presented in the financial statements.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis using the historical cost convention modified by the revaluation of certain available for sale financial assets, financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative financial instruments that have been measured at fair value through the statement of comprehensive income and the income statement respectively.
After reviewing the Groups current plans and forecasts and financing arrangements, as well as the current trading activities of the Group, the Directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future.
Basis of accounting The consolidated financial information for the year ended 31 December 2011 includes the consolidated financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries for the years ended 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2011.
The accounting policies that follow set out those policies that have been applied consistently in preparing the financial statements, with no new policies adopted for the year ended 31 December 2011.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed later in this note within the section titled critical accounting estimates, judgements and assumptions.
Operating earnings Operating earnings are defined as net revenue less administrative expenses and do not include investment income and returns, other gains losses, amortisation of intangible assets or exceptional costs.
These are items which the Group considers are not indicative of the ongoing income and costs of its operations.
The Group believes that operating earnings, while not a GAAP measure, gives relevant information on the profitability of the Group and its ongoing operations.
Operating earnings may not be comparable with similarly titled measures used by other companies.
Basis of consolidation i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefit from its activities, generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
Uniform accounting policies are applied across all Group companies and intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Seed capital investments in closed-ended funds, open-ended investment companies and unit trusts are accounted for as subsidiaries, associates or other financial investments depending on the holdings of the Group and on the level of influence and control that the Group exercises.
The transactions and balances of subsidiaries are consolidated in these financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Financial statements 65 65 2.
Accounting policies continued When the Group holds controlling interests in certain mutual funds and similar entities these are accounted for as subsidiaries.
The funds have issued redeemable shares to the Group and external investors who have the ability to put the redeemable shares back to the funds.
In accordance with IAS 32, puttable financial instruments and obligations arising on liquidation, non-controlling interests in redeemable shares issued by these funds accounted for as subsidiaries represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets that is not held by the Group or its subsidiaries and are included within other gains losses in the income statement and as liabilities at fair value through profit or loss in the balance sheet.
This is due to the ability of the external shareholders in these funds to put the shares back to the funds.
Such instruments are liabilities of the Group in accordance with IAS 32, Financial instruments: presentation.
ii Associates Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies and are usually accompanied with a shareholding between 20 per cent.
Investments that are held as part of the Groups investment portfolio in mutual funds and similar entities are carried in the balance sheet at fair value even though the Group may have significant influence over those companies as permitted by IAS 28, Investment in Associates, with changes in fair value recognised in the consolidated income statement.
The fair value of investments in associates is determined by reference to the quoted bid prices or net asset value of the underlying investments at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
The Group has no investment in associates other than these and, therefore, no associates are currently equity accounted.
Foreign currency i Functional and presentational currency Items included in the financial information of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is both the Companys functional and presentational currency as well as the currency in which the majority of the Groups revenue streams, assets and liabilities are denominated.
ii Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the consolidated income statement within administrative expenses.
Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets and liabilities are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss.
Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets and liabilities such as equities held at fair value through profit or loss are recognised in the consolidated income statement as part of other gains losses.
iii Group companies The results and financial position of all Group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: income and expenses for each consolidated income statement are translated at average exchange rates: and all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of other comprehensive income.
Revenue recognition i Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the provision of investment management services.
Revenue is shown net of any value added tax, rebates and discounts.
Revenue primarily consists of the following: Management fees, recognised in the period in which the service is performed and calculated as a percentage of net fund assets managed, in accordance with individual management agreements.
Performance fees, calculated as a percentage of the appreciation in the net asset value of a fund above a defined hurdle.
These are recognised when the fee amount can be estimated reliably and it is probable that the fee will be receivable.
Such fees are normally recognised at the end of the relevant performance period.
Initial charges on sales of unit trusts are deferred and amortised over the anticipated period of the provision of investment management services.
Initial charges also include income from the sale of units and profits earned on dealing within the unit trust managers box, calculated as the difference between the cost of purchasing redeemed units at cancellation prices and reselling them at creation prices.
Such box profits are recognised when the related transaction occurs.
ii Interest on cash and cash equivalents is recognised on an accruals basis using the effective interest rate method.
iii Dividend income from investments is recognised on the date when shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
iv Gains and losses on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are recognised in the income statement within other gains losses.
v Gains and losses on revaluation of available for sale investments are initially recognised through the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Upon disposal, any gain or loss previously taken through other comprehensive income is reversed and the full gain or loss since purchase, after any impairment charge previously recognised, is reclassified to the consolidated income statement.
Accounting policies continued Fee and commission expenses Fee and commission expenses paid to third parties for ongoing services under distribution agreements are charged to the income statement over the period in which the service is expected to be provided.
The services provided include the provision of access to a basket of fund products, information on financial products, promotional materials, ongoing services to customers and transaction processing.
Net revenue is stated after fees and commission expenses to intermediaries for ongoing services under distribution agreements.
Other gains losses Other gains losses comprise gains and losses on: investments in seed capital held at fair value where gains losses are recognised in profit or loss: and total return swap contracts held to hedge against losses on some of the Groups seed capital investments.
Finance expense Interest payable is charged on an accruals basis using the effective interest method.
Debt issue costs relating to the raising of loans and borrowings are deducted from the carrying value of the loans and borrowings and are amortised over the term of the loan using the effective interest method.
Finance costs, reported within finance expense, include ancillary charges for commitment fees, non-utilisation fees and margin reduction fees that are charged as incurred.
Dividends on Tier 2 preference shares are treated as a finance expense following the treatment of these shares as debt rather than equity.
Employee benefits i Pension costs The Group provides employees with post-retirement benefits through defined contribution schemes.
Contributions made by the Group are charged to the consolidated income statement as they become payable in accordance with the rules of the schemes.
ii Incentive plans The Group recognises a provision for bonuses and incentive schemes, based on a formula that takes into consideration the operating profitability of the Group.
At the end of each financial year, the Group recognises a liability for bonuses accrued but not yet paid, in respect of service attributable to that year.
Retention bonus expense is recognised in the income statement over the appropriate performance and vesting period, with a corresponding liability or equity being recognised in the Groups balance sheet.
In certain periods prior to the Groups Listing, the Group made retention awards to employees by making payments to the Groups employee benefit trust, which were used to buy fund units on behalf of the employee.
These transactions do not constitute share-based payments.
The assets, which vest after the satisfaction of certain conditions, are recognised on the Groups balance sheet until vesting.
The expense is recognised in the income statement over the appropriate performance and vesting period.
Share-based payment transactions The Group engages in share-based payment transactions in respect of services receivable from certain employees, by granting the right to acquire either shares or options over shares, subject to certain vesting conditions.
These have been accounted for as equity settled share-based payments.
The difference between the fair value of the employee services received in respect of the shares or share options granted and the price payable is recognised as an expense over the appropriate performance and vesting period.
The corresponding credit is recognised in retained earnings within total equity.
The fair value of services is calculated using the market value on the date of award, discounted for dividends foregone over the holding period of the award, and is adjusted for expected and actual levels of vesting.
Where options lapse they are credited to the income statement in the year in which they lapse.
The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group is treated as a capital contribution.
The fair value of employee services received, measured by reference to the grant date fair value, is recognised over the vesting period as an increase to the investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit to equity in the Company financial statements.
Business combinations Business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method acquisition accounting.
The cost of a business combination is the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, equity instruments issued by the acquirer and any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
This cost is allocated at the acquisition date by recognising the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that satisfy the recognition criteria, at their fair values at that date.
The acquisition date is the date on which the acquirer effectively obtains control of the acquiree.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Financial statements 67 67 2.
Accounting policies continued Goodwill Goodwill arising on acquisitions, being the excess of the cost of a business combination over the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, is capitalised in the consolidated balance sheet.
The carrying value of goodwill is cost less provision for impairment.
The carrying value of goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment or more frequently if any indicators of impairment arise.
Impairment Assets that have an indefinite useful life for example, goodwill are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
Non-financial assets other than goodwill that suffered impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed.
Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost.
The intangible assets currently recognised by the Group are its trade name, individual management contracts and software.
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is the fair value as at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any provision for impairment.
In both cases, the useful lives are assessed as being finite and they are, therefore, amortised over their useful economic lives and assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication of impairment.
The amortisation period and the amortisation method for these assets is reviewed at least at each financial year end.
The useful economic lives of the trade name and individual management contracts acquired are currently assessed as a maximum of ten years and seven years, respectively.
The amortisation expense on intangible assets with finite lives is recognised in the consolidated income statement on a straight line basis.
Computer software licences acquired are capitalised at the cost incurred to bring the software into use and are amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives, which are estimated as being between three and five years.
Costs associated with developing or maintaining computer software programs that do not meet the capitalisation criteria under IAS 38 are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Gains and losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset are measured as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying value of the asset.
The difference is then recognised in the income statement.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the assets.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other repair and maintenance expenditures are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they were incurred.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight line basis to allocate the cost of each asset over its estimated useful lives as follows: i Leasehold property improvements Shorter of 10 years and the remaining period of the lease ii Office furniture and equipment 3-5 years iii Motor vehicles 4 years The assets useful economic lives and residual values are reviewed at each financial period end and adjusted if appropriate.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal.
Any gain or loss arising on the disposal of the asset, calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item, is included in the income statement in the year the item is sold or retired.
Financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes party to the contractual provisions of an instrument, at fair value adjusted for transaction costs, except for financial assets classified as at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL where transaction costs are immediately recognised in the income statement.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the assets have expired or where they have been transferred and the Group has also transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the obligation under the liability has been discharged, cancelled or has expired.
Accounting policies continued Financial assets Financial assets are classified as financial assets as at FVTPL held for trading or designated as financial assets at FVTPL, loans and receivables and available for sale financial assets.
The classification adopted by the Group depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired and is determined at initial recognition.
The Groups financial assets include cash and short term deposits, trade and other receivables, quoted and unquoted seed capital investments and derivative financial instruments that are not designated as hedges.
i Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at FVTPL include investments in closed ended funds, open ended investment companies and unit trusts which are designated as fair value through profit or loss, as they are managed and evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with documented strategy.
A financial asset is classified in this category if it has been acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term.
This category also includes those derivative financial instruments entered into by the Group.
Financial assets at FVTPL are carried at fair value with gains and losses recognised in the income statement within other gains losses in the period in which they arise.
The fair value of financial instruments that are actively traded in organised financial markets is determined by reference to quoted market bid prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
Assets in this category are classified as current assets.
ii Loans and receivables Loans and receivables, including loans to employees, are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except where they have maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
These are classified as non-current assets.
Loans and receivables are included within trade and other receivables in the balance sheet.
They are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against trade receivables and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited in the income statement.
iii Available for sale investments Available for sale investments are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management actively intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in other comprehensive income until the security is disposed of or is impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified to the income statement for the accounting period.
Where a fall in the value of an equity investment is deemed to be significant or prolonged, this is considered an indication of impairment under IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
In such an event, the investment is written down to fair value and the amounts previously recognised in equity in respect of market value movement on the investment are recognised in the income statement as an impairment charge.
Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement.
For unquoted available for sale investments, the Group establishes fair value using valuation techniques such as recent arms length market transactions, reference to current fair value of another instrument that is substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis or other valuation models.
Financial liabilities Financial liabilities within the scope of IAS 39 are classified as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, loans and borrowings or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate.
The Group determines the classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition.
Financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and in the case of loans and borrowings, net of directly attributable transaction costs.
The Groups financial liabilities include trade and other payables, loans and borrowings and derivative financial instruments.
i Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently remeasured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs and any discount or premium on settlement.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability has been discharged, cancelled or has expired.
Certain share awards made to employees include conditions which, prior to them vesting, may require the Group to repurchase the shares at nominal value.
Accordingly, these amounts are shown within trade and other payables.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Financial statements 69 69 2.
Accounting policies continued ii Loans and borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
iii Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss includes financial liabilities held for trading and financial liabilities designated upon initial recognition at fair value through profit or loss.
Derivative financial instruments The Group has entered into a total return swap contract over part of its investment portfolio.
Gains or losses on the swap are recognised in the income statement in accordance with the fair value movements in the swap over the period of the contract.
At the balance sheet date, any cash settlement due from, or to, the counterparty is recorded within current assets or current liabilities as appropriate.
The Group has also entered into interest rate swap contracts in order to reduce its exposure to movements in interest rates on its bank facility loan exposure.
Gains or losses on such contracts are recognised within finance expense in the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash amounts represent cash in hand and short-term deposits.
Cash equivalents are short-term deposits which have an original maturity of 90 days or less.
Overdrafts are included within trade and other payables.
Provisions Provisions which are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount, are recognised when: the Group has a present obligation, as a result of a past event: it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation: and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Taxation The Group provides for current tax according to the tax laws of each jurisdiction in which it operates, using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
It establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary differences at the financial position date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all temporary differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised when it is considered recoverable and, therefore, recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as probable that there will be suitable taxable profits against which to recover carried forward tax losses and from which the future reversal of underlying temporary differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the temporary differences are expected to reverse based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Current and deferred tax relating to items recognised in other comprehensive income is recognised in other comprehensive income and not in the income statement.
Deferred tax that has arisen in respect of equity items is recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
Expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of value added tax, except where this tax is not recoverable, in which case the value added tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of expenses.
Receivables and payables are stated with the amount of value added tax included.
The net amount of value added tax recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the balance sheet.
Operating leases Operating leases are leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset.
All of the Groups leases are operating leases and rental payments are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Accounting policies continued Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new ordinary shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Own shares The Group operates an Employee Benefit Trust for the purpose of satisfying certain retention awards to employees.
The holdings of this trust include certain shares that have not vested unconditionally in employees of the Group.
These shares are classified as own shares.
They are held for the short term to meet future award requirements and are recorded, at cost, as own shares.
Dividend recognition Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognised in the accounting period in which the dividends are paid and, in the case of final dividends, when these are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are those significant items which are required to be separately disclosed due to their size or incidence in order to enable a better understanding of the Groups financial performance.
Critical accounting estimates, judgements and assumptions The preparation of the financial information requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities.
If in the future such estimates and assumptions, which are based on managements best judgement at the date of preparation of the financial information, deviate from actual circumstances, the original estimates and assumptions will be modified as appropriate in the period in which the circumstances change.
The areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the Group financial statements are discussed below.
i Impairment of goodwill Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
For this purpose, management prepares a calculation of the recoverable amount of the asset.
The carrying amount of goodwill is detailed in the goodwill note.
ii Impairment of acquired intangibles An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that an asset in use may be impaired.
If any such indication exists and the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount at that time, then the assets are written down to their recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is measured as the greater of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
iii Impairment of available for sale financial investments Available for sale financial assets are reviewed for impairment in accordance with the guidance on impairment set out in IAS 39.
In specific cases, where a quoted market price or fair value is not available, significant judgement is exercised by management in determining the extent of impairment of available for sale financial assets.
In making this judgement, the Group evaluates, among other factors, the duration and extent to which the fair value of an investment is less than its cost, as well as the financial health of and business outlook for the investee, including factors such as industry and sector performance and operational and financing cash flow.
iv Accrued income and expenses Accrued income and expenses are based on latest available information and therefore involve a degree of estimation.
The most significant expense accruals at year end relate to bonus and other variable remuneration scheme costs.
v Share-based payments The charge to the income statement in respect of share based payments is calculated using assumptions including estimation of the number of eligible employees leaving the Group and the number of employees satisfying the relevant performance conditions.
These estimates are reviewed regularly and the charge to the income statement is adjusted appropriately.
At a minimum, this is adjusted at the end of the relevant scheme.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Financial statements 71 71 2.
Accounting policies continued New standards and interpretations The Group has continued to apply the accounting policies used for its 2010 financial statements.
Standards not affecting the reported results nor the financial position The following new and revised standards and interpretations have been adopted in the current year.
Their adoption has not had any significant impact on amounts reported in the financial statements: Various Annual improvements to IFRSs Issued by IASB in May 2010 IAS 24 revised Related Party Disclosures Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Transfers of Financial Assets IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments New standards and interpretations not applied The International Accounting Standards Board and IFRS Interpretations Committee have issued number of new accounting standards, amendments to existing standards and interpretations.
The following new standards are not applicable to these financial statements but are expected to have an impact when they become effective.
The Group plans to apply these standards in the reporting period in which they become effective.
Not yet endorsed Summary Effective date IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Proposes revised measurement and classification criteria for 1 January 2015 financial assets.
IFRS 10 Consolidated Defines the principle of control, and establishes control as the 1 January 2013 Financial Statements basis for consolidation in the preparation of consolidated financial statements.
IAS 27 revised Separate Financial Statements IFRS 12 Disclosures of Includes the disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in 1 January 2013 Interests in Other Entities other entities, such as joint arrangements, associates and other off balance sheet vehicles.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Aims to improve consistency and reduce complexity by providing 1 January 2013 Measurement a precise definition of fair value and a single source of fair value measurement and disclosure requirements for use across IFRSs.
IAS 1 revised Presentation Revise the way other comprehensive income is presented: 1 July 2012 of Items of Other requiring separate subtotals for those elements which may be Comprehensive Income recycled to the income statement and those elements that will not.
The Group is assessing the impact of the above standards on the Groups future financial statements.
Restatement of revenue and fee and commission expenses The financial statements include a prior period restatement in relation to the classification of revenue and fee and commission expenses.
This restatement does not have a cash effect and does not impact net revenue, profit for the financial year attributable to the owners of the parent, earnings per share or total equity.
In preparing the current year financial statements, the Directors have reviewed the substance of contractual arrangements in relation to rebates, which are netted off against revenue, and fee and commission expenses, which are shown separately.
As a result of this review, certain items in relation to the prior year have been reclassified between revenue and fee and commission expenses to ensure consistency with the current year presentation.
The impact of the prior year restatement is shown below: As previously Difference As restated reported m m m Revenue 271.1 47.7 318.8 Fees and commission expenses 40.6 47.7 88.3 Net revenue 230.5 230.5 4.
Segmental reporting The Group operates only as a single operating segment, investment management.
The Group acts as an investment manager to authorised unit trusts, SICAVs, investment trusts, pension funds, private clients, hedge funds and other specialist funds and has offices in the United Kingdom, Bermuda, Germany, Jersey, and Singapore.
The Group offers different fund products through different distribution channels.
All financial, business and strategic decisions are made centrally by the Board of Directors the Board, which determines the key performance indicators of the Group.
Information is reported to the chief operating decision maker, the Board, on a single segment basis.
While the Group has the ability to analyse its underlying information in different ways, this information is not used by the Board to make decisions on an aggregated basis.
The information used to allocate resources and assess performance is reviewed for the Group as a whole.
On this basis, the Group considers itself to be a singlesegment investment management business.
Management monitors the operating earnings of its operating segment for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment.
Geographical information 2011 2010 Net revenue by location of clients m m UK 223.6 208.2 Continental Europe 18.3 15.5 Bermuda 5.6 6.6 Rest of the world 1.0 0.2 Total net revenue by location 248.5 230.5 The net revenue information above is based on the location of the customer.
The Group did not have any single customer or distributor contributing more than 10 per cent.
of net revenues during the year 2010: nil.
2011 2010 Non-current assets by domicile m m UK 463.6 495.8 Bermuda 0.1 463.6 495.9 Financial instruments 24.6 20.2 Deferred tax assets 11.3 11.0 Total non-current assets 499.5 527.1 Jupiter Fund Management plc Financial statements 73 73 5.
Net revenue Restated 2011 2010 m m Management fees 316.8 286.3 Initial charges and commissions 24.8 26.8 Performance fees 5.3 5.7 Fees and commission expense 98.4 88.3 Total net revenue 248.5 230.5 6.
Administrative expenses The following items have been included in administrative expenses: 2011 2010 m m Staff costs Note 8 85.1 79.4 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment Note 16 0.6 1.4 Auditors remuneration see below 0.8 0.9 Operating lease rentals for land and buildings 1.9 2.7 Other operating expenses 35.4 30.7 Total administrative expenses 123.8 115.1 2011 2010 Auditors remuneration m m Fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 0.1 0.2 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and their associates for other services to the Group Audit of the Companys subsidiaries 0.3 0.2 Total audit fees 0.4 0.4 Other services pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.2 Tax services 0.1 0.1 Other services 0.2 1.2 Total non-audit fees 0.4 1.5 Total auditors remuneration 0.8 1.9 In the prior year the following amounts for auditors remuneration were included in exceptional costs and share premium: Other services included in exceptional costs 0.6 Other services included within share premium account 0.4 Included outside of administrative expenses 1.0 In 2010, other services included work in relation to the Groups Listing.
Exceptional costs There were no costs arising in 2011 which the Group consider to be exceptional.
During 2010, the Group recognised two exceptional costs, being a charge of 1.6m relating to expenses associated with the Listing and a charge for the contribution of 5.2m made by the Group to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS second interim levy for 2010 11.
The FSCS continues to look into the final resolution of this levy, but no further charge or credit has yet been announced.
Staff costs 2011 2010 m m Wages and salaries 59.3 61.3 Share-based payments Note 27 12.7 7.8 Social security costs 8.8 6.8 Pension costs 3.6 3.5 Redundancy costs 0.7 85.1 79.4 The Group contributes to a number of defined contribution pension schemes for the benefit of its employees.
Contributions in respect of the UK employees at the rate of 15 per cent.
of gross salary are made into the Jupiter Pension Scheme whose financial statements are available from the trustees at the registered office of the Company.
No liability is included in the balance sheet as no obligations were outstanding at the balance sheet date.
The monthly average number of persons employed by the Group during the period, including executive Directors, by activity: 2011 2010 Fund management 70 65 Distribution and marketing 74 73 Infrastructure and operations 265 306 409 444 Information regarding Directors emoluments is given in the Remuneration Report.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Financial statements 75 75 9.
Finance income 2011 2010 m m Interest on bank deposits 0.8 0.8 Dividend income 0.2 0.1 1.0 0.9 10.
Finance expense 2011 2010 m m Interest payable on bank borrowings 9.5 19.9 Amortisation of debt issue costs Note 22 2.5 2.3 Fair value movement on interest rate swaps 1.6 9.6 Interest payable on interest rate swaps 0.4 Other finance costs 0.3 0.1 Interest on Preferred Finance Securities 10.9 Loan amendment costs 3.8 Dividends on Tier 2 preference shares treated as debt 1.6 14.3 29.0 During the year, 140.0m 2010: 80.0m of the senior debt was repaid.
This resulted in an acceleration of 1.6m 2010: 1.2m in the amortisation of the debt issue costs.
Interest rate swaps In November 2010, the Group entered into two interest rate swaps, both with a notional value of 35.0m with interest settling quarterly.
One is for a period of three years paying a fixed interest rate of 1.33 per cent.
the other is for a period of four years paying a fixed interest rate of 1.6175 per cent.
In 2007, the Group entered into a 300m amortising interest rate swap, at an interest rate of 6.2475 per cent.
From 2009 until maturity in August 2010 the notional amount of the swap was 212.5m.
Finance expense relating to pre-Listing structure Prior to the Listing, the Group was partially funded by Preferred Finance Securities PFS and Tier 2 preference shares.
These were treated as debt instruments in the financial statements.
The PFS accrued interest at 10 per cent.
per annum, compounding on 31 March each year if no interest had been paid.
The Tier 2 preference shares carried the right to a fixed preferential dividend of 10 per cent.
per annum of the issue price of 1 per share, compounding if no payment had been made.
Prior to the Listing the PFS were repaid and the Tier 2 preference shares were converted to ordinary and deferred shares.
Income tax expense 2011 2010 m m Current taxation UK corporation tax Tax on profits for the year 33.3 21.4 Adjustment in respect of prior years 0.3 33.3 21.1 Deferred taxation Origination and reversal of temporary differences 13.9 10.6 Impact of changes in corporation tax rate 1.7 Adjustment in respect of prior years 1.2 0.6 Total deferred tax Note 18 14.4 11.2 18.9 9.9 Total tax expense The weighted average UK corporation tax rate for the year ended 31 December 2011 was 26.5 per cent.
The tax charge in the year is higher 2010: lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK and the differences are explained below: 2011 2010 Factors affecting tax expense for the period m m Profit before taxation 70.3 42.4 Taxation at the standard corporation tax rate 2011: 26.5 per cent.
18.6 11.9 Non-taxable income 0.5 0.3 Disallowable expenses 0.8 2.0 Other permanent differences 0.5 1.9 Adjustment to current tax charge in respect of prior years 0.3 Adjustment to deferred tax charge in respect of prior years 1.2 0.6 Impact of tax rate change on deferred tax balances 1.7 0.9 Total tax expense 18.9 9.9 Jupiter Fund Management plc Financial statements 77 77 12.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share EPS is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, less the weighted average number of own shares held.
Diluted EPS is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during that year plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares.
In 2010, the profit for the year was reduced by the catch up entitlement of 10.4m on the Tier 1 preference share conversion at Listing.
2011 2010 Net profit attributable to owners of the parent m m Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 51.4 32.5 Deduction of the catch up entitlement of 10.4m on the Tier 1 preference share conversion at Listing in 2010 10.4 Net profit attributable to owners of the parent 51.4 22.1 Since the Listing, the number of ordinary shares in issue has been 457.7m.
For the purposes of calculating EPS, the share capital of the parent is calculated as the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue over the years reported.
2010 calculations take retrospective account of the restructuring of the Companys share capital at Listing.
The weighted average number of ordinary shares during the year used for the purposes of calculating EPS is as follows: 2011 2010 Number Number Weighted average number of shares m m Issued share capital 457.7 368.7 Less own shares held 129.1 164.2 Weighted average number of ordinary shares or the purpose of basic EPS 328.6 204.5 Add back weighted average number of dilutive shares 13.2 88.2 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted EPS 341.8 292.7 The weighted average number of own shares is deducted from the weighted average number of ordinary shares.
Own shares are shares held in an Employee Benefit Trust EBT for the benefit of employees under the vesting, lock-in and other incentive arrangements in place.
Dividends 2011 2010 m m 21.5 Final dividend 2010 4.7p per ordinary share Interim dividend 2011 2.5p per ordinary share 11.4 32.9 Dividends of 1.2m 2010: nil were paid on shares held in the EBT, beneficially owned by the Company.
Net dividends paid were therefore 31.7m.
A final dividend for 2011 of 5.3p per share 2010: 4.7p will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 16 May 2012 and will be accounted for in 2012.
Goodwill On 19 June 2007, the Group acquired the entire share capital of Knightsbridge Asset Management Limited formerly Comasman Limited which gave rise to a goodwill asset being recognised.
2011 2010 m m Goodwill 341.2 341.2 341.2 341.2 No additional goodwill was recognised in the year 2010: nil.
The Group has determined that it has a single cash generating unit CGU for the purpose of assessing the carrying value of goodwill.
Goodwill is subject to an annual impairment review.
This recoverable amount was based on a fair value less costs to sell calculation using the Companys year end share price.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Financial statements 79 79 15.
Intangible assets In 2007, the Group acquired the entire share capital of Knightsbridge Asset Management Limited formerly Comasman Limited.
This acquisition gave rise to the recognition of intangible assets relating to investment management contracts and trade name of the Group.
The other intangible assets relate to computer software.
The Directors have reviewed the intangible assets as at 31 December 2011 and have concluded there are no indicators of impairment.
Financial instruments held at fair value Financial instruments held at fair value consist of seed capital investments and derivatives.
Where the Group holds 20-50 per cent.
of the share capital, the investment is classified as an investment in associate.
Details on the seed capital investments where the Group holds more than 20 per cent.
are given below: Percentage of ordinary shares held Name Country of incorporation Principal activities 2011 2010 Jupiter Global Fund SICAV: Asia Pacific Luxembourg SICAV sub-fund 49 54 Jupiter Global Emerging Markets Fund England & Wales Unit trust 27 30 Alon Technology Ventures Ltd British Virgin Islands Investment company 40 40 The Group used the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments: Jupiter Fund Management plc Financial statements 81 81 17.
Financial instruments held at fair value continued Level 1: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
As at 31 December 2011, the Group held the following financial instruments measured at fair value: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 2011 m m m m Available for sale investments 24.6 24.6 Investments in associates 13.3 0.3 13.6 Financial assets at FVTPL 25.5 25.5 Derivative financial instruments 0.6 0.6 38.8 0.3 24.6 63.1 As at 31 December 2010, the Group held the following financial instruments measured at fair value: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 2010 m m m m Available for sale investments 20.2 20.2 Investments in associates 13.2 0.4 13.6 Financial assets at FVTPL 45.3 45.3 Derivative financial instruments 0.9 0.9 58.5 1.3 20.2 80.0 There were no transfers between Levels in either 2011 or 2010.
The table below reconciles the carrying values of Level 3 financial instruments at the beginning and end of the year: 2011 2010 m m At 1 January 20.2 13.2 Purchases 3.3 Disposals 3.3 Gains recognised in other comprehensive income 1.1 10.3 At 31 December 24.6 20.2 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 82 82 17.
Financial instruments held at fair value continued The Level 3 financial instruments relate to investments in Cofunds Holdings Limited Cofunds and iO Adria Limited formerly Jupiter Adria Limited.
Both are available for sale investments.
At 31 December 2011 and 2010, the Group held 9.68 per cent.
of the A ordinary shares in Cofunds.
During the year no A ordinary shares were disposed of 2010: 13,186,760.
At 31 December 2011, the Group revalued the holding and a 1.7m 2010: 10.3m gain was recognised in other comprehensive income.
During 2011, the Group invested in iO Adria Limited, a company investing in Croatian property.
At year end the Group revalued the holding and a 0.6m loss was recognised in other comprehensive income.
Calculation of fair value Available for sale investments The fair value is based on an internally calculated value of the entity.
This takes into account factors such as expected future cash flows or the net assets of the investment.
Liquidity discounts are included where considered relevant.
Investments in associates and financial assets at FVTPL These relate to seed capital investments in funds and investments made through a subsidiary undertaking, Jupiter Investment Management Group Limited.
The fair value of quoted equity shares classified as Level 1 is determined by reference to published price quotations in an active market.
Investments classified as Level 2 are units in unquoted investment funds.
The fair value of a funds unit is determined to be a proportion of the net asset value of the fund.
If there are significant liquidity discounts applied e. g. when the funds have redemption gates or lock-up periods, the effect of the adjustments will be to put the fair value in Level 3.
There are no such discounts applied at 31 December 2011 or 2010.
Derivative financial instruments The Group does not trade in derivatives.
Derivatives are held to hedge specific exposures and have maturities designed to match the exposures they are hedging.
The derivatives are held at fair value which represents the price to exit the instruments at the balance sheet date.
Movements in the fair value are included in the income statement.
Interest rate swaps The Group uses interest rate swaps to manage its exposure to interest rate movements on its interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
The fair value of these contracts is recorded in the balance sheet and is determined by discounting future cash flows at the prevailing market rates at the balance sheet date.
No contracts are designated as hedging instruments, as defined in IAS 39, and consequently all changes in fair value are taken to the income statement within finance expense.
Further information on the interest rate swaps is included in Note 10.
Total return swaps The Group has entered into four total return swap arrangements to hedge certain of its seed capital investments.
Gains and losses are recognised and settled monthly in accordance with the terms of the contract.
At 31 December 2011, the notional value of the swaps was 32.5m 2010: 38.7m.
The settlement amount at 31 December 2011 was 39,000 2010: 1.6m and is included within trade and other payables.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Financial statements 83 83 18.
Deferred tax Analysis of the Groups deferred tax assets and liabilities is shown below: Deferred ShareIntangible Retention income Debt issue based Less than More than assets bonus expense costs payments Other one year one year Total m m m m m m m m m Assets 2.2 5.0 3.2 0.6 11.0 11.0 Liabilities 38.0 1.1 0.5 39.6 39.6 At 31 December 2010 38.0 2.2 5.0 1.1 3.2 0.1 28.6 28.6 0.9 3.7 5.9 0.8 3.9 7.4 11.3 Assets Liabilities 25.4 0.4 9.9 15.9 25.8 At 31 December 2011 25.4 0.9 3.7 0.4 5.9 0.8 6.0 8.5 14.5 Movements in temporary differences between the balance sheet dates have been reflected in the income statement and the statement of changes in equity as follows: Deferred ShareIntangible Interest Retention income Debt issue based assets costs bonus expense costs payments Other Total m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2010 50.0 0.6 2.0 5.8 1.8 2.0 41.4 Credited charged to the income statement 12.0 0.6 0.2 0.8 0.7 1.6 1.9 11.2 Credited to equity 1.6 1.6 At 31 December 2010 38.0 2.2 5.0 1.1 3.2 0.1 28.6 Credited charged to the income statement 12.6 1.3 1.3 0.7 3.0 0.7 14.4 Charged to equity 0.3 0.3 At 31 December 2011 25.4 0.9 3.7 0.4 5.9 0.8 14.5 The other deferred tax assets at 31 December 2011 relate to differences between depreciation and capital allowances and deferred tax on the fair value of the interest rate swaps.
In the year ended 31 December 2011, subsidiaries of the Group have unused capital tax losses for which no deferred income tax asset has been recognised in the balance sheet amounting to nil 2010: nil.
As the year end is after substantive enactment date 20 July 2010 of the Finance Act 2010 and after the substantive enactment dates 29 March 2011 and 5 July 2011 of the March 2011 UK Budget Statement changes, these financial statements account for the change in tax rate from 28 per cent.
with effect from 1 April 2011 and the change in tax rate from 26 per cent.
As a result, the rate at which deferred tax is calculated has changed and deferred tax is measured at 25 per cent.
or a blended rate of 26 per cent.
depending on when the deferred tax is expected to unwind.
Consequently within the analysis of the deferred tax charge and the tax reconciliation, there is a separate line item disclosing the impact of the change in tax rate on the opening deferred tax balances.
A number of further changes to the UK corporation tax system have been announced but not yet enacted including a reduction in the corporation tax rate by 1 per cent.
These proposed reductions are expected to be enacted separately each year.
As the future changes from 1 April 2012 have not been substantially enacted at the balance sheet date, their impact is not included in the closing deferred tax balances.
Trade and other receivables 2011 2010 Current m m Trade receivables 57.4 83.1 Prepayments and accrued income 14.3 13.6 Deferred acquisition and commission costs 6.9 13.8 78.6 110.5 Non-current Deferred acquisition and commission costs 17.3 11.2 17.3 11.2 At 31 December 2011, cash collateral of 0.6m 2010: nil was pledged against a decrease in the fair value of the interest rate swaps.
This amount has been included within trade receivables in the note above.
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally collected within four working days.
An analysis of the ageing profile of trade receivables is disclosed in Note 28.
Cash and cash equivalents 2011 2010 m m Cash at bank and in hand 17.2 24.1 Short-term deposits 132.5 195.8 Cash held by EBT and seed capital subsidiaries 1.6 0.4 Cash and cash equivalents per the balance sheet 151.3 220.3 Overdraft Note 21 0.9 Cash and cash equivalents for purposes of the statement of cash flows 150.4 220.3 Cash at bank earns interest based at the current prevailing daily bank rates.
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months, depending on the forecast cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
The overdraft in 2011 arose during the ordinary course of business and relates to a settlement timing difference over the year end.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Financial statements 85 85 21.
Trade and other payables 2011 2010 Current m m Trade payables 67.5 82.1 Accruals 42.0 39.5 Deferred income 12.5 27.0 Social security and other taxes 7.5 4.5 Due to employees in respect of share and option awards 1.9 Overdraft 0.9 Other payables 0.1 17.5 132.4 170.6 Due to employees relates to conditions attached to some of the ordinary shares and options over ordinary shares.
In certain circumstances these require the Group to repurchase the instruments at 2p, being the original issue cost.
At 31 December 2011, 82.5m 2010: 130.2m shares and 14.8m options were subject to these restrictions.
In 2010 these were shown within Note 22 Loans and borrowings.
Loans and borrowings 2011 2010 m m Bank loan 141.4 278.9 Due to employees in respect of share awards 2.6 141.4 281.5 In 2011, Due to employees in respect of share awards is shown in Note 21 Trade and other payables.
The Group has a syndicated loan which is repayable on or before 19 June 2015.
The loan is secured by a charge over the assets of a subsidiary company, Jupiter Asset Management Group Limited.
The restrictions which arise under the terms of the loan facility prevent intercompany loans between certain subsidiaries and prohibit assets being sold, leased or disposed of other than in the ordinary course of business.
As shown below, the carrying value of the loan is disclosed net of unamortised debt issue costs which were capitalised on issue.
2011 2010 m m Bank loan 143.0 283.0 Unamortised debt issue costs Note 10 1.6 4.1 141.4 278.9 The movement on the carrying value of the loan is shown below: 2011 2010 m m At 1 January 278.9 356.6 Voluntary prepayments made in the year 140.0 80.0 Amortisation of debt issue costs Note 10 2.5 2.3 At 31 December 141.4 278.9 Interest was payable at a rate per annum of three month LIBOR plus a margin of 2.125 per cent.
until the Listing and is now payable at a rate per annum of 3 month LIBOR plus a margin of 3.75 per cent.
The Group has two interest rate swaps in place to hedge its floating rate exposure.
Details on these are given in Note 10 Finance expense.
Under the facility agreement, the Group also has access to a revolving credit facility of 10m.
This was not utilised during the year.
Provisions 2011 2010 m m At 1 January 2.0 Charged to income statement 0.4 2.0 Utilisation 2.4 At 31 December 2.0 The balance at 1 January 2011 related to the Groups office in West Malling.
In 2010, the Group exercised a break clause on the lease, resulting in expiry of the lease in 2011.
In 2010 the Group provided for onerous lease and dilapidation costs of 2.0m as the office space was underutilised throughout 2011.
During 2011, a further 0.4m of costs were incurred.
All expected payments had been settled by 31 December 2011.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Financial statements 87 87 24.
Share capital 2011 2010 Issued, allotted, called-up and fully paid m m 457.7m ordinary shares of 2p each 9.2 9.2 9.2 9.2 25.
Reserves 2011 2010 i Share premium m m At 1 January 255.7 Arising on issue of ordinary shares on acquisition of PFS 48.4 Arising on issue of ordinary shares to new subscribers 217.6 Expenses arising on issue of equity shares 10.3 Cancelled in year and transferred to retained earnings 255.7 At 31 December 255.7 The share premium account represented amounts received on the issue of share capital in excess of nominal value and was not a distributable reserve.
On 9 June 2011, the Companys share premium reserve was, with the sanction of the Court, cancelled and an amount of 255.7m was transferred to a distributable reserve.
2011 2010 ii Capital redemption reserve m m At 1 January 54.1 Created in the year on cancellation of deferred shares 54.1 Cancelled in the year and transferred to retained earnings 54.1 At 31 December 54.1 On 9 June 2011, the Companys capital redemption reserve was, with the sanction of the Court, cancelled and an amount of 54.1m was transferred to a distributable reserve.
2011 2010 iii Own share reserve m m At 1 January 2.9 Created in the year on cancellation of deferred shares 2.9 Ordinary shares released from restriction 0.8 At 31 December 2.1 2.9 At 31 December 2011, 82.5m 2010: 130.2m ordinary shares beneficially owned by senior employees were subject to restrictions which, in some circumstances, require the Group to repurchase the shares at their nominal value, and this liability is shown within current trade and other payables.
These restrictions are released over the next three years.
The shares are held within the Groups EBT and together with a further 20.9m 2010: 16.7m shares held for the purpose of satisfying share option obligations to employees, are treated as own shares with a cost of 2.1m 2010: 2.9m.
Reserves continued 2011 2010 iv Other reserve m m At 1 January 8.0 Tier 2 preference share conversion 8.0 At 31 December 8.0 8.0 The other reserve relates to the conversion of Tier 2 preference shares in 2010.
2011 2010 v Available for sale reserve m m At 1 January 10.3 Changes in fair value of available for sale investments 1.1 10.3 At 31 December 11.4 10.3 The available for sale reserve relates to the uplift in the fair value of the Groups holdings in investments classified as available for sale.
2011 2010 vi Foreign currency translation reserve m m At 1 January 7.5 7.3 Exchange movement on translation of subsidiary undertakings 0.1 0.2 At 31 December 7.4 7.5 The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries.
2011 2010 vii Retained earnings m m At 1 January 48.8 6.9 Profit for the year 51.4 32.5 Share-based payments Note 8 12.7 7.8 Deferred tax on share-based payments 0.3 1.6 Dividends paid 31.7 Cancellation of share premium and transfer to retained earnings 255.7 Cancellation of capital redemption reserve and transfer to retained earnings 54.1 At 31 December 390.7 48.8 Jupiter Fund Management plc Financial statements 89 89 26.
Financial commitments The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases on office properties are shown below.
2011 2010 m m Not later than one year 2.5 1.0 Later than one year and not later than five years 0.2 2.7 1.0 The commitments above take into account any early break clauses exercisable by the Group.
There are no special terms for renewal or purchase options for the Groups leasehold property, nor are there any restrictions on dividends, additional debt or further leasing imposed from the leasing arrangements.
Share-based payments The Group engages in equity-settled share-based payment transactions in respect of services receivable from certain employees, granting employees the right to acquire either shares or options over shares, subject to certain vesting conditions.
Prior to the Listing in June 2010, these transactions were in respect of B shares, which were then converted into ordinary shares at a ratio of one to fifty.
Following the Listing the transactions were in respect of ordinary shares.
Shares and options vest on the occurrence of a specified event under the rules of the relevant plan.
Certain shares and options are subject to performance conditions.
The fair value of shares and options granted during the year to be charged over the vesting period was 13.6m 2010: 29.0m.
A summary of the charge taken to the income statement excluding social security for each share-based payment arrangement is shown below: 2011 2010 m m Options over pre-Listing shares 8.2 5.8 Deferred bonus plan 3.1 1.5 Long-term incentive plan 1.1 Save as you earn 0.3 0.1 Other 0.4 Total Note 8 12.7 7.8 The Group has rebutted the presumption that the fair value of services received can be estimated reliably and therefore the fair value of the services has been calculated indirectly by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments granted.
Fair value amounts for the options granted under the DBP, LTIP and SAYE schemes were determined using a Black Scholes option-pricing method and the following assumptions: 2011 2010 DBP 2010 LTIP 2011 SAYE 2011 SAYE 2010 Weighted average share price 2.91 2.58 2.06 2.56 Exercise price 0.02 1.69 1.93 Weighted average expected volatility % 48.3 43.8 45.7 48.9 Weighted average option life years 3.3 4.7 3.9 3.8 Weighted average dividend yield % 2.3 2.8 3.5 3.5 Weighted average risk-free interest rate % 1.8 2.2 1.2 1.2 Expected volatility for options granted in 2011 has been calculated using the historical volatility of a comparator group of companies.
Where relevant, assumptions have also been made for the proportion of options not vesting due to performance and service conditions not being met.
i Options over pre-Listing shares These options were granted to certain employees prior to Listing in June 2010 and allow them to acquire shares at nominal value subject to satisfying certain vesting and performance conditions.
The terms of the options allow individuals to make a payment to the Company entitling them to take up rights to shares between one and five years after the grant date, depending on the individual award.
The options over pre-Listing shares were granted at the nominal price of the B shares which gives them the characteristics of nil cost options and therefore the fair value of these awards is based on the derived market price as at the date of the award.
Share-based payments continued WAEP Options outstanding Number At 1 January 2010 16,569 1.00 Granted prior to Listing 329,600 1.00 Forfeited prior to Listing 1,325 1.00 Total prior to Listing 344,844 1.00 Conversion on Listing to ordinary shares 17,242,200 0.02 Exercised post Listing 342,100 0.02 Forfeited post Listing 17,000 0.02 At 31 December 2010 16,883,100 0.02 Exercised during the year 1,392,572 0.02 Forfeited during the year 30,000 0.02 At 31 December 2011 15,460,528 0.02 2011 2010 Exercisable at 31 December 641,067 91,000 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of these options was 2.40 2010: 1.92 per ordinary share.
No options were granted under this plan in 2011.
For the options granted in 2010, the weighted average fair value of options granted was 1.50.
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding as at 31 December 2011 is 1.8 years 2010: 2.5 years.
ii Deferred Bonus Plan DBP All employees of the Group who are eligible for a bonus over a certain level, as determined by the Remuneration Committee, are required to participate in the DBP which provides for compulsory deferral of a proportion of bonus into either options over the Companys shares or units in the Groups funds.
The awards made in 2011 were granted in the form of nil cost options over the Companys shares, at a price calculated as the market price immediately prior to the date of the award.
The awards in respect of this plan are granted after the year end to which they relate.
The first year for this award was related to 2010 performance, with the first options granted in April 2011.
Thus a charge is reflected in the income statement in 2010, but the associated options were not granted until 2011.
Awards will also be made in 2012 in relation to 2011 performance.
A charge for these awards was taken to the income statement in 2011.
WAEP Options outstanding Number At 1 January 2011 Granted during the year 2,497,599 Forfeited during the year 18,565 At 31 December 2011 2,479,034 2011 2010 Exercisable at 31 December The weighted average fair value of options granted under this plan during the year was 2.70 2010: nil.
The remaining contractual life of the share options outstanding under this plan at 31 December 2011 was 2.3 years 2010: nil.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Financial statements 91 91 27.
Share-based payments continued iii Long-term incentive plan LTIP Options were granted under the LTIP for the first time in 2011.
WAEP Options outstanding Number At 1 January 2011 Granted during the year 3,393,713 0.02 Forfeited during the year 21,018 0.02 At 31 December 2011 3,372,695 2011 2010 Exercisable at 31 December The weighted average fair value of options granted under this plan during the year was 2.22 2010: nil.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the share options outstanding under this plan at 31 December 2011 was 3.2 years 2010: nil.
iv Sharesave Plan All eligible UK employees may participate in the Groups Sharesave Plan, which was introduced in 2010.
Under the terms of this plan, employees may enter into contracts to save up to 250 per month and, at the expiry of a fixed three or five year term, have the option to use these savings to acquire shares in the Company at a discounted price, calculated under the rules of the plan currently a 20 per cent.
discount to the market price at the date of award.
Participants in the plan have six months from the date of vesting to exercise their option.
The following table illustrates the number and weighted average exercise price WAEP of, and movement in, share options during the year: WAEP Options outstanding Number At 1 January 2010 Granted post Listing 1,164,528 1.93 At 31 December 2010 1,164,528 1.93 Exercised during the year 3,960 1.93 Forfeited converted to 2011 scheme 742,447 1.93 Granted in the year 972,532 1.69 At 31 December 2011 1,390,653 1.86 2011 2010 Exercisable at 31 December The weighted average fair value of the options granted under this scheme during the year was 0.68 2010: 0.96.
Share-based payments continued v Share awards During 2010, certain employees were awarded rights to shares in the Company.
Subject to performance conditions, these vest over the three years following the date of grant.
The following table shows the movement in these share awards in the year: At 1 January 2010 3,593,594 Granted prior to Listing 25,000 Forfeited prior to Listing 214,994 Total prior to Listing 3,403,600 Conversion on Listing to ordinary shares 170,180,000 Forfeited post Listing 31,974,956 At 31 December 2010 138,205,044 Released from restriction during the year 50,607,595 Forfeited during the year 5,146,000 At 31 December 2011 82,451,449 28.
Financial risk management Financial instruments by category The carrying value of the financial instruments of the Group at 31 December is shown below: Financial Loans liabilities Other Total NonAvailable Designated and at financial financial financial for sale at FVTPL receivables FVTPL liabilities instruments instruments Total 2011 m m m m m m m m Goodwill 341.2 341.2 Intangible assets 103.5 103.5 Property, plant and equipment 1.6 1.6 Available for sale investments 24.6 24.6 24.6 Deferred tax assets 11.3 11.3 Non-current trade and other receivables 17.3 17.3 Investments in associates 13.6 13.6 13.6 Financial assets at FVTPL 25.5 25.5 25.5 Current trade and other receivables 57.4 57.4 21.2 78.6 Cash and cash equivalents 151.3 151.3 151.3 Loans and borrowings 143.0 143.0 1.6 141.4 Non-current trade and other payables 0.9 0.9 26.6 27.5 Deferred tax liabilities 25.8 25.8 Current trade and other payables 119.9 119.9 12.5 132.4 Current income tax liability 16.2 16.2 Derivative financial instruments 0.6 0.6 0.6 Total 24.6 39.1 208.7 0.6 263.8 8.0 416.6 424.6 Jupiter Fund Management plc Financial statements 93 93 28.
Financial risk management continued Financial Loans liabilities Other Total NonAvailable Designated and at financial financial financial for sale at FVTPL receivables FVTPL liabilities instruments instruments Total 2010 m m m m m m m m Goodwill 341.2 341.2 Intangible assets 142.4 142.4 Property, plant and equipment 1.1 1.1 Available for sale investments 20.2 20.2 20.2 Deferred tax assets 11.0 11.0 Non-current trade and other receivables 11.2 11.2 Investments in associates 13.6 13.6 13.6 Financial assets at FVTPL 45.3 45.3 45.3 Derivative financial instruments 0.9 0.9 0.9 Current trade and other receivables 83.1 83.1 27.4 110.5 Cash and cash equivalents 220.3 220.3 220.3 Loans and borrowings 281.5 281.5 281.5 Non-current trade and other payables 1.0 1.0 16.1 17.1 Deferred tax liabilities 39.6 39.6 Financial liabilities at FVTPL 7.0 7.0 7.0 Current trade and other payables 143.6 143.6 27.0 170.6 Provisions 2.0 2.0 Current income tax liability 9.2 9.2 Total 20.2 59.8 303.4 7.0 426.1 49.7 440.4 390.7 Financial instruments do not include prepayments, deferred income or deferred acquisition and commission costs as these are not financial instruments For financial instruments held at 31 December 2011 and 2010, there was no material difference between the carrying value and fair value.
Gains and losses recognised in the income statement during the period to 31 December by category are shown below: 2011 2010 Other Other Financial income income Designated liabilities and Designated and at FVTPL at FVTPL expense Total at FVTPL expense Total m m m m m m m Revenue 346.9 346.9 318.8 318.8 Fee and commission expenses 98.4 98.4 88.3 88.3 Administrative expenses 123.8 123.8 115.1 115.1 Other losses gains 1.9 0.7 1.2 1.7 1.7 Amortisation of intangible assets 39.9 39.9 39.8 39.8 Exceptional costs 6.8 6.8 Finance income 1.0 1.0 0.9 0.9 Finance expense 1.6 12.7 14.3 9.6 38.6 29.0 Income tax expense 18.9 18.9 9.9 9.9 1.9 1.6 54.9 51.4 11.3 21.2 32.5 During the year a gain of 1.1m 2010: 10.3m was recognised directly in equity reflecting the net gain on available for sale investments.
Financial risk management continued Financial risk management objectives and policies The Group is subject to a number of financial risks throughout its business, the principal risks being market risk, including price, foreign exchange and interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Board is accountable for risk and is responsible for oversight of the risk management process.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the risk strategy of the Group and for determining an appropriate risk appetite and tolerance levels within which the Group must operate.
By defining these, the Board demonstrates that it is aware of and, where appropriate, has taken steps to mitigate the impact of risks that may have a material impact on the Group.
The Executive Committee reviews the key corporate risks facing the Group.
The Chief Financial Officer has responsibility for the risk and control framework within the Group and the independent monitoring and reporting of risk and controls.
The Chief Financial Officer through a Risk Committee manages the ongoing development of the Groups risk and control framework.
Jupiter embeds risk management within the business, with independent oversight and challenge being provided by the risk function.
Price risk Price risk is the risk that a decline in the value of assets will adversely impact the profitability of the Group.
Management has identified price risk as the exposure in the value of financial assets held by the Group, resulting in a loss recognised in the consolidated income statement.
The Group is not exposed to commodity price risk.
The Group holds equity investments in its seed capital portfolio and is exposed to the risk of changes in the equity markets that will reduce the value of the Groups investments.
At 31 December 2011, the exposure to unlisted equity securities at fair value was 24.6m 2010: 20.2m and the exposure to listed securities at fair value was 39.1m 2010: 58.9m.
The Groups policy is to hedge the equity market and currency exposure of its seed capital investments depending on the fund mandate and whether available transactions are cost effective.
As at 31 December 2011, the Group had a total return swap arrangement over certain of its holdings in seed fund investments.
The notional value of the swap was 32.5m 2010: 38.7m.
A fall in value of an available for sale investment which is significant or prolonged is considered to be an indication of impairment under IAS 39.
In such an event, the available for sale investment is written down to fair value and the amounts of previously recognised equity, in respect of market value are recognised in the consolidated income statement as an impairment charge.
Price risk sensitivity analysis on financial assets The Directors believe that 10 per cent.
gives a reasonable measure of the Groups sensitivity to price risk.
An increase or decrease of 10 per cent.
in equity markets would have the following impact on the profit before taxation and equity of the Group: 2011 2010 Market value movement - 10% m m Income statement 0.7 2.0 Equity 2.5 2.0 The sensitivity analysis takes account of the relevant derivative transactions the Group has entered into in order to provide a hedge against such movements.
Foreign exchange risk Foreign exchange risk is the risk that the Group will sustain losses through adverse movements in currency exchange rates.
As the Group predominantly operates in the UK, with some transactions from overseas third parties in foreign currencies, this then impacts its exposure to non-sterling income and expenses.
The Groups policy is to hold minimum currency to cover operational needs and therefore to convert foreign currency on receipt.
Direct exposures are limited to operational cash held in overseas subsidiaries and short term outstanding currency fee debts at any time.
The Group does not normally hedge this risk.
Foreign currency risk is managed by the finance function incorporating treasury operations, whereby foreign currency balances are monitored closely.
Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the Group will sustain losses from the fair value or future cash flow of adverse movements in interest bearing assets and liabilities and so reduce profitability.
The Groups exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the Groups long term debt obligations with floating interest rates see loans and borrowings note.
Cash held by the operating companies is held at fixed rates for no longer than three months.
The Group manages its interest rate risk by having a combination of fixed and variable rate loans and borrowings.
As explained further in the loans and borrowings note, the Group has entered into swap arrangements to effectively fix the rate payable on a portion of its variable debt.
Such interest rate swaps have the economic effect of converting borrowings from floating rates to fixed rates.
In such circumstances, the Group raises long term borrowings at floating rates and swaps them into fixed rates that are lower than those available if the Group borrowed at fixed rates directly.
At 31 December 2011, after taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps, approximately 49 per cent.
of the Groups borrowings are at a fixed rate of interest 2010: 25 per cent..
The Group is also exposed to interest rates on banking deposits held in the ordinary course of business.
The Groups finance function monitors the Groups interest rate cash flow risks and returns.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Financial statements 95 95 28.
Financial risk management continued Interest rate sensitivity analysis The Directors believe that a movement in interest rates of 50bps gives a reasonable measure of the Groups sensitivity to interest rate risk.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the Groups profit before tax mainly through the impact on floating rate borrowings.
There is only an immaterial impact on the Groups equity.
2011 2010 Interest rates - 50bps m m Income statement 0.3 1.6 The sensitivity analysis takes account of the relevant derivative transactions the Group has entered into in order to provide a hedge against such movements and takes into account the economic cash flow impact.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract leading to a financial loss in its operating activities.
The Group is exposed to credit risk primarily for trade receivables and from its financing activities, including deposits with banks and financial institutions and other financial instruments.
Fee receivables arise principally within the Groups investment management business and amounts are monitored regularly.
Historically, default levels have been insignificant and the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying value of its financial assets see the trade and other receivables note.
Trade and other receivables that are past due are not considered to be impaired.
The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk at 31 December is shown below: 2011 2010 m m Derivative financial instruments 0.9 Trade and other receivables Note 19 57.4 83.1 Cash and cash equivalents Note 20 151.3 220.3 208.7 304.3 With regard to credit risk related to financial instruments, the Groups policy is to place deposits only with financial institutions which satisfy minimum ratings and other criteria set by the Counterparty Review Group CRG.
Investments of surplus funds are made only with approved counterparties and within credit limits assigned to each counterparty.
The limits are set to minimise the concentration of risks and therefore mitigate financial loss through potential counterparty failure.
The CRG monitors the Groups counterparty exposures.
The table below contains an ageing analysis of current and overdue trade receivables: 2011 2010 m m Neither past due nor impaired 55.0 66.3 Days past due 30 1.3 13.5 30-60 0.6 61-90 0.2 0.6 90 0.3 2.7 57.4 83.1 None of the receivables which were past due were considered to be impaired.
Financial risk management continued The table below contains an analysis of financial assets as rated by Fitch Ratings for the Group.
2011 2010 Derivative Trade and other Cash and cash financial Trade and other Cash and cash receivables equivalents Total instruments receivables equivalents Total m m m m m m m AAA AA 32.6 32.6 0.9 174.0 174.9 A 0.6 118.7 119.3 46.3 46.3 BBB Not rated 56.8 56.8 83.1 83.1 Total 57.4 151.3 208.7 0.9 83.1 220.3 304.3 The financial assets are predominantly graded A or better and the portfolio has no exposures to emerging markets, sub-investment grade assets or any asset-backed securities.
Trade and other receivables which are not rated comprise fees receivable for fund management services.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group may be unable to meet its payment obligations as they fall due or at a significantly higher cost.
The Group produces a cash flow forecast to ensure all assets and liabilities are managed efficiently.
The Groups objectives are: ensuring both the Group as a whole and individual entities within the Group have access to sufficient liquid funds to trade solvently and meet trading liabilities as they fall due: allowing the Group to maintain a flexible dividend policy, taking reference to prior year and prospective profitability, cash flow and balance sheet: and providing the Group with appropriate flexibility over the transferability of its capital and cash balances.
Surplus cash held by the operating entities over and above the balances required for working capital management is held in interest bearing deposits of up to 90 days and the regulated companies, in particular, ensure that sufficient capital is kept to meet regulatory requirements.
The Group currently has access to a revolving credit facility of 10m 2010: 10m, which is unutilised.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010 based on contractual undiscounted payments: Financial liabilities 2011 2010 Within 1 Within 1 year or year or repayable repayable on demand 1-5 years 5 years Total on demand 1-5 years 5 years Total m m m m m m m m Loans and borrowings 5.8 161.2 167.0 281.5 281.5 Trade and other payables 119.9 0.9 120.8 143.6 1.0 144.6 Financial liabilities at FVTPL 7.0 7.0 Derivative financial instruments 0.2 0.5 0.7 Total 125.9 162.6 288.5 150.6 282.5 433.1 Loans and borrowings includes expected cash flows in respect of interest payments on the senior debt.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Financial statements 97 97 28.
Financial risk management continued Capital management The Groups objectives when managing its capital and funding structure is to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, maintain appropriate financial resources, maximise shareholder value, to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital and to meet working capital requirements.
2011 2010 m m Loans and borrowings 143.0 283.0 Cash and short-term deposits 150.4 220.3 Net cash debt 7.4 62.7 Equity 26.5 334.4 Retained earnings and foreign currency translation reserve 398.1 56.3 Total capital 424.6 390.7 Regulatory capital requirements The Group considers its share capital and retained earnings to constitute its total capital.
The subsidiaries within the Group which are regulated are required to maintain capital resources to comply with the regulatory capital requirements of the Financial Services Authority and other global financial regulators.
All regulated entities within the Group complied with the externally imposed regulatory capital requirement.
In addition to the capital held to meet the regulatory capital requirements, the Group maintains sufficient cash resources to meet its liabilities as and when they fall due, taking into account cash forecasts.
The Group performs regular cash flow forecasts, modelling both normal and stressed conditions.
Liquidity risk is mitigated by the long term nature of the Groups principal borrowings and the high levels of cash balances in the business.
Related parties The Group manages, through its subsidiaries, a number of investment trusts, unit trusts and overseas funds.
The subsidiary companies receive management fees from these entities for managing the assets, and in some instances, receive performance fees.
The precise fee arrangements for the different entities are disclosed within the financial statements of each entity or within other information which is publicly available.
The Group manages a number of collective investment vehicles and by virtue of the investment management agreements in place between the Group and these vehicles, they may be considered to be related parties.
The Group acts as manager for 36 2010: 35 authorised unit trusts.
Each unit trust is jointly administered with the trustees, National Westminster Bank plc.
The aggregate total value of transactions for the year was 2,572.8m 2010: 3,237.2m for unit trust creations and 1,855.0m 2010: 1,744.8m for unit trust redemptions.
The actual aggregate amount due to the trustees at the end of the accounting year in respect of transactions awaiting settlement was 1.4m 2010: 10.0m.
The amount received in respect of gross management and registration charges was 294.3m 2010: 269.8m.
At the end of the year, there was 6.7m 2010: 6.5m outstanding for annual management fees and 1.0m 2010: 1.0m in respect of registration fees.
The Group has a total net investment in collective investment vehicles of 39.1m 2010: 53.2m and received distributions of 0.2m 2010: 0.1m.
Investment management and performance fees are disclosed in Note 5.
Included within the financial instruments note are seed capital investments in funds managed by the Group.
TA Associates, L. P. are also considered a related party of the Group.
There were no transactions with TA Associates, L. P. in the year.
In 2010, there were transactions in relation to the repayment of Preferred Finance Securities which amounted to 201.0m.
152.3m of this was paid in cash and the remaining 48.7m was converted into ordinary shares.
Related parties continued Key management compensation The Group also considers transactions with its key management personnel as related party transactions.
Key management personnel is defined as the executive Directors together with other members of the Executive Committee.
The aggregate compensation paid or payable to key management for employee services is shown below: 2011 2010 m m Short-term employee benefits 6.1 5.8 Share-based payments 1.8 1.2 Post employment benefits 0.1 0.1 Other long-term benefits 0.2 0.4 8.2 7.5 30.
Restatement of consolidated statement of cash flows The presentation of the consolidated statement of cash flows has been reviewed and two items have been restated to more appropriately reflect the way the business generates its cash flows.
These changes are reclassifications only and the net cash flow for 2010 is unaffected.
The changes to the face of the 2010 statement of cash flows are as follows: Finance expense 2010: 56.2m paid has been reclassified from Net cash inflows from operating activities to Net cash outflows from financing activities Cash flows arising from purchase 2010: 44.5m and disposal 2010: 51.3m of seed capital investments have been reclassified from Net cash inflows from operating activities to Net cash inflows from investing activities In addition, Note 31 has been updated to simplify the disclosure.
Cash flows from operating activities Restated 2011 2010 m m Operating profit 83.6 70.5 Adjustments for: Exceptional costs 6.8 Amortisation of intangible assets 39.9 39.8 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 0.6 1.4 Other non-cash losses gains 4.3 11.5 Share-based payments 12.7 7.8 Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 25.9 29.7 Decrease increase in trade and other payables 31.5 22.7 Decrease increase in provisions 2.0 2.0 Cash generated from operations 133.5 109.8 32.
Employee benefit trust The Group sponsors an employee benefit trust EBT for Group employees.
The trust holds 82.5m 2010: 40.2m ordinary shares beneficially owned by senior employees, together with a further 20.9m 2010: 16.7m ordinary shares held for the purpose of satisfying share options to employees.
