SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION General shareholder enquiries Dividends payable in foreign currencies Enquiries relating to shareholdings, such as the transfer of shares, Equiniti are able to pay dividends to shareholders in over change of name or address, lost share certificates or dividend 30 countries worldwide through the Overseas Payment Service.
cheques, should be referred to the Companys Registrar, An administrative fee will be deducted from each dividend Equiniti, using the details below: payment.
Further details can be obtained from Equiniti or online at www.
Equiniti Aspect House Dividend Reinvestment Plan Spencer Road Burberrys Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP enables Lancing shareholders to use their dividends to buy further shares in the West Sussex Company.
Full details of the DRIP can be obtained from Equiniti BN99 6DA or online at www.
If you would like your final Tel: 0871 384 2839 dividend for 2011 and future dividends to qualify for the DRIP, Tel: 44 121 415 7047 from outside the UK completed application forms must be received by Equiniti by Email: burberry@equiniti.
American Depositary Receipts Duplicate accounts The Company has a sponsored Level 1 American Depositary Receipt Shareholders who have more than one account may avoid ADR programme to enable US investors to purchase ADRs.
Each duplicate mailings by contacting Equiniti and requesting the ADR represents two Burberry Group plc ordinary shares.
For queries relating to Burberry ADRs, please use the following contact details: Electronic communication Shareholders may at any time choose to receive all shareholder Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas documentation in electronic form via the internet, rather than in c o American Stock Transfer & Trust Company paper format.
Shareholders who decide to register for this option Peck Slip Station will receive an email each time shareholder documents are PO Box 2050 published.
Shareholders who wish to receive documentation in New York, NY 10272-2050 electronic form should register online at www.
Tel: toll free within the US: 1 800 301 3517 Tel: International: 1 718 921 8137 Equiniti offers a range of shareholder information and services Email enquiries: DB@amstock.
A textphone facility for those with hearing difficulties is available by calling: 0871 384 2255 Annual General Meeting or 44 121 415 7028 from outside the UK.
The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held on Thursday, 14 July 2011 at 9.30am at the offices of Slaughter and May: Financial calendar First quarter trading update 13 July 2011 One Bunhill Row Annual General Meeting 14 July 2011 London First half trading update 12 October 2011 EC1Y 8YY Interim results announcement 15 November 2011 The Notice of Meeting, together with details of the business to be Third quarter trading update January 2012 conducted at the meeting, is available on the Companys website Second half trading update April 2012 www.
Preliminary results announcement May 2012 The voting results for the 2011 Annual General Meeting will be Registered office accessible on the Companys website at www.
com Burberry Group plc shortly after the meeting.
Horseferry House Horseferry Road Company website London This Annual Report and other information about the Company, SW1P 2AW including share price information and details of results announcements, is available on the Companys website Registered in England and Wales www.
com Dividends Dividends can be paid by BACS directly into a UK bank account on completion of a dividend mandate form, which is available from Equiniti or online at www.
Record date 8 July 2011 Final date for return of DRIP mandate forms 14 July 2011 Payment date 4 August 2011 Interim dividend payable February 2012 The ADR local payment date will be approximately five business days after the dividend payment date for ordinary shareholders.
Burberry Group PLC annual report 2010 11 141 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CONTINUED Share dealing The Companys shares can be traded through most banks, building societies or stock brokers.
Equiniti offers a telephone and internet dealing service.
Terms and conditions and details of the commission charges are available on request.
For telephone dealing please telephone 08456 037 037 between 8.00am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, and for internet dealing visit www.
Shareholders will need their reference number which can be found on their share certificate.
ShareGift Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which makes them uneconomic to sell, may wish to consider donating their shares to charity through ShareGift, a donation scheme operated by The Orr Mackintosh Foundation.
A ShareGift donation form can be obtained from Equiniti.
Further information is available at www.
Share price information The latest Burberry Group plc share price is available on the Companys website www.
Unauthorised brokers boiler room scams Shareholders are advised to be wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
These are typically from overseas-based brokers who target UK shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high-risk shares in US or UK investments.
These operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved by visiting: www.
uk register Report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0845 606 1234 or visiting: www.
uk pages consumerinformation If the calls persist, hang up.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The FSA can be contacted by completing an online form at http: www.
uk Pages Doing Regulated Law Alerts form.
shtml Details of any share dealing facilities that the company endorses will be included in company mailings.
More detailed information can be found on the FSA website at www.
142 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2010 11 Executive TEAM Executive directors Angela Ahrendts Chief Executive Officer Stacey Cartwright Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer Senior management Christopher Bailey Michael Mahony Chief Creative Officer Senior Vice President Commercial Affairs and General Counsel John Douglas Chief Information Officer Sarah Manley Chief Marketing Officer Fabrizio Fabbro Senior Vice President Matt McEvoy Product Development Senior Vice President Strategy and New Business Development Alessandro Fabrini Senior Vice President Pascal Perrier Licensing President, Asia Pacific Carol Fairweather Paul Price Senior Vice President Senior Vice President Group Finance Menswear and Non-Apparel Emilio Foa Reg Sindall Senior Vice President Executive Vice President Emerging Markets Corporate Resources Stephen Gilbert Michele Smith Senior Vice President Senior Vice President Retail Development Womenswear Andy Janowski Mark Taylor Chief Operations Officer Senior Vice President Human Resources William Kim Senior Vice President Eugenia Ulasewicz Digital Commerce President, Americas Donald Kohler Senior Vice President Planning Andrew Maag President, Europe Burberry Group PLC annual report 2010 11 143 144 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2010 11 Annual report 2010 11 burberry Annual report 2010 11 Annual report 2010 11 burberry www.
