182 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 48 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL CONTINUED Liquidity risks Risk Product Control Contingent Event Risk Within protection and general insurance business Protection and A limited level of contingent liquidity risk is an accepted element liquidity risks which stem from low probability general insurance of writing contracts of insurance.
However, the Groups insurance events that, if not adequately planned for, may businesses seek to maintain sufficient liquid assets and standby facilities result in unanticipated liquidity requirements.
to meet a prudent estimate of the cash outows that may arise from Such events may include a u pandemic or natural contingent events.
The level of required liquidity is identied using disaster leading to signicantly higher levels of techniques including stress tests for shock events, with the prole of claims than would normally be expected and actual liquid assets being regularly compared to required prole.
The extreme market conditions impacting the timing Groups treasury function provides formal facilities to the Group to cover of cash ows or the ability to realise investments contingent liquidity requirements arising from more extreme events at a given value within a specified timeframe.
and where investment assets may not be readily realisable.
The level of insurance funds held in cash and other readily realisable assets at 31December 2011 was 2.3bn 2010: 2.6bn.
Collateral Liquidity Risk Within the annuities business, the use of financial Annuities Liquidity requirements to meet potential collateral calls are actively instruments to hedge default, interest rate, managed.
Typically within the overall fund of investment assets held to currency and ination risks can require the meet the long term liabilities arising from annuity business, 350m is posting of collateral with counterparties, and held in cash and other highly liquid investment types for general liquidity as such an appropriate pool of the asset types purposes.
As at 31 December 2011 eligible assets worth 9 times the specified by counterparties must either be held outstanding collateral were held.
Savings Principal Products The Groups Savings products comprise: Non-participating savings, pensions and endowment contracts: Participating savings business, comprising endowment contracts and with-profits bonds: Unit linked savings contracts, unit trusts and collective investment savings products.
Non-participating contracts Non-participating business is written in the non profit part of the Society Long Term Fund LTF.
profits accrue solely to shareholders.
Participating contracts are supported by the with-profits part of the Society LTF.
They offer policyholders the possibility of payment of benets in addition to those guaranteed by the contract.
The amount and timing of the additional benets usually called bonuses are contractually at the discretion of the Group.
For unit linked savings contracts, unit trusts and collective investment savings products there is a direct link between the investments and the obligations.
The financial risk on these contracts is borne by the policyholders and therefore detailed risk disclosures have not been presented in respect of the associated assets and liabilities.
Unit linked business is written in the Society LTF.
Unit trust and collective investment business is administered by Legal & General Unit Trust Managers Limited and Legal & General Portfolio Management Services Limited, respectively.
Savings A range of contracts are offered in a variety of different forms to meet customers long term savings objectives.
Policyholders may choose to include a number of protection benets within their savings contracts.
Typically, any guarantees under the contract would only apply on maturity or earlier death.
On certain older contracts there may be provisions guaranteeing surrender benets.
Savings contracts may or may not guarantee policyholders an investment return.
Pensions individual and corporate These are long term savings contracts through which policyholders accumulate pension benets.
Some older contracts contain a basic guaranteed benefit expressed as an amount of pension payable or a guaranteed annuity option.
Other options provided by these contracts include an open market option on maturity, early retirement and late retirement.
The Group would generally have discretion over the terms on which the latter types of options are offered.
OUR GROUP OUR PERFORMANCE OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 183 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Endowment policies These contracts provide a lump sum on maturity determined by the addition of annual and final bonuses over the duration of the contract.
In addition, the contracts provide a minimum sum assured death benefit.
With-profits bonds These contracts provide an investment return to the policyholder which is determined by the attribution of regular and final bonuses over the duration of the contract.
In addition, the contracts provide a death benefit, typically of 101% of the value of the units allocated to the policyholder.
Participating contracts Discretionary increases to benets on participating contracts are allowed in one or both of annual and final bonus form.
These bonuses are determined in accordance with the principles outlined in the Societys PPFM for the management of the with-profits part of the Society LTF.
The principles include: The with-profits part of the Society LTF will be managed with the objective of ensuring that its assets are sufficient to meet its liabilities without the need for additional capital: With-profits policies have no expectation of any distribution from the with-profits part of the Society LTFs inherited estate.
The inherited estate is the excess of assets held within the Society LTF over and above the amount required to meet liabilities, including those which arise from the regulatory duty to treat customers fairly in settling discretionary benets: and Bonus rates will be smoothed so that some of the short term uctuations in the value of the investments of the with-profits part of the Society LTF and the business results achieved in the with-profits part of the UK LTF are not immediately reected in payments under with-profits policies.
At 30 June 2005 an assessment was made of the expected cost of guarantees and options to be paid in the future, and funds with the same value to meet these costs were allocated from the capital in the with-profits sub-fund.
The value of the funds is regularly assessed and is reduced by the cost of guarantees and options paid since 1 July 2005.
At each assessment point, if the value of the funds is lower than the expected cost of guarantees and options, it is possible to make deductions from asset shares to cover the difference.
It is intended to limit deductions to no more than 0.75% each year, up to a maximum of 5% per policy.
Following the movement in the expected cost of guarantees and options and the value of the associated funds up to 31 December 2011, and in accordance with the Societys PPFM, a deduction of 0.75% was made to the asset shares.
This followed a refund of 0.2%made in respect of the year to 31 December 2010.
In the technical provisions, allowance was also made for future deductions in respect of the expected costs of meeting future guarantees and options not covered by the current year deduction.
Forpolicyholders who decide to surrender, a charge will generally be made in respect of the expected cost of guarantees and options not covered by the charge already taken.
Some older participating contracts include a guaranteed minimum rate of roll up of the policyholders fund up to the date of retirement or maturity.
The distribution of surplus to shareholders depends upon the bonuses declared for the period.
Typically, bonus rates are set having regard to investment returns, although the Group has some discretion setting rates and would normally smooth bonuses over time.
The volatility of investment returns could impact the funds capital position and its ability to pay bonuses.
If future investment conditions were less favourable than anticipated, the lower bonus levels resulting would also reduce future distributions to shareholders.
Business which is written in the with-profits part of the Society LTF is managed to be self-supporting.
The unallocated divisible surplus in the fund would normally be expected to absorb the impact of these investment risks.
Only in extreme scenarios, where shareholders were required to provide support to the with-profits part of the Society LTF to meet its liabilities, would these risks affect equity.
As part of the 2007 Society LTF restructure, the 1996 Sub-fund 321m was merged into the Shareholder Retained Capital SRC.
As a result, Societys Board of Directors undertook to initially maintain 500m of assets within Society to support the with-profits business.
The amount of the commitment reduced to 350m in 2011 and will then gradually reduce to zero over a period not exceeding seven years.
The Groups approach to setting bonus rates is designed to treat customers fairly.
The approach is set out in the Societys PPFM for the with-profits part of the Society LTF.
In addition, bonus declarations are also affected by FSA regulations relating to Treating Customers Fairly TCF, which limit the discretion available when setting bonus rates.
