OUR GROUP OUR PERFORMANCE OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 187 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Group capital and nancing Shareholder Funds Shareholder assets include portfolios of equity, property, bond and other investments, not directly required to meet contractual obligations to policyholders.
The value of, and income from, these assets is sensitive to conditions within investment markets and the broader economy.
Potential volatility in returns are managed using a range of techniques, including performance benchmarks and limits on concentrations of exposures by asset type and geographic region.
Group Treasury and Liquidity Management The Groups treasury function manages the Groups banking relationships, capital raising activities, overall cash and liquidity position and the payment of dividends.
The Group seeks to manage its corporate funds and liquidity requirements on a pooled basis and to ensure the Group maintains sufficient liquid assets and standby facilities to meet a prudent estimate of its net cash outows.
In addition, it ensures that, even under adverse conditions, the Group has access to the funds necessary to cover surrenders, withdrawals and maturing liabilities.
During 2011 the Group replaced its 960m syndicated borrowing facility expiring in 2012, with a new five year 1bn revolving credit facility syndicated with 21 relationship banks.
The facility provides exibility in the management of the Groups liquidity.
No drawings were made under these facilities during 2011.
Accumulation of risks There is limited potential for single incidents to give rise to a large number of claims across the different contract types written by the Group.
In particular, there is little significant overlap between the long term and short term insurance business written by the Group.
However, there are potentially material correlations of insurance risk with other types of risk exposure.
These correlations are difficult to estimate though they would tend to be more acute as the underlying risk scenarios became more extreme.
An example of the accumulation of risk is the correlation between reinsurer credit risk with mortality and morbidity exposures.
Operational risks Potential for exposure to operational risk extends to all the Groups businesses.
All business managers are required to confirm regularly the adequacy of controls to mitigate those operational risks relevant to their responsibilities.
significant control issues are escalated to senior and executive management through the Groups risk management framework.
The framework is supported by the Operational Risk Management teams which facilitates the identication, assessment, monitoring and control of risks across the Groups businesses.
There are a number of categories under which operational risk and its management across the Group can be considered, and these are outlined in the following paragraphs.
Internal process failure The Group is potentially exposed to the risk of loss from failure of the internal processes with which it transacts its business.
Each business division is responsible for ensuring the adequacy of the controls over its processes.
Regular reviews are undertaken of their appropriateness and effectiveness.
People The Group is potentially exposed to the risk of loss from inappropriate actions by its staff.
Recruitment is managed centrally by HR functions, and all new recruits undergo a formal induction programme.
All employees have job descriptions setting out their accountabilities and reporting lines, and are appraised annually in accordance with agreed performance management frameworks.
Employees in regulated subsidiaries are provided with appropriate training to enable them to meet the relevant regulatory requirements.
Risks relating to health and safety and other legislation are managed through the provision of relevant training to all staff.
Outsourcing The Group is potentially exposed to the actions or failure of suppliers contracted to provide services on an outsourced basis.
The Group has dened minimum standards of control to be applied for all outsourced arrangements within a formal outsourcing and critical supplier policy.
Legal Legal risk is the risk of loss from unclear or deficient product documentation: inadequate documentation in support of material contracts such as reassurance treaties: the incorrect interpretation of changes in legislation: employment related disputes and claims: and commercial disputes with suppliers.
The risks are actively managed through the Group Legal Risk framework, which defines minimum standards of control to be applied to minimise the risk of loss.
188 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 48 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL CONTINUED Operational risks continued Compliance Compliance risk within the Group relates to the risk of non-adherence to legislative requirements, regulations and internal policies and procedures.
Responsibility for ensuring adherence to relevant legal and regulatory requirements is vested in individual business managers.
A Group Regulatory Risk and Compliance function has oversight of the Groups compliance with conduct of business requirements and standards, providing policy advice and guidance and oversight of compliance arrangements and responsibilities.
Event Event risk relates to the potential for loss arising from significant external events such as terrorism, financial crisis, major changes in scal systems or disaster.
Typically, such events have a low likelihood of occurrence, a material impact and can be difficult to prevent.
The Groups risk mitigation focuses on minimising the business disruption and potential financial loss which may ensue from such an event.
This includes maintaining a framework for the management of major incidents, the maintenance and regular testing of detailed business, technical and location recovery plans and the provision of insurance cover for the loss of buildings, contents and information technology systems and for the increased cost of working in the event of business disruption.
Fraud The Group is potentially exposed to the risk of internal fraud, claims-related fraud, and external action by third parties.
The risk of internal fraud is managed through a number of processes including the screening of staff at recruitment, segregation of duties and management oversight.
The activities of Internal Audit also act to counter the risk.
Claims-related fraud is managed by ensuring business processes are designed to fully validate claims and ensure that only bona fide claims are settled.
Anti-fraud techniques are regularly updated to mitigate risks and emerging threats.
The Groups approach to mitigating fraud and other dishonest acts is supported by promoting an open and honest culture in all dealings between employees, managers and those parties with which the Group has contact.
A formal code of ethics sets out the Groups expectations in this respect.
Effective and honest communication is essential if malpractice is to be effectively dealt with.
The Group has dened whistle blowing procedures to enable all employees and those who work with Legal & General to raise matters of concern relating to Legal & General in confidence.
Technology The Group places a high degree of reliance on IT in its business activities.
The failure of IT systems could potentially expose the Group to significant business disruption and loss.
To mitigate this risk, standards and methodologies for developing, testing and operating ITsystems are maintained.
Disaster recovery facilities enable IT operations to be conducted at remote locations in the event of the loss of computer facilities.
All records are remotely backed up and computer suites are equipped with alternative power sources.
Group Risk The potential for contagion risk arises as a consequence of the use of a common brand across the majority of the Group and the provision of intra-group loans and indemnities.
The Group has dened policies and procedures for managing matters that may have reputational implications, to ensure that Legal & Generals position is correctly understood.
The Group also has dened policies for the provision of guarantees, indemnities and letters of comfort.
