OUR GROUP OUR PERFORMANCE OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 185 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Liquidity risks Risk Product Control Investment Liquidity Risk Within the with-profit fund, exposure to liquidity With-profits Liquidity risk is managed ensuring that an appropriate proportion of risk may arise if the prole of investment assets the fund is held in cash or other readily realisable assets to meet each held to meet obligations to policyholders is not tranche of maturities and anticipated early withdrawals as they fall due.
aligned with the maturity prole of policies, or Where policyholders have discretion to require early payment of policy the prole does not adequately take account of proceeds, contractual safeguards are in place to ensure that the fund and the rights of policyholders to exercise options or remaining policyholders are not disadvantaged should a material number guarantees to specified early surrender terms or of policyholders exercise this discretion.
Non-participating savings contracts are exposed Non-participating Liquidity risks associated with non-participating savings contracts are to liquidity risk in that certain asset classes in savings documented and communicated to customers within product terms and which underlying funds invest, such as property, conditions.
The terms also highlight that for certain asset classes such may not be readily realisable in certain market as property, the Group retains the right to defer the processing of fund conditions, or only realisable at a diminution withdrawal requests for up to six months, should underlying assets need of value.
to be realised to meet payment requests.
Investment management Principal Products LGIM offers both active and passive management on either a pooled or segregated basis.
Assets are managed on behalf of pension funds, institutional clients, sovereign wealth clients, retails funds and subsidiary companies within the Legal & General Group.
The core products are set out below.
Index Fund Management LGIM provides a diversied range of pooled index funds, providing a wide choice and the ability to pursue specic benchmarks efficiently.
In addition, segregated solutions are offered to institutional clients providing large scale customisation against established market capitalisation weighted and alternative indices.
Active Fixed Income and Liquidity Management A range of pooled and segregated active xed income funds.
The LGIM liquidity funds offers institutional investors seeking an optimal solution for their cash management across a range of core currencies.
The fund aims to deliver competitive returns with a high level of diversication, while focusing on capital preservation through portfolios of high quality, liquid assets.
Solution and Liability Driven Investment LDI A wide variety of solutions to help fide-risk dened benefit pension schemes and replace them with appropriate dened contribution or workplace savings schemes.
Active Equity An active equity management business comprising focused teams managing stock selection across different regions.
Property and Venture Capital A range of pooled or segregated real estate funds to both UK and overseas investors, offered via a mixture of pooled funds, specialist funds and partnerships.
The business is based around in-house sector specialists with a dedicated research team.
In addition LGIM provides institutional clients with private equity investment funds offered via a partnership structure.
Key risk and controls The financial risks associated with LGIMs businesses are directly borne by the investors in its funds.
Therefore detailed risk disclosures have not been presented.
The approach to the management of operational risks, including loss arising from trading errors, breach of fund management guidelines or valuation errors, where a breakdown in controls could lead to successful litigation against the company by one or more clients, is set out in the Operational risks section.
