OUR GROUP OUR PERFORMANCE OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 165 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 42 COMMITMENTS i Capital commitments 2011 2010 m m Authorised and contracted commitments not provided for in respect of investment property development, payable after 31 December Long term business 13 17 ii Operating lease commitments 2011 2010 m m The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Not later than 1 year 26 27 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 85 83 Later than 5 years 190 183 301 293 Future aggregate minimum sublease payments expected to be received under operating subleases 10 11 The future aggregate minimum lease receivables under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Not later than 1 year 3 3 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 6 10 Later than 5 years 1 9 14 The Group leases ofces and other premises under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
43 SUBSIDIARIES Subsidiaries are those entities including special purpose entities, mutual funds and unit trusts over which the Group directly or indirectly has the power to govern the operating and financial policies in order to gain economic benets.
profits or losses of subsidiary undertakings sold or acquired during the period are included in the consolidated results up to the date of disposal or from the date of gaining control.
The interests of parties, other than the Group, in investment vehicles, such as unit trusts, are classied as liabilities and appear as Net asset value attributable to unit holders in the consolidated balance sheet.
The basis by which subsidiaries are consolidated in the Group financial statements is outlined in the basis of preparation Note 1.
Future Developments IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements, IFRS 12, Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities and IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement currently expected to come into force for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
This suite of standards: Provides enhanced guidance when determining whether an entity is controlled and is therefore included within the consolidated financial statements.
Provides a more realistic reection of joint arrangements by focusing on the rights and obligations of the arrangement, rather than its legal form.
Enhances the disclosure requirements around interests in other entities.
Provides clarity over the denition and disclosure of fair value, which can then be applied across all accounting standards.
We are currently assessing the impact which these new standards will have on the Groups financial statements.
