80 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION.
All employee share schemes There are share schemes for all UK employees.
Executive directors are entitled to participate on the same terms as all UK employees in the Savings-Related Share Option Scheme and the Employee Share Plan, both of which are approved by HMRC.
Each year the Committee considers a grant of Group Performance Shares Freeshares after the annual results are known to tie any award more closely to company performance.
For performance in relation to 2011, the Committee has agreed a grant of 410 shares to each employee for 2010 performance this was 475 shares.
Dilution limits The Companys all-employee plans and the now-closed ESOS operate within the ABIs dilution limit of 5% in ten years for executive schemes and all its plans will operate within the 10% in ten years limit for all schemes.
As at 31 December 2011, the Company had 4.69% sharecapital available under the 5% in ten years limit, and 8.49% share capital under the 10% in ten years limit.
As 31 December 2011, 37,352,912 shares were held by theEmployee benefit Trust to hedge outstanding awards of 66,089,897 shares for the PSP and SBP.
This means that the Trust holds 56.5% of outstanding awards.
8 OTHER BENEFITS Pensions On retirement from Legal & General at age 60 and subject to statutory limits, executive directors have pension entitlement as follows: Mark Gregory: one-sixtieth of his eligible pensionable salary which is lower than actual base salary as only the lowerof actual salary increases and 2.5% has been credited since January 2009 for each year of eligible service subject to him continuing his 5% of pensionable salary contribution.
Mark left these dened benefit arrangements atthe end of April 2011 and joined the dened contribution scheme.
He is entitled to a Company contribution of 15% ofhis pensionable salary if he also contributes 5%.
Any balance over and above the Annual Allowance limit is paid incash and is subject to normal payroll deductions of income tax and National Insurance.
This cash allowance is shown in the table on page 67.
Tim Breedon and John Pollock: one-sixtieth of eligible pensionable salary for each year of service through to thedate they opted for enhanced protection in 2006.
Nigel Wilson: Nigel is a member of the Groups dened contribution arrangements.
He is entitled to a Company contribution of 15% of his pensionable salary if he also contributes 5%.
Any balance over and above the Annual Allowance limit is paid in cash and is subject to normal payroll deductions of income tax and National Insurance.
Thiscash allowance is shown in the table on page 67.
Bonus sacrifice into pension Executive directors, like all managers, may elect, before its award, to sacrifice all or part of their cash bonus into pension.
The opportunity for bonus sacrifice is at the discretion of the Company and is reviewed each year.
Death in service On death in service, a capital sum equal to four times salary is payable, together with a spouses pension of four-ninths ofthe members annualised salary.
Protection is also offered in the event of serious ill health.
This latter benefit has notransfer value in the event of the member leaving service.
