OUR GROUP OUR PERFORMANCE OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 69 3 REMUNERATION PACKAGE FOR Broad explanation of targets EXECUTIVEDIRECTORS Group Key Performance Indicators KPIs The remuneration of the Groups executive directors Common to all executive directors, as set out on page 71 comprises salary, participation in an annual bonus plan The TSR KPI is addressed through the Performance paid partly in cash and partly deferred via the Share Share Plan PSP.
Bonus Plan SBP and the Groups Performance Share Plan PSP, which is a long-term incentive plan, plus Other financial targets pension and ancillary benets.
Key divisional metrics Managing capital requirements.
When setting remuneration for the executive directors, the Committee takes into account the market sector, Other strategic targets function, job size, and individual and Company Building a diversied business performance.
In addition, the pay, employment Delivering a positive customer experience conditions and salary budgets set for other employees Building a high expectation culture inthe Company are taken into consideration.
Data Risk management is obtained from a variety of independent sources Improving products and services.
including FIT, Hewitt New Bridge Street, HAY Group andTowers Watson.
Where possible, the practice is The results for the 2010 and 2011 Group KPIs are shown touse at least two independent sources of information on page 71 and in more detail on pages 10 and 11. for each individual role.
Further details on the other specic targets are The chart illustrates that a significant proportion of both commercially sensitive.
The Committee will continue target and stretch pay is performance-related and paid tomonitor best practice disclosures and any changes inshares.
The proportion is the same for each director to disclosure requirements that result from the and will remain the same for 2012.
Department for Business Innovation and Skills BIS consultation papers.
Relative split of salary, bonus and PSP for executive directors at target and stretch performance % in line The tables on pages 70 to 75 set out the key features with current policy and for 2012 ofexecutive directors remuneration, including each elements purpose, related policy, explanation of how Salary Bonus PSP vesting itoperates and decisions made.
Stretch performance 24 29 47 4 REMUNERATION POLICY FOR OTHERSENIORMANAGERS Target performance 45 33 22 The remuneration policy for senior managers below Board level is broadly consistent with that followed at Share price growth is ignored.
At 31 December 2011 there were 240 senior managers in the UK whose actual salaries equated to or exceeded 100,000, or 246 if full-time equivalent FTE salaries are counted.
2011 strategic objectives Executive directors bonuses were based on a number Number of executives oftargets.
70 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION.
Key features of executive directors remuneration Purpose Policy Summary of how it operates BASE SALARY To pay at around the mid-market range Paid monthly in cash.
Help recruit and retain relativeto the FTSE 100, with particular keyemployees.
regardto other relevant financial institutions.
Normally reviewed by the Committee annually andxed for the 12 months commencing 1 March.
Reect the individuals Regard given to individual skills experience and role within andexperience.
In specic circumstances for example, anewappointment may set salaries below mid-market range, with a view to reaching mid-market range within two to three years providedthe individual progresses into therole.
Increases in salary for executive directors broadly follow the salary budgets for the rest of the organisation, unless, for example, salary progression to mid-market range is agreed as referred to above or there is significant movement in the mid-market ranges.
HOW THIS APPLIES TO OTHEREMPLOYEES The same principles apply to all employees.
ANNUAL BONUS Maximum bonus potential set by reference In setting bonus targets, the Committee seeks Incentivise executives to achieve tomarket comparators currently 125% of tolinktargets to areas of the business in which the specic, predetermined goals basesalary.
executive has particular inuence and responsibility, during a one-year period.
while also seeking to maintain a keen team ethos.
On-target bonus of 75% of base salary Allexecutive directors have objectives related Reward ongoing stewardship 60%ofmaximum of 125% of base salary toGroupkey performance indicators KPIs, plus andcontribution to core values.
individual where relevant divisional and strategic targets.
Theobjectives also embrace the importance Deferred proportion of bonus, Percentage of bonus deferred and awarded ofcustomer care, employee engagement and awarded in shares, provides inshares.
For 2012 there is no change to the target Bonus result is determined by the Committee after ormaximum bonus potential.
the yearend, based on performance against targets.
HOW THIS APPLIES TO OTHEREMPLOYEES Normally, 62.5% of the bonus is paid in cash and The majority of employees have a 37.5% is paid in deferred shares, subject to continued discretionary bonus scheme based on employment, under the Share Bonus Plan SBP to be individual performance against objectives.
Forthe management populations and above, 35% of this bonus is deferred into The deferred element may be subject to forfeiture if the shares.
There are some bespoke bonus performance which led to a bonus being paid is found schemes, where business appropriate, but to be incorrect or in the event of personal misconduct.
the Remuneration Committee has ultimate discretion over all bonus plans.
As the shares have been earned prior to award, anydividends occurring on these shares are paid to Separate plans operate within LGIM consistent the executives during the vesting period.
The value with industry practice.
of the shares awarded to directors is reported in theyear of performance and shown in the directors remunerationtable on page 67.
OUR GROUP OUR PERFORMANCE OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 71 The Bonus Steering Committee BSC, the Chief Risk officer and the Group Director of Regulatory Risk and Compliance play key roles in the process of both setting What did we do?
reward structures and evaluating whether achievement For 2012, increases for the executive directors are within with the of objectives and any payment from bonus plans have budgetset for the general management pay review below Board level taken into account the overall risk prole of the Company.
2.25% and our policy of salary progression towards mid-market range for Mark Gregory.
Their roles are set out in more detail below.
The base salaries for the executive directors with effect from 1 March BONUS STEERING COMMITTEE 2012 will be as follows: Reporting to the Remuneration Committee, the BSC has Salary for % Increase 2012 % Increase 2011 continued to review and challenge all bonus schemes on Name 2012 over 2011 over 2010 a regular basis to ensure they support business strategy Tim Breedon 820,000 1.5% 2.9% and do not encourage any inappropriate risk taking and Nigel Wilson 558,500 1.6% 2.6% it has now become embedded in our governance John Pollock 420,000 2.0% 2.9% procedures.
Its terms of reference are reviewed and Mark Gregory 418,000 4.5% 11.1% agreed by the Remuneration Committee and its members include the Group HR Director and Group Head of Reward Total increases over 2011 equate to 2.16%.
and Executive Remuneration as well as the Group Remuneration Team, Business Heads of HR, the Chief Risk officer and Group Director of Regulatory Risk and Compliance.
Members of the businesses also attend as necessary to provide support or provide context for any The breakdown of the executive directors targets are shown remuneration proposals.
Bonus schemes must be agreed on page 69. by the BSC prior to submission to the Remuneration Committee which retains overall discretion and approval.
For 2011, bonuses of between 77.1% and 114.6% of base salary were awarded.
ROLE OF THE CHIEF RISK OFFICER AND This reected superior performance against the common GROUP DIRECTOR OF REGULATORY RISK nancialtargets consistent with the overall assessment of the Companys performance as shown below.
AND COMPLIANCE The Remuneration Committee also works closely with the Chief Risk officer CRO and Group Director Group KPIs 2011 2010 of Regulatory Risk and Compliance in relation to Operating profit before tax 1,056m 1,002m remuneration proposals.
In particular, the Group Director Return on Equity 14.5% 18.2% of Regulatory Risk and Compliance reports to the IGD surplus 3.8bn 3.7bn Committee on an annual basis regarding payment EEV operating profit 1,469m 1,224m of bonus schemes for the year and provides input into Net cash generation 846m 760m how those schemes operate for the following year.
EEV per share 147p 132p She confirms whether any risks have been taken outside of pre-agreed parameters that may lead the The Committee carefully assessed the performance against other financial and strategic targets to determine the associated bonus.
Committee to consider whether it should impact the payment of bonus schemes and confirms that all plans The total bonus that resulted from the delivery of these objectives for the following year meet business objectives without was reviewed by the Committee based on its view of the executives overallperformance and regulatory compliance.
In reviewing encouraging undue risk.
The CRO specically looks results, approach to risk including environmental, social or at the overall risk prole of the Company and whether governance ESG risks is monitored.
executive directors have achieved objectives within For 2012 there is no change to the measures or the weighting the Companys accepted risk appetite.
the executive directors objectives for the forthcoming year to ensure they are in line with the risk parameters.
72 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION.
Key features of executive directors remuneration Purpose Policy Summary of how it operates PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN Awards of conditional shares nil cost options The number of shares that vest is dependent on Legal Incentivise executives to achieve made annually, with vesting dependent & Generals relative TSR performance over a three-year superior returns to shareholders.
on relative total shareholder return TSR period as follows: measured over the three subsequent years.
Align interests of executives Legal & Generals TSR relative Percentage of andshareholders through Executive directors receive annual grants to the comparator group award which vests building a shareholding.
Below median 0% Retain key executives over a The Committee reviews the quantum of Median 25% three-year performance period.
awards made each year to ensure that it Between median and 20th percentile 25%-100% is inline with the market.
20th percentile or above 100% When making awards, the Committee will also consider wider factors such as Company Vesting condition for half of the award measures the performance in determining whether to grant Groups TSR versus the FTSE 100.
Vesting condition at this normal policy level.
for the other half measures TSR versus the insurance constituents in the FTSEurorst 300 plus any FTSE 350 The PSP was approved by shareholders in Life Insurance companies not in the FTSEurorst 300.
In March 2007 the Committee approved the introduction of a specic long-term The two conditions are measured independently.
incentive plan for LGIM senior executives none of whom are executive directors.
Performance against TSR conditions is independently ThePSP remains the sole long-term incentive reviewed by FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP.
arrangement for all other senior executives.
The Committee reviews the measures prior to each HOW THIS APPLIES TO OTHEREMPLOYEES award.
It continues to believe that the current measures The PSP is awarded to approximately and targets remain appropriate.
They endorse 30employees, mainly comprising the consistency in the remuneration policy and provide Leadership Team.
a clear alignment of interests with shareholders.
Inaddition they ensure a degree of risk management as TSR through share price reects both underlying financial performance and the markets assessment ofthe quality and sustainability of those earnings.
The Remuneration Committee will also assess whether the TSR out-turn is reective of the underlying financial performance of the Company and may scale back vesting.
The Committee only has discretion to reduce thelevel of award and may not increase it.
Theparameters which the Committee uses in making this assessment include, but are not limited to, market share, partnerships entered into and maintained, costconstraint, capital management, risk and shareholder perception.
PENSIONS AND BENEFITS Provide competitive post-retirement benets.
Participation in a Group pension scheme.
No compensation for public policy or Accrue benets according to length of service up taxchanges.
Salary is the only element of pensionable From 2009, increases in pensionable salary for the dened remuneration.
benefit pension plan have been limited to amaximum of2.5% each year.
HOW THIS APPLIES TO OTHEREMPLOYEES There are no special terms for executive New executive directors receive 15% of base salary into the directors and they follow the same policies dened contribution pension plan they contribute 5%.
Cash alternative in line with the dened contribution levels for executive directors opting for enhanced orxedprotection above the lifetime allowance or forbenets in excess of the 50,000 annual limit.
Normal benets available to senior managers including car allowance and medical insurance.
Legal & General products can be acquired by executive directors ontheterms available to other members of staff.
OUR GROUP OUR PERFORMANCE OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 73 What did we do?
In the year, the 2008 award vested as to 16.6% of the maximum award.
This reected the TSR outcome against the FTSE100 and bespoke comparator group shown on pages 78 and 79.
During 2011 outstanding non-vested awards were restructured to nil cost optionstopermit exercise of the option at any point between vesting and thefth anniversary of grant.
There has been noamendment to the original performance conditions or performance period as a result ofthis change.
All future awards will be granted as conditional nilcostoptions.
After due consideration of business performance and share price, theRemuneration Committee decided that for 2012 executive directors should be granted awards of performance shares equivalent to 200% of2012 salaries.
The maximum award value is shown below: Tim Breedon: 1,640,000 Nigel Wilson: 1,117,000 John Pollock: 840,000 Mark Gregory: 836,000 In addition, the Committee approved grants of performance shares to the Leadership Group approximately 30 employees.
These grants ranged from 80% to 160% of salary.
