142 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 28 SHARE CAPITAL, SHARE PREMIUM AND EMPLOYEE SCHEME TREASURY SHARES CONTINUED ii Employee scheme treasury shares The Group uses the Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT, Employee Share Trust EST and the Legal & General Group Employee Share Plan ESP to purchase and hold shares of the Group for delivery to employees under various employee share schemes.
Shares owned by these vehicles are included at cost in the consolidated balance sheet and are shown as a deduction from shareholders equity.
They are disclosed as employee scheme treasury shares until they vest to employees.
Share-based liabilities to employees may also be settled via purchases directly from the market or by the issue of new shares.
The ESOT has waived its voting rights and its rights to some of the dividends payable on the shares it holds.
Employees are entitled to dividends on the shares held on their behalf within the EST and the ESP.
2011 2010 Number of 2011 Number of 2010 shares m shares m As at 1 January 38,954,087 41 33,854,368 38 Shares purchased 13,349,285 15 12,833,730 11 Shares vested 6,749,332 8 7,734,011 8 As at 31 December 45,554,040 48 38,954,087 41 29 NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS Non-controlling interests represent third party interests in private equity and property investment vehicles which are consolidated in the Groups results.
The increase in the non-controlling interests in 2011 arises from investment by third party interests in the UKProperty Ungeared Fund Limited Partnership.
30 INSURANCE CONTRACT LIABILITIES Insurance contracts are contracts which transfer significant insurance risk to the insurer at the inception of the contract.
A number of insurance and investment contracts contain discretionary participating features DPF which entitle the policyholders to receive guaranteed benets as well as additional benets: the amount or timing of which is contractually at the discretion of the Group: and which are contractually based on: the performance of a specified pool of contracts or a specified type of contract: realised and or unrealised investment returns on a specified pool of assets held by the issuer: or the profit or loss of the Company, fund or other entity which issues the contract.
Contracts with DPF are referred to as participating contracts.
With-profits contracts in the UK and most Garantie Long Terme contracts in France are classied as participating.
Long term insurance Under current IFRS requirements, insurance contract liabilities are measured using local Generally Accepted Accounting Principles GAAP, as permitted by IFRS 4, Insurance contracts.
UK In the UK, insurance contract liabilities are determined following an annual investigation of the Long Term Funds LTFs in accordance with regulatory requirements.
For non-participating insurance contracts, the liabilities are calculated on the basis of current information using the gross premium valuation method.
This brings into account the full premiums receivable under contracts written, having prudent regard to expected lapses and surrenders, estimated renewal and maintenance costs and contractually guaranteed benets.
For unit linked insurance contract liabilities the provision is based on the fund value together with an allowance for any excess of future expenses over charges where appropriate.
