OUR GROUP OUR PERFORMANCE OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 181 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Market risks Risk Product Control Investment Performance Risk The Group is exposed to the risk that the income All Stochastic models are used to assess the impact of a range of future from, and value of, assets held to back insurance return scenarios on investment values and associated liabilities in order liabilities do not perform in line with investment to determine optimum portfolios of invested assets.
For immediate and product pricing assumptions leading to a annuities, which are sensitive to interest rate risk, analysis of the liabilities mismatch with contractual cash ows.
is undertaken to create a portfolio of securities, the value of which changes in line with the value of liabilities when interest rates change.
Currency Risk To diversify credit risk within the annuities Annuities To mitigate the risk of loss from currency uctuations, currency swaps are business corporate bond portfolio, investments used to hedge exposures to corporate bonds denominated in currencies are held in corporate bonds denominated in other than sterling.
Hedging arrangements are placed only with strongly Euros and US Dollars.
Fluctuations in the value rated counterparties with collateral requirements being subject to regular of, or income from, these assets relative to review and reconciliation with the counterparties.
liabilities denominated in sterling could result in unforeseen loss.
Ination Risk Ination risk is the potential for loss as a result Annuities The investment strategy for annuities business takes explicit account of relative or absolute changes in ination rates.
of the effect of movements in price indices on contracted liabilities.
Annuity contracts may provide for future benets significant exposures that may adversely impact profitability are hedged to be paid taking account of changes in the level using ination swaps.
Annuity contracts also typically provide for a cap of ination.
Annuity contracts in payment may on the annual increase in ination linked benets in payment.
include an annual adjustment for movements in prices indices.
Credit risks Risk Product Control Bond Default Risk A significant portfolio of corporate bonds is held Annuities and Issuer limits are set by financial strength rating, sector and geographic to back the liabilities arising from writing annuities general insurance region so as to limit exposure from a default event.
Whilst the portfolio is diversied, the regularly reviewed to take account of changes in market conditions, asset class is inherently exposed to the risk of sector performance and the re-assessment of financial strength by rating issuer default.
agencies and the Groups own internal analysts.
Exposures are monitored relative to limits.
Financial instruments are also used to mitigate the impact of rating downgrades and defaults.
Reinsurance Counterparty Risk Exposure to insurance risk is mitigated by ceding All When selecting new reinsurance partners the Group considers only part of the risks assumed to the reinsurance companies which have a minimum credit rating equivalent to Afrom market.
Default of a reinsurer would require the Standard & Poors.
For each reinsurer exposure limits are determined business to be re-brokered potentially on less based on credit ratings and projected exposure over the term of the advantageous terms, or for the risks to be treaty.
Actual exposures are regularly monitored relative to these limits.
