232 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Over the last year many companies have become aware that The 2012 Annual General Meeting AGM will be held on their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls Wednesday, 16 May 2012 at 11.00am at TheHonourable or correspondence concerning investment matters which Artillery Company, Armoury House, City Road, London imply a connection to the company concerned.
The AGM provides Legal & General with the typically from overseas based brokers who target UK opportunity to meet its shareholders.
The Board regards shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to the AGM as an important opportunity to communicate be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
The Notice of Meeting and all other details for the AGM are available at They can be very persistent and extremely persuasive.
A 2006 survey by the Financial Services Authority FSA has reported that the average amount lost by investors is around DIVIDEND INFORMATION 20,000.
It is not just the novice investor that has been duped Dividend per share in this way: many of the victims had been successfully This year the directors are recommending the payment investing for several years.
Shareholders are advised to of a final dividend of 4.74p per share.
If you add this to be wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at your interim dividend of 1.66p per share, the total dividend a discount or offers of free reports into the Company.
recommended for 2011 will be 6.40p per share 2010: 4.75p per share.
The key dates for the payment of dividends are If you receive any unsolicited investment advice, make sure set out in the Important Dates section on the next page.
you get the correct name of the person and organisation and make a record of any other information they give you, DIVIDEND PAYMENTS e. g. telephone number, address etc.
Legal & General is keen to encourage all its shareholders to have their dividends paid directly into a Bank or Building Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before Society Account.
If you would like more details or a dividend getting involved.
mandate form, please contact our Registrar.
Details of how to contact the Registrar can be found on the opposite page The FSA also maintains on its website a list of unauthorised and on our website.
overseas rms who are targeting, or have targeted, UK investors and any approach from such organisations should DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT PLAN be reported to the FSA so that this list can be kept up to date The Legal & General Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP and any other appropriate action can be considered.
If you enables shareholders to use their cash dividends to deal with an unauthorised rm, you would not be eligible to purchase Legal & General Group Plc shares.
If you would receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation like more details, please contact our Registrar.
The FSA can be contacted by completing an online the DRIP booklet and mandate form can be found in the form at fsa.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts Investors Section of the website.
shtml or, if you do not have access to the internet, on 0845 606 1234.
COMMUNICATIONS Internet Inform our Registrar, Capita Registrars, on 0871 402 3341.
Information about the Company, including details of They are not able to investigate such incidents themselves the current share price, is available on the website, but will record the details and pass them on to us and liaise legalandgeneralgroup.
Investor relations Details of any sharedealing facilities that the Company Private investors should contact the Registrar with endorses will be included in Company mailings.
More detailed information on this or similar activity Institutional investors can contact the Investor Relations can be found on the FSA website Team by telephone on: 020 3124 2345 or fsa.
OUR GROUP OUR PERFORMANCE OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 233 FINANCIAL REPORTS under which your shares will be held, together with the The Companys financial reports are available appropriate share transfer form.
The booklet and the share on the website.
transfer form are also available in the Investors section of the website.
The Annual Report and Accounts are sent to those shareholders who have elected to receive paper copies.
Alternatively, SHARE PORTAL shareholders may elect to receive notication by email Share portal allows you to view your Legal & General by registering on www.
Registering is easy: simply log on to www.
com and follow the If you receive more than one copy of our communications, instructions.
You will need your Shareholder Investor it could be because you have more than one record on the Code, which can be found on your share certicate, share register.
To avoid duplicate mailings, please contact dividend statement or proxy form.
If you have any queries, the Registrar, who can arrange for your accounts to please call the Shareholder Helpline.
SHARE DEALING SERVICE REGISTRAR A quick and easy share dealing service is provided by You can contact our Registrar: Capita Share Dealing Services to sell or buy shares in Legal & General and any other UK leading companies.
Further By post: Capita Registrars Limited, The Registry, information is available online at www.
GENERAL INFORMATION Capital gains tax: For the purpose of calculating UK capital Calls to this number cost 8p per minute plus networkextras.
gains tax, the market value on 31 March 1982 ofeach share Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Mondayto Friday.
If calling was 7.996p, after adjusting for the 1986 capitalisation issue from outside the UK please dial 44 800 1412959 and the 1996 and 1999 sub-divisions, but not reecting any rights taken up under the 2002 rights issue.
The Registrar also provides the following services: Close company provisions: The Company is not a close CORPORATE SPONSORED NOMINEE company within the terms of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
The Corporate Sponsored Nominee allows you to hold shares in Legal & General without the need for a share Registered ofce: One Coleman Street, London EC2R 5AA.
certicate and enables you to benefit from shorter market Registered in England and Wales, No.
Individual shareholders hold their Legal & General shares in a nominee holding registered in the Shareholder offer line: For details of shareholder offers on name of Capita IRG Trustees Nominees Limited.
To join Legal & General products call 0500 65 5555. or obtain further information contact the Registrar.
They will send you a booklet, outlining the terms and conditions Important dates 14 March 2012 Final Results 2011 18 April 2012 Ex-dividend date Final Dividend 3 May 2012 Last day for DRIP elections 16 May 2012 Annual General Meeting 23 May 2012 Payment of Final Dividend for 2011 to members registered on 20 April 2012 26 July 2012 Half Year Results 2012 29 August 2012 Ex-dividend date Interim Dividend 1 October 2012 Payment of Interim Dividend for 2012 to members registered on 31 August 2012
