OUR GROUP OUR PERFORMANCE OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 99 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 SUPPLEMENTARY OPERATING PROFIT INFORMATION i Reconciliation between operating profit and profit from ordinary activities after income tax 2011 2010 Notes m m From continuing operations Risk ii a 561 560 Savings iii a 128 115 Investment management iv 234 206 International v 137 102 Group capital and nancing vi 52 58 1 Investment projects 56 39 Operating profit 1,056 1,002 Asset related investment variances 2 185 Other investment variances 95 95 Variation from longer term investment return vii 97 90 Property losses attributable to non-controlling interests 3 profit before income tax attributable to equity holders of the Company 956 1,092 Tax expense attributable to equity holders of the Company 12 233 272 profit for the year 723 820 1.
Investment projects predominantly relates to Solvency II and other strategic investments.
This supplementary operating profit information one of the Groups key performance indicators provides further analysis of the results reported under IFRS and we believe gives shareholders a better understanding of the underlying performance of the business.
Operating profit for the Risk segment represents the profit from the annuities business individual and bulk purchase annuities and longevity insurance and the profit from the housing and protection businesses general insurance, and individual and group protection business.
Operating profit reects the investment returns that the business expects to make on the financial investments that back this business and on shareholder funds retained within our general insurance business.
Operating profit for the Savings segment represents the profit from the insured Savings businesses non profit investment bonds and non profit pensions including SIPPs, the with-profits transfer and the profit of our Savings investments business.
Operating profit for the insured savings business reects the investment returns that the business expects to make on the financial investments that back this business.
Operating profit for the Investment management and International segments includes a longer term expected investment return on the shareholders funds within the Investment management and LGN operations.
Investment return on Group capital incorporates a longer term expected investment return using longer term investment return assumptions applied to the average balance of Group invested assets including interest bearing intra-group balances calculated on a monthly basis.
profits or losses arising from actuarial movements on annuities held by the Groups dened benefit pension schemes are excluded from operating profit.
profits or losses arising on the elimination of own debt holdings are also excluded from operating profit.
