OUR GROUP OUR PERFORMANCE OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 151 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Expenses The Group monitors its expense experience and carries out detailed investigations regularly to determine the expenses incurred in writing and administering the different products and classes of business.
Adjustments may be made for known future changes in the administration processes, in line with the Groups business plan.
An allowance for expense ination in the future is also made, taking account of both salary and price information.
Participating business For its participating business, the Group seeks to establish its liabilities at their realistic value in line with the requirements set out in FRS 27.
Non-economic assumptions are set to represent the Groups best estimates of future experience.
Economic assumptions The FSAs realistic reporting regime requires a market consistent economic model.
The model is calibrated using market data from a variety of market sources.
This enables assumptions to be determined for the term structure of risk free interest rates, property and equity volatility.
Risk free interest rates are determined with reference to the gilt yield curve on the valuation date increased by ten basis points.
Property volatility is set with reference to historic variations in property prices.
Equity volatility is set so that the model reproduces observed market prices of traded equity derivatives.
Correlations between asset classes are based on historic data.
Each investment scenario contains a consistent set of assumptions for investment returns and ination.
Future bonuses Future reversionary and terminal bonuses are consistent with the bonus policies set out in Societys Principles and Practices of Financial Management PPFM.
Value of in-force non-participating contracts The Group makes a deduction from the liabilities for the expected value of future profits arising on non-participating contracts written in the with-profits part of the Society LTF.
The economic assumptions used to calculate the value of these profits are consistent with those used to calculate liabilities for with-profits business, with the addition of a liquidity premium in respect of assets backing non-participating annuity business.
Non-economic assumptions represent best estimates of expected future experience on this business.
An explicit allowance is made for non-market risk.
Guaranteed annuity options The guarantees are valued on a market consistent basis.
The valuation methodology allows for the correlation between interest rates and the proportion of the policyholders who take up the option.
Guaranteed cash options The liability is determined assuming that policyholders choose the most valuable alternative between the annuity and cash available at retirement.
