180 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 48 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL CONTINUED Insurance risks Risk Product Control Mortality & Morbidity Risks For contracts providing death benets, Protection The pricing of protection business is based on assumptions as to future higher mortality rates would lead to an increase trends in mortality and morbidity having regard to past experience.
The cost of health related claims Underwriting criteria are dened setting out the risks that are depends on both the incidence of policyholders unacceptable and the terms for non-standard risks presented by the lives becoming ill and the duration over which they to be insured.
Extensive use of reinsurance is made within individual remain ill. Higher than expected incidence or protection business, placing a proportion of all risks meeting prescribed duration would increase costs over the level criteria.
Mortality and morbidity experience is compared to that assumed currently assumed in the calculation of liabilities.
within the pricing basis with variances subject to actuarial investigation.
For annuity contracts, the Group is exposed to Annuities Annuity business is priced having regard to trends in improvements in the risk that mortality experience is lower than future mortality.
Enhanced annuities, which are priced taking account assumed: lower than expected mortality would of impairments to life expectancy, are subject to specic underwriting require payments to be made for longer and criteria.
Certain annuitant mortality risks, including enhanced annuities, increase the cost of benets provided.
The Group regularly reviews its mortality experience and industry projections of longevity and adjusts the pricing and valuation assumptions accordingly.
Persistency Risk In the early years of a policy, lapses may result Protection The pricing basis for protection business includes provision for policy in a loss to the Group, as the acquisition costs lapses.
Following the adoption of PS06 14 in 2006 the persistency associated with the contract would not have been assumption for non-participating protection business allows for the recovered from product margins.
expected pattern of persistency, adjusted to incorporate a margin for adverse deviation.
Actual trends in policy lapse rates are monitored with adverse trends being subject to actuarial investigation.
Expense Risk In pricing long term insurance business, Protection and In determining pricing assumptions, account is taken of changes in price assumptions are made as to the future cost annuities indices and the costs of employment, with stress testing used to evaluate of product servicing.
A significant adverse the effect of significant deviations.
Product servicing costs are monitored divergence in actual expenses experience could relative to the costs assumed with the product pricing basis.
Concentration Risk Insurance risk may be concentrated in geographic Protection and Group protection business contracts include an event limit capping regions, altering the risk prole of the Group.
general insurance the total liability under the policy from a single event.
Excess of loss The most significant exposure of this type reinsurance further mitigate the exposure.
For general insurance arises for the group protection business, where business, the risk acceptance policy, terms and premiums reect a single event could result in a large number expected claims cost associated with a location and avoids adverse of related claims.
Additionally, exposure by location is monitored to ensure there is a geographic spread of risk.
Catastrophe reinsurance cover also reduces concentrations of risk.
Epidemics The spread of an epidemic could cause large Protection The pricing basis for protection business includes an assessment of aggregate claims across the Groups portfolio potential claims as a result of epidemic risks.
Quota share and excess of of protection businesses.
loss reinsurance contracts are used by individual and group protection, respectively, to further mitigate the risk.
Depending on the nature of an epidemic, mortality experience may lead to a reduction in the cost of claims for annuity business.
Weather events significant weather events such as windstorms, General insurance The impact of events are mitigated by excess of loss catastrophe treaties, and coastal and river oods can lead to under which the cost of claims from a weather event in excess of an significant claims.
agreed retention level, is recovered from insurers.
The reinsurance is designed to protect against a modelled windstorm and coastal ood event with a return probability of 1 in 200 years.
Subsidence The incidence of subsidence can have a significant General insurance Underwriting criteria for general insurance business includes assessment impact on the level of claims on household policies.
of subsidence risk, with an appropriate premium being charged for the risk accepted.
Reinsurance arrangements are used to further mitigate the risk.
