OUR GROUP OUR PERFORMANCE OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 125 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 22 FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS The Group holds financial investments to back insurance contracts on behalf of policyholders and as Group capital.
The Group classies its financial investments on initial recognition as held for trading HFT, designated at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL, available-for-sale AFS or loans and receivables.
Initial recognition of financial investments is on the trade date.
The Groups policy is to measure investments at FVTPL except for certain overseas assets where the related liability is valued on a passive basis not using current information, in which case investments are classied as AFS.
All derivatives other than those designated as hedges are classied as HFT.
Certain financial investments held by the Group are designated as FVTPL as their performance is evaluated on a total return basis, consistent with asset performance reporting to the Group Investment and Market Risk Committee and the Groups investment strategy.
Assets designated as FVTPL include debt securities and equity instruments which would otherwise have been classied as AFS under IAS 39, Financial instruments: recognition and measurement.
Assets backing participating and non-participating policyholder liabilities outside the US are designated as FVTPL.
For participating contracts the assets are managed on a fair value basis to maximise the total return to policyholders over the contract life.
The Groups non-participating investment contract liabilities outside of the US are measured on the basis of current information and are designated as FVTPL to avoid an accounting mismatch in the income statement.
The fair values of quoted financial investments are based on bid prices.
If the market for a financial investment is not active, the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques such as recent arms length transactions, consensus market pricing, reference to similar listed investments, discounted cash ow models or option pricing models.
Private equity investments are valued in accordance with the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines, which represent current best practice, developed by the Association Franais des Investisseurs en Capital, the British Venture Capital Association and the European Private Equity and Venture Capital Association.
The techniques used for determining fair value include earnings multiples, the price of a recent investment or a net asset basis.
Financial investments classied as HFT and FVTPL are measured at fair value with gains and losses reected in the income statement.
Transaction costs are expensed as incurred.
Financial investments classied as AFS are measured at fair value with unrealised gains and losses recognised in a separate reserve within equity.
Realised gains and losses, impairment losses, dividends, interest and foreign exchange movements on non-equity instruments are reected in the income statement.
Directly attributable transaction costs are included in the initial measurement of the investment.
Loans and receivables are initially measured at fair value plus acquisition costs, and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Future developments IFRS 9, Financial Instruments issued in November 2009 effective for annual periods commencing on or after 1 January 2015 is the first part of a new standard on classication and measurement of financial assets that will replace IAS 39.
IFRS 9 has two measurement categories: amortised cost and fair value.
All equity instruments are measured at fair value.
A debt instrument is at amortised cost only if the entity is holding it to collect contractual cash ows and the cash ows represent principal and interest, otherwise it must be measured at fair value through profit or loss.
Further amendments to IFRS 9, dealing with financial liabilities, were published in October 2010.
These include amortised cost accounting for most financial liabilities, with bifurcation of embedded derivatives.
The main change in the amendment is that in cases where the fair value option is taken for financial liabilities, the part of a fair value change due to an entitys own credit risk is recorded in other comprehensive income rather than the income statement, unless this creates an accounting mismatch.
The Group does not intend to early adopt this standard.
