OUR GROUP OUR PERFORMANCE OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 67 OUR REMUNERATION POLICIES 1 GENERAL REMUNERATION POLICY The principles of our Remuneration Policy are The Groups remuneration policy is applied broadly summarised below: consistently for all employees and is designed to support recruitment, motivation and retention as well as supports recruitment, motivation and retention: to reward high performance in a framework of approved rewards high performance and behaviours in risk management.
Remuneration is considered within the context of appropriate risk management: the overall context of the Groups sector and the markets takes into account market sector, economic in which the divisions operate.
The policy for the majority environment, job size, function, individual skills and of employees continues to be to pay around the relevant experience and individual and Company performance: mid-market range with a package designed toalign the seeks to align internal interests to those of shareholders interests of employees with those of shareholders, with through a long-term incentive scheme linked to total an appropriate proportion of totalremuneration shareholder return TSR, deferral of bonus held dependent upon performance.
Management seeks to in shares, formal shareholding requirements and ensure that our pay policies and practices are free from employee share plans: unfair bias.
Part of the pay review process is an annual is broadly consistent for all employees and seeks equal pay audit that reviews pay andbonus decisions toensure that our pay policies and practices are by gender, ethnicity, age and full-timeversus part-time freefrom unfair bias: and working.
In addition, it considersthe pay of the Control aims to be clear and transparent.
Function departments Risk, Compliance and Internal Audit as well as the oversight departments of Finance We define core remuneration as base salary, a bonus and Human Resources and looks at decisions for that is closely aligned to performance and other benets employees who report directly to the business versus such as pension.
There is also a Long Term Incentive those who report to the function head.
The review Plan that measures TSR.
extends to all employees, including those in LGIM.
Our remuneration principles and policy are also applied broadly across our overseas entities, with local interpretation in line with market and regulatory requirements.
The policy for directors is described in more detail onthefollowing pages.
The information in this table has been audited by the independent auditors,  LLP.
