178 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 48 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL Risk management approach A significant part of the Groups business involves the acceptance and management of risk.
The Groups risk appetite framework and the methods used to assess and monitor risk exposures can be found in pages 40 to 43.
The Group is exposed to insurance, market, credit, liquidity and operational risks and operates a formal risk management framework to ensure that all significant risks are identied and managed.
The risk factors mentioned below should not be regarded as a complete and comprehensive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties.
Insurance risk: exposure to loss arising from claims experience being different to that anticipated.
Market risk: exposure to loss as a direct or indirect result of uctuations in the value of, or income from, specic assets.
Credit risk: exposure to loss if another party fails to perform its financial obligations to the Group.
Liquidity risk: the risk that the Group, though solvent, either does not have sufficient financial resources available to enable it to meet its obligations as they fall due, or can secure them only at excessive cost.
Operational risk: exposure to loss arising from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, systems, or from external events.
The Group seeks to manage its exposures to risk through control techniques which ensure that the residual risk exposures are within acceptable tolerances agreed by the Board.
A description of the key products offered by the Groups segments and the associated risks and control techniques is detailed below.
Risk Principal Products The Groups Risk business comprises annuities, individual and group protection, and general insurance products.
The majority ofRiskproducts are non-participating contracts and as such profits on this business accrue solely to shareholders.
Annuities Annuity products provide guaranteed income for a specified time, usually the life of the policyholder, in exchange for a lump sum capital payment.
No surrender value is available under any of these products.
Immediate and deferred are annuity contacts are offered.
Immediate annuities provide a regular income stream to the policyholder, purchased with a lump sum investment, where the income stream starts immediately after the purchase.
The income stream from a deferred annuity is delayed until a specified future date.
Bulk annuities are also offered, where the Group accepts the assets and liabilities of a company pension scheme or a life fund.
A small portfolio of immediate annuities has been written as participating business.
Some non-participating deferred annuities sold by the Group contain guaranteed cash options, predominantly minimum factors for commuting part of the annuity income into cash at the date of vesting.
The value of such guaranteed options are currently immaterial.
There is a block of immediate and deferred annuities within the UK non profit business with benets linked to changes in the RPI or for a minority the CPI, but with contractual maximum or minimum increases.
In particular, most of these annuities have a provision that the annuity will not reduce if RPI, or for a minority CPI, becomes negative.
The total of such annuities in payment at 31 December 2011 was 271m 2010: 247m.
Thus, 1% negative ination, which was reversed in the following year, would result in a guarantee cost of approximately 3m 2010: 2m.
Negative ination sustained over a longer period would give rise to signicantly greater guarantee costs.
Some of these guarantee costs have been partially matched through the purchase of negative ination hedges and limited price indexation swaps.
