184 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 48 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL CONTINUED Insurance risks Risk Product Control Persistency In the early years of a policy, lapses and All For insured contracts, terms and conditions typically include surrender surrenders are likely to result in a loss to the deductions to mitigate the risk.
In later periods, once the acquisition costs Group, as the acquisition costs associated with have been recouped, the effect of lapses and surrenders depends upon the contract would not have been recovered the relationship between the exit benefit, if any, and the liability for that from product margins.
Exit benets are not generally guaranteed and the Group has some discretion in determining the amount of the payment.
As a result, the effect on profit in later periods is expected to be broadly neutral.
Expense Risk In pricing long term savings business, All In determining pricing assumptions, account is taken of changes in price assumptions are made as to the future cost indices and the costs of employment, with stress testing used to evaluate of product servicing.
A significant adverse the effect of significant deviations.
Actual product servicing costs are divergence in actual expenses experience actively monitored relative to the costs assumed with the product pricing could reduce product profitability.
Mortality Risks For savings contracts providing minimum assured All The pricing basis for contracts providing minimum assured death death benets, higher mortality rates may result benets include provision for future trends in mortality based on past in an increase in claims costs.
The level of mortality risk accepted within each contract is not sufciently material to warrant formal underwriting at an individual policy level.
Older contracts containing a basic guaranteed Pensions The ultimate cost of basic guarantees provided on older contracts will benefit expressed as an amount of pension depend on the take up rate of any option and the final form of annuity payable or a guaranteed annuity option, expose selected by the policyholder.
The Group has limited ability to control the Group to interest rate and longevity risk.
the take up of these options.
However, the book of business itself is The cost of guarantees increases during periods diminishing in size.
As at 31 December 2011 the value of guarantees when interest rates are low or when annuitant is estimated to be 57m 31 December 2010: 35m.
mortality improves faster than expected.
Market risks Risk Product Control Investment Performance Risk The financial risk exposure for participating With-profits These risks are managed by maintaining capital sufficient to cover the contracts is different from that for nonconsequences of mismatch under a number of adverse scenarios.
Greater emphasis is placed addition, different investment strategies are followed for assets backing on investing to maximise future investment policyholder asset shares and assets backing other participating liabilities returns rather than matching assets to liabilities.
The former include significant equity and property holdings, This results in holding significant equity and whilst the latter are invested largely in xed interest securities.
Lower investment returns held are managed so as to provide a partial hedge to movements in xed increase the costs associated with maturity interest yields and equity markets.
The methodology used to calculate the and investment guarantees provided on liabilities for participating contracts makes allowance for the possibility these contracts.
of adverse changes in investment markets on a basis consistent with the market cost of hedging the guarantees provided.
The methodology also makes allowance for the cost of future discretionary benets, guarantees and options.
The value of future discretionary benets depends on the return achieved on assets backing these contracts.
The asset mix varies with investment conditions reecting the Groups investment policy, which aims to optimise returns to policyholders over time whilst limiting capital requirements for this business.
For unit linked contracts, there is a risk of Unit linked The risk is managed through maintaining a diversied range of funds in volatility in asset management fee income which customers may invest.
The prodigality of all funds are subject to due to the impact of interest rate and market regular review.
For some contracts the Group has discretion over the level price movements on the fair value of the assets of management charges levied.
held in the linked funds, on which investment management fees are based.
There is also the risk of expense over-runs should the market depress the level of charges which could be imposed.
