170 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 46 MANAGEMENT OF CAPITAL RESOURCES Capital structure The Groups total capital resources of 8.0bn 2010: 8.1bn on an IFRS basis comprise equity holders capital, 5.2bn 2010: 4.8bn, subordinated debt 1.8bn 2010: 1.8bn, and unallocated divisible surplus, 1.0bn 2010: 1.5bn.
From a regulatory perspective the Group is required to measure and monitor its capital resources on an ongoing basis and to comply with the minimum capital requirements of regulators in each territory in which we operate.
At 31 December 2011, Legal & Generals unaudited Insurance Group Directive IGD capital resources were 3.8bn 2010: 3.7bn in excess of capital requirements of 3.1bn 2010: 3.0bn, representing a solvency coverage ratio of 220% 2010: 226%.
This surplus capital is after accruing for a 2011 final dividend of 279m 2010: 201m.
The Group writes a range of long term insurance and investment business in the long term fund LTF of its main operating insurance subsidiary, Legal & General Assurance Society Limited Society.
This fund is segregated from the Groups other assets.
The fund includes participating with-profits business where policyholders and shareholders share in the risks and rewards, and non-participating non profit business, where the shareholders receive profits or incur losses.
Capital in excess of the amount required to cover the liabilities is currently held within Society.
This capital provides support for new and existing non profit business within our UK non profit Risk and Savings businesses.
The non-linked, non profit pensions and annuity business of Society is ceded, on arms length terms, to a wholly owned Insurance Special Purpose Vehicle ISPV, Legal & General Pensions Limited LGPL.
Whilst an ISPV is not required to segregate policyholder assets within a LTF, LGPL continues to manage policyholder and shareholder assets separately for internal purposes.
Managed pension fund business is written through Legal & General Assurance Pensions Management Limited PMC, which is a life company writing predominantly non-participating group pension business effected by trustees of occupational schemes in the UK or their equivalent overseas.
The assets are held in a LTF and are separate from other assets within the Group.
In addition, the Group operates two UK long term insurance businesses acquired in 2008 Nationwide Life Limited and Suffolk Life Annuities Limited.
General insurance business is written in the UK by Legal & General Insurance Limited, and long term insurance business is also written by LGA, LGN and LGF.
Capital management policies and objectives The Group aims to manage its capital resources to maintain financial strength, policyholder security and relative external ratings advantage.
The Group also seeks to maximise its financial exibility by maintaining strong liquidity and by utilising a range of alternative sources of capital including equity, senior debt, subordinated debt and reinsurance.
Capital measures The Group measures its capital on a number of different bases, including those which comply with the regulatory frameworks within which the Group operates and those which the directors consider most appropriate for managing the business.
The measures used by the Group include: Accounting bases Management use the primary financial statements prepared on an IFRS basis to manage capital and cash ow usage and to determine dividend paying capacity.
In addition, the supplementary accounts prepared using EEV principles provide further insight into the value of the business to shareholders.
Accordingly the Groups net asset value and total capital employed are also analysed and measured on this basis.
Regulatory bases The financial strength of the Groups insurance subsidiaries is measured under various local regulatory requirements see below.
One of these regulatory measures, Individual Capital Assessment ICA, measures capital using risk based stochastic techniques, and provides a measure of the level of economic capital required to run the Groups business.
Basis of regulatory capital and corresponding regulatory capital requirements In each country in which the Group operates, the local insurance regulator species rules and guidance for the minimum amount and type of capital which must be held by long term insurance subsidiaries in excess of their insurance liabilities.
The minimum required capital must be maintained at all times throughout the year.
This helps to ensure that payments to policyholders can be made as they fall due.
