98 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 BASIS OF PREPARATION CONTINUED Consolidation principles Subsidiary undertakings The consolidated financial statements incorporate the assets, liabilities, equity, revenues, expenses and cash ows of the Company and of its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to 31 December each year.
All intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses are eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are those entities including special purpose entities, mutual funds and unit trusts over which the Group directly or indirectly has the power to govern the operating and financial policies in order to gain economic benets Note 43. profits or losses of subsidiary undertakings sold or acquired during the period are included in the consolidated results up to the date of disposal or from the date of gaining control.
The interests of parties, other than the Group, in investment vehicles, such as unit trusts, are classied as liabilities and appear as Net asset value attributable to unit holders Note 39 in the consolidated balance sheet.
Associates and joint ventures The Group has interests in associates and joint ventures Note 44 which form part of an investment portfolio held through private equity partnerships, mutual funds, unit trusts and similar entities.
In accordance with the choices permitted by IAS 28, Investments in associates, and IAS 31, Interests in joint ventures, these interests have been classied as fair value through profit or loss and measured at fair value within financial investments, with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement.
Associates which do not form part of an investment portfolio are initially recognised in the balance sheet at cost.
The carrying amount of the associate is increased or decreased to reect the Groups share of the profit or loss after the date of the acquisition.
Product classication The Groups products are classied for accounting purposes as either insurance contracts participating and non-participating or investment contracts participating and non-participating.
The basis of accounting for these products is outlined in Notes 30 and 31 respectively.
Fiduciary activities Assets associated with duciary activities and the income arising from those assets, together with associated commitments to return such assets to customers, are not included in these financial statements.
Where the Group acts in a duciary capacity, for instance as a trustee or agent, it has no contractual rights over the assets concerned.
