106 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS The Group provides a segmental analysis to enhance the understanding of the financial statements.
Under the requirements of IFRS 8, Operating segments, operating and reportable segments are presented in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker, which has been identied as the Board of Legal & General Group Plc.
Reportable segments The Group has five reporting segments comprising Risk, Savings, Investment management, International, and Group capital and nancing.
The Risk segment comprises individual and group protection, individual and bulk purchase annuities, longevity and general insurance, together with estate agencies and the housing related business conducted through our regulated mortgage network.
The Savings segment comprises non profit investment bonds, non profit pensions including SIPPs, ISAs, retail unit trusts, retail platform businesses, and all with-profits products.
The Investment management segment comprises institutional fund management and LGIM America LGIMA.
The International segment comprises Legal & General America LGA, Legal & General France LGF, Legal & General Netherlands LGN as well as our joint ventures in emerging markets.
Shareholders equity supporting the non profit Risk and Savings businesses is held within Legal & General Assurance Society Limited and Legal & General Pensions Limited and is managed on a groupwide basis within Group capital and nancing.
This also includes capital within the Groups treasury function and unit trust funds and property partnerships, which are managed on behalf of clients but are required to be consolidated under IFRS, which do not constitute a separately reportable segment.
Transactions between reportable segments are on normal commercial terms, and are included within the reported segments.
The Group assesses performance and allocates resources on the basis of IFRS supplementary operating profit before tax.
Segmental IFRS supplementary operating profit before tax is reconciled to the consolidated profit from continuing operations before tax attributable to equity holders and consolidated profit from ordinary activities after income tax.
