OUR GROUP OUR PERFORMANCE OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 201 EUROPEAN EMBEDDED VALUE BASIS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED New business New business premiums reect income arising from the sale of new contracts during the reporting period and any changes to existing contracts, which were not anticipated at the outset of the contract.
In-force business comprises previously written single premium, regular premium and recurrent single premium contracts.
Department of Work and Pensions rebates have not been treated as recurring and are included in single premium new business when received.
Longevity insurance xed leg payments have been treated as regular premiums.
New business contribution arising from the new business premiums written during the reporting period has been calculated on the same economic and operating assumptions used in the embedded value at the end of the financial period.
This has then been rolled forward to the end of the financial period using the risk discount rate applicable at the end of the reporting period.
The present value of future new business premiums PVNBP has been calculated and expressed at the point of sale.
The PVNBP is equivalent to the total single premiums plus the discounted value of regular premiums expected to be received over the term of the contracts using the same economic and operating assumptions used for the embedded value at the end of the financial period, with the exception of longevity insurance.
Longevity insurance product comprises the exchange of a stream of xed leg payments for a stream of oating payments, with the value of the income stream being the difference between the two legs.
For longevity insurance, PVNBP is not an appropriate measure of expected income stream and as such, the PVNBP has not been applied for this product.
The new business margin is dened as new business contribution at the end of the reporting period divided by the PVNBP, with the exception of longevity insurance.
The new business margin has not been applied to longevity insurance for the reason above.
The premium volumes and projection assumptions used to calculate the PVNBP are the same as those used to calculate new business contribution.
Projection assumptions Cash ow projections are determined using best estimate assumptions for each component of cash ow and for each policy group.
Future economic and investment return assumptions are based on conditions at the end of the financial period.
Future investment returns are projected by one of two methods.
The first method is based on an assumed investment return attributed to assets at their market value.
The second, which is used by LGA, where the investments of that subsidiary are substantially all xed interest, projects the cash ows from the current portfolio of assets and assumes an investment return on reinvestment of surplus cash ows.
The assumed discount and ination rates are consistent with the investment return assumptions.
Detailed projection assumptions including mortality, morbidity, persistency and expenses reect recent operating experience and are normally reviewed annually.
Allowance is made for future improvements in annuitant mortality based on experience and externally published data.
Favourable changes in operating experience are not anticipated until the improvement in experience has been observed.
All costs relating to the covered business, whether incurred in the covered business or elsewhere in the Group, are allocated to that business.
The expense assumptions used for the cash ow projections therefore include the full cost of servicing this business.
Tax The projections take into account all tax which is expected to be paid, based on best estimate assumptions, applying current legislation and practice together with known future changes.
No account has been taken of the proposals for regime change for life insurance companies in 2013 which are still in draft form.
Allowance for risk Aggregate risks within the covered business are allowed for through the following principal mechanisms: i. setting required capital levels with reference to both the Groups internal risk based capital models, and an assessment of the strength of regulatory reserves in the covered business: ii.
allowing explicitly for the time value of financial options and guarantees within the Groups products: and iii.
setting risk discount rates by deriving a Group level risk margin to be applied consistently to local risk free rates.
