OUR GROUP OUR PERFORMANCE OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 69 3 REMUNERATION PACKAGE FOR Broad explanation of targets EXECUTIVEDIRECTORS Group Key Performance Indicators KPIs The remuneration of the Groups executive directors Common to all executive directors, as set out on page 71 comprises salary, participation in an annual bonus plan The TSR KPI is addressed through the Performance paid partly in cash and partly deferred via the Share Share Plan PSP.
Bonus Plan SBP and the Groups Performance Share Plan PSP, which is a long-term incentive plan, plus Other financial targets pension and ancillary benets.
Key divisional metrics Managing capital requirements.
When setting remuneration for the executive directors, the Committee takes into account the market sector, Other strategic targets function, job size, and individual and Company Building a diversied business performance.
In addition, the pay, employment Delivering a positive customer experience conditions and salary budgets set for other employees Building a high expectation culture inthe Company are taken into consideration.
Data Risk management is obtained from a variety of independent sources Improving products and services.
including FIT, Hewitt New Bridge Street, HAY Group andTowers Watson.
Where possible, the practice is The results for the 2010 and 2011 Group KPIs are shown touse at least two independent sources of information on page 71 and in more detail on pages 10 and 11. for each individual role.
Further details on the other specic targets are The chart illustrates that a significant proportion of both commercially sensitive.
The Committee will continue target and stretch pay is performance-related and paid tomonitor best practice disclosures and any changes inshares.
The proportion is the same for each director to disclosure requirements that result from the and will remain the same for 2012.
Department for Business Innovation and Skills BIS consultation papers.
Relative split of salary, bonus and PSP for executive directors at target and stretch performance % in line The tables on pages 70 to 75 set out the key features with current policy and for 2012 ofexecutive directors remuneration, including each elements purpose, related policy, explanation of how Salary Bonus PSP vesting itoperates and decisions made.
Stretch performance 24 29 47 4 REMUNERATION POLICY FOR OTHERSENIORMANAGERS Target performance 45 33 22 The remuneration policy for senior managers below Board level is broadly consistent with that followed at Share price growth is ignored.
At 31 December 2011 there were 240 senior managers in the UK whose actual salaries equated to or exceeded 100,000, or 246 if full-time equivalent FTE salaries are counted.
2011 strategic objectives Executive directors bonuses were based on a number Number of executives oftargets.
