158 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 35 BORROWINGS CONTINUED iii Borrowings excluding unit linked borrowings Analysis by maturity continued As at 31 December 2011, the Group had in place a 1.00bn syndicated committed revolving credit facility provided by a number of its key relationship banks, maturing in October 2016.
This facility which was entered into in October 2011 replaces syndicated and bilateral facilities totalling 1.02bn which had been due to expire in December 2012.
No drawings were made under any of these facilities during 2011.
The maturity prole above is calculated on the basis that a facility to renance a maturing loan is not recognised unless the facility and loan are related.
If renancing under the Groups credit facilities was recognised, then all amounts shown as repayable within one year would be reclassied as repayable between one and five years.
Undiscounted interest payments are estimated based on the year end applicable interest rate and spot exchange rates.
Short term assets available at the holding company level exceeded the amount of non-unit linked short term borrowings of254m 2010: 288m.
They comprise Euro Commercial paper and bank loans.
36 PROVISIONS Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outow of resources embodying economic benets will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made.
Where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
The Group recognises a provision for onerous contracts when the expected benets to be derived from a contract are less than the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract.
i Analysis of provisions 2011 2010 Note m m 1 Retirement benefit obligations ii 871 748 Other provisions 20 13 891 761 1.
Retirement benefit obligations are presented gross of 583m of annuity obligations insured by Society 2010: 514m.
ii Retirement benefit obligations Dened contribution plans The Group operates the following dened contribution pension schemes in the UK and overseas: Legal & General Group Personal Pension Plan UK.
Legal & General Staff Stakeholder Pension Scheme UK.
Legal & General America Inc. Savings Plan US.
Rgime fide Retraite Professionnel France.
Legal & General Nederland Stichting Pensioenfonds Netherlands.
Legal & General International Ireland Limited Retirement Solution Plan Ireland.
The Liberation Group Pension Scheme UK.
This scheme is operated by a consolidated private equity investment vehicle owned by the with-profits part of the UK LTF.
The Group pays contractual contributions in respect of dened contribution schemes.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expenses when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in future payments is available.
Contributions of 37m 2010: 35m were charged as expenses during the year in respect of dened contribution plans.
