OUR GROUP OUR PERFORMANCE OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 143 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED For participating contracts, the liabilities to policyholders are determined on a realistic basis in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard FRS 27, Life assurance.
This includes an assessment of the cost of any future options and guarantees granted to policyholders valued on a market consistent basis.
The calculation also takes account of bonus decisions which are consistent with Legal & General Assurance Society Limiteds Societys Principles and Practices of Financial Management PPFM.
The shareholders share of the future cost of bonuses is excluded from the assessment of the realistic liability.
In determining the realistic value of liabilities for participating contracts, the value of future profits on non-participating business written in the with-profits part of the fund is accounted for as part of the calculation.
The present value of future profits VIF for this business is separately determined and its value is deducted from the sum of the liabilities for participating contracts and the unallocated divisible surplus.
Unitised liabilities are recognised when premiums are received and non-unitised liabilities are recognised when premiums are due.
Overseas The long term insurance contract liabilities for business transacted by overseas subsidiaries are determined on the basis of recognised actuarial methods which reect local supervisory principles or, in the case of the US, on the basis of US GAAP.
General insurance Liabilities, together with related reinsurance recoveries, are established on the basis of current information.
Such liabilities can never be denitive as to their timing or the amount of claims and are therefore subject to subsequent reassessment on a regular basis.
Claims and related reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in respect of all incidents up to the year end.
Provision is made on the basis of available information for the estimated ultimate cost, including claims settlement expenses, claims reported but not yet settled and claims incurred but not yet reported.
An unexpired risk provision is made for any overall excess of expected claims and deferred acquisition costs over unearned premiums and after taking account of investment return.
Liability adequacy tests The Group performs liability adequacy testing on its insurance liabilities to ensure that the carrying amount of liabilities less related deferred acquisition costs is sufficient to cover current estimates of future cash ows.
When performing the liability adequacy test, the Group discounts all contractual cash ows and compares this amount with the carrying value of the liability.
Any deficiency is immediately charged to the income statement, initially reducing deferred acquisition costs and then by establishing a provision for losses.
Reinsurance The Groups insurance subsidiaries cede insurance premiums and risk in the normal course of business in order to limit the potential for losses and to provide nancing.
Outwards reinsurance premiums are accounted for in the same accounting period as the related premiums for the direct or inwards reinsurance business being reinsured.
Reinsurance assets include balances due from reinsurers for paid and unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, ceded unearned premiums and ceded future life policy benets.
Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with the claim liability associated with the reinsured policy.
Reinsurance is recorded as an asset in the consolidated balance sheet unless a right of offset exists, in which case the associated liabilities are reduced commensurately.
i Analysis of insurance contract liabilities Gross Reinsurance Gross Reinsurance 2011 2011 2010 2010 Notes m m m m Participating insurance contracts 30 iii 8,750 1 9,383 1 1 Non-participating insurance contracts 30 iv 33,761 2,110 31,064 2,096 General insurance contracts 30 v 245 6 261 6 Insurance contract liabilities 42,756 2,117 40,708 2,103 1.
During the year, the Group entered into prospective reinsurance arrangements which resulted in a profit of 173m 2010: 137m.
Thisprot has been reected in the consolidated income statement for the year.
