150 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 34 LONG TERM INSURANCE VALUATION ASSUMPTIONS The Groups insurance assumptions, described below, relate exclusively to the UK insurance business.
The non-UK businesses do not constitute a material component of the Groups operations and consideration of geographically determined assumptions is therefore not included.
Non-participating business For its non-participating business the Group seeks to make prudent assumptions about its future experience based on current market conditions and recent experience.
The approach used to set non-participating assumptions is generally similar to that used to determine the assumptions used for FSA statutory Peak 1, although the actual assumptions may sometimes differ from those used for regulatory reporting purposes.
These assumptions incorporate prudent margins in excess of our best estimate assumptions to reduce the possibility of actual experience being less favourable than assumed.
Valuation rates of interest and discount rates The valuation interest rate for each contract type is based on the yield on the assets backing the contract adjusted for the risk that asset proceeds are not received by the Group.
For some business, this yield is the gross redemption yield on xed interest securities and the running yield on variable interest securities.
For other business it is the Internal Rate of Return on the portfolio of backing assets.
In 2011, the Group continued to hold an additional reserve to protect against the risk of an uplift in defaults in the current economic environment and also maintained the level of the long term default allowance at 40bps 2010: 40bps per annum for unapproved securities backing non profit business, 35bps 2010: 35bps per annum for unapproved securities backing with-profits business, 3bps 2010: 3bps per annum for approved securities and swaps and 27.3bps 2010: 53.4bps for property.
For unapproved securities backing non profit annuity business, the credit default allowances equate to 61bps 2010: 64bps per annum when experienced over the duration of the assets held, leading to an overall total default provision of 1.6bn 2010: 1.5bn.
A similar methodology has been used for assets backing with-profits business.
The Group believes the total default allowance is prudent to cover all reasonably foreseeable circumstances.
For equity investments, the yield is based on the current dividend yield, adjusted for prudence.
For property holdings, yields are based on the rental income payable calculated by considering different categories of tenant separately, adjusted for the possibility of default.
Default rates used in the calculations vary by tenant category.
Mortality and morbidity Mortality and morbidity assumptions are set with reference to standard tables drawn up by the Continuous Mortality Investigation Bureau CMIB of the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries.
These tables are based on industry-wide experience.
The majority of internal statistical investigations are carried out at least annually to determine the extent to which the Groups experience differs from that of the industry and suggest appropriate adjustments which need to be made to the valuation assumptions.
Persistency The Group monitors its persistency experience and carries out detailed investigations annually.
Persistency can be volatile and past experience may not be an appropriate future indicator.
The Group tries to balance past experience and future conditions by making prudent assumptions about the future expected long term average persistency levels.
For non-participating contracts where explicit persistency assumptions are not made, prudence is also incorporated into the liabilities by ensuring that they are sufficient to cover the more onerous of the two scenarios where the policies either remain in-force until maturity or where they discontinue at the valuation date.
