OUR GROUP OUR PERFORMANCE OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 97 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 BASIS OF PREPARATION The presentation of the financial statements has been reformatted in 2011 to enable greater understanding of the financial results and position of the Group.
Accounting policies that relate specically to a balance or transaction are now presented above the relevant numerical disclosure.
significant Accounting Policies The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB as adopted by the European Union, and with those parts of the UK Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Groups financial statements also comply with IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as issued by the IASB.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modied by the revaluation of land and buildings, available-for-sale financial assets, and financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through profit and loss.
The Group has selected accounting policies which state fairly its financial position, financial performance and cash ows for a reporting period.
The accounting policies have been consistently applied to all years presented, unless otherwise stated.
The Group presents its balance sheet in order of liquidity.
This is considered to be more relevant than a before and after 12 months presentation, given the long term nature of the Groups core business.
However, for each asset and liability line item which combines amounts expected to be recovered or settled before and after 12 months from the balance sheet date, disclosure of the split is made by way of a note.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are disclosed gross in the balance sheet unless a legally enforceable right of offset exists and there is an intention to settle recognised amounts on a net basis.
Income and expenses are not offset in the income statement unless required or permitted by any accounting standard or IFRIC interpretation, as detailed in the applicable accounting policies of the Group.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transactions.
The functional currency of the Groups foreign operations is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates.
The assets and liabilities of all of the Groups foreign operations are translated into sterling, the Groups presentational currency, at the closing rate at the date of the balance sheet.
The income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to a separate component of shareholders equity.
Standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards that are not yet effective Certain standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards have been published which are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012 or later periods but which the Group has not adopted early.
Details of these are contained within Note 19 Deferred acquisition costs, Note 22 Financial investments and Note 43 Subsidiaries.
Use of estimates The preparation of the financial statements includes the use of estimates and assumptions which affect items reported in the consolidated balance sheet and income statement and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of current circumstances and future events and actions, actual results may differ from those estimates, possibly signicantly.
This is particularly relevant for the determination of fair values of investment property Note 21 and unquoted and illiquid financial investments Note 22 : the estimation of deferred acquisition costs Note 19 : tax balances Notes 12, 24 and 25 : and the estimation of insurance and investment contract liabilities Notes 30 and 31.
The basis of accounting for these areas is outlined in the respective notes to the financial statements.
