OUR GROUP OUR PERFORMANCE OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 119 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 16 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The fair value at the date of grant of the equity instrument is recognised as an expense, spread over the vesting period of the instrument.
The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the awards, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments which are expected to become exercisable.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment is made to equity.
On vesting or exercise, the difference between the expense charged to the income statement and the actual cost to the Group is transferred to retained earnings.
Where new shares are issued, the proceeds received are credited to share capital and share premium.
i Description of schemes The Group provides a number of equity settled share-based long term incentive plans for directors and eligible employees.
Options are normally forfeited if the employee leaves the Group.
The Savings related share option scheme SAYE allows employees to enter into a regular savings contract over either three, five or seven years, coupled with a corresponding option over shares of the Group.
The grant price is equal to 80% of the quoted market price of the Group shares on the invitation date.
Fair value is calculated using the Black-Scholes model.
Conditional shares can be granted to top managers under the Performance share plan PSP, based upon individual and Company performance.
Under the PSP, the number of performance shares transferred to the individual at the end of the three year vesting period is dependent on the Groups relative Total Shareholder Return TSR.
The Company share option scheme CSOP, approved by HMRC, and unapproved Executive share option scheme ESOS are designed to provide a long term incentive to directors and managers of the Group.
The number of options granted is based on the managers grade, salary and performance.
In order for the options to be exercisable, Legal & Generals TSR must exceed the median TSR of the FTSE 100 for a period of at least three years commencing on the date of the grant.
Fair value is calculated using a binomial model, reecting the historic exercise patterns.
The Share bonus plan SBP awards restricted shares and nil-paid options.
Recipients of restricted shares are entitled to both vote and receive dividends.
Fair value is calculated as the market value on the grant date, adjusted to reect the eligibility for dividend payments.
Under the Employee share plan ESP, approved by HMRC, permanent UK employees may elect to purchase Group shares from the market at the prevailing market price on a monthly basis.
The Group supplements the number of shares purchased by matching the first 20 of the employees contributions.
From time to time, the Group may make a grant of free shares.
Both the free and matching shares must be held in trust for three years before they may vest to the employee.
The fair value of granted shares is equal to the market value at grant date.
The fair values of the share grants made during the year have been calculated using the following assumptions: SAYE SAYE PSP PSP Award date 15-Apr-11 1-Sep-11 13-Jan-11 27-Apr-11 Weighted average share price 120p 105p 110p 119p Weighted average exercise price 88p 79p n a n a Expected volatility 45% 45% n a n a Expected life 3 7 years 3 7 years 3 years 3 years Risk free investment rate 1.8% 3.2% 0.9% 2.1% n a n a Dividend yield 4.1% 4.5% n a n a
