182 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 48 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL CONTINUED Liquidity risks Risk Product Control Contingent Event Risk Within protection and general insurance business Protection and A limited level of contingent liquidity risk is an accepted element liquidity risks which stem from low probability general insurance of writing contracts of insurance.
However, the Groups insurance events that, if not adequately planned for, may businesses seek to maintain sufficient liquid assets and standby facilities result in unanticipated liquidity requirements.
to meet a prudent estimate of the cash outows that may arise from Such events may include a u pandemic or natural contingent events.
The level of required liquidity is identied using disaster leading to signicantly higher levels of techniques including stress tests for shock events, with the prole of claims than would normally be expected and actual liquid assets being regularly compared to required prole.
The extreme market conditions impacting the timing Groups treasury function provides formal facilities to the Group to cover of cash ows or the ability to realise investments contingent liquidity requirements arising from more extreme events at a given value within a specified timeframe.
and where investment assets may not be readily realisable.
The level of insurance funds held in cash and other readily realisable assets at 31December 2011 was 2.3bn 2010: 2.6bn.
Collateral Liquidity Risk Within the annuities business, the use of financial Annuities Liquidity requirements to meet potential collateral calls are actively instruments to hedge default, interest rate, managed.
Typically within the overall fund of investment assets held to currency and ination risks can require the meet the long term liabilities arising from annuity business, 350m is posting of collateral with counterparties, and held in cash and other highly liquid investment types for general liquidity as such an appropriate pool of the asset types purposes.
As at 31 December 2011 eligible assets worth 9 times the specified by counterparties must either be held outstanding collateral were held.
Savings Principal Products The Groups Savings products comprise: Non-participating savings, pensions and endowment contracts: Participating savings business, comprising endowment contracts and with-profits bonds: Unit linked savings contracts, unit trusts and collective investment savings products.
Non-participating contracts Non-participating business is written in the non profit part of the Society Long Term Fund LTF.
profits accrue solely to shareholders.
Participating contracts are supported by the with-profits part of the Society LTF.
They offer policyholders the possibility of payment of benets in addition to those guaranteed by the contract.
The amount and timing of the additional benets usually called bonuses are contractually at the discretion of the Group.
For unit linked savings contracts, unit trusts and collective investment savings products there is a direct link between the investments and the obligations.
The financial risk on these contracts is borne by the policyholders and therefore detailed risk disclosures have not been presented in respect of the associated assets and liabilities.
Unit linked business is written in the Society LTF.
Unit trust and collective investment business is administered by Legal & General Unit Trust Managers Limited and Legal & General Portfolio Management Services Limited, respectively.
Savings A range of contracts are offered in a variety of different forms to meet customers long term savings objectives.
Policyholders may choose to include a number of protection benets within their savings contracts.
Typically, any guarantees under the contract would only apply on maturity or earlier death.
On certain older contracts there may be provisions guaranteeing surrender benets.
Savings contracts may or may not guarantee policyholders an investment return.
Pensions individual and corporate These are long term savings contracts through which policyholders accumulate pension benets.
Some older contracts contain a basic guaranteed benefit expressed as an amount of pension payable or a guaranteed annuity option.
Other options provided by these contracts include an open market option on maturity, early retirement and late retirement.
The Group would generally have discretion over the terms on which the latter types of options are offered.
