224 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES to interest rate and exchange rate uctuations.
Any gain or Basis of preparation loss from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is These financial statements are prepared on the going concern recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Any gain basis, under the historical cost convention, as modied by the or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is revaluation of xed asset investments and financial assets and adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value recognised in the profit and loss account.
through profit or loss, and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable accounting standards in the United Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge Kingdom.
The principal accounting policies, which have been accounting.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative applied consistently throughout the year, are set out below.
instruments which do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
The Companys financial statements have been prepared in compliance with Section 394 and 396 of the Companies Act 2006 Borrowings adopting the exemption of omitting the profit and loss account Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of conferred by Section 408 of that Act.
Borrowings classied as liabilities are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
The difference between Investment income the net proceeds and the redemption value is recognised in the Investment income includes dividends and interest.
Dividends profit and loss account over the borrowing period using the receivable from group companies are recognised in the period effective interest method.
in which the dividends are declared and approved at the general meeting or paid.
Interest income is recognised using the Deferred tax effective interest method.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, Distributions where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have recognised as a liability in the period in which the dividends are occurred at the balance sheet date.
authorised and are no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Final dividends are accrued when approved by the Companys A net deferred tax asset is recognised as recoverable and shareholders at a general meeting and interim dividends are therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available recognised when paid.
evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits against which to recover carried Interest expense forward tax losses and from which the future reversal of Interest expense reects the underlying cost of borrowing, based underlying timing differences can be deducted.
on the effective interest method, and includes payments and receipts made under derivative instruments which are amortised Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are over the interest period to which they relate.
expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have Investment in subsidiary undertakings been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Shares in subsidiary undertakings are stated at current value.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis.
Unrealised gains or losses arising on investments in subsidiary undertakings are taken to the revaluation reserve.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries only to the extent that, at the balance sheet Loans and receivables date, dividends have been accrued as receivable or a binding Loans and receivables are held at amortised cost using the agreement to distribute past earnings in future periods has been effective interest method.
entered into by the subsidiary.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Companys activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
The Company uses derivatives such as foreign exchange forward contracts and interest rate swap contracts to hedge these exposures.
The Company uses hedge accounting, provided the prescribed criteria are met, to recognise the offsetting effects of changes in the fair value or cash ow of the derivative instrument and the hedged item.
The Companys principal use of hedge accounting is to hedge the fair value movements in loans due
