200 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EUROPEAN EMBEDDED VALUE BASIS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 METHODOLOGY Basis of preparation The supplementary financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the European Embedded Value EEV Principles issued in May 2004 by the European Insurance CFO Forum.
The supplementary financial statements have been audited by  LLP and prepared with assistance from our consulting actuaries: Towers Watson in the UK and Milliman in the USA.
Covered business The Group uses EEV methodology to value individual and group life assurance, pensions and annuity business written in the UK, Continental Europe and the US.
The UK covered business also includes non-insured self invested personal pension SIPP business.
The managed pension funds business has been excluded from covered business and is reported on an IFRS basis.
All other businesses are accounted for on the IFRS basis adopted in the primary financial statements.
There is no distinction made between insurance and investment contracts in our covered business as there is under IFRS.
Description of methodology The objective of EEV is to provide shareholders with realistic information on the financial position and current performance of the Group.
The methodology requires assets of an insurance company, as reported in the primary financial statements, to be attributed between those supporting the covered business and the remainder.
The method accounts for assets in the covered business on an EEV basis and the remainder of the Groups assets on the IFRS basis adopted in the primary financial statements.
The EEV methodology recognises profit from the covered business as the total of: i. cash transfers during the relevant period from the covered business to the remainder of the Groups assets: and ii.
the movement in the present value of future distributable profits to shareholders arising from the covered business over the relevant reporting period.
Embedded value Shareholders equity on the EEV basis comprises the embedded value of the covered business plus the shareholders equity of other businesses, less the value included for purchased interests in long term business.
The embedded value is the sum of the shareholder net worth SNW and the value of the in-force business VIF.
SNW is dened as those amounts, within covered business both within the long term fund and held outside the long term fund but used to support long term business, which are regarded either as required capital or which represent free surplus.
The VIF is the present value of future shareholder profits arising from the covered business, projected using best estimate assumptions, less an appropriate deduction for the cost of holding the required level of capital and the time value of financial options and guarantees FOGs.
Service companies All services relating to the UK covered business are charged on a cost recovery basis, with the exception of investment management services provided to Legal & General Pensions Limited LGPL and to Legal & General Assurance Society Limited Society.
profits arising on the provision of these services are valued on a look through basis.
As the EEV methodology incorporates the future capitalised cost of these internal investment management services, the equivalent IFRS profits have been removed from the Investment management segment and are instead included in the results of the Risk and Savings segments on an EEV basis.
The capitalised value of future profits emerging from internal investment management services are therefore included in the embedded value and new business contribution calculations for the Risk and Savings segments.
However, the historical profits which have emerged continue to be reported in the shareholders equity of the Investment management segment on an IFRS basis.
Since the look through into service companies includes only future profits and losses, current intra-group profits or losses must be eliminated from the closing embedded value and in order to reconcile the profits arising in the financial period within each segment with the net assets on the opening and closing balance sheet, a transfer of IFRS profits for the period from the UK SNW is deemed to occur.
