204 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EUROPEAN EMBEDDED VALUE BASIS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 METHODOLOGY CONTINUED The cost of debt used in the WACC calculations takes account of the actual locked-in rates for our senior and subordinated long term debt.
All debt interest attracts tax relief at a rate of 23%.
Whilst the WACC approach is a relatively simple and transparent calculation to apply, subjectivity remains within a number of the assumptions.
Management believes that the chosen margin, together with the levels of required capital, the inherent strength of the Groups regulatory reserves and the explicit deduction for the cost of options and guarantees, is appropriate to reect the risks within the covered business.
Analysis of profit Operating profit is identied at a level which reects an assumed longer term level of investment return.
The contribution to operating profit in a period is attributed to four sources: i. new business: ii.
the management of in-force business: iii.
return on shareholder net worth.
Further profit contributions arise from actual investment return differing from the assumed long term investment return investment return variances, and from the effect of economic assumption changes.
The contribution from new business represents the value recognised at the end of each period from new business written in that period, after allowing for the actual cost of acquiring the business and of establishing the required technical provisions and reserves and after making allowance for the cost of capital.
New business contributions are calculated using closing assumptions.
The contribution from in-force business is calculated using opening assumptions and comprises: i. expected return the discount earned from the value of business in-force at the start of the year: ii.
experience variances the variance in the actual experience over the reporting period from that assumed in the value of business in-force as at the start of the year: and iii.
operating assumption changes the effects of changes in future assumptions, other than changes in economic assumptions from those used in valuing the business at the start of the year.
These changes are made prospectively from the end of the year.
Development costs relate to investment in strategic systems and development capability.
The contribution from shareholder net worth comprises the increase in embedded value based on assumptions at the start of the year in respect of the expected investment return on the Society shareholder capital.
Further profit contributions arise from investment return variances and the effect of economic assumption changes.
Investment return variances represent the effect of actual investment performance and changes to investment policy on SNW and VIF business from that assumed at the beginning of the period.
Economic assumption changes comprise the effect of changes in economic variables on SNW and VIF business from that assumed at the beginning of the period, which are beyond the control of management, including associated changes to valuation bases to the extent that they are reected in revised assumptions.
