OUR GROUP OUR PERFORMANCE OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 225 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Foreign currencies At each balance sheet date, the Company revises its estimate of Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated the number of equity instruments which are expected to become into sterling at the rates of exchange prevailing at the time of exercisable.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities expressed in estimate, if any, in the cost of the investment in the subsidiary foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates of and a corresponding adjustment is made to equity over the exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary items remaining vesting period.
On vesting or exercise, the difference are maintained at historic rates.
Exchange gains or losses are between the accumulated capital contribution and the actual recognised in the profit and loss account, except those arising cost to the Company is transferred to retained earnings.
Where upon the revaluation of xed assets, which are included in the new shares are issued, the proceeds received are credited to revaluation reserve.
share capital and share premium.
Any capital contribution is subsequently recharged to the respective subsidiary as incurred Pension costs and the corresponding cost of investment is reduced.
The Company participates in multi-employer dened benefit schemes, within the meaning of FRS 17, Retirement Benets, Risk Management which, as its share of the underlying assets and liabilities cannot The Company has taken advantage of the exemptions provided be identied, have been treated for reporting purposes as in FRS 29, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, which states dened contribution schemes.
In addition to these schemes that disclosure of financial instruments is not required in parent the Company also contributes to dened contribution schemes.
company financial statements where these are included in The Company charges the costs of its pension schemes against publicly available Consolidated Financial Statements.
Any difference between the cumulative amounts charged against profits and contribution amounts paid is included as a provision or prepayment in the balance sheet.
The assets of the dened benefit schemes and the dened contribution schemes are held in separate trustee administered funds, which have been subject to regular valuation every three years and updated by formal reviews at reporting dates by qualied actuaries who were employees of the Group.
Related Party Transactions The Company has taken advantage of the exemptions of FRS 8, Related Party Transactions, not to disclose transactions with other group companies.
Share-based payments The Company operates a number of share-based payment plans on behalf of its subsidiaries.
The fair value of the equity instruments granted is spread over the vesting period of the instrument and treated as a capital contribution to the respective subsidiary.
The total capital contribution is determined by reference to the fair value of the awards, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions.
The capital contribution to the subsidiaries is accounted for as an increase in the investment in the parent companys financial statements.
