202 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EUROPEAN EMBEDDED VALUE BASIS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 METHODOLOGY CONTINUED Required capital and free surplus Regulatory capital for the Risk and Savings businesses is provided by assets backing the with-profits business or by the SNW.
The SNW comprises all shareholders capital within Society, including those funds retained within the long term fund and the excess assets in LGPL collectively Society shareholder capital.
Society shareholder capital is either required to cover EU solvency margin or is free surplus as its distribution to shareholders is not restricted.
For UK with-profits business, the required capital is covered by the surplus within the with-profits part of the fund and no effect is attributed to shareholders except for the burn-through cost, which is described later.
This treatment is consistent with the Principles and Practices of Financial Management for this part of the fund.
For UK non profit business, the required capital will be maintained at no less than the level of the EU minimum solvency requirement.
This level, together with the margins for adverse deviation in the regulatory reserves, is, in aggregate, in excess of internal capital targets assessed in conjunction with the Individual Capital Assessment ICA and the with-profits support account.
The initial strains relating to new non profit business, together with the related EU solvency margin, are supported by releases from existing non profit business and the Society shareholder capital.
As a consequence, the writing of new business defers the release ofcapital to free surplus.
The cost of holding required capital is dened as the difference between the value of the required capital andthe present value of future releases of that capital.
For new business, the cost of capital is taken as the difference in the value of that capital assuming it was available for release immediately and the present value of the future releases of that capital.
As the investment return, net of tax, on that capital is less than the risk discount rate, there is a resulting cost of capital which is reected inthe value of new business.
For LGA, the Company Action Level CAL of capital has been treated as required capital for modelling purposes.
The CAL is the regulatory capital level at which the company would have to take prescribed action, such as submission of plans to the State insurance regulator, but would be able to continue operating on the existing basis.
The CAL is currently twice the level of capital at which the regulator is permitted to take control of the business.
For LGN, required capital has been set at 100% of EU minimum solvency margin for all products without FOGs.
For those products with FOGs, capital of between 100% and 212% of the EU minimum solvency margin has been used.
The level of capital has been determined using risk based capital techniques.
For LGF, 100% of EU minimum solvency margin has been used for EV modelling purposes for all products both with and without FOGs.
The contribution from new business for our International businesses reects an appropriate allowance for the cost of holding the required capital.
Financial options and guarantees Under the EEV Principles an allowance for time value of FOGs is required where a financial option exists which is exercisable at the discretion of the policyholder.
These types of option principally arise within the with-profits part of the fund and their time value is recognised within the with-profits burn-through cost described below.
Additional financial options for non profit business exist only for a small amount of deferred annuity business where guaranteed early retirement and cash commutation terms apply when the policyholders choose their actual retirement date.
Further financial guarantees exist for non profit business, in relation to index-linked annuities where capped or collared restrictions apply.
Due to the nature of these restrictions and the manner in which they vary depending on the prevailing ination conditions, theyare also treated as FOGs and a time value cost recognised accordingly.
The time value of FOGs has been calculated stochastically using a large number of real world economic scenarios derived from assumptions consistent with the deterministic EEV assumptions and allowing for appropriate management actions where applicable.
The management action primarily relates to the setting of bonus rates.
Future regular and terminal bonuses on participating business within the projections are set in a manner consistent with expected future returns available on assets deemed to back the policies within the stochastic scenarios.
