Lloyds Banking Group 364 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 ABBREVIATIONS ABS Asset-Backed Securities KPIs Key Performance Indicators ADRs American Depositary Receipts LCR Liquidity Coverage Ratio AQR Asset Quality Ratio LGD Loss Given Default ATMs Automated Teller Machines LIBOR London Inter-Bank Offered Rate BBA British Bankers Association LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan BSU Business Support Unit LTV Loan-to-value CDO Collateralised Debt Obligation MIF Multilateral Interchange Fee CDS Credit Default Swap NSFR Net Stable Funding Ratio CLO Collateralised Loan Obligation OEICs Open Ended Investment Companies CMIG Clerical Medical Investment Group Limited OFAC Office of Foreign Assets Control CRA Credit Reference Agency PCA Personal Current Account CRD Capital Requirements Directive PEI Performance Excellence Index CRR Capital Resources Requirement PFI Private Finance Initiative CVA Credit Valuation Adjustment PPI Payment Protection Insurance DVA Debit Valuation Adjustment PPP Public Private Partnership ECNs Enhanced Capital Notes PRA Prudential Regulatory Authority EEI Employee Engagement Index PVNBP Present Value of New Business Premiums EEV European Embedded Value RDR Retail Distribution Review EP Economic Profit SAYE Save-As-You-Earn EPS Earnings Per Share SMEs Small and Medium sized enterprises EU European Union SPE Special Purpose Entity FCA Financial Conduct Authority SWIP Scottish Widows Investment Partnership FOS Financial Ombudsman Service TSR Total Shareholder Return FSA Financial Services Authority UK United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland FSCS Financial Services Compensation Scheme UKFI United Kingdom Financial Investment Limited HMRC Her Majestys Revenue & Customs US United States of America IAS International Accounting Standard VaR Value-at-Risk IASB International Accounting Standards Board VVOP Voluntary Variation of Permission ICB Independent Commission on Banking WBM Wholesale Banking and Markets ICG Individual Capital Guidance IFAs Independent Financial Advisers IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards ISA Individual Savings Account Shareholder information 356 Lloyds Banking Group Forward looking statements 358 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 365 Glossary 359 Abbreviations 364 Index to annual report 365 171 205 1 20 INDEX TO ANNUAL REPORT Accounting Directors Accounting policies 217 Attendance at board and committee meetings 182 Critical accounting estimates and judgements 228Biographies 172 Future accounting developments 343 Directors report 174 Emoluments 196 Approval of financial statements Interests 198, 204 Consolidated 343 Remuneration policy 190 Parent company 354 Service agreements 195 Auditors Dividends 11, 18, 295 Report on the consolidated financial statements 206 Report on the parent company financial statements 344 Earnings per share 249 Fees 243 Employees Diversity and inclusion 37 Available-for-sale financial assets Colleagues 34 Accounting policies 219, 223 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 258 Financial risk management Valuation 312 Credit risk 129, 322, 354 Currency risk 321, 353 Balance sheet Fair values of financial assets and liabilities 311, 354 Consolidated 210, 211 Insurance risk 169 Parent company 345 Interest rate risk 320, 353 Business Model and Strategy 24 Liquidity and funding risk 106, 112 Capital adequacy Market risk 110, 164 Capital ratios 120 Measurement basis of financial assets and liabilities 308, 353 Cash flow statement Five year financial summary 98 Consolidated 215 Forward looking statements 358 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 340 Going concern Parent company 347 Basis of preparation 216 Chairmans statement 10 Directors report 174 Charitable donations 175 Goodwill Contingent liabilities and commitments 305 Accounting policy 217 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 260 Credit market exposures 335 Governance Debt securities in issue Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 177 Consolidated 266 Risk management 99 Parent company 351 Valuation 312 Board Committees 183 Group chief executives review 14 Delivering our Action Plan 26 Deposits Held at fair value through profit or loss Accounting policy 218 Customer deposits 265 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 250, 266 Deposits from banks 265 Valuation 312 Valuation 312 Impairment Derivative financial instruments Accounting policy 221 Accounting policy 220 Critical accounting estimates and judgements 228 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 251 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 244 Valuation 312 Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements r Other information Lloyds Banking Group 366 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 INDEX TO ANNUAL REPORT Income statement Other financial information Consolidated 208 Banking net interest margin 97 Core and non-core business 86 Information for shareholders Integration costs and benefits 96 Analysis of shareholders 357 Liability management gains 95 Shareholder enquiries 356 Simplification costs and benefits 96 Insurance businesses Volatility arising in insurance businesses 94 Accounting policy 225 Pensions Basis of determining regulatory capital 123 Accounting policy 224 Capital sensitivities 126 Critical accounting estimates and judgements 229 Capital statement 123 Directors pensions 191, 193, 197 Critical accounting estimates and judgements 229 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 275 Financial information calculated on a realistic basis 123 Liabilities arising from insurance contracts and Principal subsidiaries 351 participating investment contracts 266 Presentation of information 5 Liabilities arising from non-participating investment contracts 274 Provisions Life insurance sensitivity analysis 273 Accounting policy 227 Options and guarantees 127 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 282 Unallocated surplus within insurance businesses 274 Value of in-force business 260 Related party transactions 302, 351 Volatility arising in insurance businesses 94 Relationships and responsibilities 30 Insurance claims 241 Risk management framework Business risk 170 Insurance premium income 239 Credit risk 129 Intangible assets Exposures to Eurozone countries 156 Accounting policy 218 Financial soundness 112 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 263 Insurance risk 169 Investment property Market risk 164 Accounting policy 223 Principal risks and uncertainties 106 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 259 Operational risk 167 Key performance indicators 6 Risk governance 102 Risk management 99 Loans and advances State funding and state aid 102 Loans and advances to banks 254 Loans and advances to customers 255 Risk-weighted assets 121 Valuation 312 Securitisations and covered bonds 256 Marketplace trends Segmental reporting Regulation 21 Central items 85 The economy 22 Combined businesses segmental analysis 52, 53 Impact on our markets 23 Commercial 66 Net fee and commission income 238 Group Operations 84 Insurance 77 Net interest income 237 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 231 Net trading income 238 Retail 54 Operating expenses 242 Wealth and International 70 Wholesale 59 Other operating income 240 Shareholder information 356 Lloyds Banking Group Forward looking statements 358 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 367 Glossary 359 Abbreviations 364 Index to annual report 365 1 20 171 205 Share-based payments Accounting policy 224 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 295 Share capital 290 Statement of changes in equity Consolidated 212 Parent company 346 Subordinated liabilities Consolidated 284 Parent company 350 Valuation 312 Summary of Group results 44 Tangible fixed assets Accounting policy 223 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 264 Taxation Accounting policy 224 Critical accounting estimates and judgements 229 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 248, 280 Value at Risk VaR 165 Value of in-force business Accounting policy 226 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 260 Volatility Insurance 94 Policyholder interests 95 Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements r Other information Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.
com Front cover photography George Brooks Directors portraits Marcus Ginns Printed in the UK by Royle Print, a certified CarbonNeutral printing company, using vegetable based inks and water based sealants: the printer and paper manufacturing mill are both certified with ISO 140001 Environmental Management systems standards and both are Forest Stewardship Council certified.
When you have finished with this report, please dispose of it in your recycled waste stream.
Head office 25 Gresham Street London EC2V 7HN Telephone 44 0 20 7626 1500 Registered office The Mound Edinburgh EH1 1YZ Registered in Scotland no 95000 Internet www.
com AnnuAl Review 2011 becoming the best bank for customers Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2011 we are creating a simpler, our aim is to more agile and responsive organisation, and are making become the a big investment in products and services.
best bank for This will offer more to our customers customers, as well as delivering strong, stable and sustainable returns for our shareholders.
Lloyds Banking Group is a leading UK based financial services Our corporate strategy group providing a wide range of banking and financial services, Our strategy is built around becoming the best bank for individual, primarily in the UK, to personal and corporate customers.
commercial and corporate customers across the uK and creating value The main business activities are retail, commercial and corporate by investing in areas that make a real difference to these customers.
banking, general insurance, and life, pensions and investment we are looking to create a more agile, efficient and responsive provision.
The Group operates the uKs largest retail bank and has customer focused organisation with a real focus on operating a large and diversified customer base.
Our strategy will create shareholder The Group operates through five key customer-focused operating value through reshaping and simplifying the business and investing divisions: Retail, wholesale, Commercial, wealth and international, a proportion of the savings realised from this simplification in customer and insurance.
These divisions provide services to customers through related growth initiatives.
whilst focusing on core markets which offer a number of well recognised brands including lloyds TSB, Halifax, Bank strong returns and attractive growth, we will maintain a conservative of Scotland, and Scottish widows, and a range of distribution channels approach to, and prudent appetite for, risk and further strengthen including the largest branch network in the uK.
lloyds Banking Group is quoted on both the london Stock exchange Fundamentally we remain a more conservative, through the cycle, and the new York Stock exchange and is one of the largest companies relationship focused business and with a stronger balance sheet, within the FTSe 100. a simpler more efficient structure and the renewed customer focus we believe we can deliver strong, stable and sustainable returns for shareholders over time.
Annual Report online A full version of our annual report and accounts and information relating to lloyds Banking Group is available at: www.
com Through investing in our branches, such as the lloyds TSB branch in Stratford, east london, we are reinvigorating our brands and enabling better customer service.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2011 1 GROuP PeRFORMAnCe in 2011, we established our longer Delivering term strategy for the Group, acted quickly and decisively to mitigate resilient the effects of a challenging performance environment and put in place the right foundations to deliver on our objectives over the next 3-5 years.
we delivered a resilient performance and made good progress against the key elements of our strategic plan to become the best bank for our customers.
Antnio Horta-Osrio Group Chief executive Key highlights Good progress against strategy creating new opportunities for growth Balance sheet further strengthened Capital position strengthened: Core tier 1 capital ratio of 10.8 per cent, improved by 60 basis points Strong deposit growth: customer deposits excluding repos increased 6 per cent to 406 billion Funding position significantly improved: wholesale funding reduced to 251 billion, down 16 per cent Strong progress against term funding objectives with 35 billion of wholesale term issuance loan to deposit ratio substantially improved to 135 per cent 31 December 2010: 154 per cent Reshaping our business portfolio: reducing risk, focusing on the core, and exiting non-core areas Substantial non-core asset reduction of 53 billion to 141 billion Conservative approach to, and prudent appetite for, risk fully embedded across the business increased focus on the core business, while substantially decreasing non-core assets Announced exit from operations in seven overseas countries Simplifying the Group: reducing costs and creating a new operational model integration successfully executed, realising annual run-rate savings of more than 2 billion Strong initial progress on delivery of simplification initiatives, using our proven capabilities from integration Simplification run-rate cost savings of 242 million at end 2011 Invest to be the best bank for our customers: creating new opportunities for growth Successful launch of multi-brand strategy, including relaunch of Halifax as a challenger brand Support for Small and Medium-sized enterprises SMes strengthened: Merlin commitments exceeded, and Commercial loan growth of 3 per cent against uK market, down 6 per cent Good Bancassurance progress with Retail and Commercial SMe customers increased market shares in key, capital-light wholesale products, facilitated by Arena platform new wealth propositions developed covering 80 per cent of customers, and processes simplified Lloyds Banking Group 2 Annual Review 2011 GROuP PeRFORMAnCe Key highlights continued Resilient underlying trading performance in 2011, in line with expectations Growth initiatives, cost and impairment reductions, and funding mix improvements mitigated the effects of a subdued uK economy, risk and asset reductions, and higher wholesale funding costs Combined businesses profit before tax increased 21 per cent to 2,685 million in 2011 Core combined businesses profit before tax increased 3 per cent to 6,349 million Statutory loss before tax was 3,542 million 2010: profit of 281 million, and includes a 3.2 billion non-recurring provision for Payment Protection insurance PPi contact and redress costs income decreased 10 per cent to 21,123 million, reflecting subdued lending demand and continued customer deleveraging in the core, a smaller non-core portfolio, and a lower margin Banking net interest margin reduced by 14 basis points to 2.07 per cent, in line with expectations, with increased funding costs partially offset by the benefits of asset repricing and funding mix: core net interest margin declined only 6 basis points to 2.42 per cent given the better funding mix in the core business Total costs fell 4 per cent, primarily driven by integration and Simplification related savings and lower bonus accruals, partially offset by inflationary pressures and uK bank levy and FSCS costs The impairment charge reduced significantly, by 26 per cent to 9,787 million, with improvements seen across all divisions, reflecting improving portfolio credit quality Outlook and financial guidance expect the external environment to remain challenging in 2012 Remain confident that our medium-term financial targets, as set out in our June 2011 Strategic Review are achievable over time As anticipated in our Q3 2011 interim Management Statement, now expect the attainment of income related targets, including for other operating income, to be delayed beyond 2014 as a result of the weaker than expected economic outlook As a consequence, also expect the attainment of our return on equity target to be delayed beyond 2014 Continue to expect to deliver our balance sheet, cost and impairment targets in 2014, and in some cases sooner in-year cost savings target for 2014 increased by 200 million to 1.7 billion: end 2014 run-rate target increased to 1.9 billion Given expectation of further deposit growth, expect to reach medium-term Group loan-to-deposit ratio target of 130 per cent or below by the end of 2012, two years ahead of plan in 2012, on a combined businesses basis, we expect: income to be lower than in 2011 given the economic outlook, further non-core asset reductions, subdued demand in the core loan book, higher wholesale funding costs, and interest rates likely to remain at low levels for longer Full year banking net interest margin to be below 2 per cent in 2012, falling year-on-year by approximately the same amount in 2012 as in 2011, primarily driven by continuing high wholesale funding costs A further reduction in costs, and a similar percentage reduction in Group impairment as seen in 2011, with the largest improvement coming from international The benefit from fair value unwind to reduce to approximately 0.5 billion To continue to strengthen our balance sheet through: non-core asset reduction of approximately 25 billion, further deposit growth, at least in line with the market, and strengthening our funding position and our core tier 1 ratio Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2011 3 Combined businesses results summary 2011 2010 m m net interest income 12,233 14,143 Other income 9,307 9,936 1 effects of liability management gains, volatile items and asset sales 74 93 Total income 21,466 23,986 insurance claims 343 542 Total income, net of insurance claims 21,123 23,444 Costs: Operating expenses 10,253 10,882 2 Other costs 368 196 10,621 11,078 Trading surplus 10,502 12,366 impairment 9,787 13,181 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 27 91 Profit loss before tax and fair value unwind 742 906 Fair value unwind 1,943 3,118 Profit before tax combined businesses 2,685 2,212 1 includes the gains from liability management exercises, the net effect of banking volatility, changes in the fair valuation of the equity conversion feature of the Group's enhanced Capital notes, net derivative valuation adjustments and gains or losses on disposals of assets which are not part of normal business operations.
2 Other costs include FSCS costs and uK bank levy in 2011, and FSCS costs and impairment of tangible fixed assets in 2010.
Reconciliation of combined businesses profit before tax to statutory loss profit before tax 2011 2010 m m Profit before tax combined businesses 2,685 2,212 integration, simplification and eC mandated retail business disposal costs 1,452 1,653 volatility arising in insurance businesses 838 306 Amortisation of purchased intangibles 562 629 Provision in relation to German insurance business litigation 175 Payment protection insurance provision 3,200 Customer goodwill payments provision 500 Pension curtailment gain 910 loss on disposal of businesses 365 Loss profit before tax statutory 3,542 281 Presentation of information in order to provide more meaningful and relevant comparatives, the results of the Group and divisions are presented on a combined businesses basis.
The key principles adopted in the preparation of the combined businesses basis of reporting are described below.
in order to reflect the impact of the acquisition of HBOS, the amortisation of purchased intangible assets has been excluded: and the unwind of acquisition-related fair value adjustments is shown as one line in the combined businesses income statement.
in order to better present business performance the effects of liability management, volatile items and asset sales are shown on a separate line in the combined businesses income statement and the following items, not related to acquisition accounting, have also been excluded: integration, simplification and eC mandated retail business disposal costs: volatility arising in insurance businesses: insurance gross up: provision in relation to German insurance business litigation: payment protection insurance provision: customer goodwill payments provision: curtailment gains and losses in respect of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes: and loss on disposal of businesses.
To enable a better understanding of the Groups core business trends and outlook, certain income statement, balance sheet and regulatory capital information is analysed between core and non-core portfolios.
The non-core portfolios consist of businesses which deliver below-hurdle returns, which are outside the Groups risk appetite or may be distressed, are subscale or have an unclear value proposition, or have a poor fit with the Groups customer strategy.
The eC mandated retail business disposal Project verde is included in core portfolios.
Lloyds Banking Group 4 Annual Review 2011 BuSineSS MODel AnD STRATeGY unlocking the groups potential Our business model Our strategy lloyds Banking Group is a leading A uK focused strategy to be uK based financial services group the best bank for customers, providing a wide range of banking which will deliver strong, stable and financial services, primarily in and sustainable returns for our the uK, to personal, commercial shareholders.
we are looking to create a more agile, efficient and responsive customer focused organisation with a real focus on operating Our business model is designed around our distinctive capabilities in sustainably and responsibly.
we will reshape and simplify the business serving personal, commercial and corporate customers across the uK, with and invest a portion of the savings realised from the simplification a focused range of banking, insurance, investment, debt financing and risk initiatives in customer related growth initiatives.
whilst focusing on management products to meet customer needs.
core markets which offer strong returns and attractive growth we will maintain a prudent approach to risk and further strengthen the Groups in delivering these products to our customers we capitalise on our strong balance sheet and liquidity position.
customer relationships, our iconic and distinct brands, our broad multi channel distribution and our customer focused people.
we intend to reshape our business portfolio to fit our assets, capabilities and risk appetite.
we will further reduce the balance sheet we have over 30 million customers and customer leadership driven through the continued reduction of our non-core assets and reduce by superior customer insight, tailored products, better service and the risk in the business through the application of a conservative relationship focus is the overriding priority.
we want to meet all the approach to, and prudent appetite for risk.
we will also reduce our financial needs of our customers and help them succeed financially.
Only by successfully focusing on the needs of customers can we deliver sustainable value to our shareholders.
we believe we can unlock the potential in the franchise and deliver value to customers and shareholders by creating a simpler, more Though the uK financial services market remains one of the largest in the agile and responsive organisation.
Opportunities exist to increase world our business model and strategy has been formulated in the context the efficiency of operations and processes and reduce costs whilst of a cautious outlook for the uK economy.
still addressing customer needs more effectively.
The creation of a simpler, more agile organisation will enable the Group to adapt more effectively to the external environment whilst addressing the changing needs of the customer base more effectively.
Our customer focus remains the key driver for strategy and business decision making and substantial customer related investment is planned.
Our strategy recognises our customers needs for product simplicity and transparency, access to credit, help in planning and saving for retirement, demands for access through multiple channels, value for money products and services and the importance of our staff in managing customer relationships.
Halifax is being repositioned as a leading challenger brand in uK retail banking, with a value for money proposition and innovative products.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2011 5 DeliveRinG OuR ACTiOn PlAn reshape simplify our business portfolio to fit our assets, the Group to improve agility and efficiency.
we will focus on attractive uK customer segments and their we are targeting cost saving and investment initiatives to attain a product needs, to target a sustainable statutory return on equity cost:income ratio of 4244 per cent.
Our integration programme was substantially completed in 2011, we will invest behind core areas which offer strong returns and delivering a single banking platform and a run-rate of 2 billion per attractive growth: these are businesses which are capital and annum in cost synergies and other operating efficiencies.
liquidity efficient, with sustainable competitive advantage, and we are now targeting a further 1.7 billion of cost savings in 2014 which are central to our core customer strategy.
through a series of simplification initiatives.
Savings will be realised in reshaping our business, we have identified the following areas by focusing on the four areas below: of focus: Operations and processes Continued reduction in non-core assets Sourcing A prudent appetite for risk Channels and products Streamlining our international presence More agile organisation invest strengthen to be the best bank for customers.
the Groups balance sheet and liquidity position.
we intend to invest approximately 500 million annually by 2014, we will continue to strengthen the Groups balance sheet and equivalent to approximately one-third of the savings from our liquidity position to ensure a robust core tier 1 capital ratio and simplification initiatives, to grow our core income, with approximately stable funding base by: 2 billion invested between 2011 and 2014.
Targeting a robust core tier 1 capital ratio, prudently This is in addition to our business-as-usual investment programme in excess of 10 per cent and is expected to result in core income growth above uK GDP Exceeding regulatory liquidity requirements growth, primarily driven by growth in other operating income.
Maintaining a stable funding base Improving the Group loan to deposit ratio to 130 per cent Our investment will be subject to disciplined tests, including the or below financial returns, the fit to our risk appetite and alignment with our strategy to be the best bank for customers.
The investment will primarily be focused on: Becoming the best bank for personal customers Becoming the best through-the-cycle partner for our business customers Maintain bancassurance as a core element of our proposition Lloyds Banking Group 6 Annual Review 2011 CHAiRMAnS STATeMenT Sir winfried Bischoff a year of change anD encouraging progress Overview 2011 was a year of low economic growth and challenging markets in many parts of the world, which resulted in a difficult year for the banking industry as a whole.
The uK sector in particular was affected by a weakening uK economic environment, continuing regulatory uncertainty and the impact of the euro crisis.
Despite this environment, we made progress against our objective of being the best bank for customers and on the key actions we are taking to deliver strong, stable and sustainable returns for shareholders over time.
we created a new management team, presented our new strategy and are refocusing the business to meet our customers needs.
we also delivered a resilient performance in the core business, and made good progress on the reduction of non-core assets.
Having successfully completed one of the biggest integrations ever undertaken in banking, we are now working hard against a demanding set of targets to simplify the Group to improve our agility and efficiency, thereby realising cost savings which we will invest to enhance our service to customers.
By delivering against this plan, we will seek to unlock the potential in our franchise and deliver increased value to our shareholders.
we accelerated the eC mandated disposal, the transaction known as verde, and made significant progress in strengthening the balance sheet and our funding position whilst delivering a resilient underlying trading performance.
we took responsible position on Payment Protection insurance PPi, continue to improve switching for current accounts and have made excellent progress, with more to come, in reducing the number of complaints.
As a result we believe the Group is in a stronger position as we move into 2012.
Despite the progress made there were a number of challenges.
in particular our share price performance, down 61 per cent over the year, although partially due to external factors, is not acceptable.
This decline compares with a fall of 30 per cent of an index of uK banks and of 38 per cent of european banks.
nor are the financial results satisfactory, particularly given a number of one off items, including the 3.2 billion provision for PPi.
This provision has had a significant impact on our statutory results but the decision to take this approach reflects the Banks desire to do the right thing for customers.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2011 7 we believe that it is fair and reasonable that the activities which led to Supporting the UK economic recovery the PPi provision are reflected in the long-Term incentive Plan lTiP for lloyds Banking Group plays a vital role in supporting a substantial the years 2009 to 2011 in spite of the longer term nature of the issue.
number of corporates and smaller and medium-sized businesses, Our current shareholders who may not have been shareholders at the helping them to weather the economic uncertainty and build for the time the income on PPi arose have been affected by the impact of the future.
in doing so we play an active part in supporting the strength provision in 2011 and therefore the Board, on the recommendation of and prosperity of the uK, given that, as a largely domestic institution, the Remuneration Committee, decided that the provision should also our success is inextricably linked to the health of the uK: as the nation impact the awards to our senior executives.
with respect to the lTiP, Shareholders will recall that awards for For this reason i am pleased to note that our involvement in Project executive Directors have not paid out in any of the past three years.
Merlin has been successful: we met and continue to exceed our The annual pay-out of the lTiP, averaged over the last four years, agreed lending levels.
we provided 45.3 billion of committed gross is under 0.2 per cent of total pay, in stark contrast to what is the lending to uK businesses in 2011, and helped 124,000 new start up general perception.
All of this has been achieved while acting as a responsible lender.
we have more than delivered on our promise to provide gross Regulation new lending for credit-worthy uK businesses and have pledged yet more lending for the uK economy in 2012.
The level of regulatory scrutiny across all areas of the business remains high, but there is some expectation that in 2012 we will start to see At the same time, our insurance business, including Scottish widows, more clarity in a number of the key areas which will shape the industrys has continued to perform well through its established value rather future.
i believe robust and stable regulation of the sector is an than volume strategy and through its focus on customers.
Our important component in rebuilding confidence and creating a healthy Bancassurance business continues to highlight the importance of and sound financial system.
Changes to the regulatory framework are meeting our customers' protection needs and has had a successful necessary in the wake of the financial crisis.
The reforms proposed by year doing so.
the vickers Commission in its independent Commission on Banking we are also well aware of the public concern around the banking iCB report are an important step towards a safer and stronger sector.
industry and recognise that further progress needs to be made in Further clarity is still required on some of the specific detail, and rebuilding public trust industry-wide.
we can only earn that trust by implementation will have many challenges.
However i remain hopeful addressing the fundamental requirements of all our stakeholders, and that the proposed changes will strengthen the banking sector and by being open, transparent and engaged in the broader debate about safeguard the interests of individuals and institutions.
At the same time the role of banking in the uK.
we will continue to demonstrate that we we forget at our peril the importance of financial services in all parts of are meeting our obligations to customers and society in a responsible the uK to our economy.
At the same time we believe, whatever the in December we were pleased to announce that the Co-operative sectors shortcomings, the debate about the banking industry has Group is our preferred bidder for the eC mandated disposal Project become one-sided which is unhelpful in achieving what those both verde.
The acquisition will significantly enhance their banking inside and outside the banking industry want: a growing, strong operations, producing a new and effective competitor in the market, economy supported by a strong banking sector.
as the eC mandate envisaged.
This transaction combined with complementary measures to improve current account switching and Remuneration actions taken to improve the transparency and comparability of retail The Remuneration Committee undertook a further review of products will, i believe, further enhance the uKs competitive retail executive remuneration in 2011.
Anthony watson, the chairman banking market.
of the Remuneration Committee, comments on detailed aspects of our remuneration policy elsewhere in this Report.
i want to give Equity Dividends shareholders some additional explanation of our philosophy and the The european Commissions restriction on dividend payments was, deliberations underlying incentive compensation for 2011 and for the initially placed on us as part of the State Aid restructuring plan which 2009-2011 long-Term incentive Plan.
expired in early 2012. we understand that the absence of dividends Remuneration remains an important issue for our stakeholders and the has created difficulties for many of our shareholders and we remain Group.
As we are primarily a retail and commercial bank the awards committed to recommencing progressive dividend payments as soon under our Group bonus schemes in 2011 are a very small percentage as we are able.
of our revenues at less than 2 per cent, and at less than 12.5 per cent it is our intention to do so when the financial position of the Group and of the profits before tax and bonus on a Combined Businesses basis.
market conditions permit and after regulatory capital requirements are Additionally, compensation fell this year in total and average terms.
At this time those requirements remain The bonuses paid, greater than half in shares, averaged less than unclear and although we have made good progress against our 3,900 per employee.
we firmly believe that remuneration policy at strategic priorities during the year we are not yet able to forecast when all levels, including senior executives, needs to incentivise staff to we will be able to resume dividend payments.
deliver strong, sustainable growth whilst reflecting the work required to reshape the business to fit the new, challenging environment.
we also need, however to be mindful of public concerns about equality and that remuneration reflects financial results.
in asking not to be considered for a bonus in 2011, Antnio made a principled decision with regard to his remuneration, a decision the Board fully supported.
Lloyds Banking Group 8 Annual Review 2011 CHAiRMAnS STATeMenT Finally, Truett Tate, executive Director for wholesale, has retired from Management and Board the Group.
He made a major contribution in a number of senior roles The year has seen significant management change within the Group since joining the Group in 2003.
He is the quintessential client advocate as we enter the next stage of our development.
we have a strong and in addition he was a great ambassador for many of our corporate and experienced management team, which proved its effectiveness responsibility and charitable programmes.
i enjoyed working with him throughout the year.
and we wish him well for the future.
Antnio Horta-Osrio started as Group Chief executive on 1 March As a Board and throughout the organisation we continue to focus on 2011 and we were pleased to recruit someone with his knowledge and our commitment to meeting the targets set by the Review on Gender experience of financial services, particularly in the retail and commercial Diversity on Boards by lord Davies, and are working proactively to area.
The actions taken by him have already had a positive impact on promote diversity in ethnicity, gender and skills.
Antnio took a two month leave of absence at the end of last year and the Board was pleased that he was able to return to his People role on 9 January 2012. in conjunction with the Board, Antnio has implemented a number of changes to the structure of the management we employ over 100,000 people.
Our colleagues have performed team since his return to ensure that the most important aspects of our well in a year which was characterised by much change and a difficult business are prioritised and the responsibility of managing our Group is economic environment for both customers and themselves.
service is at the heart of our activities and i applaud their efforts to reduce complaints, evidenced by the data for 2011 which show we announced in September 2011 that Tim Tookey, our Group Finance a 24 per cent reduction in year over year FSA reportable banking Director, would leave the organisation at the end of February 2012.
Our colleagues share the Boards view that has been an important member of our Board since October 2008 and more needs to be done and i feel confident that 2012 will bring further helped guide us through the largest merger in uK banking history and progress in this area.
i thank Tim for his commitment throughout that time, not least in the last two months of 2011, when he took on More generally, i would like to thank them for their commitment and the role of Group Chief executive on an interim basis in addition to his loyalty in what were challenging circumstances and in a climate of responsibilities as Group Finance Director.
unfavourable public commentary on their work and livelihood.
we are all determined to demonstrate the utility and usefulness of banking, i am pleased that we were able to announce that George Culmer specifically our type of banking, concentrated as it is on the uK and will join us as our new Group Finance Director in time for the annual within that on retail and commercial banking.
general meeting on 17 May 2012 His knowledge and experience of insurance and his track record as a highly regarded FTSe 100 Finance Director will be of great value to us.
Community The principal means by which lloyds Banking Group can benefit i would also like to thank Helen weir and Archie Kane, who left the society and the communities where we operate is to be a successful Group in 2011, for their significant contribution to the Group over business.
lloyds Banking Group plays a part in the lives of nearly many years.
Helen was Group Finance Director and then led our Retail everyone in the uK, as a supplier of financial services, a major employer, business.
Archie was the Group executive Director of our successful and a customer.
we look after the financial needs of over 30 million insurance business, Scottish widows.
in addition we employ 100,000 people Since the year end a number of additional changes have been and are a significant buyer of goods and services to support our announced.
lord leitch will relinquish his role as Deputy Chairman at business.
we therefore have a relationship with nearly every home the end of February 2012 to focus on his other commitments.
His wise and with many businesses in the uK.
we have a presence in most counsel to the Board and his empathy and involvement with colleagues communities and our brands are well recognised across the country.
across the business will be missed.
i am pleased he has agreed to At a time when the banking sector is under increased public scrutiny, continue as an advisor to the Boards of Scottish widows and of lloyds we acknowledge our responsibility to provide the proper flow of credit Banking Group until the end of 2012. to the economy by delivering simple products, great customer service Sara weller joined as a non-executive Director on 1 February 2012.
Her and secure banking every day.
we do this for more customers and background in retail and in the application of new technology such as businesses than any other bank in the uK.
the internet directly support our strategy.
we also continue to invest actively in the communities where we Sir Julian Horn-Smith, independent Director since 2005 will not be standing operate both directly through our community giving programme, for re-election at the annual general meeting.
His counsel and advice on and indirectly through our charity activities and staff giving days.
in aspects of technology, marketing and customers will be much missed.
2011, we invested 85 million in local communities, including support for financial inclusion and donations through the Groups charitable Glen Moreno, our Senior independent Director and Deputy Chairman, foundations.
Over the last 25 years, the Group has contributed in will not be seeking re-election at the annual general meeting.
He has excess of 510 million through its Foundations.
Our new programmes been a tower of strength on our Board and his wide knowledge of supporting financial literacy, Money for Life, and our funding of banking and financial services developed over many years in senior university places through Lloyds Scholars show our continued executive positions has been of great benefit to our strategy and commitment to support our communities.
His constructive and informed contribution will be missed by all.
we are excited to be the Official Banking and insurance Partner of the london 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games.
we have played The Board has appointed Anthony watson as Senior independent a key role in bringing london 2012 to communities across the uK, by Director and David Roberts as Deputy Chairman with effect from the inspiring children to do more sport through national School Sport annual general meeting.
week, by giving our customers the chance to take part in the Olympic Torch Relay and by funding and mentoring future stars of Team GB and Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2011 9 ParalympicsGB through our local Heroes programme.
we have also 2011 through the resilient performance of our core business and the supported one in three of all businesses who have won london 2012 good progress in reducing our non-core assets.
we are now entering the final few months Our support for the wider economy and the communities where we before the Games start and i fully expect that the country at large will operate, in conjunction with our prudent risk appetite, a strengthened enjoy this historic event, be inspired by its achievements and benefit balance sheet and integrated systems are a sound platform for a from the legacy of this once-in-a-lifetime event.
Our Board is grateful for the support of our shareholders in 2011 and is Outlook very conscious that they including most of our staff who themselves lloyds Banking Group has made significant structural and strategic are shareholders have suffered through the decline of the share price progress during 2011 but there remains much to be done against the and the absence of a dividend.
we have the right strategy in place and background of the current economic and regulatory environment.
given our significant assets, our committed leadership team and the skill of our dedicated workforce we are well positioned over time to it remains our intention over time to operate as a wholly privately owned, deliver sound performance for our customers, shareholders, colleagues self-supporting, dividend paying, commercial enterprise.
approach of focusing on customers in the uK whilst capitalising on our strong relationships, on our iconic and distinct brands, on our broad multi-channel distribution and on the clear operating model we have Sir Winfried Bischoff Chairman created is the right one.
we saw the early benefits of this approach in A commitment to good Governance The Board and i place great importance on Corporate Governance.
Board oversight in 2011 not just because of increasing focus on this area, but because The Boards governance processes have placed us in a good position good governance is in the best interests of the company.
The Board to deal with key issues which arose during the course of the year, is ultimately responsible for the Groups success through setting including with respect to: strategy, devising sound governance arrangements, and establishing the values and standards of the Group.
Throughout the year ending the review and approval of the Groups new strategy: 31 December 2011, the Group complied with all relevant provisions the change of Group Chief executive and other significant of the Financial Reporting Councils uK Corporate Governance Code.
management changes: This is an important base level but in undertaking its responsibilities the short leave of absence for Antnio Horta-Osrio, including the Board seeks to exceed these minimum standards, as we believe ensuring that effective interim arrangements were in place and that a that good governance is a key contributor to the Groups long term rigorous process was followed with respect to his return to work: and success.
the decision to take a significant provision with respect to PPi.
Our Board ensuring that the right mechanisms are in place at the time of change is There have been significant changes to the composition of the Board critical and i believe that the decisions made in these areas, and others, this year.
Though experience and a detailed understanding of financial have helped ensure that the Group is effectively positioned to deliver services will remain important attributes for Board members, a broader sound performance for all of the Groups stakeholders over time.
mix of skills is key to the overall effectiveness of the Board.
i believe that the current Board provides the Group with a good balance of Executive Remuneration skills and experience, which helps the quality of our decision-making.
As i have already referenced in my statement, remuneration remains we remain committed to keeping this balance right as we respond to an important issue for shareholders, and other key stakeholders.
This is further Board changes in 2012. i continue to ensure that the majority a sensitive area, but the Board is committed to ensuring that the right of Directors are independent and that sufficient emphasis is placed on balance is struck between the need to incentivise staff, at all levels of ensuring that the Boards membership reflects appropriate diversity.
the organisation, to deliver strong, sustainable growth, whilst reflecting in the interests of good governance, all directors now retire voluntarily the work required to reshape the business, and broader concerns each year and submit themselves for re-election at every AGM.
As a Group we are committed to meeting the regulatory and other requirements that apply to this topic, including the FSA Code, and more generally improving the transparency of remuneration disclosure.
we always look to align reward with the Groups long term performance and the interests of its shareholders.
we fully endorse a stringent deferral process, as an important element of this alignment.
we maintain an open dialogue with our major shareholders to help ensure appropriate remuneration policies are developed, and that shareholder concerns are taken into account.
During 2011 we have continued to be mindful of the need to exercise restraint as part of the effective governance of executive pay and as a result a number of actions have been taken, including not increasing fixed pay for Directors.
Lloyds Banking Group 10 Annual Review 2011 GROuP CHieF eXeCuTiveS Review Antnio Horta-Osrio Summary in 2011, we established our longer term strategy for the Group, becoming acted quickly and decisively to mitigate the effects of a challenging environment and put in place the right foundations to deliver on our objectives over the next 3-5 years, whilst continuing to support the uK economy.
using the framework set out in our Strategic Review, the best we accelerated strengthening our balance sheet, decreasing risk and reducing costs.
The investments we made behind our brands, distribution, customer relationships and people have strengthened our franchise, and created new opportunities which will enable us bank for to realise over time the Groups full potential for growth.
we also made good progress on the eC mandated business disposal Project verde, and saw greater clarity emerge on the future uK regulatory framework following the publication of the independent Commission customers on Bankings iCBs final report and the Governments response on 19 December 2011.
As a result, in 2011, we delivered a resilient performance and made in 2011, we delivered a resilient good progress against the key elements of our strategic plan to become the best bank for our customers, despite a weakening uK performance and made good economy, ongoing financial market volatility, continued high levels of regulatory scrutiny and competitive markets.
we are now better progress against the key elements positioned to adapt to the changing economic environment and to realise over time the full potential of our franchise, brands and of our strategic plan to become capabilities, and therefore to deliver strong, stable and sustainable returns for our shareholders.
the best bank for customers.
2011 results overview The results reflect our focus on rapidly improving the Groups risk profile and further strengthening the balance sheet, through improving the Groups capital and funding position and making substantial progress on non-core asset reductions, deposit growth, and our funding programme.
while this means that we now have a much more resilient balance sheet, our income performance was affected by these risk and asset reductions, as well as by the subdued uK economic environment.
On a statutory basis, our results were affected by, amongst other things, the responsible position we took on Payment Protection insurance PPi, which resulted in a 3.2 billion provision.
in addition, with over 2 billion of run-rate cost savings now realised from integration, we have now commenced the simplification initiatives which will significantly improve our efficiency and are allowing us to invest in growing our core customer business.
in reducing risk and strengthening the balance sheet, our proactive management of the non-core portfolio and of our funding position meant that we reduced non-core assets by 53 billion to 141 billion, against a commitment to decrease the non-core portfolio to less than 90 billion by the end of 2014, and significantly strengthened our funding position, raising 35 billion of total term wholesale funding, around 10 billion more than initially budgeted.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2011 11 The new pricing management of savings products we introduced in the Our strategy and action plan to deliver year and our multi-brand strategy resulted in customer deposit growth for customers and shareholders excluding repos of 6 per cent, significantly above market growth, Our strategy, which we set out on 30 June 2011 following an extensive and without leading the market on rates.
we had a particularly strong and detailed review of the business, is focused on the uK, where we performance in our Halifax challenger brand as a result of innovative have distinctive assets and capabilities including our valuable customer products launched in the year.
As a consequence of our actions in franchise and market position, and multiple strong brands.
reducing non-core loans and increasing deposits, we substantially improved our loan to deposit ratio, by 19 percentage points to it is built on being the best bank for our personal, commercial and 135 per cent.
corporate customers, creating value by investing in initiatives where we can make a real difference for them, and focusing on operating Deposit growth and our progress in funding and non-core asset sustainably and responsibly with the objective of delivering strong, reductions facilitated further substantial pay-down of government and stable and sustainable returns for shareholders over time.
central bank facilities from 97 billion at the 2010 year end to 24 billion at the end of 2011 with nothing outstanding under the uK Special while our focus is on restoring the Group to sustainable profitability liquidity Scheme.
non-core asset reductions, which were made and delivering returns for all shareholders, we expect the delivery of broadly in line with book value, were a substantial driver behind the our strategic targets to provide, over time, an opportunity for the uK improvement in our core tier 1 capital ratio from 10.2 per cent at the Government to dispose of its shareholding in the Group in an orderly 2010 year end to 10.8 per cent, notwithstanding the impact of the PPi manner, and deliver value for taxpayers.
provision of around 60 basis points.
Our strategy will create shareholder value through simplifying The Group reported a combined businesses profit before tax of processes, systems and products and policies, and investing a 2,685 million in 2011 2010: 2,212 million, and excluding the effects proportion of the savings realised from this simplification in growth of liability management, volatile items and asset sales, profit before tax initiatives targeted at high-return areas of our business, and by ensuring was 2,022 million 2010: 1,651 million.
The core business delivered that capital is primarily allocated to core growth businesses.
a resilient performance, with profit before tax of 6,349 million The four elements of our action plan to deliver our strategy are to: 2010: 6,152 million, and excluding volatile items, liability management effects and asset sales profit before tax was 5,746 million Strengthen our balance sheet and liquidity position 2010: 6,101 million.
On a statutory basis, the Group reported Reshape our business portfolio to fit our assets, capabilities a loss before tax of 3,542 million in the year, which includes the and risk appetite PPi related provision.
Simplify the Group to improve agility, service and efficiency Subdued markets in the core business and the effect of non-core asset Invest to be the best bank for our customers and to grow our reductions resulted in a reduction in income excluding volatile items, core customer businesses liability management effects and asset sales, and net of insurance claims of 10 per cent to 21,197 million.
This was partly offset by a 6 per cent reduction in operating expenses, despite the headwinds of Good progress against strategic initiatives inflation and higher taxes, as a result of the management actions we we are already making good progress against the key initiatives set took during the year, and a 26 per cent reduction in the impairment out in our strategy.
charge, reflecting improving credit quality in our portfolios.
in reshaping our business portfolio, we have fully embedded across The benefits from the improvements we achieved in the Groups the business a conservative approach to, and prudent appetite for, funding mix, increasing deposit balances and reducing the proportion risk.
we have in place rigorous controls over the risk profile of all new of wholesale funding, were most clearly evident in our core net interest business, as evidenced, for example, in the Retail mortgage book margin.
This declined by only 6 basis points to 2.42 per cent, despite where we have seen impaired loans decreasing but where our coverage the impact of higher funding costs, the effect of refinancing a significant ratio has increased, and are managing and successfully reducing our amount of government and central bank facilities and lower interest non-core assets in a disciplined manner and broadly in line with book rates in general.
However, our Group net interest margin declined value.
in the core business, the improving quality of our portfolios and by 14 basis points to 2.07 per cent, in line with guidance, given that their decreasing risk profile, has been reflected in a 7 per cent decrease it reflected the full impact of these effects on our predominantly in risk-weighted assets.
we have also reviewed our existing portfolios wholesale funded non-core business.
and confirmed them as adequately provisioned.
Given our uK-focused strategy to capitalise on the strength of our capabilities in the uK, we have also committed to reduce our international presence from 30 countries to less than 15 by 2014.
To date we have announced the exit from operations in seven countries.
Lloyds Banking Group 12 Annual Review 2011 GROuP CHieF eXeCuTiveS Review The Group benefits from the depth and diversity of experience within Delivering our vision the management team.
The complementary skill sets across the team strengthens the Groups ability to effectively adjust to changing market managing a more environments, deliver on our strategic plan and become the best bank for customers.
Brief biographies of the management team are agile organisation outlined below: Standing l to R: Seated l to R: David Nicholson Mark Fisher Angie Risley Juan Colombs Group Director, Director, Group Operations Group HR Director Chief Risk Officer Halifax Community Bank Mark joined the Group in March 2009 Angie joined in May 2007 and outside Juan joined the Group in January 2011 David joined Halifax in 1995, and has over as Director, Group Operations and of lloyds Banking Group is also a having previously been Chief Risk Officer integration.
He is a career banker having 25 years experience in Retail financial non-executive Director of Serco Group at Santander uK.
Juan has over 25 years services.
Having developed his career started his career in 1981 with natwest.
plc and a member of the governments of banking experience, with Risk, Control Over the past 15 years, Mark has run scale inside the Group, he now has responsibility employment engagement Task-Force.
and Business Management roles across for the Halifax Community Bank.
He is banking and technology operations, Before joining the Group, Angie was Corporate, investment, Retail and including complex change programmes.
also a director of Sainsburys bank and Group HR Director and an executive Risk divisions.
Chairman of the Your Tomorrow pension Director on the board for whitbread Plc.
Antonio Lorenzo Tim Tookey Group Chief Executive Group Director, Wealth & International Group Finance Director and Group Strategy Alison Brittain Antnio joined the Board in January 2011 Group Director, Retail as an executive Director and become Antonio joined the Group in March 2011.
Tim joined the Group in 2006 as Deputy Group Chief executive in March 2011.
Alison joined the Group in September Previously at Santander, Antonio was CFO Group Finance Director, before being Further details can be found on page 35. for the uK business and managed the appointed acting Group Finance 2011.
Alison has 25 years Retail and Commercial Banking experience, having wealth and intermediaries businesses, Director in April 2008.
Appointed to John Maltby and performed in several other the Board in October 2008 as Group previously been executive Director for Group Director, Commercial Retail Distribution at Santander and international roles since joining Santander Finance Director.
Prior to this Antonio worked for 24 February 2012. prior to that worked at Barclays in senior John joined lloyds TSB in 2007 as management roles across a variety of Arthur Andersen in the financial sector Managing Director, Commercial and whilst he was also a Professor at the business areas and functions.
was appointed to the Group executive universidad europea fide Madrid.
He has over 20 years experience of delivering Matthew Young business growth, transformation, Group Corporate Affairs Director iPOs, acquisitions and divestments in multi-national and specialist Financial Matthew joined the Group in Services organisations and was February 2011, having previously been previously CeO Kensington Group Plc.
Communications Director at Santander uK.
Matt has worked in a variety of senior Toby Strauss management roles within the industry, Group Director, Insurance including Abbey national and natwest.
Toby joined the Group in October 2011 having previously been uK life CeO at Aviva, joining them in 2008.
He has a range of experiences in financial services and technology sectors, with much time spent at McKinsey.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2011 13 Our integration programme has now delivered single platforms and economic well being of the uK and its people and given our supporting the Halifax, Bank of Scotland and lloyds TSB brands and, strategic assets we aim to play an important part in this.
by the end of 2011, had achieved more than 2 billion per annum of i am pleased to report that during 2011, despite the challenging run-rate cost synergies and other operating efficiencies.
economic climate, the Group exceeded its full year contribution to Simplifying the Group is a cornerstone of our strategy, not only in the Merlin lending commitments which were agreed in February with its delivery of cost savings, but also importantly in simplifying our the uK Government, both for SMes and in total.
in the full year we products and services from the customers point of view, and allowing provided 45 billion of committed gross lending to uK businesses, us to increase investment in our franchise.
we have now commenced of which 12.5 billion was to SMes.
in the same period, the Group the delivery of the simplification initiatives set out in our strategy, supported the start-up of 124,000 new SMe businesses.
For 2012, we and by the end of 2011 had achieved initial run rate savings of have relaunched our SMe Charter in which we have pledged to make 242 million in the first six months of the programme.
we have also at least 12 billion of gross new lending available to SMes.
greatly improved our cost management through instituting a rigorous SMes are a particularly important source of job creation and growth process overseen by a Cost Board, which has helped the Group drive in the uK.
Our core Commercial business is focused on serving these significant reductions in our operating expenses.
customers, and we demonstrated our support for SMe customers in A portion of the savings realised from our simplification programme 2011 with year on year net lending growth of 3 per cent in this business will allow us to further invest to be the best bank for our customers, area.
This compared favourably with the negative growth in SMe and to grow our core customer businesses which is at the heart of lending across the industry reported in the latest available market statistics from the Bank of england.
in 2012, we have pledged to make our strategy.
we commenced the implementation of a number of key initiatives in 2011, with the revitalisation of the Halifax brand and at least 12 billion of gross new lending available to SMes, with a further pledge to deliver positive net lending growth, to help stimulate strengthening our support for Small and Medium-sized enterprises both resulting in a significant outperformance of those business areas economic output and improve confidence in the sector.
As a member of the Business Finance Taskforce, we have led work to improve SMe against market trends.
customer relationships through mentoring and a right to appeal and we have also begun to invest behind increasing our share of capital-light have agreed to contribute 300 million to the Business Growth Fund business in our corporate and commercial businesses.
Key successes to provide better access to equity finance.
included the launch of Arena, our online foreign exchange and money market deposit platform and our uK government bond For our Retail customers, the Group completed 28 billion of new market making operation in our wholesale business.
in insurance, mortgage business in 2011, achieving a market share of approximately our focus on uK customer needs delivered a 23 per cent increase in 20 per cent of gross new residential mortgage lending.
we are lP&i uK protection sales PvnBP, which now account for 22 per cent committed to supporting the uK housing market and first-time buyers 2010: 13 per cent of bancassurance sales.
we advanced more than 5.6 billion of new lending to first-time buyers in 2011, helping over 52,000 customers own their Further details on the good progress we have made against our first homes.
Our market share of new first-time buyer business was strategic initiatives in each business are given in each of the divisional approximately 24 per cent by value in 2011. in total, we advanced more reviews in this document.
than 15.5 billion of new mortgages to over 124,000 customers buying their home in the uK in 2011.
Our Halifax brand is a leading lender in the Management team changes affordable housing sector, with a dedicated product range designed for On 1 February 2012, we announced changes to the Groups senior borrowers seeking shared equity or shared ownership schemes.
management team to ensure we have the right organisational structure looking forward, as part of our commitment to customers, we will keep to deliver on our strategy and move to the next phase of the Groups the same net number of branches in our network for the next three transformation.
As a result, five business lines, Retail, wholesale, years, excluding verde, and we will not close a branch if it is the last Commercial, wealth and international, and insurance, now report one in a community.
directly to me and, further to the centralisation of all control functions we also committed to reduce the level of FSA reportable complaints as part of the Strategic Review, five control and support functions we receive, excluding PPi complaints, by 20 per cent in 2011 compared also report to me, namely Group Corporate Functions into which to 2010. we achieved a 24 per cent reduction, and reduced our Human Resources, legal and Secretariat and Group Audit report, Risk, banking complaints per 1,000 accounts to 1.5. we achieved this Finance, Operations, and Corporate Affairs.
through initiatives such as our Phone a Friend service, training of our 40,000 front line colleagues, and the roll out in the second half of an Supporting our customers and the UK economy externally accredited complaint handling qualification.
This makes us As part of our strategy to be the best bank for customers, and as a the first financial services organisation to have professionally qualified leading financial services provider in the uK, we continue to actively complaint handlers.
To enable our customers get the right outcome support sustainable growth in the uK economy through the focused faster, we are extending the opening hours of our specialist complaints range of products and services we provide to our business and teams to 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
As a result of these initiatives, personal customers, as well as through partnerships we have built with we are now resolving over 90 per cent of complaints at first touch.
2012, we have committed to improving this performance further, by reducing banking complaints to just 1.3 per 1,000 current accounts, The banking industry has faced much criticism in recent years and and in 2014 to 1.0 per 1,000 current accounts,.
we recognise that significant work is required to rebuild trust with customers and other stakeholders.
The financial services sector does however have a fundamental role to play in society in supporting both individuals and businesses through the provision of financial and payment services, and can be instrumental in helping the economy prosper and grow.
The industry can help ensure the future strength Lloyds Banking Group 14 Annual Review 2011 GROuP CHieF eXeCuTiveS Review Meeting our customers needs with successful new EC mandated business disposal products and services Project Verde Our strategy recognises our customers needs for product simplicity and Following our decision early in 2011 to accelerate Project verde, we transparency, access through multiple channels, and value-for-money have made good progress, and, having reviewed the formal offers products and services.
i am therefore pleased at the success of the for the verde business, the preferred bidder for the business is The new products and services launched in 2011, and the widespread Co-operative Group.
Any final transaction will be subject to regulatory recognition and broad range of external awards achieved across the approval and certain other conditions.
The Group will continue to Group.
in Retail, notable product successes included a number of progress an iPO as an alternative to a direct sale.
we remain on track innovative Halifax savings products, which while not rate-leading, to complete the transfer of the business before the end of 2013. delivered strong deposit growth.
These included, in the first half, the iSA Promise which saw our cash iSA balances grow significantly above Equity dividends our historic share, and, in the second half, the Savers Prize Draw which The european Commissions restriction on equity dividend payments saw over 450,000 customers registered for the first draw.
was part of the conditions of the State Aid restructuring plan which we also received a number of external awards recognising the quality expired in early 2012. we understand that the absence of dividends and consistency of delivery to our customers.
within wholesale, our has created difficulties for many of our shareholders and we remain Corporate Markets area won the Best Bank of the Year award for the committed to recommencing progressive dividend payments as soon seventh consecutive year at the Real FD CBi excellence awards, while as we are able.
in Retail we were named Best Overall Mortgage lender for the tenth it is our intention to do so when the financial position of the Group and year running in the Your Mortgage Magazine Awards and in insurance market conditions permit, and after regulatory capital requirements we were named as Britains most popular home insurance provider by are defined and prudently met.
At this time those requirements remain the independent market researchers GFK nOP for the tenth year in a unclear and although we have made good progress against our row.
in responding to our customers need for access through multiple strategic priorities during the year we are not yet able to forecast when channels, in Retail, we launched a suite of Mobile Banking apps, and we will be able to resume dividend payments, although we continue have now recorded one and a half million downloads.
to strive to recommence them as soon as possible.
Our commitment to our employees Greater clarity emerging on UK regulatory Our success depends on our employees, the service they provide framework for our customers, and the long-term partnerships they build with The publication of the iCBs final report in September and the them.
we are committed to attracting, retaining and developing our Governments response to the report in December are significant steps people, and in 2011 launched a number of initiatives to identify and in providing greater clarity on changes to the regulatory framework for develop our future leaders, to simplify the link between performance the uK banking industry to secure greater financial stability.
and reward, and to ensure colleagues have the capabilities to deliver excellent service through learning and development resources such On competition, we are pleased that the verde sale is seen as creating as our learning Academies, through supporting external qualifications, an effective new challenger in our market, and that our proposals, and by introducing development and review programmes.
developed with the Payments Council, to make it quicker and simpler for customers to switch accounts, were recommended by the iCB and while the results of the colleague engagement survey we conducted backed by the Government.
in the second half of the year reflected both the challenging external environment and the work that remains to be done in ensuring lloyds we also welcome the Governments endorsement of the iCBs Banking Group is a great place to work, the progress we have made proposals to ring-fence retail banking operations as part of a wider during the year reflects the strong capabilities and dedication of our regulatory framework including capital and liquidity and effective people which will continue to support the delivery of our strategy.
macroand micro-prudential supervision, which should remove any implicit tax-payers guarantee for the ring-fenced entities.
Given that Remuneration is an important issue for our stakeholders and the Group.
we are predominantly a retail and commercial bank, we would expect we are keen to ensure we recruit and retain the right employees to to be less affected by the implementation of a retail ring-fence, but drive our business forward and deliver on our strategy while ensuring believe it will be important for any transition period to be flexible in that there is alignment between remuneration and results.
variable pay order to minimise any impact on economic growth, and for banks to is reflective of the performance of the business and total discretionary implement the required structural changes.
bonus awards are approximately 30 per cent lower than last year with bonuses above 2,000 subject to deferral and adjustment.
in addition, The iCB also recommended that ring-fenced banks should hold a given the continued challenging economic conditions salary awards capital base of at least 10 per cent to absorb the impact of potential have been limited, especially at more senior levels.
The Governments proposals on capital are consistent with the capital targets we set in our strategic review in 2011 and, although much work remains to be done on the detail of the implementation capital requirements, we are on track to achieve the capital levels the iCB recommends.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2011 15 Given the economic outlook, in 2012, on a combined businesses basis, we expect the Government to provide further details of its plans in the spring of 2012 and to outline which of the proposals it intends to we expect income to be lower than in 2011, given further non-core asset reductions, subdued demand in the core business leading to a progress to legislation.
we will continue to work with HM Treasury and our regulators in the coming months ahead of the publication of the broadly stable core book, higher wholesale funding costs, and interest rates likely to remain at low levels for longer.
we retain significant final white paper.
capacity to grow core assets subject to demand and to maintaining our prudent appetite for risk.
Our banking net interest margin, as expected, Economic outlook was marginally below 2 per cent in the fourth quarter of 2011. we while the outlook for the uK economy remains uncertain, and expect our full year banking net interest margin to be below 2 per cent vulnerable to developments in the eurozone, we believe the most in 2012, falling year-on-year by approximately the same amount in 2012 likely scenario is for further weakness in the first half of 2012 followed as in 2011, as a result of continued higher wholesale funding costs, the by a relatively modest recovery in the second half resulting in broadly repricing of interest earning assets and higher costs from the spread flat real GDP for the year as a whole, with further modest recovery in between base rates and liBOR.
we expect the benefit from fair value 2013.
As a result, we expect uK base rates to remain at current levels unwind to reduce to approximately 0.5 billion in 2012.
However, we into 2013, and unemployment to rise from current levels to peak at expect a further reduction in costs, and a similar reduction in Group around 9 per cent in 2013.
However, we expect inflation CPi to fall impairment in 2012 as seen in 2011, as a result of further asset quality from current high levels to below 3 per cent in 2012 and possibly below improvements across the divisions, with the largest improvement 2 per cent in 2013. uK property prices are likely to reflect the weak coming from international.
economic environment, with house prices remaining broadly flat in we expect to continue to strengthen our balance sheet in 2012, by 2012 and 2013 and commercial property prices likely to be marginally a further reduction in non-core assets of approximately 25 billion, weaker in 2012, and marginally stronger in 2013. through targeting further deposit growth of around 3 per cent based on a continuation of current market conditions, by strengthening our Outlook and financial guidance funding position, with approximately 50 per cent of our term wholesale we expect the external environment to remain challenging in 2012, funding target for 2012 already completed, and by further improving with a subdued economy, continued high levels of regulatory scrutiny our core tier 1 ratio.
Growth in customer deposits remains a key part of and political uncertainty relating to the banking sector, and the our funding strategy, and, assuming a continuation of current trends, continued potential for downside effects from financial market volatility we would expect to reach our medium-term Group loan-to-deposit and instability in the eurozone.
ratio target of 130 per cent or below by the end of 2012, two years ahead of plan.
nevertheless, we remain confident that our medium-term financial targets, as set out in our June 2011 Strategic Review are achievable while we remain mindful of the challenges of the external environment, over time, although, as we anticipated in our Q3 2011 interim lloyds Banking Group is now in a significantly stronger position than Management Statement, we now expect the attainment of our it was twelve months ago, and i would like to thank all our people for income related targets, including for Other Operating income, to be their contribution to our progress in 2011.
Given we are likely to have delayed as a result of the weaker than expected economic outlook.
lower interest rates for longer and higher regulatory costs along with As a consequence, we now also expect the attainment of our return deleveraging in credit markets, it will be those banks who can create on equity target to be delayed beyond 2014.
On the other hand, we competitive advantage through a lower risk premium combined with continue to expect to deliver our balance sheet, cost and impairment best in class efficiency who will achieve superior returns and will capture targets in 2014, and in some cases sooner, given the good progress the opportunities as economic conditions improve.
Absent a material made so far.
deterioration in the economic environment, we remain confident in our ability to continue to execute against our strategic plan, and therefore in relation to our balance sheet, this progress includes the 53 billion continue to believe we are well positioned to realise over time the full reduction in non-core assets achieved in the year and the 60 basis point potential of our organisation, brands and capabilities, and to achieve increase in our core tier 1 ratio to 10.8 per cent.
As regards our income strong, stable and sustainable returns for shareholders.
targets, we have reduced our asset quality ratio impairment as a percentage of average advances by 39 basis points to 1.62 per cent, a significant step towards our target of 50 to 60 basis points.
The positive Antnio Horta-Osrio strong momentum of our Simplification programme, with 242 million Group Chief executive of run-rate cost savings already achieved at the end of 2011, means that we are now increasing our target cost savings from this programme by 200 million, to 1.9 billion from 1.7 billion by the end of 2014, and to 1.7 billion from 1.5 billion in 2014. lloyds Banking Group is proud to be the official banking and insurance partner for the london 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games.
Lloyds Banking Group 16 Annual Review 2011 DiviSiOnAl ReSulTS retail Retail operates the largest retail bank in the UK and is a leading provider of current accounts, savings, personal loans, credit cards and mortgages.
With its strong stable of brands including Lloyds TSB, Halifax, Bank of Scotland and Cheltenham & Gloucester, it serves over 30 million customers through one of the largest branch and fee free ATM networks in the UK.
Retail is focused on effectively meeting the needs of its customers.
The division provides current accounts including packaged accounts and basic and social banking accounts.
it is also the largest provider of personal loans in the uK, as well as being the uKs leading credit card issuer.
Retail provides one in five new residential mortgages making it one of the leading uK mortgage lenders and provided over 52,000 mortgages to help first time buyers in 2011.
Retail is the largest private sector savings provider in the uK.
it is also a major general insurance and bancassurance distributor, offering a wide range of long-term Mobile Banking savings, investment and general insurance products.
weve now had over 1 million downloads of the lloyds TSB app launched in October 2011, and 1.5 million across lloyds TSB, 3637 Halifax and Bank of Scotland.
The app For financial information see allows customers to access their online summary of Group results accounts, transfer funds and make payments to new and existing recipients.
Halifax shakes up savings each month, our registered savings customers have the ability to win one of 3x 100,000, 100x 1,000 or 1,000x 100 prizes in our Savers Prize Draw.
Over 450,000 customers registered for the first prize draw, which is the first of its kind, giving customers this chance in addition to their individual product's interest rate.
2011 highlights P rofit before tax decreased by 9 per cent to 3,636 million.
L oans and advances to customers decreased by 3 per cent as customers continued to reduce their personal indebtedness, T otal income decreased by 10 per cent: and as we maintained a conservative risk appetite.
Net interest income was 13 per cent lower, largely as a result of higher funding costs, muted demand for credit, C ustomer deposit growth was 5 per cent, against a market and increased competition for deposits that experienced minimal growth, and was driven by strong Other income increased by 3 per cent, principally as a result tax-free cash iSA balance growth.
A gainst its strategic objectives, Retails strategy remains O perating expenses and other costs reduced by 4 per cent, focused on building deeper customer relationships, driven benefiting from cost savings from both our integration and by superior customer insight, and investment in its multi-brand simplification programmes partially offset by inflation.
strategy, new products, multiple channels, and in colleagues.
T he impairment charge reduced by 28 per cent, primarily driven by a reduced unsecured charge which reflected our continued conservative approach to risk, effective portfolio management, and continued focus on existing customers.
Key operating brands Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2011 17 Arena wholesale Our wholesale business has launched Arena which is now fully operational.
This online portal allows quick and easy access to foreign exchange and money market The division comprises Wholesale Banking and Markets WBM deposits, allowing our customers to ensure their business is suitably financed in a way and our Asset Finance business.
The Wholesale Banking and that suits their needs.
Markets business serves corporates with turnover above 15 million, and financial institutions with a range of relationship focused propositions, segmented according to customer need.
wholesale Banking and Markets businesses are grouped into three areas, coverage and product with a support function providing centralised coordination of critical business processes and activities.
Coverage comprises Corporate Banking, Mid Markets and Sales.
Corporate Banking is responsible for the overall management of relationships with major corporate and institutional customers principally in the uK.
Similarly Mid Markets manages the relationships with mid market corporates, which operate on a pan-uK basis.
Sales provide customers with tailor-made risk management solutions through liability, foreign exchange, commodity and interest rate management products.
Product comprises Capital Markets, Portfolio Management, Trading, Structured Corporate Finance, Transaction Banking, Structured Transactions Group and lloyds Development Capital.
These product units work alongside the coverage teams to provide specialised lending, access to capital markets and multi product financing solutions to wBMs customers.
in addition, these units provide access to financial markets in order to meet the Groups balance sheet management requirements, and provide trading infrastructure to support execution of customer driven risk management transactions.
Asset Finance consists of a number of leasing and speciality lending businesses including lex Autolease and Consumer Finance Black Horse Motor and Personal Finance.
Bank of the Year 3637 7 years running For financial information see we won Best Bank of the Year for the summary of Group results 7th consecutive year at the Real FD CBi excellence Awards.
This highlights the consistent support we provide to businesses through the full course of the economic cycle.
2011 highlights Profit before tax was 828 million compared to 2,514 million The impairment charge decreased by 29 per cent, reflecting in 2010, with lower income as the balance sheet was materially continued strong risk management and the low interest rate strengthened through targeted asset reductions, Partially offset environment.
by reduced impairment and lower costs.
Assets decreased by 18 per cent, reflecting the targeted Total income decreased 38 per cent: reduction in the non-core balance sheet by 35 billion.
Net interest income decreased by 25 per cent, principally Against its strategic objectives, wholesale continued to reflecting the substantial reductions in non-core assets deepen its customer relationships through a measured build Other income decreased by 16 per cent principally reflecting out of products and capabilities.
Alongside enhanced product reduced trading income and lower operating lease income.
capabilities in areas including debt capital markets, money Operating expenses decreased by 9 per cent, with further markets, interest rate management and foreign exchange, a integration cost savings, reduced operating lease depreciation transaction banking transformation programme was initiated in and lower bonus accruals.
the year, to build an enhanced cash management, payments and trade customer offering.
Key operating brands Lloyds Banking Group 18 Annual Review 2011 DiviSiOnAl ReSulTS commercial Commercial serves in excess of 1.1 million small and medium-sized enterprises and community organisations from start-up to those with a turnover of up to 15 million, as well as providing asset based finance to business of all sizes.
Commercial comprises Commercial Banking, Commercial Finance, providing invoice discounting and factoring, hire purchase and leasing and AMC the long term lender to the agricultural sector.
The business has a through the cycle customer relationship approach, drawing on a wide range of Group service in order to meet their needs through their business lifecycle from start-up, through growth, to maturity and succession.
Through the SMe Charter, Commercial have committed to lend 12 billion gross and continue to deliver positive net lending in 2012 and to help 300,000 start ups in the three years to end 2012.
Flexible monthly 3637 price plan For financial information see summary of Group results lloyds TSB was the first uK bank to offer a range of flexible Monthly PricePlans, which simplify charges and improve transparency for business banking customers.
This innovative approach offers customers choice, flexibility and gives them greater control of their banking.
Supporting start-ups Through our Relationship Manager network a new innovative company has been able to research and launch their range of umbrellas, where the material changes colour when wet.
Squidlondon umbrellas are stocked in the Conran Store and the TATe.
2011 highlights Profit before tax increased by 71 per cent, due to higher income Loans and advances to core customers increased by 3 per cent combined with a reduction in impairments and costs.
This reflects the continuing support given to small and medium sized businesses.
Total Income increased by 7 per cent: Net interest income grew by 11 per cent, due largely to the Customer deposits grew 3 per cent, reflecting our ongoing success increase in deposit balances, and a higher net interest margin in attracting deposits from new customers.
Other operating income decreased by 2 per cent, reflecting Risk-weighted assets decreased by 5 per cent, reflecting the subdued levels of business activity in the early part of the year and improved mix and risk profile of the portfolio.
reduced levels of money transmission income.
Against its strategic objectives, Commercial has focused on Operating expenses reduced by 4 per cent, primarily as a result strengthening its customer relationships and supporting SMes.
This is demonstrated by sustainable franchise growth, supporting The impairment charge reduced by 21 per cent, due to an overall 124,000 start up businesses, and improving cross-sales of wealth improvement in the credit quality of the portfolio.
Key operating brands Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2011 19 Best uK Private Bank wealth anD At the Financial Times and investors Chronicle wealth Management Awards, Bank of Scotland Private Banking won Best uK Private Bank.
voted for by industry international experts and readers of the FT, the award evidences the high quality service our private banking clients receive.
Wealth and International combines the private banking and asset management businesses and the Groups international businesses.
The wealth business comprises private banking and asset management.
wealths private banking operations cater to the full range of wealth clients from affluent to ultra High net worth within the uK, Channel islands and isle of Man, and internationally.
Our private banking business operates under the lloyds TSB and Bank of Scotland brands.
Our asset management business, Scottish widows investment Partnership, has a broad client base, managing assets for lloyds Banking Group customers as well as a wide range of clients including pension funds, charities, local authorities, Discretionary Managers and Financial Advisers.
in addition, the Group holds a 60 per cent stake in St Jamess Place, the uKs largest independent listed wealth manager.
The international business comprises the Groups international banking businesses outside the uK, with the exception of corporate business in north America which is managed through the Groups wholesale division.
These largely comprise corporate, Developing employee commercial and asset finance business in Australia and Continental capabilities europe and retail businesses in Germany and the netherlands.
in 2011 we launched the wealth Academy, a new learning and development initiative for our wealth employees.
The academy 3637 offers access to thousands of industryFor financial information see leading learning solutions as well as a route summary of Group results to attaining professional qualifications.
So far the academy has helped over 1,400 of our employees develop their skills and deliver more for customers as a result.
2011 highlights Loss before tax decreased by 20 per cent with a fall in T he impairment charge reduced by 23 per cent as the rate impairments partly offset by lower income, fair value unwind and of impaired loan migration has slowed.
higher operating expenses with the core business profit before N et loans and advances to customers decreased by tax and fair value unwind increased by 20 per cent.
21 per cent, largely driven by fide-risking of the balance sheet.
Total income decreased by 8 per cent: C ustomer deposits grew by 28 per cent, primarily due Net interest income was 21 per cent lower, reflecting lower to continued strong inflows in the on-line deposit business.
lending volumes and increased impaired assets A gainst its strategic objectives, wealth demonstrated Other income increased by 7 per cent, with foreign exchange continued strength in client acquisition through the uK benefits in international, partly offset by the impact of lower franchise with an 8 per cent increase in customer numbers.
funds under management in the wealth business.
To date the division has announced the exit from seven Operating expenses increased by 1 per cent, due to higher countries and corporate leading has been refocused around regulatory costs, investment in growth initiatives and the effect selected customers aligned to uK product and sector plans of stronger foreign currency rates.
and the Groups international risk appetite.
Key operating brands Lloyds Banking Group 20 Annual Review 2011 DiviSiOnAl ReSulTS insurance The Insurance division provides long term savings, protection and investment products and general insurance products to customers in the UK and Europe and consists of three business units: life, Pensions and investments uK lP&i uK : The uK life, Pensions and investments business is the leading bancassurance provider in the uK and has one of the largest intermediary channels in the industry.
The business provides long-term savings, protection and investment products distributed through the bancassurance, intermediary and direct channels through the lloyds TSB, Halifax, Bank of Scotland and Scottish widows brands.
life, Pensions and investments europe: The european life, Pensions and investments business distributes products primarily in the German market under the Heidelberger leben and Clerical Medical brands General insurance: The General insurance business is a leading distributor of home insurance in the uK, with products sold through the branch network, direct channels and strategic corporate partners.
Rapid Response The business also has brokerage operations for personal and The Groups new Rapid Response vehicle enables quicker service and greater commercial insurances.
it operates primarily under the lloyds TSB, support for General insurance customers Halifax and Bank of Scotland brands.
impacted by events affecting multiple households.
For example, more than 150 homes were 3637 flooded in Sutton Coldfield in Birmingham For financial information see last november when a water main at summary of Group results nearby Barr Beacon reservoir burst.
The Rapid Response vehicle was called to the scene and colleagues from insurance used the van to co-ordinate customer visits, settle claims and assess the scope of repairs.
Fortunately, we were able to reach a number of customers before they contacted us.
5-star rated Three of lP&is flagship intermediary products, the retirement account, the investment bond and the global investor bond have received a Defaqto 5-star rating for the second year running.
2011 highlights P rofit before tax increased by 7 per cent.
LP&I UK sales of 10,219 million PVNBP reduced by 1 per cent, partly reflecting the continuing change in mix towards T otal income, net of insurance claims, increased by 2 per cent.
protection products to meet customer protection needs.
This is attributable to strong sales of corporate pensions through the intermediary channel and the continued change in new G eneral Insurance profits increased by 21 per cent business mix within life, Pensions and investments uK lP&i uK.
to 497 million primarily due to lower freeze and unemployment claims.
O perating expenses and other costs decreased by 5 per cent due mainly to a continued focus on cost management and C apital management initiatives in 2011 have resulted delivery of integration cost savings.
in 2.3 billion mitigation of the potential impact of Capital Requirements Directive iv.
L P&I UK EEV new business margin increased to 4.2 per cent from 3.7 per cent in 2010.
A gainst its strategic objectives, insurance has focused on removing duplication to simplify the business and is improving customer insight to support responsiveness to changing customer needs.
Key operating brands Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2011 21 RelATiOnSHiPS AnD ReSPOnSiBiliTY builDing valuable relationships The successful delivery of our strategy will be driven by the relationships we develop with our customers.
With over 30 million personal and business customers and a presence in communities across the country, we are uniquely placed to help unlock the potential of families, businesses and communities we serve, making a significant contribution to the future strength and prosperity of the UK.
Our vision of being the best bank for customers along with our focus on operating sustainably and responsibly underpins our approach to business.
Over the next few pages we set out our approach to: investing in communities lloyds Banking Group is the biggest customers corporate investor in uK communities, investing over 85 million last year in financial inclusion and financial capability, higher education and sports for young people and almost 30 million to support grassroots charities working with disadvantaged communities.
colleagues communities The Group's continued success depends on our colleagues and their ability to build strong and deep relationships with customers.
Lloyds Banking Group 22 Annual Review 2011 BuilDinG vAluABle RelATiOnSHiPS customers Only by focusing on customers needs and addressing those needs can we expect to deliver benefits to our stakeholders.
Supporting our customers and the UK Aim economic recovery Our aim is to be the best bank for customers.
Becoming the best As part of our strategy to be the best bank for customers, and as bank for customers means being the best bank for families, for a leading financial services provider in the uK, lloyds continues to businesses and for our communities.
we will achieve this by actively support sustainable growth in the uK economy through the focusing on: focused range of products and services we provide to our business and uK customers and those connected to the uK personal customers, as well as through partnerships we have built with Simplifying processes, policies and systems industry and government.
investment in growth initiatives Despite the challenging environment the Group exceeded its full An appropriate risk appetite year contribution to the Merlin lending commitments, providing ensuring the business has the strength in funding and capital 45.3 billion of committed gross lending to uK businesses of which to meet the most challenging of headwinds 12.5 billion was to Small and Medium enterprises SMes we also supported the start up of nearly 124,000 new SMe businesses.
SMe lending growth of 3 per cent, year-on-year, compares favourably to Summary negative growth across the industry that has been reported in the latest The strategy for the Group is built on being the best bank for statistics from the Bank of england.
customers, and to create value by investing where we can make a real difference for these customers.
The Customer is therefore at the heart The Group completed 28 billion of new mortgage business in 2011, of everything we do, whether it be our branches, our brands or our achieving a market share of approximately 20 per cent of gross new people and is a key driver for our Group values.
we are committed to supporting the uK housing market and first-time buyers in particular.
we advanced more we have around 30 million personal, commercial and corporate than 5.6 billion of new lending to first-time buyers in 2011, helping customers and operate the largest retail bank in the uK.
in 2011 we over 52,000 customers own their own homes.
Our market share of new made great progress towards our goal of being the best bank for first-time buyer business was approximately 24 per cent by value in customers with a number of notable product launches, a significant 2011. in total, we advanced more than 15.5 billion of new mortgages reduction in customer complaints, and numerous system and process to over 124,000 customers buying their home in the uK in 2011. improvements whilst continuing to support our customers and the uK economic recovery.
Complaint handling we also received a number of external awards recognising the quality Through introducing a group wide team that focuses on listening and consistency of delivery to our customers.
Our Corporate and to customers and making improvements to remove the causes of Commercial businesses won the Best Bank of the Year award for the complaints we have successfully reduced the level of FSA reportable seventh consecutive year at the Real FD CBi excellence awards, while complaints by 24 per cent.
with the level of FSA reportable banking in Retail we were named Best Overall Mortgage lender for the tenth complaints falling from 2.1 complaint per 1,000 accounts in the second year running in the Your Mortgage Magazine Awards and in insurance half of 2010 to 1.5 complaints per 1,000 accounts in the second half we were named as Britains most popular home insurance provider by of 2011, we have further targeted this to fall to 1.3 and 1.0 per 1,000 the independent market researchers GFK nOP for the tenth year in accounts by the end of 2012 and 2014 respectively.
following the introduction of dedicated, externally accredited, Our customer focus is increasingly driving key business decisions and complaint handlers and training provided to front line colleagues, the responsible position we took on PPi and our commitment to keep 90 per cent of complaints are resolved at first touch.
Our specialist the branch network at the same level for the next three years excluding teams hours have also been extended so they can deal with complaints verde and not to close a branch if it is the last in the community 24 hours a day, 7 days a week to help customers get the right outcome demonstrates our commitment to do the right thing for customers.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2011 23 Customer satisfaction is assessed through the net Promoter Score Delivering innovative products and services nPS, which measures the likelihood of customers recommending Our strategy recognises our customers needs for product simplicity us to others.
All of our high street brands made significant headway and transparency, access through multiple channels and value for in 2011, achieving their highest ever nPS scores, with the group wide money products and services.
Through listening to customers and score rising from 38 in 2010 to 44 in 2011.
The Group monitors nPS working hard to offer products and services that fit their needs we across a range of touch points to ensure that the customer experience have developed a number of new and innovative products and improves across the board.
The process gives insight for: specific services, including the Halifax Savers Prize Draw which gives registered channels, such as a branch or telephony network, product experiences, customers the chance to win 100,000. in addition, customers told us such as opening a new account, and other key events such as handling they wanted better ways of managing their money, so we launched of complaints.
This insight allows us to adapt our colleague training lloyds TSB Money Manager, an easy-to-use internet Banking service and processes in order to give customers an increasing quality that helps customers understand how they are spending their money of service.
Our Halifax brand also received the highly coveted Best and using their account.
we have also launched a range of banking Customer Service award at the Consumer MoneyFacts awards 2012, apps so customers can manage their accounts on the move.
evidencing the real progress thats being made.
Customer service and simplification Treating customers fairly By putting customers at the heart of our business, and listening to Central to our aim of building deep and lasting customer relationships their needs we have managed to simplify and enhance our systems is our determination to treat customers fairly and ensure we are and processes to help serve our customers more quickly and efficiently.
transparent in dealings with them.
we conduct regular monitoring The integration programme has given us a single set of integrated to check that we are complying with our robust customer treatment systems which provides a great base for further development but policies and are achieving fair outcomes for customers, ensuring that we have also rolled out a number of initiatives to help make banking we design, sell and service products in a manner appropriate for quicker and easier for customers.
Through the introduction of a given customer.
Customer outcomes are an important component immediate Deposit Machines, slip free transactions and by reviewing in colleague reward and remuneration.
branch roles and opening times we are better able to meet our customers needs at a time and in a style that suits them.
Financial inclusion we aim to lead the banking sector in reaching those who are financially excluded and equip them with the confidence and capability to manage their money effectively.
we currently provide over 4.2 million such accounts and in 2011 opened around 250,000 new accounts.
Almost as importantly, as customers improve their credit rating we can help them move to a full facility current account.
Colleagues are committed to making lloyds Banking Group the Best Bank for Customers.
The image shows how our customers are at the heart of everything we do in our retail business.
The wheel brings together how well make the most of our brands, the investment were making in our branch network, and whats needed from colleagues to bring this to life for our customers.
Lloyds Banking Group 24 Annual Review 2011 BUiLdinG vaLUaBLe ReLaTionships Colleagues our colleagues deliver the experiences that will make us Britains best bank for customers.
Priorities Aim Making our customer-facing teams successful, by ensuring those our ambition is for a more diverse, better engaged and stimulated colleagues who come into direct contact with our customers are employee group to help us achieve our goals.
at Lloyds Banking equipped with the necessary skills and expertise to provide a positive Group, we want the diversity of our employee base to more customer experience accurately reflect the diversity in our society: the better we reflect our marketplace the better we can serve it.
Growing great leaders simplifying the way we work Growing talent is a key priority, we need to motivate and nurture a developing pool of talent that drives our business in a way that is Building long lasting relationships through people sustainable and realistic in the current climate.
Lloyds Banking Groups continued success depends on our colleagues.
all of this goes hand in hand with enabling people to have equal our colleagues aim to provide excellent service everyday and spend access to a variety of opportunities and making our business work time listening to customers to understand what is important to them.
closely with our surrounding communities to build relationships and share skills.
To make this happen our organisation aims to attract, retain and develop the best talent in the industry and embraces diversity.
We are committed to making a significant investment in our people and creating outstanding learning opportunities that enable colleagues to reach their potential.
Learning@LloydsBankingGroup is one of the largest corporate learning facilities in europe.
our rewards and benefits packages are also specifically designed to reward performance and keep our employees motivated to deliver excellent customer service.
during 2011 we developed, in conjunction with our colleagues, the three values that will enable us to be the best bank for customers: putting Customers first, Keeping it simple, and Making a difference together.
These values define what we stand for when we are at our Graduate development best and are now being woven in to the way we do business across programme the Group.
Following the Graduate development programme, graduates are choosing branch roles as their career choice.
Last year i secured the opportunity of Bank Manager at the new Lloyds TsB olympic branch in europes largest shopping centre Westfield stratford City.
With a successful opening in Rainbow network september im delighted that we managed to deliver outstanding Making a milestone performance whilst providing high Rainbow the Groups network for quality customer service.
lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender Jeff Wilkinson, Bank Manager LGBT colleagues this year reached Lloyds TsB stratford Westfield 1000 members, making it one of the largest employee networks of its kind in the UK.
Rainbow helps to engage and support LGBT colleagues promoting a positive working environment across the organisation.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2011 25 Integration Performance and reward inevitably in bringing the two organisations together, there has been Managing performance plays a critical role in helping us to develop our a requirement to rationalise and this has led to a reduction in roles.
colleagues to build long term partnerships with customers and strong Where possible we have redeployed colleagues to other areas of the relationships with each other.
This year has seen clear steps taken to Group or reduced numbers through natural attrition.
Where it has improve organisational performance.
been necessary for colleagues to leave the organisation, this has been Following the completion of the Group strategic Review in June, we achieved by offering voluntary severance and using fewer contractors.
started to simplify and further integrate our approach by aligning Compulsory redundancies are always a last resort.
performance and reward for all colleagues.
Reflecting the new The focus has been on enabling the business to integrate while also regulatory environment, 2011 also saw a strengthening of executive building foundations for the future, and a key part of this was ensuring performance management with the introduction of a new moderation our colleagues had the skills to use our new integrated systems.
process to assess risk stewardship by all our senior executives.
Training was delivered to over 16,000 colleagues in our branches to enable this.
people are at the heart of the change programme and Learning and development a robust communications process has been followed to ensure all Becoming the best bank for customers means all colleagues must have colleagues were aware of changes before they happened.
We have the capabilities to deliver excellent service.
nearly 100,000 colleagues four recognised Unions who have been consulted on all changes.
now have access to a Learning academy.
These provide clarity on the during the year we also delivered a significant milestone in our technical and leadership capabilities required to be effective in role.
integration when we harmonised terms and conditions for most during 2011, we have delivered the high-profile executive leadership employees in the Group.
programme and a new group wide talent development programme.
our recently launched management licence programmes provide Colleague engagement foundation line management and leadership skills to managers.
This year, we launched a new Colleague survey across the Group.
Colleagues each received an average of 6.9 days formal learning in 2011.
The outputs will be used to create national and local action plans that prioritise the things that will make the Group a better place to work.
Diversity and inclusion The results highlight strong levels of engagement in areas such as performance management and learning and development reflecting a key element to achieving our vision is having a diverse and inclusive workforce: an area in which we have made positive progress during 2011. our on-going commitment to provide all colleagues with a promising career at Lloyds Banking Group.
Three quarters of colleagues believe our gender strategy is led by members of our Group executive their work gives them a sense of personal accomplishment and almost Committee and our Chairman, and supports the recommendations 9 out of 10 colleagues say they receive recognition for a job well done.
of the Lord davies Review whereby we aim to increase our female The results show that we need to do more to engender trust in the representation on the board by 25 per cent by 2015. in december leadership team and confidence in the future of the organisation.
we launched Breakthrough: our new womens network which has over 600 members and we have established a series of development We will demonstrate our commitment to colleagues by continuing to interventions.
deliver on our Group strategy to be the best bank for customers and colleagues, and rebuild confidence and trust by increasing the time The Stonewall 2011 Top 100 Employers for lesbian, gay and bisexual leaders spend listening and talking to colleagues.
Finally we will drive people, ranked Lloyds Banking Group as the top private sector customer focus at all levels in our organisation to stimulate ongoing employer in the UK and as Top scottish employer by stonewall scotland.
We received a technology4good award for our workplace adjustments programme, improving the way we support colleagues with disabilities Talent, recruitment and retention or long-term health conditions.
We have launched a new online one of our uppermost priorities is recruiting, retaining and developing disability awareness programme to ensure colleagues and line talented leaders.
in 2011 we made significant progress and 60 per cent managers have the support they need.
of all senior leader vacancies were filled internally.
in our ethnic diversity strategy, we have launched a new career succession to the Group executive Committee and divisional development programme for ethnic minority managers which leadership teams has materially improved year-on-year with 92 per cent discusses barriers to progression, how to overcome them and supports of roles having at least one identified successor.
participants to achieve their full potential.
We have launched a number of initiatives in 2011 including the MBa We will continue to build upon our progress during 2012 to ensure programme, Lloyds scholars programme and a new development we reflect the diverse needs of our customers, colleagues and programme for emerging executives and middle managers.
strength of the Graduate Leadership programme has been externally acknowledged and rated by The Times as one of the Top 30 UK organisations for graduate recruitment.
Retaining our talent through difficult times continues to be a priority and we have launched well-being initiatives across several teams this year which have proved popular and useful resources for colleagues.
Lloyds Banking Group 26 Annual Review 2011 BUiLdinG vaLUaBLe ReLaTionships Communities By doing more through our responsible business strategy, we aim to help build thriving communities.
Building thriving communities Aim We have a presence in every community across the UK.
We recognise We have a presence in every community across the UK.
We recognise that to be the best bank for customers, we must also be the best bank that to be the best bank for customers, we must also be the best for communities.
in 2011, we developed a new responsible business strategy which aims to in 2011 we developed a new responsible business strategy which help build thriving communities, and, in so doing, rebuild trust and pride aims to help build thriving communities, and, in so doing, rebuild in the Group.
We want to be recognised by shareholders, customers and trust and pride in the Group.
our vision is to be recognised by colleagues as making a positive difference to UK communities.
shareholders, customers and colleagues as making a real difference.
We are investing in financial inclusion and projects to improve Embedding responsible business consumers financial capability: access to higher education for We established a new Responsible Business steering Group in 2011, students from lower income families: sports for young people: and to drive our new responsible business strategy.
it comprises senior almost 30 million a year to the Groups charitable foundations business leaders from across the Group and will report to the Board to support grassroots charities working with disadvantaged and Group executive Committee twice a year.
We are also setting communities.
We are also working to reduce our environmental up an independent panel of experts and opinion formers to provide impact by reducing our use of resources such as energy, water and thought leadership and challenge to the Group.
paper, by encouraging the companies we bank and invest in to do the same, and by investing in new sources of renewable energy.
Community engagement Lloyds Banking Group is the UKs biggest corporate investor in UK Lloyds scholars, communities.
Last year, we invested over 85 million in communities, including support for financial capability, higher education, sports for our unique social young people and support to the Groups charitable Foundations.
mobility programme The national Union of students has always been supportive of business contributing Charitable support to the cost of higher education, so its great to see Lloyds Banking Group starting the We donated almost 30 million in 2011 to the Lloyds TsB Foundations Lloyds scholars scheme.
of course higher and the Bank of scotland Foundation.
The Foundations disburse education is massively beneficial to the public, as well as to the student, but business grants to local, regional and national charities that help disadvantaged also benefits from students who have a communities.
during the last 25 years the Lloyds TsB Foundations and higher level of education and an enriched Bank of scotland Foundation have invested more than 510 million world-view.
supporting over 50,000 community based charities.
The Foundations a s well as widening participation to higher education, were particularly pleased that also support colleagues fundraising and volunteering efforts by this scheme seeks to deepen participation offering each colleague up to 1,000 in Matched Giving every year.
through volunteering at university, ensuring that students not only receive the our colleagues raised 1.4 million in 2011 for our Charity of the Year, save appropriate support through their mentoring scheme but are given opportunities to get the Children, which will fund 46 FasT programmes.
FasT Families and further involved in their free-time.
schools Together increases the life chances of children in the UKs most Liam Burns, National President deprived areas by supporting parents to improve their childrens learning national Union of students and development so that they reach their full potential at school.
over 16,000 colleagues volunteered during 2011 in their local communities.
Through our day to Make a difference programme all colleagues can spend one day a year volunteering during work time.
in 2011, the Group was also the largest corporate participant in Business in the Communitys Give & Gain day the UKs largest single day of volunteering.
We celebrate employees contributions to communities through our annual Making a difference awards.
in 2011, we received nominations for 1,164 colleagues who made a huge difference to communities.
We donated 20 for every nomination to our Charity of the Year, totalling 23,280 for save the Children.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2011 27 Lloyds Scholars Tracking progress Lloyds scholars, the Groups flagship higher education programme, independent consultants verify our performance every year.
We was launched in 2011 for thirty students attending the University of also measure our performance against our peers through external sheffield and University of Bristol.
it aims to support young people benchmarks.
in 2011, we were re-selected for the dow Jones from families with below average income to attend some of Britains sustainability index.
We were also ranked top UK bank in the top universities.
FTse4Good index and were re-selected for the Carbon disclosure Leadership index.
We have a platinum ranking in Business in the Lloyds scholars provides students with support for their academic and Communitys Corporate Responsibility index and were awarded vocational development, offering a complete financial and support Business in the Communitys CommunityMark, the national standard package.
This includes bursaries to help with living costs and study that publicly recognises excellence in community investment.
materials: performance-related cash awards for good grades: hands-on work experience through paid summer internships with the Group: Looking to 2012 and access to advice and support from a dedicated mentor.
in return for these benefits, we ask scholars to champion the scheme to future The Groups strategic vision recognises that being the best bank for applicants and take part in at least 100 hours volunteering each year.
customers also means being the best bank for communities.
We We are expanding the programme to six universities and 120 students believe that, over time, our new responsible business strategy will help for the next intake of students.
us rebuild public trust and colleague pride in the Group by making a difference to the UK.
Financial wellbeing in 2012 we will explore opportunities to increase transparency around our management of environmental, social and governance risks.
We We take seriously our responsibility to do more to raise levels of general financial capability amongst the communities we serve.
We also plan to launch a community fund that will enable colleagues to make a very significant investment in helping to bring those who are help their chosen community organisation with financial support: and excluded into mainstream financial services.
a social entrepreneur programme that will support 500 entrepreneurs to create new social enterprises and hundreds of jobs across the UK.
Money for Life is Lloyds Banking Groups flagship 4 million financial capability and personal money skills programme, targeted at the Further education, adult and Community learning sector.
We are providing tutors and support workers with the skills they need to teach money management to help their learners stay out of debt and save for the future.
We are providing 1,400 free places on the Teach Me, Teach others programme for colleges and community groups.
in 2011, we also launched the Money for Life Challenge, a national competition providing small grants for 16-24 year olds to run a money management project in their communities.
Environmental responsibility in 2011, we introduced a set of market leading, long-term environmental targets under our environmental action programme to significantly reduce our environmental footprint.
By 2020, we aim to reduce paper, water and business travel by 20 per cent: send less than 20 per cent of waste to landfill: and reduce energy use by 30 per cent.
Last year, we achieved the Carbon Trust standard for our Teaching others UK operations, which recognises our robust approach to measuring, Jeff Mcarthur, Regulatory and external managing and reducing our carbon emissions.
We also reduced our Risk Manager at Lloyds TsB, is a graduate of the Money for Life Teach others course.
use of energy by 1 per cent, our use of water by 3 per cent and paper he has delivered financial capability use by 7 per cent in 2011 compared with 2010. workshops at dress for success, a charity offering employment-based services and over the last year we have been the UKs most active provider of workshops to help disadvantaged women finance to renewable energy projects, having lent over 413 million become economically independent.
Many of the women have recently returned across 13 renewable energy projects in the UK, Germany and the to work after long-term unemployment Us.
our asset management business, scottish Widows investment and wanted to better manage their partnership, launched a new sustainability strategy across its entire finances, Jeff explains.
i provided advice on basic budgeting and explained how they could use banking We are also encouraging businesses that bank with us to take action products and services to help them manage their money.
We have trained over 650 colleagues on our Business & environment programme, to enable them to support our customers in recognising environmental risks and seizing the commercial opportunities.
Lloyds Banking Group 28 Annual Review 2011 oUR London 2012 paRTneRship london 2012 in 2011 we continued to bring the London 2012 Games closer to people and communities across the UK.
Bringing the Games closer to communities Background With Lloyds TsB and Bank of scotland branches on nearly every UK Lloyds Banking Group is proud to be the official banking and high street we are in a unique position to bring the inspiration and insurance partner for the London 2012 olympic and paralympic excitement of the Games closer to communities across the country, Games, the biggest sporting event ever staged in the UK.
through programmes like national school sport Week and our our vision for our partnership, delivered through Lloyds TsB, Local heroes programme, supporting the future of Team GB and Bank of scotland and scottish Widows, is to bring the Games even paralympicsGB.
closer to communities and millions of people across the UK.
in 2011 we continued to realise this vision with a programme of inclusive, Giving customers the chance to get involved inspirational and engaging activities, resulting in us being seen as the We are creating as many opportunities as possible for our customers and sponsor doing the most to support the Games.
the communities we serve across the UK to get involved in the Games: in 2011, more than 200,000 people signed up to Trackside, our customer exclusive programme.
Trackside is just one of the ways we are giving customers the chance to win tickets to the London 2012 olympic and paralympic Games.
Through Trackside, 1,500 personal banking customers will each win a pair of tickets to the Games.
We are also giving customers chances to win exclusive experiences with olympians and paralympians.
Lloyds TsB is the only presenting partner of both the London 2012 olympic and paralympic Torch Relays and in 2011 we gave our customers and the wider public the chance to become Torchbearers and carry the Flame in the Relays.
as the official partner of the London 2012 Ticketing programme, we are helping to ensure customers and communities have access national school to information about tickets to the olympic and paralympic sport Week Games.
our official London 2012 Ticket Guides were available York high school in all of our branches.
York high school held a number scottish Widows is pensions and investment provider of the of events to celebrate national London 2012 olympic and paralympic Games and in 2011 we gave school sport Week 2011, promoting the olympic and paralympic values, customers the chance to be at the Games more than 60,000 boosting participation in physical entered our exclusive competition.
activity and providing young people with leadership opportunities.
The week had a positive impact on the students attitudes towards sport and many particularly enjoyed trying new sports.
They developed team-working skills and created a great atmosphere around the school.
The students became accustomed to being physically active and made a pledge about their future level of physical activity, which will be monitored by the schools Young ambassadors.
and, links forged with community sports clubs should encourage a higher uptake of sports outside of school hours.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2011 29 National School Sport Week Helping businesses benefit from London 2012 delivered in partnership with the Youth sport Trust, Lloyds TsB We are focused on supporting our business customers to maximise national school sport Week with Bank of scotland and sportscotland the opportunities of the Games and ensure a lasting legacy for in scotland uses the excitement of the London 2012 Games to inspire UK businesses.
in 2011 we used the power of London 2012 to inspire more young people to do more sport.
businesses all over the UK: We provide resources to schools to help them plan activities leading one in three of the 3 billion worth of London 2012 contracts have up to and during the week and in 2011 over 4 million young people been awarded to our business customers with more contract took part.
48% of secondary school pupils and 42% of primary school opportunities still available along the supply chain.
pupils said they have joined or would like to join a new sports team or We developed a free, step-by-step guide, to help businesses club in school after taking part in national school sport Week.
understand the various ways in which they can prepare for the Games and seize the business opportunities.
Local Heroes The Local heroes programme helps some of the most talented emerging our pace & power events brought together local business people athletes in the UK during one of the toughest stages of their career.
with olympians and paralympians and Local heroes, who shared their thoughts on sporting success and how this can be translated in partnership with sportsaid, the UKs leading charity for identifying into the world of business.
and supporting young talented athletes, we committed to supporting more than 1,000 of these future stars of Team GB and paralympicsGB as the chosen bank to the olympic delivery authority and by the time of the London 2012 Games.
LoCoG, we are proud of our role in supporting the development of the olympic park and other Games venues.
2011 was the fourth year of the Local heroes programme and we supported 324 athletes.
Local heroes also attended a variety of internal Activation Programmes and customer-facing Group events and initiatives including sharing their experiences with young schoolchildren during national school Olympic and Paralympic Torch Relays sport Week: attending events with olympians and business customers in 2011 we ran public campaigns to find hundreds of people who have on the parallels between high performance in business and sport: and made a positive difference in their community to be Torchbearers and visiting branches with the London 2012 olympic Torch to engage with carry the Flame in the London 2012 olympic Torch Relay or paralympic our colleagues, customers and their families.
We received thousands of nominations from customers and the public across the UK, many of whom had uplifting and London 2012 Trackside: inspirational stories to share.
Bringing London 2012 closer to our customers Trackside, launched in February 2011, is a customer exclusive We developed the Lloyds TsB London 2012 olympic Torch Tour, which programme giving Lloyds TsB and Bank of scotland personal travelled the UK during the summer of 2011.
The Tour gave people the customers chances to win tickets to the London 2012 Games and chance to get up close to the new olympic Torch and learn more about opportunities to meet olympians and paralympians, as well as ensuring the history and excitement of the Relay.
The Tour visited 76 communities customers are the first to hear about our latest London 2012 news and over 84 days, directly engaging 56,000 people with our London 2012 offers.
Registered customers receive regular e-newsletters and in 2011 activity.
we gave away more than 1,100 pairs of tickets to the 2012 Games to these personal customers.
Golden Hopefuls Through scottish Widows Golden hopefuls programme we are helping four of Britains new generation of world class sporting hopefuls who share the same goal of competing at London 2012. simon Brown olympic Torchbearer simon is 32 and from Morley, West Yorkshire.
in 2006 he was shot in the face saving the lives of six of his colleagues in iraq.
Following months of rehabilitation and dozens of operations to rebuild his face simon began to help young people come to terms with their own loss of sight at st dunstans charity in sheffield.
his nominator and friend, eleanor noakes said, simon has not had an easy journey on his road to recovery and has battled with the impact of his injuries.
he now uses those experiences to help others overcome their own difficulties and is a true inspiration to his community.
Lloyds Banking Group 30 Annual Review 2011 sUMMaRY ConsoLidaTed inCoMe sTaTeMenT 2011 2010 For the year ended 31 December million million 1 net interest income 12,698 12,546 1 other income 14,114 31,498 Total income 26,812 44,044 1 insurance claims 6,041 19,088 Total income, net of insurance claims 20,771 24,956 operating expenses 16,250 13,270 Trading surplus 4,521 11,686 impairment 8,094 10,952 share of results of joint ventures and associates 31 88 Loss on disposal of businesses 365 Loss profit before tax 3,542 281 Taxation 828 539 Loss for the year 2,714 258 profit attributable to non-controlling interests 73 62 Loss attributable to equity shareholders 2,787 320 Loss for the year 2,714 258 Basic loss per share 4.1 p 0.5 p Diluted loss per share 4.1 p 0.5 p 000 000 Directors emoluments 8,147 10,641 1 The Groups income statement includes substantial amounts of income and expenditure attributable to the policyholders of the Groups long-term assurance funds, which are consolidated in order to meet the requirements of accounting standards.
These amounts are volatile and can cause significant variations in total income and insurance claims: however they have no overall effect upon profit attributable to equity shareholders over the long term.
in previous years the Group has included annual management charges on non-participating investment contracts within insurance claims.
in light of developing industry practice, these amounts 2011: 606 million: 2010: 577 million are now included within net fee and commission income.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2011 31 sUMMaRY ConsoLidaTed BaLanCe sheeT 2011 2010 At 31 December million million Assets Cash and balances at central banks 60,722 38,115 derivatives, trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit and loss 205,523 206,968 Loans and receivables: Loans and advances to customers 565,638 592,597 Loans and advances to banks 32,606 30,272 debt securities 12,470 25,735 610,714 648,604 available-for-sale financial assets 37,406 42,955 held-to-maturity investments 8,098 7,905 investment properties 6,122 5,997 intangible assets, including goodwill, and the value of in-force business 11,850 12,879 Tangible fixed assets 7,673 8,190 Retirement benefit assets 1,338 736 other assets 21,100 19,225 Total assets 970,546 991,574 Liabilities deposits from banks 39,810 50,363 Customer deposits 413,906 393,633 derivatives, trading and other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 83,167 68,920 debt securities in issue 185,059 228,866 insurance liabilities 79,291 81,372 Liabilities to customers under non-participating investment contracts 49,636 51,363 other liabilities 37,613 33,500 Retirement benefit obligations 381 423 subordinated liabilities 35,089 36,232 Total liabilities 923,952 944,672 shareholders equity 45,920 46,061 non-controlling interests 674 841 Total equity 46,594 46,902 Total equity and liabilities 970,546 991,574 The summary financial statement, comprising the summary consolidated income statement on page 30, the summary consolidated balance sheet on page 31 and the directors remuneration commentary on page 33 was approved by the directors on 27 February 2012.
Sir Winfried Bischoff Antnio Horta-Osrio Chairman Group Chief executive Lloyds Banking Group 32 Annual Review 2011 RepoRTs on The aCCoUnTs Independent Auditors statement to Auditors report on full accounts the members of Lloyds Banking Group plc The auditors reports on the full accounts for the year ended 31 december 2011 were unqualified and did not include a statement We have examined the summary financial statement, which under sections 498 2 accounting records or returns inadequate or comprises the summary consolidated income statement on page30, accounts not agreeing with records and returns or 498 3 failure to the summary consolidated balance sheet on page 31, the summary obtain necessary information and explanations of the UK Companies directors report on page 32 and the directors remuneration act 2006. in addition, the auditors statement under section 496 commentary on page 33. was unqualified.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the annual review in Summary directors report accordance with applicable United Kingdom law.
The Company is a holding company and its subsidiary undertakings our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency provide a wide range of banking and financial services through of the summary financial statement within the annual review with the branches and offices in the UK and overseas.
annual financial statements, the directors report, and the directors a review of the business and an indication of future developments are remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements given on the inside front cover and pages 4 to 20.
Biographical details of section 428 of the Companies act 2006 and the regulations made of directors are shown on pages 34 and 35. thereunder.
Changes to the composition of the Board since 1 January 2011 up to We also read the other information contained in the annual review and the date of this annual review are shown below: consider the implications for our statement if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary Retired from the Joined the Board Board financial statement.
Mr a horta-osrio This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only became Group Chief executive for the Companys members as a body in accordance with section on 1 March 2011 17 January 2011 428 of the Companies act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, Mr J e daniels 28 February 2011 in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this statement is shown or Mr a G Kane 18 May 2011 into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our Mrs h a Weir 18 May 2011 prior consent in writing.
Ms s v Weller 1 February 2012 We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 2008 3 issued Mr G T Tate 6 February 2012 by the auditing practices Board.
our reports on the Companys full Mr T J W Tookey 24 February 2012 annual financial statements describe the basis of our audit opinions on those financial statements, the directors report and the directors Lord Leitch will retire from the board on 29 February 2012. remuneration report.
sir Julian horn-smith and Mr Moreno will retire from the Board on Opinion 17 May 2012. in our opinion the summary financial statement is consistent with Ms s v Weller has been appointed to the Board since the annual the full annual financial statements, the directors report and the general meeting held in 2011 and will therefore stand for election at directors remuneration report of Lloyds Banking Group plc for the forthcoming annual general meeting.
the year ended 31 december 2011 and complies with the applicable requirements of section 428 of the Companies act 2006, and the in the interests of good corporate governance and in accordance with regulations made thereunder.
the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board has decided that all of the other directors will retire voluntarily and those willing to serve again will submit themselves for re-election at the  LLP Chartered accountants and statutory auditors annual general meeting.
London 27 February 2012 particulars of the directors interests in shares in the Company and detailed information about share capital and change of control are shown in the full report and accounts.
a The maintenance and integrity of the Lloyds Banking Group website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the full annual financial statements or the summary financial statement since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2011 33 GoveRnanCe and diReCToRs ReMUneRaTion to recruit successfully paying at appropriate market levels.
Where Directors remuneration possible, the Group also seeks to link recruitment awards to Company Full details of the Groups remuneration policy for directors as well performance as demonstrated by the share price targets applied as details of their remuneration in 2011 appear in the directors to the Group Chief executives pension opportunity and through remuneration report in the full report and accounts.
This may be a recently introduced process to carefully monitor new joiners seen in the investors section of the Groups website at www.
performance as they become established in their roles.
in the same way, for leavers the Group is conscious of the importance once again, there has been considerable external focus and scrutiny of mitigating the Companys costs and not paying more than is of executive remuneration in the past 12 months.
in light of this the appropriate through previously agreed exit terms.
other than in Group has worked to ensure that it motivates, incentivises and retain exceptional circumstances the Group pays only that required under its talent while continuing to be mindful both of the economic outlook contractual entitlements.
and the views of its numerous stakeholders.
during 2011, a thorough executive directors remain expected to build a shareholding in the strategic Review of the business was conducted by the Board, which Group equivalent to 1.5 times 2 times for the Group Chief executive is now in its implementation phase.
Following this review, the Group gross basic salary.
has worked towards translating our new strategic objectives into meaningful metrics against which to measure performance.
The fees of the independent non-executive directors are agreed within While there have been no material changes to the overall structure a total amount agreed by the shareholders.
They may also receive fees, agreed by the Board, for membership of Board Committees.
The of executive remuneration, the Group has continued to maintain an open and transparent dialogue with shareholders.
The Group is, fees are designed to recognise the responsibilities of a non-executive directors role and to attract individuals with relevant skills, knowledge however, mindful of the need to exercise restraint as part of the effective governance of executive pay.
This has been demonstrated through and experience.
The fees are neither performance related nor pensionable and are comparable with those paid by other companies.
a number of decisions made in the last twelve months including not increasing fixed pay, as others in the market have done, and the decision The Chairmans salary remains unchanged at 700,000 per annum.
by the Group Chief executive not to be considered for a bonus for 2011.
Summary of emoluments paid to Directors Furthermore, the Committee has proactively taken the decision to 2011 2010 adjust bonus awards made to executive directors and certain senior 000 000 executives in respect of the performance year 2010 to reflect the ppi aggregate emoluments paid to directors 8,147 10,641 provision made in this years accounts.
While there is no suggestion of aggregate gains made by directors on exercise wrongdoing or culpability, the Committee has made the adjustment, of share options 342 known as malus, to reflect the provision that was made after the annual aggregate value of assets receivable under results and bonus awards were finalised in February 2011. long-term incentive schemes 46 39 The Group carefully considered what size bonus pool would be aggregate company contributions in respect of appropriate to distribute across the Bank as a whole.
in making their directors to defined contribution pension schemes 167 435 decision, the Group took into account the success of the integration number of directors with retirement programme, the Groups overall performance and the views of benefits accruing under: shareholders and the general public.
as a result, the bonus pool was reduced by approximately 30 per cent with the greater reductions defined contribution schemes 4 3 being applied to more senior staff.
defined benefit schemes 2 2 salary increases have also been restricted.
salaries as part of the annual review will increase by less than 2.5 per cent, with lower Performance graph or zero increases at more senior levels.
annual incentives for The graph below illustrates the performance of the Group measured executive directors and the Group executive Committee are down by TsR against a broad equity market index over the past five years.
approximately 50 per cent against 2010 on a like for like basis The Group has been a constituent of the FTse 100 index throughout The Long Term incentive plan remains a core part of the Groups reward this five year period.
The performance conditions have been changed to ensure alignment with the objectives and timeline of the strategic plan as well Total shareholder return FTSE 100 index as to link to retaining our key employees and align with other elements of reward.
The Group believes the LTip will be more motivational by Lloyds Banking Group plc introducing measures with clear milestones and outcomes that can be FTSE 100 index Rebased to 100 on 31 December 2006 Source: Deloitte communicated regularly, providing a sense of purpose and achievement throughout the life of the plan.
The Group recognises that core financial 150 measures remain an important element for top management to ensure 125 alignment with shareholders.
accordingly, it is proposed that economic profit and absolute Total shareholder Return targets remain in place for 100 directors, but at a reduced level, with a significant percentage of LTip 75 based on balanced scorecard measures.
50 despite the uncertain economic outlook, the market for talent is no less competitive and the Group must compete for this in the UK 25 and overseas markets with varying levels of regulation and scrutiny.
0 nonetheless, the Group recognises the impact that recruitment Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 premiums can have on the total pay bill, and has therefore continued Lloyds Banking Group 34 Annual Review 2011 BoaRd oF diReCToRs Non-Executive Directors Sir Winfried Bischoff Lord Leitch Chairman Deputy Chairman Independent Director Until 29 February 2012 NG Re Ri A NG Re Joined the Board and was appointed Chairman in september 2009. previously Chairman Joined the Board in october 2005 and was appointed deputy Chairman in May 2009. of Citigroup inc. from december 2007 to February 2009. he joined J henry schroder & Co in appointed Chairman of scottish Widows in 2007. held a number of senior and general January 1966 and became Managing director of schroders asia in 1971.
Group Chief executive management appointments in allied dunbar, eagle star and Threadneedle asset of schroders in 1984 and Chairman in 1995.
Following the acquisition of schroders investment Management before the merger of Zurich Group and British american Tobaccos financial banking business by Citigroup in 2000, became Chairman of Citigroup europe before being services businesses in 1998. subsequently served as Chairman and Chief executive officer appointed acting Chief executive officer of Citigroup in 2007 and subsequently as Chairman of Zurich Financial services United Kingdom, ireland, southern africa and asia pacific, until in the same year.
a non-executive director of eli Lilly and Company, and The McGraw hill his retirement in 2004.
Chairman of the Governments Review of skills published in december Companies inc. in the United states.
he is a member of akbank international advisory Board 2006.
Chairman of BUpa and intrinsic Financial services.
Chairman of Medical aid Films and and Chairman of the advisory Council of TheCityUK.
Former Chairman of the national employment panel and of the aBi.
Anita M Frew Sir Julian Horn-Smith Independent Director Independent Director Until 17 May 2012 A Ri NG Re Ri Joined the Board in december 2010.
Chairman of victrex, the FTse 250 global manufacturer Joined the Board in January 2005. held a number of senior and general management of high performance polymers, having previously been the senior independent director.
appointments in vodafone from 1984 to 2006 including a directorship of that company from since 2000, she has held a portfolio of non-executive directorships, currently holding positions 1996, Group Chief operating officer from 2001 and deputy Chief executive officer from 2005. as senior non-executive director of aberdeen asset Management and as non-executive previously held positions in philips from 1978 to 1982 and Mars GB from 1982 to 1984. director of iMi.
prior to this she was executive director of abbott Mead vickers, director of a non-executive director of acer incorporated Taiwan, fide La Rue, digicel Group and Corporate development at Wpp Group and a non-executive director of northumbrian Water emobile Japan, a director of sky Malta, a member of the altimo international advisory and has held various investment and marketing roles at scottish provident and the Royal Bank Board and a senior adviser to UBs and CvC Capital partners in relation to the global of scotland.
pro Chancellor of University of Bath.
a former Chairman of The sage Group.
Glen R Moreno David L Roberts Senior Independent Director Independent Director until 17 May 2012 Deputy Chairman from 17 May 2012 Deputy Chairman from 1 March 2012 to 17 May 2012 NG A NG Re Ri Joined the Board in March 2010.
Chairman of pearson, the media group, since october 2005.
Joined the Board in March 2010. executive director, member of the Group executive director of Fidelity international, one of the worlds largest fund management companies, and Committee and Chief executive, international Retail and Commercial Banking at Barclays until Chairman of its audit Committee.
deputy Chairman of The Financial Reporting Council.
Joined Barclays in 1983 and held various senior management positions, 1987 to 1991 was Chief executive of Fidelity international.
Until mid 2009, was a non-executive including Chief executive, personal Financial services, and Chief executive, Business Banking.
director and senior independent director of Man Group, a FTse 100 financial services group, Was also a non-executive director of Baa until June 2006 and a non-executive director of and acting Chairman of UKFi.
Former Group executive of Citigroup: from 1969 to 1987 he held absa Group Limited, one of south africas largest financial services groups, until october 2006. a number of senior positions at the bank in europe and asia.
From 2007 to 2009 he was also the Chairman and Chief executive of BaWaG p. s. K. aG, the second largest retail bank in austria.
non-executive Chairman of The Mind Gym.
T Timothy Ryan, Jr Martin A Scicluna Independent Director Independent Director A Re Ri A NG Ri Joined the Board in March 2009. president and Chief executive of the securities industry and Joined the Board in september 2008.
Chairman of deloitte UK from 1995 to 2007 and a Financial Markets association.
held a number of senior appointments in Jp Morgan Chase from member of the Board from 1991 to 2007.
Joined the firm in 1973 and was a partner from 1982 1993 to 2008 including vice Chairman, financial institutions and governments, from 2005. until he retired in 2008. a member of the Board of directors of deloitte Touche Tohmatsu from a director of the Us-Japan Foundation, Great-West Life insurance Co. power Corporation 1999 to 2007.
Chairman of Great portland estates.
aged 61. of Canada and power Financial Corporation and a member of the Global Markets advisory Committee for the national intelligence Council.
a former director in the office of Thrift supervision, Us department of the Treasury and Koram Bank and the international Foundation of election systems.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2011 35 Executive Directors Anthony Watson cbe Antnio Horta-Osrio Independent Director Group Chief Executive Senior Independent Director from 17 May 2012 A NG Re Joined the Board in april 2009. previously Chief executive of hermes pensions Management.
Joined the Board in January 2011 as an executive director and became Group Chief executive held a number of senior appointments in aMp asset Management from 1991 to 1998. in March 2011. started his career at Citibank portugal where he was head of capital markets.
a non-executive director of hammerson, vodafone and Witan investment Trust, a member at the same time, was an assistant professor at Universidade Catolica portuguesa.
Then worked of the norges Bank investment Management advisory Board and Chairman of Lincolns inn for Goldman sachs in new York and London.
in 1993, joined Grupo santander as Chief investment Committee.
a former Chairman of MepC, the asian infrastructure Fund and executive of Banco santander fide negocios portugal and then became Chief executive officer of the strategic investment Board northern ireland and a former member of the Financial of Banco santander Brazil.
in 2000, became Chief executive officer of santander Totta, and Reporting Council.
Chairman from 2006 until 2011, as well as executive vice president of Grupo santander and a member of its Management Committee.
Joined santander UK, as a non-executive director in november 2004 and from august 2006 until november 2010, was its Chief executive.
Formerly a non-executive director of the Court of the Bank of england.
a non-executive director of Fundao Champalimaud in portugal.
Sara V Weller Independent Director Re Ri Joined the Board on 1 February 2012.
Between 2004 and 2011, Managing director of argos, the second biggest internet retailer in the UK.
From January 2000 to april 2004, Marketing director for sainsburys supermarkets, before being promoted to the position of deputy Managing director and serving on the Board of J sainsbury from January 2003 to the end of March 2004.
Retail Marketing director for abbey national from december 1996 to december 1999 and worked for Mars Confectionery from september 1983 to december 1996, rising to european Franchise Manager.
non-executive director of Mitchells & Butlers from april 2003 to January 2010. non-executive director of United Utilities Group from March 2012. aged 50.
Harry F Baines Committee roles and responsibilities Company Secretary A Audit Committee To monitor and review the formal arrangements established by the Board in respect of the financial statements and reporting of the Group: internal controls and the risk management framework: internal audit: and the Groups relationship with its external auditors.
NG Nomination & Governance Committee To keep the Boards governance arrangements under review and make appropriate recommendations to the Board to ensure that the Companys arrangements are consistent with best practice corporate governance standards.
Re Remuneration Committee To set the principles and parameters of remuneration policy for the Group, and to oversee remuneration policy and outcomes for those colleagues covered by the scope of the Committee.
Ri Risk Committee To review and report its conclusions to the Board on the Groups risk appetite and risk management framework.
The Committee has a forward looking perspective, anticipating changes in business conditions.
2 The net credit in 2011 of 1,943 million is mainly attributable to a reduction in the impairment charge of 1,693 million as losses reflected in the acquisition balance sheet valuations of the lending and securities portfolios have been incurred.
3 impairment on loans and advances to customers divided by average loans and advances to customers, excluding reverse repurchase transactions, gross of allowance for impairment losses.
4 operating expenses excluding impairment of tangible fixed assets divided by total income net of insurance claims.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Review 2011 shaRehoLdeR inFoRMaTion Annual report and accounts Individual Savings Accounts ISAs This annual review, including the summary financial statements and summary directors The Company provides a number of options for investing in Lloyds Banking Group shares through report contained within, is only a summary of information derived from the Companys an isa.
For details contact: Lloyds TsB share dealing, halifax share dealing or equiniti Limited.
annual accounts and the directors remuneration report and does not provide sufficient information to allow as full an understanding of the results and state of affairs of Lloyds American Depositary Receipts ADRs Banking Group as would be provided by the full report and accounts.
shareholders who Lloyds Banking Group shares are traded in the Usa through an nYse-listed sponsored would like more detailed information may obtain a copy of the full report and accounts, adR facility, with The Bank of new York Mellon as the depositary.
The adRs are traded and also elect to receive all future report and accounts, by contacting our registrars, on the new York stock exchange under the symbol LYG.
The CUsip number is 539439109 equiniti Limited see below.
The report and accounts is also available on our website, and the ratio of adRs to ordinary shares is 1:4. www.
com For details contact: Annual general meeting The Bank of new York Mellon, po Box 358516 The annual general meeting will be held at 11.30am on Thursday 17 May 2012 at the pittsburgh, pennsylvania 15252-8516 edinburgh international Conference Centre, The exchange, edinburgh, eh3 8ee.
Further Telephone 1-866-259-0336 Us toll free, international callers: 1 201-680-6825. details about the meeting, including the proposed resolutions, can be found in our notice alternatively visit www.
com or email shrrelations@bnymellon.
com of annual general meeting which is sent to all shareholders who have requested paper copy documents.
it is also available on our website www.
com Share sale fraud Lloyds Banking Group have been made aware of an increasing number of share sale Shareholder enquiries frauds being reported by listed companies.
This involves bogus stockbrokers, usually The Companys share register and the Lloyds Banking Group shareholder account are based overseas, cold calling people to: maintained by equiniti Limited.
Contact them using the details below if you have enquiries about your shareholding, including: either pressure them into buying shares that promise high returns: or offer to buy their shares at an inflated price claiming that there is a secret takeover or Change of name or address merger.
This is followed by a request for an upfront cash bond to commit to the deal.
Loss of share certificate dividend information, including loss of dividend warrant or tax voucher.
in reality, the shares or secret information are either worthless or nonexistent and if you receive such a call, we strongly recommend that you seek independent investment advice equiniti Limited from an Fsa authorised adviser before you take any action.
aspect house, spencer Road Lancing, West sussex Bn99 6da if you are concerned that you may have been targeted by such a scheme, please contact the Fsa Consumer helpline on 0845 606 1234, www.
Textphone 0871 384 2255 overseas 44 0 121 415 7066 Head office Telephone lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
25 Gresham street, London eC2v 7hn 1 Telephone 44 0 20 7626 1500 Calls to 0871 numbers are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
The price of calls from mobiles and other networks may vary.
Calls from outside the United Kingdom are charged at applicable international rates.
The call prices we have quoted were correct in February 2012.
Registered office The Mound, edinburgh eh1 1YZ equiniti operates a web based enquiry and portfolio management service for you Registered in scotland no 95000 to receive shareholder communications electronically and to register your proxy appointments or voting instructions online.
You can also change your address or bank details either by telephone or online.
com Share price information shareholders can access both the latest and historical share prices via our website, Forward looking statements www.
com, as well as listings in most national newspapers.
For a real This annual review contains forward looking statements with respect to the business, time buying or selling price, you will need to contact a stockbroker or you can contact the strategy and plans of the Lloyds Banking Group, its current goals and expectations sharedealing providers detailed below.
relating to its future financial condition and performance.
statements that are not historical facts, including statements about the Group or the Groups managements beliefs and expectations, are forward looking statements.
By their nature, forward looking statements Share dealing facilities involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances Lloyds Banking Group offers shareholders a choice of two dealing services: that will occur in the future.
The Groups actual future business, strategy, plans and or Lloyds TSB Share Dealing results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in these forward looking internet dealing.
com statements as a result of a variety of risks, uncertainties and other factors, including, Telephone dealing.
Call 0845 60 60 560 without limitation, UK domestic and global economic and business conditions: the ability to derive cost savings and other benefits including, without limitation, as a result of the internet services are available 24 7 and telephone services are available between 8.00am integration of hBos and the Groups simplification programme: the ability to access and 6.00pm, Monday to Friday.
details of any dealing costs are available when you log on sufficient funding to meet the Groups liquidity needs: changes to the Groups credit to the share dealing website or when you call the above number.
To open a Lloyds TsB ratings: risks concerning borrower or counterparty credit quality: instability in the global share dealing account you must be 18 years of age or over and be resident in the UK, financial markets including eurozone instability: changing demographic and market the Channel islands or the isle of Man.
You can apply online or by post.
related trends: changes in customer preferences: changes to regulation, accounting Halifax Share Dealing standards or taxation, including changes to regulatory capital or liquidity requirements: internet dealing.
co. uk the policies and actions of governmental or regulatory authorities in the UK, the european Telephone dealing.
Call 08457 22 55 25 Union, or jurisdictions outside the UK, including other european countries and the Us: the ability to attract and retain senior management and other employees: requirements internet services are available 24 7 and telephone services are available between 8.00am or limitations imposed on the Group as a result of hM Treasurys investment in the Group: and 9.15pm, Monday to Friday, and 9.00am to 1.00pm, saturday.
To open a halifax share the ability to complete satisfactorily the disposal of certain assets as part of the Groups dealing account you must be 18 years of age or over and be resident in the UK, Jersey, eU state aid obligations: the extent of any future impairment charges or write-downs Guernsey or the isle of Man.
caused by depressed asset valuations: exposure to regulatory scrutiny, legal proceedings shareholders in the Lloyds Banking Group shareholder account can only trade by or complaints, actions of competitors and other factors.
please refer to the latest annual telephone through the halifax share dealing service.
Report on Form 20-F filed with the Us securities and exchange Commission for a discussion of certain factors together with examples of forward looking statements.
The forward looking statements contained in this annual review are made as at the date of this announcement, and the Group undertakes no obligation to update any of its forward looking statements.
