Lloyds Banking Group 216 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 1: Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of Lloyds Banking Group plc have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU.
IFRS comprises accounting standards prefixed IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and those prefixed IAS issued by the IASBs predecessor body as well as interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC and its predecessor body.
The EU endorsed version of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement relaxes some of the hedge accounting requirements: the Group has not taken advantage of this relaxation, and therefore there is no difference in application to the Group between IFRS as adopted by the EU and IFRS as issued by the IASB.
The financial information has been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of investment properties, availableforsale financial assets, trading securities and certain other financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss and all derivative contracts.
As stated on page 174, the directors consider that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
In previous years the Group has included annual management charges on nonparticipating investment contracts within insurance claims.
In light of developing industry practice, these amounts 2011: 606 million: 2010: 577 million: 2009: 474 million are now included within net fee and commission income.
The Group has adopted the following new standards and amendments to standards which became effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2011.
None of these standards or amendments have had a material impact on these financial statements.
i Amendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Classification of Rights Issues.
Requires rights issues denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the issuer to be classified as equity regardless of the currency in which the exercise price is denominated.
ii IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments.
Clarifies that when an entity renegotiates the terms of its debt with the result that the liability is extinguished by the debtor issuing its own equity instruments to the creditor, a gain or loss is recognised in the income statement representing the difference between the carrying value of the financial liability and the fair value of the equity instruments issued: the fair value of the financial liability is used to measure the gain or loss where the fair value of the equity instruments cannot be reliably measured.
iii Improvements to IFRSs issued May 2010.
Amends IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosure to require further disclosures in respect of collateral held by the Group as security for financial assets and sets out minor amendments to other standards as part of the annual improvements process.
iv Amendment to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement.
Applies when an entity is subject to minimum funding requirements and makes an early payment of contributions to cover those requirements and permits such an entity to treat the benefit of such an early payment as an asset.
v IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures Revised.
Simplifies the definition of a related party and provides a partial exemption from the requirement to disclose transactions and outstanding balances with the government and governmentrelated entities.
The Group has taken advantage of an exemption in respect of government and governmentrelated transactions that permits an entity to disclose only transactions that are individually or collectively significant.
Details of related party transactions are disclosed in note 53.
Details of those IFRS pronouncements which will be relevant to the Group but which were not effective at 31 December 2011 and which have not been applied in preparing these financial statements are given in note 58.
Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 217 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 2: Accounting policies The Groups accounting policies are set out below.
A Consolidation The assets, liabilities and results of Group undertakings including special purpose entities are included in the financial statements on the basis of accounts made up to the reporting date.
Group undertakings include subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
1 Subsidiaries Subsidiaries include entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies which generally accompanies a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group: they are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
Details of the principal subsidiaries are given in note 9 to the parent company financial statements.
Investment vehicles, such as Open Ended Investment Companies OEICs, where the Group has control are consolidated.
Control arises when the Group manages the funds and also has a majority beneficial interest.
In circumstances where the Group holds a majority beneficial interest, but is not the fund manager, the Group does not consolidate the entity as it does not have the fund managers decisionmaking powers over the investment activities of the OEIC necessary to establish control.
The interests of parties other than the Group are reported in other liabilities.
Special purpose entities SPEs are consolidated if, in substance, the Group controls the entity.
A key indicator of such control, amongst others, is where the Group is exposed to the risks and benefits of the SPE.
The treatment of transactions with noncontrolling interests depends on whether, as a result of the transaction, the Group loses control of the subsidiary.
Changes in the parents ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions: any difference between the amount by which the noncontrolling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to the owners of the parent entity.
Where the group loses control of the subsidiary, at the date when control is lost the amount of any noncontrolling interest in that former subsidiary is derecognised and any investment retained in the former subsidiary is remeasured to its fair value: the gain or loss that is recognised in profit or loss on the partial disposal of the subsidiary includes the gain or loss on the remeasurement of the retained interest.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for business combinations by the Group.
The consideration for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group.
The consideration includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement.
Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred except those relating to the issuance of debt instruments see E 5 below or share capital see R 1 below.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair value at the acquisition date.
2 Joint ventures and associates Joint ventures are entities over which the Group has joint control under a contractual arrangement with other parties.
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence, but not control or joint control, over the financial and operating policies.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the entity and is normally achieved through holding between 20 per cent and 50 per cent of the voting share capital of the entity.
The Group utilises the venture capital exemption for investments where significant influence or joint control is present and the business unit operates as a venture capital business.
These investments are designated at initial recognition at fair value through profit or loss.
Otherwise, the Groups investments in joint ventures and associates are accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially recorded at cost and adjusted each year to reflect the Groups share of the postacquisition results of the joint venture or associate based on audited accounts which are coterminous with the Group or made up to a date which is not more than three months before the Groups reporting date.
The share of any losses is restricted to a level that reflects an obligation to fund such losses.
B Goodwill Goodwill arises on business combinations, including the acquisition of subsidiaries, and on the acquisition of interests in joint ventures and associates: goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Where the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired entity is greater than the cost of acquisition, the excess is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset at cost and is tested at least annually for impairment.
If an impairment is identified the carrying value of the goodwill is written down immediately through the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions of associates and joint ventures is included in the Groups investment in joint ventures and associates.
At the date of disposal of a subsidiary, the carrying value of attributable goodwill is included in the calculation of the profit or loss on disposal except where it has been written off directly to reserves in the past.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 218 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 2: Accounting policies continued C Other intangible assets Other intangible assets include brands, core deposit intangibles, purchased credit card relationships, customerrelated intangibles and both internally and externally generated capitalised software enhancements.
Intangible assets which have been determined to have a finite useful life are amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful life as follows: Capitalised software enhancements up to 5 years Brands which have been assessed as having finite lives 1015 years Customerrelated intangibles up to 10 years Core deposit intangibles up to 8 years Purchased credit card relationships 5 years Intangible assets with finite useful lives are reviewed at each reporting date to assess whether there is any indication that they are impaired.
If any such indication exists the recoverable amount of the asset is determined and in the event that the assets carrying amount is greater than its recoverable amount, it is written down immediately.
Certain brands have been determined to have an indefinite useful life and are not amortised.
Such intangible assets are reassessed annually to reconfirm that an indefinite useful life remains appropriate.
In the event that an indefinite life is inappropriate a finite life is determined and an impairment review is performed on the asset.
D Revenue recognition Interest income and expense are recognised in the income statement for all interestbearing financial instruments using the effective interest method, except for those classified at fair value through profit or loss.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or liability and of allocating the interest income or interest expense over the expected life of the financial instrument.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash payments or receipts over the expected life of the financial instrument or, when appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or financial liability.
The effective interest rate is calculated on initial recognition of the financial asset or liability by estimating the future cash flows after considering all the contractual terms of the instrument but not future credit losses.
The calculation includes all amounts expected to be paid or received by the Group including expected early redemption fees and related penalties and premiums and discounts that are an integral part of the overall return.
Direct incremental transaction costs related to the acquisition, issue or disposal of a financial instrument are also taken into account in the calculation.
Once a financial asset or a group of similar financial assets has been written down as a result of an impairment loss, interest income is recognised using the rate of interest used to discount the future cash flows for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss see H below.
Fees and commissions which are not an integral part of the effective interest rate are generally recognised when the service has been provided.
Loan commitment fees for loans that are likely to be drawn down are deferred together with related direct costs and recognised as an adjustment to the effective interest rate on the loan once drawn.
Where it is unlikely that loan commitments will be drawn, loan commitment fees are recognised over the life of the facility.
Loan syndication fees are recognised as revenue when the syndication has been completed and the Group retains no part of the loan package for itself or retains a part at the same effective interest rate for all interestbearing financial instruments, including loans and advances, as for the other participants.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Revenue recognition policies specific to life insurance and general insurance business are detailed below see O below.
E Financial assets and liabilities On initial recognition, financial assets are classified into fair value through profit or loss, availableforsale financial assets, heldtomaturity investments or loans and receivables.
Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost, except for trading liabilities and other financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition which are held at fair value.
Purchases and sales of securities and other financial assets and trading liabilities are recognised on trade date, being the date that the Group is committed to purchase or sell an asset.
Financial assets are derecognised when the contractual right to receive cash flows from those assets has expired or when the Group has transferred its contractual right to receive the cash flows from the assets and either: substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred: or the Group has neither retained nor transferred substantially all of the risks and rewards, but has transferred control.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when they are extinguished ie when the obligation is discharged, cancelled or expire.
1 Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss Financial instruments are classified at fair value through profit or loss where they are trading securities or where they are designated at fair value through profit or loss by management.
Derivatives are carried at fair value see F below.
Trading securities are debt securities and equity shares acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term or which are part of a portfolio which is managed for shortterm gains.
Such securities are classified as trading securities and recognised in the balance sheet at their fair value.
Gains and losses arising from changes in their fair value together with interest coupons and dividend income are recognised in the income statement within net trading income in the period in which they occur.
Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 219 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 2: Accounting policies continued Other financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are designated as such by management upon initial recognition.
Such assets and liabilities are carried in the balance sheet at their fair value and gains and losses arising from changes in fair value together with interest coupons and dividend income are recognised in the income statement within net trading income in the period in which they occur.
Financial assets and liabilities are designated at fair value through profit or loss on acquisition in the following circumstances: it eliminates or significantly reduces the inconsistent treatment that would otherwise arise from measuring the assets and liabilities or recognising gains or losses on different bases.
The main type of financial assets designated by the Group at fair value through profit or loss are assets backing insurance contracts and investment contracts issued by the Groups life insurance businesses.
Fair value designation allows changes in the fair value of these assets to be recorded in the income statement along with the changes in the value of the associated liabilities, thereby significantly reducing the measurement inconsistency had the assets been classified as availableforsale financial assets.
the assets and liabilities are part of a group which is managed, and its performance evaluated, on a fair value basis in accordance with a documented risk management or investment strategy, with management information also prepared on this basis.
As noted in A 2 above certain of the Groups investments are managed as venture capital investments and evaluated on the basis of their fair value and these assets are designated at fair value through profit or loss.
where the assets and liabilities contain one or more embedded derivatives that significantly modify the cash flows arising under the contract and would otherwise need to be separately accounted for.
The fair values of assets and liabilities traded in active markets are based on current bid and offer prices respectively.
If the market is not active the Group establishes a fair value by using valuation techniques.
These include the use of recent arms length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing models and other valuation techniques commonly used by market participants.
Refer to note 3 Critical accounting estimates and judgements: Fair value of financial instruments and note 55 3 Financial instruments: Fair values of financial assets and liabilities for details of valuation techniques and significant inputs to valuation models.
The Group is permitted to reclassify, at fair value at the date of transfer, nonderivative financial assets other than those designated at fair value through profit or loss by the entity upon initial recognition out of the trading category if they are no longer held for the purpose of being sold or repurchased in the near term, as follows: if the financial assets would have met the definition of loans and receivables but for the fact that they had to be classified as held for trading at initial recognition, they may be reclassified into loans and receivables where the Group has the intention and ability to hold the assets for the foreseeable future or until maturity: if the financial assets would not have met the definition of loans and receivables, they may be reclassified out of the held for trading category into availableforsale financial assets in rare circumstances.
2 Available-for-sale financial assets Debt securities and equity shares that are not classified as trading securities, at fair value through profit or loss, heldtomaturity investments or as loans and receivables are classified as availableforsale financial assets and are recognised in the balance sheet at their fair value, inclusive of transaction costs.
Availableforsale financial assets are those intended to be held for an indeterminate period of time and may be sold in response to needs for liquidity or changes in interest rates, exchange rates or equity prices.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of investments classified as availableforsale are recognised directly in other comprehensive income, until the financial asset is either sold, becomes impaired or matures, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is recognised in the income statement.
Interest calculated using the effective interest method and foreign exchange gains and losses on debt securities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
The Group is permitted to transfer a financial asset from the availableforsale category to the loans and receivables category where that asset would have met the definition of loans and receivables at the time of reclassification if the financial asset had not been designated as availableforsale and where there is both the intention and ability to hold that financial asset for the foreseeable future.
Reclassification of a financial asset from the availableforsale category to the heldtomaturity category is permitted when the Group has the ability and intent to hold that financial asset to maturity.
Reclassifications are made at fair value as of the reclassification date.
Fair value becomes the new cost or amortised cost as applicable.
Effective interest rates for financial assets reclassified to the loans and receivables and heldtomaturity categories are determined at the reclassification date.
Any previous gain or loss on a transferred asset that has been recognised in equity is amortised to profit or loss over the remaining life of the investment using the effective interest method or until the asset becomes impaired.
Any difference between the new amortised cost and the expected cash flows is also amortised over the remaining life of the asset using the effective interest method.
When an impairment loss is recognised in respect of availableforsale assets transferred, the unamortised balance of any availableforsale reserve that remains in equity is transferred to the income statement and recorded as part of the impairment loss.
3 Loans and receivables Loans and receivables include loans and advances to banks and customers and eligible assets including those transferred into this category out of the fair value through profit or loss or availableforsale financial assets categories.
Loans and receivables are initially recognised when cash is advanced to the borrowers at fair value inclusive of transaction costs or, for eligible assets transferred into this category, their fair value at the date of transfer.
Financial assets classified as loans and receivables are accounted for at amortised cost using the effective interest method see D above less provision for impairment see H below.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 220 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 2: Accounting policies continued The Group has entered into securitisation and similar transactions to finance certain loans and advances to customers.
In cases where the securitisation vehicles are funded by the issue of debt, on terms whereby the majority of the risks and rewards of the portfolio of securitised lending are retained by the Group, these loans and advances continue to be recognised by the Group, together with a corresponding liability for the funding.
4 Held-to-maturity investments Heldtomaturity investments are nonderivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities that the Groups management has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity other than: those that the Group designates upon initial recognition as at fair value through profit or loss: those that the Group designates as availableforsale: and those that meet the definition of loans and receivables.
These are initially recognised at fair value including direct and incremental transaction costs and measured subsequently at amortised cost, using the effective interest method, less any provision for impairment.
5 Borrowings Borrowings which include deposits from banks, customer deposits, debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities are recognised initially at fair value, being their issue proceeds net of transaction costs incurred.
These instruments are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Preference shares and other instruments which carry a mandatory coupon or are redeemable on a specific date are classified as financial liabilities.
The coupon on these instruments is recognised in the income statement as interest expense.
An exchange of financial liabilities on substantially different terms is accounted for as an extinguishment of the original financial liability and the recognition of a new financial liability.
The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability extinguished and the new financial liability is recognised in profit or loss together with any related costs or fees incurred.
When a financial liability is exchanged for an equity instrument, the new equity instrument is recognised at fair value and any difference between the original carrying value of the liability and the fair value of the new equity is recognised in the profit or loss together with any related costs or fees incurred.
6 Sale and repurchase agreements Securities sold subject to repurchase agreements repos continue to be recognised on the balance sheet where substantially all of the risks and rewards are retained.
Funds received under these arrangements are included in deposits from banks, customer deposits, or trading liabilities.
Conversely, securities purchased under agreements to resell reverse repos, where the Group does not acquire substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership, are recorded as loans and receivables or trading securities.
The difference between sale and repurchase price is treated as interest and accrued over the life of the agreements using the effective interest method.
Securities lent to counterparties are retained in the financial statements.
Securities borrowed are not recognised in the financial statements, unless these are sold to third parties, in which case the obligation to return them is recorded at fair value as a trading liability.
F Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting All derivatives are recognised at their fair value.
Fair values are obtained from quoted market prices in active markets, including recent market transactions, and using valuation techniques, including discounted cash flow and option pricing models, as appropriate.
Derivatives are carried in the balance sheet as assets when their fair value is positive and as liabilities when their fair value is negative.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instrument that is not part of a hedging relationship are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Derivatives embedded in financial instruments and insurance contracts unless the embedded derivative is itself an insurance contract are treated as separate derivatives when their economic characteristics and risks are not closely related to those of the host contract and the host contract is not carried at fair value through profit or loss.
These embedded derivatives are measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement.
In accordance with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts, a policyholders option to surrender an insurance contract for a fixed amount is not treated as an embedded derivative.
The method of recognising the movements in the fair value of derivatives depends on whether they are designated as hedging instruments and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Hedge accounting allows one financial instrument, generally a derivative such as a swap, to be designated as a hedge of another financial instrument such as a loan or deposit or a portfolio of such instruments.
At the inception of the hedge relationship, formal documentation is drawn up specifying the hedging strategy, the hedged item and the hedging instrument and the methodology that will be used to measure the effectiveness of the hedge relationship in offsetting changes in the fair value or cash flow of the hedged risk.
The effectiveness of the hedging relationship is tested both at inception and throughout its life and if at any point it is concluded that it is no longer highly effective in achieving its documented objective, hedge accounting is discontinued.
Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 221 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 2: Accounting policies continued The Group designates certain derivatives as either: 1 hedges of the fair value of the particular risks inherent in recognised assets or liabilities fair value hedges : 2 hedges of highly probable future cash flows attributable to recognised assets or liabilities cash flow hedges : or 3 hedges of net investments in foreign operations net investment hedges.
These are accounted for as follows: 1 Fair value hedges Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with the changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk: this also applies if the hedged asset is classified as an availableforsale financial asset.
If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, changes in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are no longer recognised in the income statement.
The cumulative adjustment that has been made to the carrying amount of the hedged item is amortised to the income statement using the effective interest method over the period to maturity.
2 Cash flow hedges The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income in the cash flow hedge reserve.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to the income statement in the periods in which the hedged item affects profit or loss.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised in the income statement when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
3 Net investment hedges Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income, the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
The hedging instrument used in net investment hedges may include nonderivative liabilities as well as derivative financial instruments.
G Offset Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right of setoff and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
In certain situations, even though master netting agreements exist, the lack of management intention to settle on a net basis results in the financial assets and liabilities being reported gross on the balance sheet.
H Impairment of financial assets 1 Assets accounted for at amortised cost At each balance sheet date the Group assesses whether, as a result of one or more events occurring after initial recognition of the financial asset and prior to the balance sheet date, there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets has become impaired.
Where such an event has had an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets, an impairment allowance is recognised.
The amount of impairment allowance is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
If the asset has a variable rate of interest, the discount rate used for measuring the impairment allowance is the current effective interest rate.
Subsequent to the recognition of an impairment loss on a financial asset or a group of financial assets, interest income continues to be recognised on an effective interest rate basis, on the assets carrying value net of impairment provisions.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, such as an improvement in the borrowers credit rating, the allowance is adjusted and the amount of the reversal is recognised in the income statement.
Impairment allowances are assessed individually for financial assets that are individually significant.
Such individual assessment is used primarily for the Groups wholesale lending portfolios in the Wholesale, Commercial and Wealth and International divisions.
Impairment allowances for portfolios of smaller balance homogenous loans such as most residential mortgages, personal loans and credit card balances in the Groups retail portfolios in both the Retail and Wealth and International divisions that are below the individual assessment thresholds, and for loan losses that have been incurred but not separately identified at the balance sheet date, are determined on a collective basis.
Individual assessment In respect of individually significant financial assets in the Groups wholesale lending portfolios, assets are reviewed on a regular basis and those showing potential or actual vulnerability are placed on a watch list where greater monitoring is undertaken and any adverse or potentially adverse impact on ability to repay is used in assessing whether an asset should be transferred to a dedicated Business Support Unit.
Specific examples of trigger events that would lead to the initial recognition of impairment allowances against lending to corporate borrowers or the recognition of additional impairment allowances include i trading losses, loss of business or major customer of a borrower, ii material breaches of the terms and conditions of a loan facility, including nonpayment of interest or principal, or a fall in the value of security such that it is no longer considered Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 222 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 2: Accounting policies continued adequate, iii disappearance of an active market because of financial difficulties, or iv restructuring a facility with preferential terms to aid recovery of the lending such as a debt for equity swap.
For such individually identified financial assets, a review is undertaken of the expected future cash flows which requires significant management judgement as to the amount and timing of such cash flows.
Where the debt is secured, the assessment reflects the expected cash flows from the realisation of the security, net of costs to realise, whether or not foreclosure or realisation of the collateral is probable.
For impaired debt instruments which are held at amortised cost, impairment losses are recognised in subsequent periods when it is determined that there has been a further negative impact on expected future cash flows.
A reduction in fair value caused by general widening of credit spreads would not, of itself, result in additional impairment.
Collective assessment Impairment is assessed on a collective basis for 1 homogenous groups of loans that are not considered individually impaired, and 2 to cover losses which have been incurred but have not yet been identified on loans subject to individual impairment.
Homogenous groups of loans In respect of portfolios of smaller balance, homogenous loans, the asset is included in a group of financial assets with similar risk characteristics and collectively assessed for impairment.
Segmentation takes into account factors such as the type of asset, industry sector, geographical location, collateral type, pastdue status and other relevant factors.
These characteristics are relevant to the estimation of future cash flows for groups of such assets as they are indicative of the borrowers ability to pay all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the assets being evaluated.
Generally, the impairment trigger used within the impairment calculation for a loan, or group of loans, is when they reach a predefined level of delinquency or where the customer is bankrupt.
Loans where the Group provides arrangements that forgive a portion of interest or principal are also deemed to be impaired and loans that are originated to refinance currently impaired assets are also defined as impaired.
In respect of the Groups secured mortgage portfolios, the impairment allowance is calculated based on a definition of impaired loans which are those six months or more in arrears or certain cases where the borrower is bankrupt or is in possession.
The estimated cash flows are calculated based on historical experience and are dependent on estimates of the expected value of collateral which takes into account expected future movements in house prices, less costs to sell.
For unsecured personal lending portfolios, the impairment trigger is generally when the balance is two or more instalments in arrears or where the customer has exhibited one or more of the impairment characteristics set out above.
While the trigger is based on the payment performance or circumstances of each individual asset, the assessment of future cash flows uses historical experience of cohorts of similar portfolios such that the assessment is considered to be collective.
Future cash flows are estimated on the basis of the contractual cash flows of the assets in the cohort and historical loss experience for similar assets.
Historical loss experience is adjusted on the basis of current observable data about economic and credit conditions including unemployment rates and borrowers behaviour to reflect the effects of current conditions that did not affect the period on which the historical loss experience is based and to remove the effects of conditions in the historical period that do not exist currently.
The methodology and assumptions used for estimating future cash flows are reviewed regularly by the Group to reduce any differences between loss estimates and actual loss experience.
Incurred but not yet identified impairment The collective provision also includes provision for inherent losses, that is losses that have been incurred but have not been separately identified at the balance sheet date.
The loans that are not currently recognised as impaired are grouped into homogenous portfolios by key risk drivers.
Risk drivers for secured retail lending include the current indexed loantovalue, previous mortgage arrears, internal crossproduct delinquency data and external credit bureau data: for unsecured retail lending they include whether the account is uptodate and, if not, the number of payments that have been missed: and for wholesale lending they include factors such as observed default rates and loss given default.
An assessment is made of the likelihood of each account becoming recognised as impaired within the loss emergence period, with the economic loss that each portfolio is likely to generate were it to become impaired.
The loss emergence period is determined by local management for each portfolio and the Group has a range of loss emergence periods which are dependent upon the characteristics of the portfolios.
Loss emergence periods are reviewed regularly and updated when appropriate.
In general the periods used across the Group vary between one month and twelve months based on historical experience.
Unsecured portfolios tend to have shorter loss emergence periods than secured portfolios.
Loan renegotiations and forbearance In certain circumstances, the Group will renegotiate the original terms of a customers loan, either as part of an ongoing customer relationship or in response to adverse changes in the circumstances of the borrower.
There are a number of different types of loan renegotiation, including the capitalisation of arrears, payment holidays, interest rate adjustments and extensions of the due date of payment see note 56 Credit risk sections F and G. Where the renegotiated payments of interest and principal will not recover the original carrying value of the asset, the asset continues to be reported as past due and is considered impaired.
Where the renegotiated payments of interest and principal will recover the original carrying value of the asset, the loan is no longer reported as past due or impaired provided that payments are made in accordance with the revised terms.
Renegotiation may lead to the loan and associated provision being derecognised and a new loan being recognised initially at fair value.
Write offs A loan or advance is normally written off, either partially or in full, against the related allowance when the proceeds from realising any available security have been received or there is no realistic prospect of recovery and the amount of the loss has been determined.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off decrease the amount of impairment losses recorded in the income statement.
For both secured and unsecured Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 223 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 2: Accounting policies continued retail balances, the writeoff takes place only once an extensive set of collections processes has been completed, or the status of the account reaches a point where policy dictates that forbearance is no longer appropriate.
For wholesale lending, a writeoff occurs if the loan facility with the customer is restructured, the asset is under administration and the only monies that can be received are the amounts estimated by the administrator, the underlying assets are disposed and a decision is made that no further settlement monies will be received, or external evidence for example, third party valuations is available that there has been an irreversible decline in expected cash flows.
Debt for equity exchanges Equity securities acquired in exchange for loans in order to achieve an orderly realisation are accounted for as a disposal of the loan and an acquisition of equity securities, held as availableforsale.
Where control is obtained over an entity as a result of the transaction, the entity is consolidated: where the Group has significant influence over an entity as a result of the transaction, the investment is accounted for by the equity method of accounting see A above.
Any subsequent impairment of the assets or business acquired is treated as an impairment of the relevant asset or business and not as an impairment of the original instrument.
2 Available-for-sale financial assets The Group assesses, at each balance sheet date, whether there is objective evidence that an availableforsale financial asset is impaired.
In addition to the criteria for financial assets accounted for at amortised cost set out above, this assessment involves reviewing the current financial circumstances including creditworthiness and future prospects of the issuer, assessing the future cash flows expected to be realised and, in the case of equity shares, considering whether there has been a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the asset below its cost.
If an impairment loss has been incurred, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost net of any principal repayment and amortisation and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that asset previously recognised, is reclassified from equity to the income statement.
For impaired debt instruments, impairment losses are recognised in subsequent periods when it is determined that there has been a further negative impact on expected future cash flows: a reduction in fair value caused by general widening of credit spreads would not, of itself, result in additional impairment.
If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt instrument classified as availableforsale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised, an amount not greater than the original impairment loss is credited to the income statement: any excess is taken to other comprehensive income.
Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement.
I Investment property Investment property comprises freehold and long leasehold land and buildings that are held either to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or both.
The Groups investment property primarily relates to property held for longterm rental yields and capital appreciation within the life insurance funds.
Investment property is carried in the balance sheet at fair value, being the open market value as determined in accordance with the guidance published by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
If this information is not available, the Group uses alternative valuation methods such as discounted cash flow projections or recent prices.
These valuations are reviewed at least annually by an independent valuation expert.
Investment property being redeveloped for continuing use as investment property, or for which the market has become less active, continues to be measured at fair value.
Changes in fair value are recognised in the income statement as net trading income.
J Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are included at cost less accumulated depreciation.
The value of land included in premises is not depreciated.
Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straightline method to allocate the difference between the cost and the residual value over their estimated useful lives, as follows: Premises excluding land : Freehold long and short leasehold premises: shorter of 50 years and the remaining period of the lease Leasehold improvements: shorter of 10 years and, if lease renewal is not likely, the remaining period of the lease Equipment: Fixtures and furnishings: 1020 years Other equipment and motor vehicles: 28 years The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
In the event that an assets carrying amount is determined to be greater than its recoverable amount it is written down immediately.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
K Leases 1 As lessee The leases entered into by the Group are primarily operating leases.
Operating lease rentals payable are charged to the income statement on a straightline basis over the period of the lease.
When an operating lease is terminated before the end of the lease period, any payment made to the lessor by way of penalty is recognised as an expense in the period of termination.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 224 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 2: Accounting policies continued 2 As lessor Assets leased to customers are classified as finance leases if the lease agreements transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee but not necessarily legal title.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
When assets are subject to finance leases, the present value of the lease payments, together with any unguaranteed residual value, is recognised as a receivable, net of provisions, within loans and advances to banks and customers.
The difference between the gross receivable and the present value of the receivable is recognised as unearned finance lease income.
Finance lease income is recognised in interest income over the term of the lease using the net investment method before tax so as to give a constant rate of return on the net investment in the leases.
Unguaranteed residual values are reviewed regularly to identify any impairment.
Operating lease assets are included within tangible fixed assets at cost and depreciated over their estimated useful lives, which equates to the lives of the leases, after taking into account anticipated residual values.
Operating lease rental income is recognised on a straightline basis over the life of the lease.
The Group evaluates nonlease arrangements such as outsourcing and similar contracts to determine if they contain a lease which is then accounted for separately.
L Pensions and other post-retirement benefits The Group operates a number of postretirement benefit schemes for its employees including both defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans.
A defined benefit scheme is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and salary.
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan into which the Group pays fixed contributions: there is no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions.
Full actuarial valuations of the Groups principal defined benefit schemes are carried out every three years with interim reviews in the intervening years: these valuations are updated to 31 December each year by qualified independent actuaries, or in the case of the Scottish Widows Retirement Benefits Scheme, by a qualified actuary employed by Scottish Widows.
For the purposes of these annual updates scheme assets are included at their fair value and scheme liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method adjusted for unrecognised actuarial gains and losses.
The defined benefit scheme liabilities are discounted using rates equivalent to the market yields at the balance sheet date on highquality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
The Groups income statement charge includes the current service cost of providing pension benefits, the expected return on the schemes assets, net of expected administration costs, and the interest cost on the schemes liabilities.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are not recognised unless the cumulative unrecognised gain or loss at the end of the previous reporting period exceeds the greater of 10 per cent of the scheme assets or liabilities the corridor approach.
In these circumstances the excess is charged or credited to the income statement over the employees expected average remaining working lives.
Past service costs are charged immediately to the income statement, unless the charges are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straightline basis over the vesting period.
The Groups balance sheet includes the net surplus or deficit, being the difference between the fair value of scheme assets and the discounted value of scheme liabilities at the balance sheet date adjusted for any cumulative unrecognised actuarial gains or losses.
Surpluses are only recognised to the extent that they are recoverable through reduced contributions in the future or through refunds from the schemes.
The Group recognises the effect of material changes to the terms of its defined benefit pension plans which reduce future benefits as curtailments: gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the curtailments occur.
The costs of the Groups defined contribution plans are charged to the income statement in the period in which they fall due.
M Share-based compensation The Group operates a number of equitysettled, sharebased compensation plans in respect of services received from certain of its employees.
The value of the employee services received in exchange for equity instruments granted under these plans is recognised as an expense over the vesting period of the instruments, with a corresponding increase in equity.
This expense is determined by reference to the fair value of the number of equity instruments that are expected to vest.
The fair value of equity instruments granted is based on market prices, if available, at the date of grant.
In the absence of market prices, the fair value of the instruments at the date of grant is estimated using an appropriate valuation technique, such as a BlackScholes option pricing model.
The determination of fair values excludes the impact of any nonmarket vesting conditions, which are included in the assumptions used to estimate the number of options that are expected to vest.
At each balance sheet date, this estimate is reassessed and if necessary revised.
Any revision of the original estimate is recognised in the income statement over the remaining vesting period, together with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
Cancellations by employees of contributions to the Groups Save As You Earn plans are treated as nonvesting conditions and in accordance with IFRS 2 Revised the Group recognises, in the year of cancellation, the amount of the expense that would have otherwise been recognised over the remainder of the vesting period.
Modifications are assessed at the date of modification and any incremental charges are charged to the income statement over any remaining vesting period.
N Taxation Current income tax which is payable on taxable profits is recognised as an expense in the period in which the profits arise.
For the Groups longterm insurance businesses, the tax charge is analysed between tax that is payable in respect of policyholders returns and tax that is payable on equity holders returns.
This allocation is based on an assessment of the rates of tax which will be applied to the returns under current UK tax rules.
Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 225 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 2: Accounting policies continued Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
However, deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date which are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised where it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Income tax payable on profits is recognised as an expense in the period in which those profits arise.
The tax effects of losses available for carry forward are recognised as an asset when it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which these losses can be utilised.
Deferred and current tax related to gains and losses on the fair value remeasurement of availableforsale investments and cash flow hedges, where these gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income, is also recognised in other comprehensive income.
Such tax is subsequently transferred to the income statement together with the gain or loss.
Deferred and current tax assets and liabilities are offset when they arise in the same tax reporting group and where there is both a legal right of offset and the intention to settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
O Insurance The Group undertakes both life insurance and general insurance business.
Insurance and participating investment contracts are accounted for under IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts, which permits with certain exceptions the continuation of accounting practices for measuring insurance and participating investment contracts that applied prior to the adoption of IFRS.
The Group, therefore, continues to account for these products using UK GAAP, including FRS 27 Life Assurance, and UK established practice.
Products sold by the life insurance business are classified into three categories: Insurance contracts these contracts transfer significant insurance risk and may also transfer financial risk.
The Group defines significant insurance risk as the possibility of having to pay benefits on the occurrence of an insured event which are significantly more than the benefits payable if the insured event were not to occur.
These contracts may or may not include discretionary participation features.
Investment contracts containing a discretionary participation feature participating investment contracts these contracts do not transfer significant insurance risk, but contain a contractual right which gives the holder the right to receive, in addition to the guaranteed benefits, further additional discretionary benefits or bonuses that are likely to be a significant proportion of the total contractual benefits and the amount and timing of which is at the discretion of the Group, within the constraints of the terms and conditions of the instrument and based upon the performance of specified assets.
Nonparticipating investment contracts these contracts do not transfer significant insurance risk or contain a discretionary participation feature.
The general insurance business issues only insurance contracts.
1 Life insurance business i Accounting for insurance and participating investment contracts Premiums and claims Premiums received in respect of insurance and participating investment contracts are recognised as revenue when due except for unitlinked contracts on which premiums are recognised as revenue when received.
Claims are recorded as an expense on the earlier of the maturity date or the date on which the claim is notified.
Liabilities Insurance and participating investment contracts in the Groups with-profit funds Liabilities of the Groups withprofit funds, including guarantees and options embedded within products written by these funds, are stated at their realistic values in accordance with the Financial Services Authoritys realistic capital regime, except that projected transfers out of the funds into other Group funds are recorded in the unallocated surplus see below.
Further details on the realistic capital regime are given on page 123.
Changes in the value of these liabilities are recognised through insurance claims.
Insurance and participating investment contracts which are not unit-linked or in the Groups with-profit funds A liability for contractual benefits that are expected to be incurred in the future is recorded when the premiums are recognised.
The liability is calculated by estimating the future cash flows over the duration of inforce policies and discounting them back to the valuation date allowing for probabilities of occurrence.
The liability will vary with movements in interest rates and with the cost of life insurance and annuity benefits where future mortality is uncertain.
Assumptions are made in respect of all material factors affecting future cash flows, including future interest rates, mortality and costs.
Changes in the value of these liabilities are recognised in the income statement through insurance claims.
Insurance and participating investment contracts which are unit-linked Liabilities for unitlinked insurance contracts and participating investment contracts are stated at the bid value of units plus an additional allowance where appropriate such as for any excess of future expenses over charges.
The liability is increased or reduced by the change in the unit prices and is reduced by policy administration fees, mortality and surrender charges and any withdrawals.
Changes in the value of the liability are recognised in the income statement through insurance claims.
Benefit claims in excess of the account balances incurred in the period are also charged through insurance claims.
Revenue consists of fees deducted for mortality, policy administration and surrender charges.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 226 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 2: Accounting policies continued Unallocated surplus Any amounts in the withprofit funds not yet determined as being due to policyholders or shareholders are recognised as an unallocated surplus which is shown separately from liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts.
ii Accounting for nonparticipating investment contracts The Groups nonparticipating investment contracts are primarily unitlinked.
These contracts are accounted for as financial liabilities whose value is contractually linked to the fair values of financial assets within the Groups unitised investment funds.
The value of the unitlinked financial liabilities is determined using current unit prices multiplied by the number of units attributed to the contract holders at the balance sheet date.
Their value is never less than the amount payable on surrender, discounted for the required notice period where applicable.
Investment returns including movements in fair value and investment income allocated to those contracts are recognised in insurance claims.
Deposits and withdrawals are not accounted for through the income statement but are accounted for directly in the balance sheet as adjustments to the nonparticipating investment contract liability.
The Group receives investment management fees in the form of an initial adjustment or charge to the amount invested.
These fees are in respect of services rendered in conjunction with the issue and management of investment contracts where the Group actively manages the consideration received from its customers to fund a return that is based on the investment profile that the customer selected on origination of the contract.
These services comprise an indeterminate number of acts over the lives of the individual contracts and, therefore, the Group defers these fees and recognises them over the estimated lives of the contracts, in line with the provision of investment management services.
Costs which are directly attributable and incremental to securing new nonparticipating investment contracts are deferred.
This asset is subsequently amortised over the period of the provision of investment management services and is reviewed for impairment in circumstances where its carrying amount may not be recoverable.
If the asset is greater than its recoverable amount it is written down immediately through fee and commission expense in the income statement.
All other costs are recognised as expenses when incurred.
iii Value of inforce business The Group recognises as an asset the value of inforce business in respect of insurance contracts and participating investment contracts.
The asset represents the present value of the shareholders interest in the profits expected to emerge from those contracts written at the balance sheet date.
This is determined after making appropriate assumptions about future economic and operating conditions such as future mortality and persistency rates and includes allowances for both nonmarket risk and for the realistic value of financial options and guarantees.
Each cash flow is valued using the discount rate consistent with that applied to such a cash flow in the capital markets.
The asset in the consolidated balance sheet is presented gross of attributable tax and movements in the asset are reflected within other operating income in the income statement.
The Groups contractual rights to benefits from providing investment management services in relation to nonparticipating investment contracts acquired in business combinations and portfolio transfers are measured at fair value at the date of acquisition.
The resulting asset is amortised over the estimated lives of the contracts.
At each reporting date an assessment is made to determine if there is any indication of impairment.
Where impairment exists, the carrying value of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount and the impairment loss recognised in the income statement.
2 General insurance business The Group both underwrites and acts as intermediary in the sale of general insurance products.
Underwriting premiums are included in insurance premium income, net of refunds, in the period in which insurance cover is provided to the customer: premiums received relating to future periods are deferred in the balance sheet within liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts and only credited to the income statement when earned.
Broking commission are recognised when the underwriter accepts the risk of providing insurance cover to the customer.
Where appropriate, provision is made for the effect of future policy terminations based upon past experience.
The underwriting business makes provision for the estimated cost of claims notified but not settled and claims incurred but not reported at the balance sheet date.
The provision for the cost of claims notified but not settled is based upon a best estimate of the cost of settling the outstanding claims after taking into account all known facts.
In those cases where there is insufficient information to determine the required provision, statistical techniques are used which take into account the cost of claims that have recently been settled and make assumptions about the future development of the outstanding cases.
Similar statistical techniques are used to determine the provision for claims incurred but not reported at the balance sheet date.
Claims liabilities are not discounted.
3 Liability adequacy test At each balance sheet date liability adequacy tests are performed to ensure the adequacy of insurance and participating investment contract liabilities net of related deferred cost assets and value of inforce business.
In performing these tests current best estimates of discounted future contractual cash flows and claims handling and policy administration expenses, as well as investment income from the assets backing such liabilities, are used.
Any deficiency is immediately charged to the income statement, initially by writing off the relevant assets and subsequently by establishing a provision for losses arising from liability adequacy tests.
4 Reinsurance Contracts entered into by the Group with reinsurers under which the Group is compensated for losses on one or more contracts issued by the Group and that meet the classification requirements for insurance contracts are classified as reinsurance contracts held.
Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 227 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 2: Accounting policies continued The benefits to which the Group is entitled under its reinsurance contracts held are recognised as reinsurance assets.
These assets consist of shortterm balances due from reinsurers as well as longer term receivables that are dependent on the expected claims and benefits arising under the related reinsured contracts.
Amounts recoverable from or due to reinsurers are measured consistently with the amounts associated with the reinsured contracts and in accordance with the terms of each reinsurance contract and are regularly reviewed for impairment.
Premiums payable for reinsurance contracts are recognised as an expense when due within insurance premium income.
Changes in the reinsurance recoverable assets are recognised in the income statement through insurance claims.
P Foreign currency translation Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the Companys functional and presentation currency.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the appropriate functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except when recognised in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow or net investment hedges.
Nonmonetary assets that are measured at fair value are translated using the exchange rate at the date that the fair value was determined.
Translation differences on equities and similar nonmonetary items held at fair value through profit and loss are recognised in profit or loss as part of the fair value gain or loss.
Translation differences on availableforsale nonmonetary financial assets, such as equity shares, are included in the fair value reserve in equity unless the asset is a hedged item in a fair value hedge.
The results and financial position of all group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity, are translated into sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The income and expenses of foreign operations are translated into sterling at average exchange rates unless these do not approximate to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising on the translation of a foreign operation are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in a separate component of equity together with exchange differences arising from the translation of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments see F 3 above.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the cumulative amount of exchange differences relating to that foreign operation are reclassified from equity and included in determining the profit or loss arising on disposal.
Q Provisions and contingent liabilities Provisions are recognised in respect of present obligations arising from past events where it is probable that outflows of resources will be required to settle the obligations and they can be reliably estimated.
The Group recognises provisions in respect of vacant leasehold property where the unavoidable costs of the present obligations exceed anticipated rental income.
Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence depends on the outcome of uncertain future events or those present obligations where the outflows of resources are uncertain or cannot be measured reliably.
Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the financial statements but are disclosed unless they are remote.
R Share capital 1 Share issue costs Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options or to the acquisition of a business are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
2 Dividends Dividends paid on the Groups ordinary shares are recognised as a reduction in equity in the period in which they are paid.
3 Treasury shares Where the Company or any member of the Group purchases the Companys share capital, the consideration paid is deducted from shareholders equity as treasury shares until they are cancelled.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received is included in shareholders equity.
S Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and nonmandatory balances with central banks and amounts due from banks with a maturity of less than three months.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 228 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 3: Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of the Groups financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions in applying the accounting policies that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Due to the inherent uncertainty in making estimates, actual results reported in future periods may be based upon amounts which differ from those estimates.
Estimates, judgements and assumptions are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The significant judgements made by management in applying the Groups accounting policies and the key sources of estimation uncertainty in these financial statements, which together are deemed critical to the Groups results and financial position, are as follows.
Allowance for impairment losses on loans and receivables At 31 December 2011 gross loans and receivables totalled 629,736 million 2010: 667,555 million against which impairment allowances of 19,022 million 2010: 18,951 million had been made see note 25.
The Groups accounting policy for losses arising on financial assets classified as loans and receivables is described in note 2 H 1 : this note also provides an overview of the methodologies applied.
The allowance for impairment losses on loans and receivables is managements best estimate of losses incurred in the portfolio at the balance sheet date.
Impairment allowances are made up of two components, those determined individually and those determined collectively.
Individual impairment allowances are generally established against the Groups wholesale lending portfolios.
The determination of individual impairment allowances requires the exercise of considerable judgement by management involving matters such as local economic conditions and the resulting trading performance of the customer, and the value of the security held, for which there may not be a readily accessible market.
In particular, significant judgement is required by management in the current economic environment in assessing the borrowers cash flows and debt servicing capability together with the realisable value of collateral.
The actual amount of the future cash flows and their timing may differ significantly from the assumptions made for the purposes of determining the impairment allowances and consequently these allowances can be subject to variation as time progresses and the circumstances of the customer become clearer.
Collective impairment allowances are generally established for smaller balance homogenous portfolios such as the Retail portfolios.
The collective impairment allowance is also subject to estimation uncertainty and in particular is sensitive to changes in economic and credit conditions, including the interdependency of house prices, unemployment rates, interest rates, borrowers behaviour, and consumer bankruptcy trends.
It is, however, inherently difficult to estimate how changes in one or more of these factors might impact the collective impairment allowance.
Given the relative size of the mortgage portfolio, a key variable is house prices which determine the collateral value supporting loans in such portfolios.
The value of this collateral is estimated by applying changes in house price indices to the original assessed value of the property.
If average house prices were ten per cent lower than those estimated at 31 December 2011, the impairment charge would increase by approximately 285 million in respect of UK mortgages and a further 75 million in respect of Irish mortgages.
In addition, a collective unimpaired provision is made for loan losses that have been incurred but have not been separately identified at the balance sheet date.
This provision is sensitive to changes in the time between the loss event and the date the impairment is specifically identified.
This period is known as the loss emergence period.
In the Wholesale division, an increase of one month in the loss emergence period in respect of the loan portfolio assessed for collective unimpaired provisions would result in an increase in the collective unimpaired provision of approximately 181million at 31 December 2010, a one month increase in the loss emergence period would have increased the collective unimpaired provision by an estimated 333 million.
Unwind of HBOS acquisition fair value adjustments The acquisition of HBOS in January 2009 required the Group to recognise the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their acquisitiondate fair values.
The overall effect was to increase the book value of HBOSs net assets by 1,241 million primarily reflecting a reduction in the value of HBOSs debt securities and subordinated liabilities of 15,439 million, partially offset by a reduction in the carrying value of HBOSs loans and receivables of 14,880 million, including loans and advances to customers of 13,512 million see note 14.
In the periods subsequent to the acquisition, all of the fair value adjustments unwind.
The fair value adjustments made to debt securities and subordinated liabilities unwind over the expected remaining life of the related securities except in the event that the liability is extinguished, in which case the remaining unamortised fair value adjustment is recognised in the income statement immediately.
The timing of the unwind of the fair value adjustment relating to loans and receivables requires significant management judgement.
This includes the identification of losses which were expected at the date of acquisition and assessing whether anticipated losses will still be incurred.
In 2011, there was a benefit of 1,943 million 2010: 3,118 million to the income statement either from the reversal of a fair value adjustment being credited to the income statement or through a lower impairment charge as a result of the initial HBOS acquisition fair value adjustments.
Fair value of financial instruments In accordance with IFRS 7, the Group categorises financial instruments carried on the balance sheet at fair value using a three level hierarchy.
Financial instruments categorised as level 1 are valued using quoted market prices and therefore there is minimal judgement applied in determining fair value.
However, the fair value of financial instruments categorised as level 2 and, in particular, level 3 is determined using valuation techniques including discounted cash flow analysis and valuation models.
These valuation techniques involve management judgement and estimates the extent of which depends on the complexity of the instrument and the availability of market observable information.
Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 229 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 3: Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued Valuation techniques for level 2 financial instruments use inputs that are largely based on observable market data.
Level 3 financial instruments are those where at least one input which could have a significant effect on the instruments valuation is not based on observable market data.
Determining the appropriate assumptions to be used for level 3 financial instruments requires significant management judgement.
At 31 December 2011, the Group classified 7,646 million of financial assets and 790 million of financial liabilities as level 3.
Further details of the Groups level 3 financial instruments and the sensitivity of their valuation including the effect of applying reasonably possible alternative assumptions in determining their fair value are set out in note 55.
Details about sensitivities to market risk arising from trading assets and other treasury positions can be found in the Risk Management section on page 164.
Recoverability of deferred tax assets At 31 December 2011 the Group carried deferred tax assets on its balance sheet of 4,496million 2010: 4,164 million and deferred tax liabilities of 314million 2010: 247 million note 44.
This presentation takes into account the ability of the Group to net deferred tax assets and liabilities only where there is a legally enforceable right of offset.
Note 44 presents the Groups deferred tax assets and liabilities by type.
The largest category of deferred tax asset relates to tax losses carried forward.
The recoverability of the Groups deferred tax assets in respect of carry forward losses is based on an assessment of future levels of taxable profit expected to arise that can be offset against these losses.
The Groups expectations as to the level of future taxable profits take into account the Groups longterm financial and strategic plans, and anticipated future tax adjusting items.
In making this assessment account is taken of business plans, the five year board approved operating plan and the following future risk factors: The expected future economic outlook as set out in the Group Chief Executives Statement: The retail banking business disposal as required by the European Commission: and Future regulatory change.
The Groups total deferred tax asset includes 5,862 million 2010: 6,572 million in respect of trading losses carried forward.
The tax losses have arisen in individual legal entities and will be used as future taxable profits arise in those legal entities, though substantially all of the unused tax losses for which a deferred tax asset has been recognised arise in Bank of Scotland plc and Lloyds TSB Bank plc.
The deferred tax asset will be utilised over different time periods in each of the entities in which the tax losses arise.
The Groups assessment is that these tax losses will be fully used within eight years.
Under current UK tax law there is no expiry date for unused tax losses.
As disclosed in note 44, deferred tax assets totalling 1,288 million 2010: 685 million have not been recognised in respect of certain capital losses carried forward, trading losses carried forward mainly in certain overseas companies and unrelieved foreign tax credits as there are no predicted future capital or taxable profits against which these losses can be recognised.
Retirement benefit obligations The net asset recognised in the balance sheet at 31 December 2011 in respect of the Groups retirement benefit obligations was 957 million comprising an asset of 1,338million and a liability of 381 million 2010: a net asset of 313 million of which an asset of 1,131 million 2010: 479 million related to defined benefit pension schemes.
As explained in note 2 L, the Group adopts the corridor approach to the recognition of actuarial gains and losses in respect of its pension schemes and as a consequence has not recognised actuarial losses of 539 million 2010: 959 million.
After allowing for this, the defined benefit pension schemes net accounting surplus totalled 592 million 2010: deficit of 480 million representing the difference between the schemes liabilities and the fair value of the related assets at the balance sheet date.
The value of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes liabilities requires management to make a number of assumptions.
The key areas of estimation uncertainty are the discount rate applied to future cash flows and the expected lifetime of the schemes members.
The accounting surplus or deficit is sensitive to changes in the discount rate, which is affected by market conditions and therefore potentially subject to significant variation.
The cost of the benefits payable by the schemes will also depend upon the longevity of the members.
Assumptions are made regarding the expected lifetime of scheme members based upon recent experience and extrapolate the improving trend, however given the rate of advance in medical science and increasing levels of obesity, it is uncertain whether they will ultimately reflect actual experience.
The effect on the net accounting surplus or deficit and on the pension charge in the Groups income statement of changes to the principal actuarial assumptions is set out in note 43.
Valuation of assets and liabilities arising from life insurance business At 31 December 2011, the Group recognised a value inforce business asset of 5,247million 2010: 5,898 million and an acquired value inforce business asset of 1,391million 2010: 1,469 million.
The value inforce business asset represents the present value of future profits expected to arise from the portfolio of inforce life insurance and participating investment contracts.
The acquired value inforce business asset represents the contractual rights to benefits from providing investment management services in relation to nonparticipating investment contracts acquired in business combinations and portfolio transfers.
The methodology used to value these assets is set out in note 2 O 1.
The valuation or recoverability of these assets requires assumptions to be made about future economic and operating conditions which are inherently uncertain and changes could significantly affect the value attributed to these assets.
The key assumptions that have been made in determining the carrying value of the value inforce business assets at 31 December 2011 are set out in note 30.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 230 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 3: Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued At 31 December 2011, the Group carried liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts of 78,991million 2010: 80,729 million.
The methodology used to value these liabilities is described in note 2 O 1.
Elements of the liability valuations require assumptions to be made about future investment returns, future mortality rates and future policyholder behaviour and are subject to significant management judgement and estimation uncertainty.
The key assumptions that have been made in determining the carrying value of these liabilities are set out in note 38.
The effect on the Groups profit before tax and shareholders equity of changes in key assumptions used in determining the life insurance assets and liabilities is set out in note 39.
Payment protection insurance The Group has charged a provision of 3,200 million in respect of payment protection insurance PPI policies as a result of discussions with the FSA and a judgment handed down by the UK High Court see note 45 for more information.
The provision represents managements best estimate of the anticipated costs of related customer contact and or redress, including administration expenses.
However, there are still a number of uncertainties as to the eventual costs from any such contact and or redress given the inherent difficulties of assessing the impact of detailed implementation of the FSA Policy Statement of 10 August 2010 for all PPI complaints, uncertainties around the ultimate emergence period for complaints, the availability of supporting evidence and the activities of claims management companies, all of which will significantly affect complaints volumes, uphold rates and redress costs.
The provision requires significant judgement by management in determining appropriate assumptions, which include the level of complaints, uphold rates, proactive contact and response rates, Financial Ombudsman Service referral and uphold rates as well as redress costs for each of the many different populations of customers identified by the Group in its analyses used to determine the best estimate of the anticipated costs of redress.
If the level of complaints had been one percentage point higher lower than estimated for all policies open within the last six years then the provision made in 2011 would have increased decreased by approximately 70 million.
There are a large number of interdependent assumptions underpinning the provision: the above sensitivity assumes that all assumptions, other than the level of complaints, remain constant.
The sensitivity is, therefore, hypothetical and should be used with caution.
The Group will reevaluate the assumptions underlying its analysis at each reporting date as more information becomes available.
As noted above, there is inherent uncertainty in making estimates: actual results in future periods may differ from the amount provided.
Provision in relation to German insurance business litigation Clerical Medical Investment Group Limited CMIG has received a number of claims in the German courts relating to policies issued by CMIG but sold by independent intermediaries in Germany, principally during the late 1990s and early 2000s.
CMIGs strategy includes defending claims robustly and appealing against adverse judgments.
The ultimate financial effect, which could be significant, will only be known once all relevant claims have been resolved.
The Group has charged a provision of 175 million see note 54 for more information.
Management believes this represents the most appropriate estimate of the financial impact, based upon a series of assumptions, including the number of claims received, the proportion upheld, and resulting legal and administration costs.
This provision requires significant judgement by management in determining appropriate assumptions, including the number of claims received, the proportion upheld, and resulting legal and administration costs.
Assuming that all other assumptions remain unchanged, if in the longer term the level of claims was ten percentage points higher lower than estimated then the cost would increase decrease by approximately 3 million: and if uphold rates were ten percentage points higher lower than estimated then the cost would increase decrease by approximately 13 million.
Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 231 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 4: Segmental analysis Lloyds Banking Group provides a wide range of banking and financial services in the UK and in certain locations overseas.
The Group Executive Committee has been determined to be the chief operating decision maker for the Group.
The Groups operating segments reflect its organisational and management structures.
The Group Executive Committee reviews the Groups internal reporting based around these segments in order to assess performance and allocate resources.
This assessment includes a consideration of each segments net interest revenue and consequently the total interest income and expense for all reportable segments is presented on a net basis.
The segments are differentiated by the type of products provided, by whether the customers are individuals or corporate entities and by the geographical location of the customer.
During 2011 the chief operating decision maker has commenced reviewing the results of the Groups Commercial business separately to the Wholesale segment.
As a consequence, the Groups activities are now organised into five financial reporting segments: Retail, Wholesale, Commercial, Wealth and International, and Insurance.
The comparatives for 2009 include the preacquisition results of HBOS for the period from 1 January 2009 to 16 January 2009.
During the third quarter of 2011, the Group implemented a new approach to its allocation methodologies for funding costs and capital that ensures that the cost of funding is more fully reflected in each segments results.
The new methodology is designed to ensure that funding costs are allocated to the segments and that the allocation is more directly related to the size and behavioural duration of asset portfolios, with a similar approach applied to recognise the value to the business from the Groups growing deposit base.
Comparative figures have been restated.
The impact of this restatement on the year ended 31 December 2010 was to reduce net interest income and profit before tax in Retail by 730 million, in Wholesale by 404 million, in Commercial by 48 million and in Wealth and International by 126 million: and to increase net interest income and profit before tax in Insurance by 224 million, in Group Operations by 11 million and in Central items by 1,073 million.
Retail offers a broad range of retail financial service products in the UK, including current accounts, savings, personal loans, credit cards and mortgages.
It is also a major general insurance and bancassurance distributor, selling a wide range of longterm savings, investment and general insurance products.
The Wholesale division serves businesses with turnover above 15 million with a range of propositions segmented according to customer need.
The division comprises Wholesale Banking and Markets, Wholesale Business Support Unit and Asset Finance.
Commercial serves in excess of a million small and mediumsized enterprises and community organisations with a turnover of up to 15 million.
Customers extend from startup enterprises to established corporations, and are supported with a range of propositions aligned to customer needs.
Commercial comprises Commercial Banking and Commercial Finance, the invoice discounting and factoring business.
Wealth and International was created to give increased focus and momentum to the Groups private banking and asset management activities and to closely coordinate the management of its international businesses.
Wealth comprises the Groups private banking, wealth and asset management businesses in the UK and overseas.
International comprises corporate, commercial, asset finance and retail businesses, principally in Australia and Continental Europe.
Insurance provides longterm savings, investment and protection products distributed through the bancassurance, intermediary and direct channels in the UK.
It is also a distributor of home insurance in the UK with products sold through the retail branch network, direct channels and strategic corporate partners.
The business consists of Life, Pensions and Investments UK: Life, Pensions and Investments Europe: and General Insurance.
Other includes the costs of managing the Groups technology platforms, branch and head office property estate, operations including payments, banking operations and collections and procurement services, the costs of which are predominantly recharged to the other divisions.
It also reflects other items not recharged to the divisions, including hedge ineffectiveness, UK bank levy, Financial Services Compensation Scheme costs, gains on liability management, volatile items such as hedge accounting volatility managed centrally, and other gains from the structural hedging of interest rate risk.
Intersegment services are generally recharged at cost, with the exception of the internal commission arrangements between the UK branch and other distribution networks and the insurance product manufacturing businesses within the Group, where a profit margin is also charged.
Intersegment lending and deposits are generally entered into at market rates, except that noninterest bearing balances are priced at a rate that reflects the external yield that could be earned on such funds.
For the majority of those derivative contracts entered into by business units for risk management purposes, the business unit recognises the net interest income or expense on an accrual accounting basis and transfers the remainder of the fair value of the swap to the central group segment where the resulting accounting volatility is managed where possible through the establishment of hedge accounting relationships.
Any change in fair value of the hedged instrument attributable to the hedged risk is also recorded within the central group segment.
This allocation of the fair value of the swap and change in fair value of the hedged instrument attributable to the hedged risk avoids accounting asymmetry in segmental results and records volatility in the central group segment where it is managed.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 232 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 4: Segmental analysis continued Reported Wealth and basis Retail Wholesale Commercial International Insurance Other total m m m m m m m Year ended 31 December 2011 Net interest income 7,497 2,139 1,251 828 67 585 12,233 Other income net of fee and commission expense 1,649 3,335 446 1,197 2,687 7 9,307 Effects of liability management, volatile items and asset sales 48 1,415 1,293 74 Total income 9,194 4,059 1,697 2,025 2,620 1,871 21,466 Insurance claims 343 343 Total income, net of insurance claims 9,194 4,059 1,697 2,025 2,277 1,871 21,123 Operating expenses 4,438 2,518 948 1,548 812 357 10,621 Trading surplus 4,756 1,541 749 477 1,465 1,514 10,502 Impairment 1,970 2,901 303 4,610 3 9,787 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 11 14 3 1 27 Profit loss before tax and fair value unwind 2,797 1,346 446 4,130 1,465 1,510 742 Fair value unwind 839 2,174 53 194 43 1,274 1,943 Profit loss before tax 3,636 828 499 3,936 1,422 236 2,685 External revenue 12,267 2,895 1,263 2,144 3,253 356 21,466 Intersegment revenue 3,073 1,164 434 119 633 2,227 Segment revenue 9,194 4,059 1,697 2,025 2,620 1,871 21,466 Segment external assets 356,295 320,435 28,998 74,623 140,754 49,441 970,546 Segment customer deposits 247,088 91,357 32,107 42,019 1,335 413,906 Segment external liabilities 279,162 259,209 32,723 75,791 129,350 147,717 923,952 Other segment items reflected in income statement above: Depreciation and amortisation 364 967 53 60 91 67 1,602 Increase decrease in value of inforce business 3 625 622 Defined benefit scheme charges 121 33 33 25 23 36 199 Other segment items: Additions to tangible fixed assets 189 1,435 2 212 451 806 3,095 Investments in joint ventures and associates at end of year 147 80 104 3 334 Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 233 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 4: Segmental analysis continued Reported Wealth and basis Retail Wholesale Commercial International Insurance Other total m m m m m m m Year ended 31 December 2010 Net interest income 8,648 2,847 1,127 1,050 39 510 14,143 Other income net of fee and commission expense 1,607 3,974 457 1,123 2,799 24 9,936 Effects of liability management, volatile items and asset sales 295 37 15 150 93 Total income 10,255 6,526 1,584 2,210 2,775 636 23,986 Insurance claims 542 542 Total income, net of insurance claims 10,255 6,526 1,584 2,210 2,233 636 23,444 Costs: Operating expenses 4,644 2,752 992 1,536 854 150 10,928 Impairment of tangible fixed assets 150 150 4,644 2,902 992 1,536 854 150 11,078 Trading surplus 5,611 3,624 592 674 1,379 486 12,366 Impairment 2,747 4,064 382 5,988 13,181 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 17 95 8 10 5 91 Profit loss before tax and fair value unwind 2,881 535 210 5,322 1,369 491 906 Fair value unwind 1,105 3,049 81 372 43 1,446 3,118 Profit loss before tax 3,986 2,514 291 4,950 1,326 955 2,212 External revenue 13,603 3,911 1,378 3,000 3,180 1,086 23,986 Intersegment revenue 3,348 2,615 206 790 405 1,722 Segment revenue 10,255 6,526 1,584 2,210 2,775 636 23,986 1 Segment external assets 369,170 327,055 28,938 85,508 143,300 37,603 991,574 Segment customer deposits 235,591 92,951 31,311 32,784 996 393,633 Segment external liabilities 275,945 289,257 31,952 65,658 132,133 149,727 944,672 Other segment items reflected in income statement above: Depreciation and amortisation 384 1,071 62 87 135 64 1,803 Increase in value of inforce business 2 787 789 Defined benefit scheme charges 176 52 37 36 28 126 455 Other segment items: Additions to tangible fixed assets 126 1,703 5 20 585 777 3,216 Investments in joint ventures and associates at end of year 139 127 158 5 429 1 Segment external assets as at 31 December 2010 have been restated to reflect the reclassification of certain central adjustments.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 234 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 4: Segmental analysis continued Reported Wealth and basis Retail Wholesale Commercial International Insurance Other total m m m m m m m Year ended 31 December 2009 Net interest income 7,543 3,447 1,084 1,140 59 89 13,066 Other income net of fee and commission expense 1,804 3,787 489 1,128 2,944 69 10,083 Effects of liability management, volatile items and asset sales 77 1,529 1,452 Total income 9,347 7,157 1,573 2,268 2,885 1,371 24,601 Insurance claims 637 637 Total income, net of insurance claims 9,347 7,157 1,573 2,268 2,248 1,371 23,964 Operating expenses 4,566 3,018 1,088 1,544 974 419 11,609 Trading surplus 4,781 4,139 485 724 1,274 952 12,355 Impairment 4,227 14,861 822 4,078 23,988 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 6 720 21 22 2 767 Profit loss before tax and fair value unwind 548 11,442 337 3,375 1,252 954 12,400 Fair value unwind 407 6,760 137 942 49 2,097 6,100 Profit loss before tax 955 4,682 200 2,433 1,203 1,143 6,300 External revenue 14,221 2,719 1,446 2,859 3,780 424 24,601 Intersegment revenue 4,874 4,438 127 591 895 1,795 Segment revenue 9,347 7,157 1,573 2,268 2,885 1,371 24,601 Other segment items reflected in income statement above: Depreciation and amortisation 196 1,214 70 84 152 147 1,863 Decrease increase in value of inforce business 5 1,097 1,092 Defined benefit scheme charges 190 65 47 40 39 156 537 Other segment items: Additions to tangible fixed assets 65 2,960 9 53 255 487 3,829 Investments in joint ventures and associates at end of year 30 189 123 14 151 479 Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 235 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 4: Segmental analysis continued Reconciliation of reported basis to statutory results The reported basis is the basis on which financial information is presented to the chief operating decision maker which excludes certain items included in the statutory results.
The table below reconciles the statutory results to the reported basis.
Removal of: Lloyds Banking Acquisition Volatility arising Legal and Group related and in insurance Insurance regulatory Fair value Reported 1 2 statutory other items businesses gross up provisions unwind basis m m m m m m m Year ended 31 December 2011 Net interest income 12,698 820 19 336 710 12,233 Other income 14,114 894 857 5,530 1,028 9,307 Effects of liability management, volatile items and asset sales 74 74 Total income 26,812 838 5,866 318 21,466 Insurance claims 6,041 5,698 343 Total income, net of insurance claims 20,771 838 168 318 21,123 Operating expenses 16,250 2,014 168 3,375 72 10,621 Trading surplus deficit 4,521 2,014 838 3,375 246 10,502 Impairment 8,094 1,693 9,787 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 31 4 27 Fair value unwind 1,943 1,943 Loss profit before tax 3,542 2,014 838 3,375 2,685 1 Comprises integration and simplification costs related to severance, IT and business costs of implementation 1,282 million, EC mandated retail business disposal costs 170 million, amortisation of purchased intangibles 562 million and the effects of liability management.
volatile items and asset sales 74 million.
2 Comprises the payment protection insurance provision 3,200 million and the provision in relation to German insurance business litigation 175 million.
Removal of: Customer goodwill payments Lloyds provision and Banking Acquisition Volatility arising loss on Group related and in insurance Insurance disposal Fair value Reported 1 statutory other items businesses gross up of businesses unwind basis m m m m m m m Year ended 31 December 2010 Net interest income 12,546 321 26 949 301 14,143 Other income 31,498 228 332 19,739 1,263 9,936 Liability management gains 93 93 Total income 44,044 306 18,790 962 23,986 Insurance claims 19,088 18,544 2 542 Total income, net of insurance claims 24,956 306 246 960 23,444 Costs: Operating expenses 13,068 1,320 246 500 74 10,928 Impairment of tangible fixed assets 202 52 150 13,270 1,372 246 500 74 11,078 Trading surplus deficit 11,686 1,372 306 500 886 12,366 Impairment 10,952 2,229 13,181 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 88 3 91 Loss on disposal of businesses 365 365 Fair value unwind 3,118 3,118 Profit loss before tax 281 1,372 306 865 2,212 1 Comprises the pension curtailment gain 910 million, see note 43, integration costs 1,653 million, amortisation of purchased intangibles 629 million and the effects of liability management, volatile items and asset sales 93 million.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 236 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 4: Segmental analysis continued Removal of: Government Asset Protection Lloyds Scheme fee Banking and acquisition Volatility arising Group Preacquisition related and other in insurance Insurance Fair value Reported 1 statutory results of HBOS items businesses gross up unwind basis m m m m m m m Year ended 31 December 2009 Net interest income 9,026 243 340 11 1,280 2,166 13,066 Other income 36,745 1,123 1,792 479 22,133 1,135 10,083 Effects of liability management, volatile items and asset sales 1,452 1,452 Total income 45,771 880 468 20,853 1,031 24,601 Insurance claims 22,493 1,349 20,792 285 637 Total income, net of insurance claims 23,278 469 468 61 746 23,964 Operating expenses 15,984 293 4,589 61 18 11,609 Trading surplus deficit 7,294 176 4,589 468 764 12,355 Impairment 16,673 456 6,859 23,988 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 752 10 5 767 Gain on acquisition 11,173 11,173 Fair value unwind 6,100 6,100 Profit loss before tax 1,042 280 6,584 478 6,300 1 Comprises the gain on acquisition 11,173 million, the Government Asset Protection Scheme fee 2,500 million, integration costs 1,096 million, amortisation of purchased intangibles 753 million, goodwill impairment 240 million and the effects of liability management, volatile items and asset sales 1,452 million.
Geographical areas The Groups activities are focused in the UK and the analyses of income and assets below are based on the location of the branch or entity recording the income or assets.
Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 237 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 5: Net interest income Weighted average effective interest rate 1 1 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 % % % m m m Interest and similar income: Loans and advances to customers, excluding lease and hire purchase receivables 4.00 4.37 3.67 23,208 25,459 24,171 Loans and advances to banks 0.78 0.72 1.18 628 512 769 Debt securities held as loans and receivables 3.17 4.41 3.68 590 1,377 1,469 Lease and hire purchase receivables 5.13 6.74 6.01 742 626 852 Interest receivable on loans and receivables 3.63 4.03 3.50 25,168 27,974 27,261 Availableforsale financial assets 2.58 2.88 1.78 886 1,311 977 Heldtomaturity investments 3.29 2.51 262 55 Total interest and similar income 3.58 3.95 3.39 26,316 29,340 28,238 Interest and similar expense: Deposits from banks, excluding liabilities under sale and repurchase transactions 0.80 0.78 0.95 222 319 883 Customer deposits, excluding liabilities under sale and repurchase transactions 1.66 1.56 1.29 6,080 5,381 4,410 Debt securities in issue 2.22 2.49 2.56 5,045 5,833 6,318 Subordinated liabilities 6.35 10.98 10.05 2,155 3,619 4,325 Liabilities under sale and repurchase agreements 1.39 1.18 1.95 335 744 1,655 Interest payable on liabilities held at amortised cost 2.04 2.22 2.17 13,837 15,896 17,591 Other 1.14 6.97 14.92 219 898 1,621 Total interest and similar expense 1.95 2.31 2.34 13,618 16,794 19,212 Net interest income 12,698 12,546 9,026 1 During 2011 the Group has revised its treatment of offset accounts: average balances for 2009 and 2010 have been restated accordingly.
Included within interest and similar income is 1,405 million 2010: 1,288 million: 2009: 971 million in respect of impaired financial assets.
Net interest income also includes a charge of 70 million 2010: charge of 932 million: 2009: charge of 121 million transferred from the cash flow hedging reserve see note 49.
During December 2011, the Group completed the exchange of certain subordinated debt securities issued by Lloyds TSB Bank plc and HBOS plc for new subordinated debt securities issued by Lloyds TSB Bank plc.
As part of the exchange, the Group announced that all decisions to exercise calls on those original securities that remained outstanding following the exchange offer would be made with reference to the prevailing regulatory, economic and market conditions at the time.
These securities will not, therefore, be called at their first available call date which will lead to coupons continuing to be being paid until possibly the final redemption date of the securities.
Consequently, the Group is required to adjust the carrying amount of these securities to reflect the revised estimated cash flows over their revised life and to recognise this change in carrying value in interest expense.
Included within net interest income is a credit of 570 million in respect of the securities that remained outstanding following the exchange offer.
In December 2011, the Group decided to defer payment of nonmandatory coupons on certain securities and, instead, settle them using an Alternative Coupon Satisfaction Mechanism on their contractual terms.
This change in expected cashflows resulted in a gain of 126 million in net interest income from the recalculation of the carrying value of these securities.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 238 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 6: Net fee and commission income 2011 2010 2009 m m m Fee and commission income: Current accounts 1,053 1,086 1,088 Credit and debit card fees 877 812 765 1 Other 3,005 3,094 2,875 Total fee and commission income 4,935 4,992 4,728 Fee and commission expense 1,391 1,682 1,517 Net fee and commission income 3,544 3,310 3,211 1 In previous years the Group has included annual management charges on nonparticipating investment contracts within insurance claims.
As discussed in note 2, fees and commissions which are an integral part of the effective interest rate form part of net interest income shown in note 5.
Fees and commissions relating to instruments that are held at fair value through profit or loss are included within net trading income shown in note 7.
Note 7: Net trading income 2011 2010 2009 m m m Foreign exchange translation gains 317 70 283 Gains on foreign exchange trading transactions 341 377 488 Total foreign exchange 658 447 771 Investment property losses gains note 28 107 434 214 Securities and other losses gains see below 919 14,843 18,541 Net trading income 368 15,724 19,098 Securities and other gains comprise net gains arising on assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss and for trading as follows: 2011 2010 2009 m m m Net income arising on assets held at fair value through profit or loss: Debt securities, loans and advances 5,293 2,292 4,297 Equity shares 4,917 10,333 11,475 Total net income arising on assets held at fair value through profit or loss 376 12,625 15,772 Net expense arising on liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss debt securities in issue 230 231 125 Total net gains arising on assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss 146 12,394 15,647 Net losses gains on financial instruments held for trading 1,065 2,449 2,894 Securities and other losses gains 919 14,843 18,541 Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 239 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 8: Insurance premium income 2011 2010 2009 m m m Life insurance Gross premiums 7,276 7,026 7,768 Ceded reinsurance premiums 322 253 308 Net earned premiums 6,954 6,773 7,460 Non-life insurance Gross written premiums 1,198 1,332 1,390 Ceded reinsurance premiums 52 104 101 Net written premiums 1,146 1,228 1,289 Change in provision for unearned premiums note 38 2 70 156 171 Change in provision for ceded unearned premiums note 38 2 9 26 Net earned premiums 1,216 1,375 1,486 Total net earned premiums 8,170 8,148 8,946 Life insurance gross premiums can be further analysed as follows: 2011 2010 2009 m m m Life and pensions 6,737 6,428 7,070 Annuities 529 583 685 Other 10 15 13 Gross premiums 7,276 7,026 7,768 Nonlife insurance gross written premiums can be further analysed as follows: 2011 2010 2009 m m m Credit protection 231 363 417 Home 963 964 968 Health 4 5 5 Gross written premiums 1,198 1,332 1,390 Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 240 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 9: Other operating income 2011 2010 2009 m m m Operating lease rental income 1,268 1,410 1,509 Rental income from investment properties note 28 388 337 358 Other rents receivable 34 41 51 Gains less losses on disposal of availableforsale financial assets note 49 343 399 97 Movement in value of inforce business note 30 622 789 1,169 Liability management gains 599 423 1,498 Other income 758 917 808 Total other operating income 2,768 4,316 5,490 Liability management gains During December 2011, the Group completed the exchange of certain subordinated debt securities issued by Lloyds TSB Bank plc and HBOS plc for new subordinated debt securities issued by Lloyds TSB Bank plc by undertaking an exchange offer on certain securities which were eligible for call before 31 December 2012.
This exchange resulted in a gain on extinguishment of the existing securities of 599 million being the difference between the carrying amount of the securities extinguished and the fair value of the new securities issued together with related fees and costs.
On 18 February 2010, as part of the Groups recapitalisation and exit from its proposed participation in the Government Asset Protection Scheme, Lloyds Banking Group plc issued 3,141 million ordinary shares in exchange for certain existing preference shares and preferred securities.
This exchange resulted in a gain of 85 million.
During March 2010 the Group entered into a bilateral exchange, under which certain Enhanced Capital Notes denominated in Japanese yen were exchanged for an issue of new Enhanced Capital Notes denominated in US dollars: the securities subject to the exchange were cancelled and a profit of 20 million arose.
In addition, during May and June 2010 the Group completed the exchange of a number of outstanding capital securities issued by Lloyds Banking Group plc and certain of its subsidiaries for ordinary shares in Lloyds Banking Group plc.
The securities subject to exchange were cancelled, generating a total profit of 318 million for the Group.
In the first half of 2009, undated subordinated securities issued by a number of Group companies were exchanged for innovative tier 1 securities and senior unsecured securities issued by Lloyds TSB Bank plc.
These exchanges resulted in a gain of 745 million.
In July 2009, dated and undated subordinated securities issued by Clerical Medical Finance plc were exchanged for senior unsecured securities issued by Lloyds TSB Bank plc resulting in a gain of 30 million.
In November 2009, as part of the restructuring plan that was a requirement for European Commission approval of state aid received by the Group, the Group agreed to suspend the payment of coupons and dividends on certain of the Groups preference shares and preferred securities for the two year period from 31 January 2010 to 31 January 2012.
This suspension gave rise to a partial extinguishment of the original liability, equivalent to the present value of the suspended cash flows.
During December 2009, as part of the Groups recapitalisation and exit from GAPS, preference shares, preferred securities and undated subordinated securities were exchanged for Enhanced Capital Notes.
These exchanges, together with the partial extinguishment of liabilities arising from the suspension of payments of coupons, resulted in a gain of 723 million.
Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 241 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 10: Insurance claims Insurance claims comprise: 2011 2010 2009 m m m Life insurance and participating investment contracts Claims and surrenders: Gross 8,622 9,397 8,010 Reinsurers share 230 159 146 8,392 9,238 7,864 Change in insurance and participating investment contract liabilities note 38 1 : Change in gross liabilities 1,383 4,622 5,922 Change in reinsurers share of liabilities 451 256 177 1,834 4,366 5,745 Change in nonparticipating investment contract liabilities: 1 Change in gross liabilities 520 5,449 7,932 Change in reinsurers share of liabilities 65 520 5,384 7,932 Change in unallocated surplus note 41 340 439 318 Total life insurance and participating investment contracts 5,698 18,549 21,859 Non-life insurance Claims and claims paid: Gross 521 470 542 Reinsurers share 4 11 16 517 459 526 Change in liabilities note 38 2 : Gross 186 82 111 Reinsurers share 12 2 3 174 80 108 Total non-life insurance 343 539 634 Total insurance claims 6,041 19,088 22,493 Life insurance and participating investment contracts gross claims can also be analysed as follows: Deaths 625 662 637 Maturities 1,861 1,763 2,107 Surrenders 5,041 5,904 4,225 Annuities 764 741 710 Other 331 327 331 Total life insurance gross claims 8,622 9,397 8,010 1 In previous years the Group has included annual management charges on nonparticipating investment contracts within insurance claims.
A nonlife insurance claims development table is included in note 38.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 242 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 11: Operating expenses 2011 2010 2009 1 m m m Staff costs: Salaries 3,784 3,787 3,902 Performancebased compensation 361 533 491 Social security costs 432 396 383 Pensions and other postretirement benefit schemes note 43 : 2 Curtailment gain 910 Other 401 628 744 401 282 744 Restructuring costs 124 119 412 Other staff costs 1,064 1,069 743 6,166 5,622 6,675 Premises and equipment: Rent and rates 547 602 569 Hire of equipment 22 18 20 Repairs and maintenance 188 199 226 Other 294 358 341 1,051 1,177 1,156 Other expenses: Communications and data processing 954 1,126 668 Advertising and promotion 398 362 335 Professional fees 576 742 540 Customer goodwill payments provision note 45 500 UK bank levy 189 Financial services compensation scheme management expenses levy note 54 179 46 73 Provision in relation to German insurance business litigation note 45 175 Other 1,122 1,061 1,237 3,593 3,837 2,853 Depreciation and amortisation: Depreciation of tangible fixed assets note 32 1,434 1,635 1,716 Amortisation of acquired value of inforce nonparticipating investment contracts note 30 78 76 75 Amortisation of other intangible assets note 31 663 721 769 2,175 2,432 2,560 3 Impairment of tangible fixed assets note 32 65 202 Goodwill impairment 240 Total operating expenses, excluding payment protection insurance provision and Government Asset Protection Scheme fee 13,050 13,270 13,484 Payment protection insurance provision note 45 3,200 Government Asset Protection Scheme fee 2,500 Total operating expenses 16,250 13,270 15,984 1 During 2011, the Group has reviewed the analysis of certain cost items and as a result has reclassified some items of expenditure: comparatives for 2010 have been restated accordingly.
2 Following changes by the Group to the terms of its defined benefit pension schemes in 2010, all future increases to pensionable salary will be capped each year at the lower of: Retail Prices Index inflation: each employees actual percentage increase in pay: and 2 per cent of pensionable pay.
In addition to this, during the second half of 2010 there was a change in commutation factors in certain defined benefit schemes.
The combined effect of these changes was a reduction in the Groups defined benefit obligation of 1,081 million and a reduction in the Groups unrecognised actuarial losses of 171 million, resulting in a net curtailment gain of 910 million recognised in the income statement and a reduction in the balance sheet liability.
3 65 million 2010: 52 million: 2009: nil of the impairment of tangible fixed assets relates to integration activities.
Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 243 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 11: Operating expenses continued Performance-based compensation The table below analyses the Groups performancebased compensation costs excluding branchbased sales incentives between those relating to the current performance year and those relating to earlier years.
2011 2010 2009 m m m Performancebased compensation expense comprises: Awards made in respect of the year ended 31 December 363 505 480 Awards made in respect of earlier years 2 28 11 361 533 491 Performancebased compensation expense deferred until later years comprises: Awards made in respect of the year ended 31 December 43 39 60 Awards made in respect of earlier years 29 39 11 72 78 71 Performancebased awards expensed in 2011 include cash awards amounting to 160million 2010: 163million: 2009: 180million.
Average headcount The average number of persons on a headcount basis employed by the Group during the year was as follows: 2011 2010 2009 UK 116,371 118,149 125,109 Overseas 4,078 4,830 6,891 Total 120,449 122,979 132,000 Fees payable to the auditors Fees payable to the Companys auditors by the Group are as follows: 2011 2010 2009 m m m Fees payable for the audit of the Companys current year annual report 1.7 1.9 2.2 Fees payable for other services: Audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 16.9 17.9 18.8 Other services supplied pursuant to legislation 4.8 6.2 4.2 Total audit fees 23.4 26.0 25.2 Other services audit related fees 2.9 1.8 5.3 Total audit and audit related fees 26.3 27.8 30.5 Services relating to taxation 1.1 1.0 1.0 Other nonaudit fees: Services relating to corporate finance transactions 6.3 1.9 0.3 Other services 2.6 9.7 8.9 Total other nonaudit fees 8.9 11.6 9.2 Total fees payable to the Companys auditors by the Group 36.3 40.4 40.7 Other nonaudit fees cover a variety of services and in 2009 and 2010 included the costs associated with the Groups preparations for ensuring that the heritage HBOS businesses complied fully with the requirements of the SarbanesOxley Act by 31 December 2010.
The following types of services are included in the categories listed above: Audit fees: This category includes fees in respect of the audit of the Groups annual financial statements and other services in connection with regulatory filings.
Other services supplied pursuant to legislation relate primarily to the costs associated with the SarbanesOxley Act audit requirements together with the cost of the audit of the Groups Form 20F filing.
Audit related fees: This category includes fees in respect of services for assurance and related services that are reasonably related to the performance of the audit or review of the financial statements, for example acting as reporting accountants in respect of prospectuses and circulars required by the UKLA listing rules.
Services relating to taxation: This category includes tax compliance and tax advisory services.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 244 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 11: Operating expenses continued Other non-audit fees: This category includes due diligence relating to corporate finance, including venture capital transactions and other assurance and advisory services.
It is the Groups policy to use the auditors on assignments in cases where their knowledge of the Group means that it is neither efficient nor cost effective to employ another firm of accountants.
Such assignments typically relate to the provision of advice on tax issues, assistance in transactions involving the acquisition and disposal of businesses and accounting advice.
The Group has procedures that are designed to ensure auditor independence, including that fees for audit and nonaudit services are approved in advance.
This approval can be obtained either on an individual engagement basis or, for certain types of nonaudit services, particularly those of a recurring nature, through the approval of a fee cap covering all engagements of that type provided the fee is below that cap.
All statutory audit work as well as nonaudit assignments where the fee is expected to exceed the relevant fee cap must be preapproved by the Audit Committee on an individual engagement basis.
On a quarterly basis, the Audit Committee receives a report detailing all preapproved services and amounts paid to the auditors for such preapproved services.
During the year, the auditors also earned fees payable by entities outside the consolidated Lloyds Banking Group in respect of the following: 2011 2010 2009 m m m Audits of Group pension schemes 0.4 0.3 0.3 Audits of the unconsolidated Open Ended Investment Companies managed by the Group 0.6 0.8 0.6 Reviews of the financial position of corporate and other borrowers 11.0 17.2 19.3 Acquisition due diligence and other work performed in respect of potential venture capital investments 1.0 1.2 1.4 Note 12: Impairment 2011 2010 2009 m m m Impairment losses on loans and receivables: Loans and advances to banks 13 3 Loans and advances to customers 8,020 10,727 15,783 Debt securities classified as loans and receivables 49 57 248 Total impairment losses on loans and receivables note 25 8,069 10,771 16,028 Impairment of availableforsale financial assets 80 106 602 Other credit risk provisions note 45 55 75 43 Total impairment charged to the income statement 8,094 10,952 16,673 Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 245 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 13: Investments in joint ventures and associates The Groups share of results of and investments in joint ventures and associates comprises: Joint ventures Associates Total 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 m m m m m m m m m Share of income statement amounts: Income 316 318 708 160 135 5 476 453 713 Expenses 261 209 544 161 91 96 422 300 640 Impairment 20 126 272 1 92 114 19 218 386 Insurance claims 465 465 Profit loss before tax 35 17 573 48 205 35 65 778 Tax 4 22 24 1 2 4 23 26 Share of post-tax results 31 39 549 49 203 31 88 752 Share of balance sheet amounts: Current assets 3,346 3,370 2,754 246 378 605 3,592 3,748 3,359 Noncurrent assets 2,148 2,868 4,662 976 1,184 1,611 3,124 4,052 6,273 Current liabilities 714 588 2,175 293 433 494 1,007 1,021 2,669 Noncurrent liabilities 4,471 5,324 4,871 904 1,026 1,613 5,375 6,350 6,484 Share of net assets at 31 December 309 326 370 25 103 109 334 429 479 Movement in investments over the year: At 1 January 326 370 55 103 109 429 479 55 Exchange and other adjustments 3 8 15 1 40 60 4 32 45 Adjustment on acquisition 956 219 1,175 Additional investments 7 71 140 3 6 12 10 77 152 Acquisitions 3 60 63 Disposals 47 68 199 79 2 39 126 70 238 Share of posttax results 31 39 549 49 203 31 88 752 Dividends paid 5 21 1 1 6 1 21 Share of net assets at 31 December 309 326 370 25 103 109 334 429 479 During 2011, the Group recognised a net 8 million of losses of associates not previously recognised.
The Groups unrecognised share of losses of associates during 2010 was 8 million 2009: 64 million and of joint ventures is 85 million in 2011 2010: 180 million: 2009: 424 million.
For entities making losses, subsequent profits earned are not recognised until previously unrecognised losses are extinguished.
The Groups unrecognised share of losses net of unrecognised profits on a cumulative basis of associates is 56 million 2010: 104 million: 2009: 64 million and of joint ventures is 299 million 2010: 339 million: 2009: 424 million.
The Groups principal joint venture investment at 31 December 2011 was in Sainsburys Bank plc: the Group owns 50 per cent of the ordinary share capital of Sainsburys Bank plc, whose business is banking and principal area of operation is the UK.
Sainsburys Bank plc is incorporated in the UK and the Groups interest is held by a subsidiary.
Where entities have statutory accounts drawn up to a date other than 31 December management accounts are used when accounting for them by the Group.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 246 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 14: Gain on acquisition in 2009 On 16 January 2009, the Group acquired 100 per cent of the ordinary share capital of HBOS plc, which together with its subsidiaries undertakes banking, insurance and other financial services related activities in the UK and in certain overseas locations.
The table below sets out the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired.
At the time of the recommended offer for HBOS in September 2008, it had become increasingly difficult for HBOS to raise funds in wholesale markets and their Board sought to restore confidence and stability through an agreement to be acquired by Lloyds TSB Group plc announced on 18 September 2008 at the original terms of 0.833 Lloyds TSB Group plc shares for each HBOS share.
However turbulence in the markets continued and the UK Government decided in October 2008 that it would be appropriate for the UK banking sector to increase its level of capitalisation.
As a consequence of the recapitalisation of HBOS and the impact of the deteriorating market conditions the terms of the final agreed offer were revised down to a ratio of 0.605 per HBOS share.
As the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired was greater than the total consideration paid, negative goodwill arose on the acquisition.
The negative goodwill was recognised as a Gain on acquisition in the income statement for the year ended 31 December 2009.
In accordance with accounting requirements, the measurement period for the fair values of the acquired assets and liabilities ended on 15 January 2010 one year from the date of acquisition : no further fair value adjustments were made beyond those reflected in the Groups 31 December 2009 financial statements.
Book value Fair value at 16 January Fair value at 16 January 2009 adjustments 2009 m m m Assets Cash and balances at central banks 2,123 2,123 Items in the course of collection from banks 523 523 Trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 83,857 83,857 Derivative financial instruments 54,840 808 54,032 Loans and receivables: Loans and advances to banks 15,751 43 15,794 Loans and advances to customers 450,351 13,512 436,839 Debt securities 39,819 1,411 38,408 Availableforsale financial assets 27,151 27,151 Investment properties 3,002 3,002 Investments in joint ventures and associates 1,152 23 1,175 Value of inforce business 3,152 561 3,713 Other intangible assets 104 4,650 4,754 Tangible fixed assets 5,721 14 5,707 Current tax recoverable 1,050 1,050 Deferred tax assets 2,556 602 1,954 Other assets 7,601 905 6,696 Total assets 698,753 11,975 686,778 Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 247 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 14: Gain on acquisition in 2009 continued Book value Fair value at 16 January Fair value at 16 January 2009 adjustments 2009 m m m Liabilities Deposits from banks 87,731 109 87,840 Customer deposits 223,859 835 224,694 Items in course of transmission to banks 521 521 Trading and other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 16,360 16,360 Derivative financial instruments 45,798 45,798 Notes in circulation 936 936 Debt securities in issue 191,566 6,247 185,319 Liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts 36,405 282 36,687 Liabilities arising from nonparticipating investment contracts 28,168 13 28,181 Unallocated surplus within insurance businesses 526 526 Other liabilities 14,732 312 14,420 Retirement benefit obligations 474 832 358 Current tax liabilities 58 58 Deferred tax liabilities 245 142 103 Other provisions 146 606 752 Subordinated liabilities 29,240 9,192 20,048 Total liabilities 675,817 13,216 662,601 Net assets acquired 22,936 1,241 24,177 Fair value of net assets acquired 24,177 Adjust for: 1 Preference shares 3,917 Noncontrolling interests 1,300 Adjusted net assets of HBOS acquired 18,960 Consideration inclusive of acquisition costs: 2 Issue of 7,776 million ordinary shares of 25p in Lloyds Banking Group plc 7,651 Fees and expenses related to the transaction 136 Total consideration 7,787 Gain on acquisition in 2009 11,173 1 On 16 January 2009, the Group cancelled the following HBOS preference share issuances in exchange for preference shares issued by Lloyds Banking Group plc: 6.475 per cent noncumulative preference shares of 1 each, 6.3673 per cent noncumulative fixed to floating preference shares of 1 each and 6.0884 per cent noncumulative preference shares of 1 each.
The fair value of the Lloyds Banking Group preference shares issued was deducted from the net assets acquired for the purposes of calculating the gain arising on acquisition.
2 The calculation of consideration was based on the closing price of Lloyds TSB ordinary shares of 98.4p on 16 January 2009: 12,852 million HBOS shares were exchanged for Lloyds Banking Group shares at a ratio of 0.605 shares per HBOS share.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 248 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 15: Loss on disposal of businesses in 2010 During 2009, the Group acquired an oil drilling rig construction business through a previous lending relationship and consolidated the results and net assets of the business from the date it exercised control.
In the first half of 2010, as a result of a deteriorating market, the Group impaired the oil drilling rigs under construction held by the business by 150 million to reflect their reduced value in use.
This impairment was recognised in the Wholesale segment.
In the second half of 2010, the Group reached agreement to dispose of its interests in the two whollyowned subsidiary companies through which this business operates: the sale was completed in January 2011.
These companies, which had gross assets of 860 million, were sold to Seadrill Limited: a loss of 365 million arose on disposal.
The Group extended vendor financing, on normal commercial terms and negotiated on an arms length basis, to Seadrill to facilitate the acquisition of the rig holding companies.
The loan is not contingent on the performance of the oil rigs under construction.
Accordingly, as at 31 December 2010, the subsidiaries were derecognised.
Note 16: Taxation A Analysis of tax credit charge for the year 2011 2010 2009 m m m UK corporation tax: Current tax on profit for the year 93 146 227 Adjustments in respect of prior years 146 310 310 239 164 537 Double taxation relief 1 10 239 165 527 Foreign tax: Current tax on profit for the year 90 82 221 Adjustments in respect of prior years 36 49 40 54 33 181 Current tax charge credit 293 132 708 Deferred tax note 44 : Origination and reversal of temporary differences 1,621 393 2,429 Reduction in UK corporation tax rate 404 137 Adjustments in respect of prior years 96 141 190 1,121 671 2,619 Tax credit charge 828 539 1,911 The credit charge for tax on the profit for 2011 is based on a UK corporation tax rate of 26.5 per cent 2010 and 2009: 28.0 per cent.
The above income tax credit charge is made up as follows: 2011 2010 2009 m m m Tax credit charge attributable to policyholders 72 315 410 Shareholder tax credit charge 756 224 2,321 Tax credit charge 828 539 1,911 Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 249 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 16 Taxation continued B Factors affecting the tax credit charge for the year A reconciliation of the credit charge that would result from applying the standard UK corporation tax rate to loss profit before tax to the actual tax credit charge for the year is given below: 2011 2010 2009 m m m Loss profit before tax 3,542 281 1,042 Tax credit charge thereon at UK corporation tax rate of 26.5 per cent 2010 and 2009: 28.0 per cent 939 79 292 Factors affecting credit charge : UK corporation tax rate change 404 137 Goodwill 3,061 Disallowed and nontaxable items 238 5 408 Overseas tax rate differences 17 134 352 Gains exempted or covered by capital losses 106 65 14 Policyholder interests 53 227 295 Tax losses where no deferred tax recognised 261 487 332 Deferred tax on tax losses not previously recognised 332 Adjustments in respect of previous years 206 218 66 Effect of results of joint ventures and associates 8 25 211 Other items 6 6 4 Tax credit charge on loss profit on ordinary activities 828 539 1,911 Note 17: Earnings per share 2011 2010 2009 m m m Loss profit attributable to equity shareholders basic and diluted 2,787 320 2,827 2011 2010 2009 million million million Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue basic 68,470 67,117 37,674 Adjustment for share options and awards 255 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue diluted 68,470 67,117 37,929 Basic loss earnings per share 4.1 p 0.5 p 7.5p Diluted loss earnings per share 4.1 p 0.5 p 7.5p Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to equity shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, which has been calculated after deducting 10 million 2010: 8 million: 2009: 10 million ordinary shares representing the Groups holdings of own shares in respect of employee share schemes.
For the calculation of diluted earnings per share the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, if any, that arise in respect of share options and awards granted to employees.
The number of shares that could have been acquired at the average annual share price of the Companys shares based on the monetary value of the subscription rights attached to outstanding share options and awards is determined.
This is deducted from the number of shares issuable under such options and awards to leave a residual bonus amount of shares which are added to the weightedaverage number of ordinary shares in issue, but no adjustment is made to the profit attributable to equity shareholders.
In December 2009, as part of the Groups recapitalisation and exit from the Government Asset Protection Scheme, the Group entered into an agreement with holders of certain existing liabilities to exchange these for ordinary shares or for cash on 18 February 2010.
The weighted average number of antidilutive shares arising from this transaction that have been excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share was 294 million at 31 December 2009.
On 18 February 2010, the above exchange completed and 3,141 million new ordinary shares in Lloyds Banking Group plc were issued.
The weightedaverage number of antidilutive share options and awards excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share was 619million at 31 December 2011 2010: 92million: 2009: 393 million.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 250 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 18: Trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss These assets are comprised as follows: 2011 2010 Other financial Other financial assets at fair assets at fair Trading value through Trading value through assets profit or loss Total assets profit or loss Total m m m m m m Loans and advances to customers 9,642 124 9,766 9,486 325 9,811 Loans and advances to banks 1,355 1,355 2,734 2,734 Debt securities: Government securities 2,000 21,367 23,367 1,623 22,217 23,840 Other public sector securities 1,183 1,183 919 919 Bank and building society certificates of deposit 2,863 385 3,248 3,692 606 4,298 Assetbacked securities: Mortgagebacked securities 99 612 711 422 422 Other assetbacked securities 222 1,764 1,986 1,020 1,592 2,612 Corporate and other debt securities 1,576 20,282 21,858 4,919 16,190 21,109 6,760 45,593 52,353 11,254 41,946 53,200 Equity shares 75,737 75,737 6 90,213 90,219 Treasury and other bills 299 299 227 227 Total 18,056 121,454 139,510 23,707 132,484 156,191 Other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include the following assets designated into that category: i financial assets backing insurance contracts and investment contracts of 118,890 million 2010: 129,702 million which are so designated because the related liabilities either have cash flows that are contractually based on the performance of the assets or are contracts whose measurement takes account of current market conditions and where significant measurement inconsistencies would otherwise arise: ii loans and advances to customers of 124 million 2010: 109 million which are economically hedged by interest rate derivatives which are not in hedge accounting relationships and where significant measurement inconsistencies would otherwise arise if the related derivatives were treated as trading liabilities and the loans and advances were carried at amortised cost: and iii private equity investments of 1,850 million 2010: 1,733 million that are managed, and evaluated, on a fair value basis in accordance with a documented risk management or investment strategy and reported to key management personnel on that basis.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at 31 December 2011 of the loans and advances to banks and customers designated at fair value through profit or loss was 124 million 2010: 325 million : the Group does not hold any credit derivatives or other instruments in mitigation of this risk.
There was no significant movement in the fair value of these loans attributable to changes in credit risk which is determined by reference to the publicly available credit ratings of the instruments involved.
The Groups Wholesale division had exposure to negative basis assetbacked securities of 150 million 2010: 1,067 million which were protected by monoline financial guarantors note 56.
Included in the amounts reported above are reverse repurchase agreements treated as collateralised loans witha carrying value of 10,990 million 2010: 12,211 million.
Collateral is held with a fair value of 15,765 million 2010: 14,299 million, all of which the Group is able to repledge.
At 31 December 2011, 3,740 million had been repledged 2010: 3,161 million.
For amounts included above which are subject to repurchase agreements see note 56.
Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 251 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 19: Derivative financial instruments The Group holds derivatives as part of the following strategies: Customer driven, where derivatives are held as part of the provision of risk management products to Group customers: To manage and hedge the Groups interest rate and foreign exchange risk arising from normal banking business.
The hedge accounting strategy adopted by the Group is to utilise a combination of fair value, cash flow and net investment hedge approaches as described in note 56: and Derivatives held in policyholder funds as permitted by the investment strategies of those funds.
Derivatives are classified as trading except those designated as effective hedging instruments which meet the criteria under IAS 39.
Derivatives are held at fair value on the Groups balance sheet.
A description of the methodology used to determine the fair value of derivative financial instruments and the effect of using reasonably possible alternative assumptions for those derivatives valued using unobservable inputs is set out in note 55.
The principal derivatives used by the Group are as follows: Interest rate related contracts include interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements and options.
An interest rate swap is an agreement between two parties to exchange fixed and floating interest payments, based upon interest rates defined in the contract, without the exchange of the underlying principal amounts.
Forward rate agreements are contracts for the payment of the difference between a specified rate of interest and a reference rate, applied to a notional principal amount at a specific date in the future.
An interest rate option gives the buyer, on payment of a premium, the right, but not the obligation, to fix the rate of interest on a future loan or deposit, for a specified period and commencing on a specified future date.
Exchange rate related contracts include forward foreign exchange contracts, currency swaps and options.
A forward foreign exchange contract is an agreement to buy or sell a specified amount of foreign currency on a specified future date at an agreed rate.
Currency swaps generally involve the exchange of interest payment obligations denominated in different currencies: the exchange of principal can be notional or actual.
A currency option gives the buyer, on payment of a premium, the right, but not the obligation, to sell specified amounts of currency at agreed rates of exchange on or before a specified future date.
Credit derivatives, principally credit default swaps, are used by the Group as part of its trading activity and to manage its own exposure to credit risk.
A credit default swap is a swap in which one counterparty receives a premium at preset intervals in consideration for guaranteeing to make a specific payment should a negative credit event take place.
The Group also uses credit default swaps to securitise, in combination with external funding, 3,436million 2010: 4,149 million of corporate and commercial banking loans.
Equity derivatives are also used by the Group as part of its equity based retail product activity to eliminate the Groups exposure to fluctuations in various international stock exchange indices.
Indexlinked equity options are purchased which give the Group the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell a specified amount of equities, or basket of equities, in the form of published indices on or before a specified future date.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 252 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 19: Derivative financial instruments continued The fair values and notional amounts of derivative instruments are set out in the following table: Contract notional Fair value Fair value amount assets liabilities m m m At 31 December 2011 Trading and other Exchange rate contracts: Spot, forwards and futures 204,629 2,542 2,780 Currency swaps 138,120 3,498 2,027 Options purchased 17,992 610 Options written 18,924 616 379,665 6,650 5,423 Interest rate contracts: Interest rate swaps 1,627,013 38,806 39,899 Forward rate agreements 261,125 586 606 Options purchased 69,554 3,693 Options written 67,858 3,524 Futures 118,921 1 2 2,144,471 43,086 44,031 Credit derivatives 9,980 238 328 Embedded equity conversion feature 1,172 Equity and other contracts 23,032 2,017 1,184 Total derivative assets liabilities trading and other 2,557,148 53,163 50,966 Hedging Derivatives designated as fair value hedges: Currency swaps 19,130 708 302 Interest rate swaps 93,215 6,720 1,236 Options written 657 9 113,002 7,428 1,547 Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges: Interest rate swaps 152,314 5,250 5,608 Futures 103,467 Currency swaps 16,582 172 90 272,363 5,422 5,698 Derivatives designated as net investment hedges: Cross currency swaps 49 1 Total derivative assets liabilities hedging 385,414 12,850 7,246 Total recognised derivative assets liabilities 2,942,562 66,013 58,212 The principal amount of the contract does not represent the Groups real exposure to credit risk which is limited to the current cost of replacing contracts with a positive value to the Group should the counterparty default.
To reduce credit risk the Group uses a variety of credit enhancement techniques such as netting and collateralisation, where security is provided against the exposure.
Further details are provided in note 56 Credit risk.
The embedded equity conversion feature of 1,172 million 31 December 2010: 1,177 million reflects the value of the equity conversion feature contained in the Enhanced Capital Notes issued by the Group in 2009: the loss of 5million arising from the change in fair value over 2011 2010: loss of 620 million: 2009: loss of 427 million is included within net gains on financial instruments held for trading within net trading income note 7.
Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 253 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 19: Derivative financial instruments continued Contract notional Fair value Fair value amount assets liabilities m m m At 31 December 2010 Trading and other Exchange rate contracts: Spot, forwards and futures 212,832 2,513 2,242 Currency swaps 108,216 5,696 1,773 Options purchased 18,096 602 Options written 19,387 536 358,531 8,811 4,551 Interest rate contracts: Interest rate swaps 1,397,157 28,448 29,202 Forward rate agreements 718,227 309 287 Options purchased 59,578 2,371 Options written 60,828 2,180 Futures 23,361 3 1 2,259,151 31,131 31,670 Credit derivatives 7,108 256 207 Embedded equity conversion feature 1,177 Equity and other contracts 22,597 1,996 1,332 Total derivative assets liabilities trading and other 2,647,387 43,371 37,760 Hedging Derivatives designated as fair value hedges: Currency swaps 9,418 606 35 Interest rate swaps 75,831 4,366 1,200 85,249 4,972 1,235 Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges: Interest rate swaps 112,507 2,199 3,042 Futures 1,299 1 Currency swaps 17,745 232 121 131,551 2,432 3,163 Derivatives designated as net investment hedges: Cross currency swaps 86 2 Total derivative assets liabilities hedging 216,886 7,406 4,398 Total recognised derivative assets liabilities 2,864,273 50,777 42,158 Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 254 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 19: Derivative financial instruments continued Hedged cash flows For designated cash flow hedges the following table shows when the Groups hedged cash flows are expected to occur and when they will affect income.
Over 20 0-1 years 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5-10 years 10-20 years years Total 2011 m m m m m m m m m Hedged forecast cash flows expected to occur: Forecast receivable cash flows 140 239 475 208 35 355 191 66 1,709 Forecast payable cash flows 178 181 63 81 78 1,394 1,163 354 3,492 Hedged forecast cash flows affect profit or loss: Forecast receivable cash flows 234 232 388 208 47 383 163 54 1,709 Forecast payable cash flows 224 154 53 81 145 1,475 1,110 250 3,492 Over 20 01 years 12 years 23 years 34 years 45 years 510 years 1020 years years Total 2010 m m m m m m m m m Hedged forecast cash flows expected to occur: Forecast receivable cash flows 223 328 560 434 310 451 445 160 2,911 Forecast payable cash flows 70 44 165 93 67 616 916 200 2,171 Hedged forecast cash flows affect profit or loss: Forecast receivable cash flows 223 445 443 434 310 466 435 155 2,911 Forecast payable cash flows 70 97 113 93 67 675 884 172 2,171 There were no transactions for which cash flow hedge accounting had to be ceased in 2011 or 2010 as a result of the highly probable cash flows no longer being expected to occur.
Note 20: Loans and advances to banks 2011 2010 m m Lending to banks 1,810 1,042 Money market placements with banks 30,810 29,250 Total loans and advances to banks before allowance for impairment losses 32,620 30,292 Allowance for impairment losses note 25 14 20 Total loans and advances to banks 32,606 30,272 Included in the amounts reported above are reverse repurchase agreements treated as collateralised loans with a carrying value of 508 million 2010: 4,185 million.
Collateral is held with a fair value of 511 million 2010: 3,909 million, all of which the Group is able to repledge.
Included in the amounts reported above in 2010 are collateral balances in the form of cash provided in respect of reverse repurchase agreements amounting to 4 million.
Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 255 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 21: Loans and advances to customers 2011 2010 m m Agriculture, forestry and fishing 5,198 5,558 Energy and water supply 4,013 3,576 Manufacturing 10,061 11,495 Construction 9,722 7,904 Transport, distribution and hotels 32,882 34,176 Postal and telecommunications 1,896 1,908 Property companies 64,752 78,263 Financial, business and other services 64,046 59,363 Personal: Mortgages 348,210 356,261 Other 30,014 36,967 Lease financing 7,800 8,291 Hire purchase 5,776 7,208 Total loans and advances to customers before allowance for impairment losses 584,370 610,970 Allowance for impairment losses note 25 18,732 18,373 Total loans and advances to customers 565,638 592,597 Included in the amounts reported above are reverse repurchase agreements treated as collateralised loans with a carrying value of 16,835 million 2010: 3,096 million.
Collateral is held with a fair value of 16,936 million 2010: 2,987 million, all of which the Group is able to repledge.
Included within this are collateral balances in the form of cash provided in respect of reverse repurchase agreements amounting to 34 million 2010: 42 million.
Loans and advances to customers include finance lease receivables, which may be analysed as follows: 2011 2010 m m Gross investment in finance leases, receivable: Not later than 1 year 1,168 1,358 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 2,754 2,522 Later than 5 years 6,355 7,218 10,277 11,098 Unearned future finance income on finance leases 2,391 2,603 Rentals received in advance 56 183 Commitments for expenditure in respect of equipment to be leased 30 21 Net investment in finance leases 7,800 8,291 The net investment in finance leases represents amounts recoverable as follows: 2011 2010 m m Not later than 1 year 724 986 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 2,307 1,965 Later than 5 years 4,769 5,340 Net investment in finance leases 7,800 8,291 Equipment leased to customers under finance leases primarily relates to structured financing transactions to fund the purchase of aircraft, ships and other large individual value items.
During 2011 and 2010 no contingent rentals in respect of finance leases were recognised in the income statement.
The allowance for uncollectable finance lease receivables included in the allowance for impairment losses is 92 million 2010: 287 million.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 256 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 21: Loans and advances to customers continued The unguaranteed residual values included in finance lease receivables were as follows: 2011 2010 m m Not later than 1 year 56 45 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 137 101 Later than 5 years 20 20 Total unguaranteed residual values 213 166 Note 22: Securitisations and covered bonds Securitisation programmes Loans and advances to customers and debt securities classified as loans and receivables include loans securitised under the Groups securitisation programmes, the majority of which have been sold by subsidiary companies to bankruptcy remote special purpose entities SPEs.
As the SPEs are funded by the issue of debt on terms whereby the majority of the risks and rewards of the portfolio are retained by the subsidiary, the SPEs are consolidated fully and all of these loans are retained on the Groups balance sheet, with the related notes in issue included within debt securities in issue.
In addition to the SPEs described below, the Group sponsors three conduit programmes, Argento, Cancara and Grampian.
Covered bond programmes Certain loans and advances to customers have been assigned to bankruptcy remote limited liability partnerships to provide security for issues of covered bonds by the Group.
The Group retains all of the risks and rewards associated with these loans and the partnerships are consolidated fully with the loans retained on the Groups balance sheet and the related covered bonds in issue included within debt securities in issue.
The Groups principal securitisation and covered bond programmes, together with the balances of the advances subject to these arrangements and the carrying value of the notes in issue at 31 December, are listed below.
The notes in issue are reported in note 37.
2011 2010 Loans and Loans and advances Notes advances Notes securitised in issue securitised in issue m m m m 1 Securitisation programmes UK residential mortgages 129,764 94,080 146,200 114,428 US residential mortgagebacked securities 398 398 Commercial loans 13,313 11,342 11,860 8,936 Irish residential mortgages 5,497 5,661 6,007 6,191 Credit card receivables 6,763 4,810 7,327 3,856 Dutch residential mortgages 4,933 4,777 4,526 4,316 Personal loans 3,012 2,011 PFI PPP and project finance loans 767 110 776 110 Motor vehicle loans 3,124 2,871 926 975 164,559 124,049 180,634 140,823 Less held by the Group 86,637 100,081 Total securitisation programmes note 37 37,412 40,742 Covered bond programmes Residential mortgagebacked 91,023 67,456 93,651 73,458 Social housing loanbacked 3,363 2,605 3,317 2,181 94,386 70,061 96,968 75,639 Less held by the Group 31,865 43,489 Total covered bond programmes note 37 38,196 32,150 Total securitisation and covered bond programmes 75,608 72,892 1 Includes securitisations utilising a combination of external funding and credit default swaps.
Cash deposits of 20,435 million 2010: 36,579 million held by the Group are restricted in use to repayment of the debt securities issued by the SPEs, the term advances relating to covered bonds and other legal obligations.
Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 257 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 23: Special purpose entities In addition to the special purpose entities discussed in note 22, which are used for securitisation and covered bond programmes, the Group sponsors three assetbacked conduits, Argento, Cancara and Grampian, which invest in debt securities and client receivables.
All the external assets in these conduits are consolidated in the Groups financial statements and are included in the credit market exposures set out in note 56.
The total consolidated exposures in these conduits are set out in the table below: Argento Cancara Grampian Total m m m m At 31 December 2011 Loans and advances 130 3,962 73 4,165 Debt securities classified as loans and receivables note 24 : Assetbacked securities 1,022 2,004 3,026 Corporate and other debt securities 1,022 2,004 3,026 Debt securities classified as availableforsale financial assets note 26 : Assetbacked securities 733 21 796 1,550 Corporate and other debt securities 73 73 806 21 796 1,623 Total assets 1,958 3,983 2,873 8,814 At 31 December 2010 Loans and advances 3,957 3,957 Debt securities classified as loans and receivables note 24 : Assetbacked securities 1,448 6,957 8,405 Corporate and other debt securities 202 202 1,650 6,957 8,607 Debt securities classified as availableforsale financial assets note 26 : Assetbacked securities 1,436 2,587 4,023 Corporate and other debt securities 463 463 1,899 2,587 4,486 Total assets 3,549 6,544 6,957 17,050 Other special purpose entities During 2009, the Group established Lloyds TSB Pension ABCS No 1 LLP and Lloyds TSB Pension ABCS No 2 LLP and transferred approximately 5 billion of assets, primarily comprising notes in certain of the Groups securitisation programmes, in aggregate to these entities.
Further details are provided in note 43.
Note 24: Debt securities classified as loans and receivables Debt securities accounted for as loans and receivables comprise: 2011 2010 m m Assetbacked securities: Mortgagebacked securities 7,179 11,650 Other assetbacked securities 5,030 12,827 Corporate and other debt securities 537 1,816 Total debt securities classified as loans and receivables before allowance for impairment losses 12,746 26,293 Allowance for impairment losses note 25 276 558 Total debt securities classified as loans and receivables 12,470 25,735 For amounts included above which are subject to repurchase agreements see note 56.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 258 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 25: Allowance for impairment losses on loans and receivables Loans and Loans and advances advances Debt to customers to banks securities Total m m m m At 1 January 2010 14,801 149 430 15,380 Exchange and other adjustments 2 5 119 112 Advances written off 6,966 111 48 7,125 Recoveries of advances written off in previous years 216 216 Unwinding of discount 403 403 Charge release to the income statement note 12 10,727 13 57 10,771 At 31 December 2010 18,373 20 558 18,951 Exchange and other adjustments 369 2 367 Advances written off 7,487 6 341 7,834 Recoveries of advances written off in previous years 421 8 429 Unwinding of discount 226 226 Charge to the income statement note 12 8,020 49 8,069 At 31 December 2011 18,732 14 276 19,022 Of the total allowance in respect of loans and advances to customers, 17,021 million 2010: 15,585 million related to lending that had been determined to be impaired either individually or on a collective basis at the reporting date.
Of the total allowance in respect of loans and advances to customers, 3,832million 2010: 6,076million was assessed on a collective basis.
Note 26: Available-for-sale financial assets 2011 2010 Conduits Other Total Conduits Other Total m m m m m m Debt securities: Government securities 25,236 25,236 12,552 12,552 Other public sector securities 27 27 29 29 Bank and building society certificates of deposit 366 366 407 407 Assetbacked securities: Mortgagebacked securities 1,255 548 1,803 3,203 1,090 4,293 Other assetbacked securities 295 769 1,064 820 4,399 5,219 Corporate and other debt securities 73 5,172 5,245 463 11,669 12,132 1,623 32,118 33,741 4,486 30,146 34,632 Equity shares 1,938 1,938 2,255 2,255 Treasury and other bills 1,727 1,727 6,068 6,068 Total available-for-sale financial assets 1,623 35,783 37,406 4,486 38,469 42,955 Details of the Groups assetbacked conduits shown in the table above are included in note 23.
Included within assetbacked securities are 2,867 million 31 December 2010: 9,392 million managed by the Wholesale division.
Further information on these exposures is provided in note 56.
All assets have been individually assessed for impairment.
The criteria used to determine whether an impairment loss has been incurred are disclosed in note 2 H. Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 259 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 27: Held-to-maturity investments 2011 2010 m m Debt securities: government securities 8,098 7,905 Note 28: Investment properties 2011 2010 m m At 1 January 5,997 4,757 Exchange and other adjustments 16 6 Additions: Acquisitions of new properties 396 398 Consolidation of new subsidiary undertakings 922 921 Additional expenditure on existing properties 81 52 Total additions 1,399 1,371 Disposals 1,151 559 Changes in fair value note 7 107 434 At 31 December 6,122 5,997 The investment properties are valued at least annually at openmarket value, by independent, professionally qualified valuers, who have recent experience in the location and categories of the investment properties being valued.
In addition, the following amounts have been recognised in the income statement: 2011 2010 m m Rental income note 9 388 337 Direct operating expenses arising from investment properties that generate rental income 50 77 Capital expenditure in respect of investment properties: 2011 2010 m m Capital expenditure contracted for at the balance sheet date but not recognised in the financial statements 33 86 Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 260 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 29: Goodwill 2011 2010 m m At 1 January and 31 December 2,016 2,016 1 Cost 2,362 2,362 Accumulated impairment losses 346 346 At 31 December 2,016 2,016 1 For acquisitions made prior to 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, cost is included net of amounts amortised up to 31 December 2003.
The goodwill held in the Groups balance sheet is tested at least annually for impairment.
For the purposes of impairment testing the goodwill is allocated to the appropriate cash generating unit: of the total balance of 2,016 million 31 December 2010: 2,016 million, 1,836 million, or 91 per cent of the total 2010: 1,836 million, 91 per cent of the total has been allocated to Scottish Widows in the Groups Insurance division and 170 million, or 8 per cent of the total 2010: 170 million, 8 per cent of the total to Asset Finance in the Groups Wholesale division.
The recoverable amount of Scottish Widows has been based on a valueinuse calculation.
The calculation uses posttax projections of future cash flows based upon budgets and plans approved by management covering a fiveyear period, and a discount rate of 12 per cent net of tax.
The budgets and plans are based upon past experience adjusted to take into account anticipated changes in sales volumes, product mix and margins having regard to expected market conditions and competitor activity.
The discount rate is determined with reference to internal measures and available industry information.
Cash flows beyond the fiveyear period have been extrapolated using a steady three per cent growth rate which does not exceed the longterm average growth rate for the life assurance market.
Management believes that any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions above would not cause the recoverable amount of Scottish Widows to fall below its balance sheet carrying value.
The recoverable amount of Asset Finance has also been based on a valueinuse calculation using pretax cash flow projections based on financial budgets and plans approved by management covering a fiveyear period and a discount rate of 17.75 per cent gross of tax.
The cash flows beyond the fiveyear period are extrapolated using a growth rate of 0.5 per cent which does not exceed the longterm average growth rates for the markets in which Asset Finance participates.
Management believes that any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions above would not cause the recoverable amount of Asset Finance to fall below the balance sheet carrying value.
Note 30: Value of in-force business The gross value of inforce business asset in the consolidated balance sheet is as follows: 2011 2010 m m Acquired value of inforce nonparticipating investment contracts 1,391 1,469 Value of inforce insurance and participating investment contracts 5,247 5,898 Total value of in-force business 6,638 7,367 The movement in the acquired value of inforce nonparticipating investment contracts over the year is as follows: 2011 2010 m m At 1 January 1,469 1,545 Amortisation taken to income statement note 11 78 76 At 31 December 1,391 1,469 The acquired value of inforce nonparticipating investment contracts includes 329 million 2010: 356 million in relation to OEIC business.
Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 261 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 30: Value of in-force business continued The movement in the value of inforce insurance and participating investment contracts over the year is as follows: 2011 2010 m m At 1 January 5,898 5,140 Adjustment on acquisition Exchange and other adjustments 29 31 Movements in the year: New business 552 497 Existing business: Expected return 437 400 Experience variances 117 85 Noneconomic assumption changes 576 306 Economic variance 278 301 Movement in the value of inforce business taken to income statement note 9 622 789 At 31 December 5,247 5,898 This breakdown shows the movement in the value of inforce business only, and does not represent the full contribution that each item in the breakdown contributes to profit before tax.
This will also contain changes in the other assets and liabilities, including the effects of changes in assumptions used to value the liabilities, of the relevant businesses.
Economic variance is the element of earnings which is generated from changes to economic experience in the period and to economic assumptions over time.
The presentation of economic variance includes the impact of financial market conditions being different at the end of the reporting period from those included in assumptions used to calculate new and existing business returns.
The principal features of the methodology and process used for determining key assumptions used in the calculation of the value of inforce business are set out below: Economic assumptions Each cash flow is valued using the discount rate consistent with that applied to such a cash flow in the capital markets.
In practice, to achieve the same result, where the cash flows are either independent of or move linearly with market movements, a method has been applied known as the certainty equivalent approach whereby it is assumed that all assets earn a riskfree rate and all cash flows are discounted at a riskfree rate.
A market consistent approach has been adopted for the valuation of financial options and guarantees, using a stochastic option pricing technique calibrated to be consistent with the market price of relevant options at each valuation date.
The riskfree rate used for the value of financial options and guarantees is defined as the spot yield derived from the relevant government bond yield curve in line with FSA realistic balance sheet assumptions.
Further information on options and guarantees can be found on page 127.
The liabilities in respect of the Groups UK annuity business are matched by a portfolio of fixed interest securities, including a large proportion of corporate bonds.
The value of the inforce business asset for UK annuity business has been calculated after taking into account an estimate of the market premium for illiquidity in respect of corporate bond holdings.
The illiquidity premium is estimated to be 119basis points as at 31 December 2011 31 December 2010: 75 basis points.
The riskfree rate assumed in valuing the nonannuity inforce business is the 15 year government bond yield for the appropriate territory.
The riskfree rate assumed in valuing the inforce asset for the UK annuity business is presented as a single riskfree rate to allow a better comparison to the rate used for other business.
That single riskfree rate has been derived to give the equivalent value to the UK annuity book, had that book been valued using the UK gilt yield curve increased to reflect the illiquidity premium described above.
The table below shows the resulting range of yields and other key assumptions at 31 December for UK business: 2011 2010 % % Riskfree rate value of inforce nonannuity business 2.48 3.99 Riskfree rate value of inforce annuity business 3.76 4.66 Riskfree rate financial options and guarantees 0.22 to 3.36 0.63 to 4.50 Retail price inflation 3.35 3.56 Expense inflation 4.01 4.20 Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 262 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 30: Value of in-force business continued Non-market risk s An allowance for nonmarket risk is made through the choice of best estimate assumptions based upon experience, which generally will give the mean expected financial outcome for shareholders and hence no further allowance for nonmarket risk is required.
However, in the case of operational risk, reinsurer default and the withprofit funds these can be asymmetric in the range of potential outcomes for which an explicit allowance is made.
Non-economic assumptions Future mortality, morbidity, expenses, lapse and paidup rate assumptions are reviewed each year and are based on an analysis of past experience and on managements view of future experience.
Mortality and morbidity The mortality and morbidity assumptions, including allowances for improvements in longevity, are set with regard to the Groups actual experience where this provides a reliable basis and relevant industry data otherwise.
For German business, appropriate industry tables have been considered.
Lapse persistency and paid-up rates Lapse and paid up rates assumptions are reviewed each year.
The most recent experience is considered along with the results of previous analyses and managements views on future experience.
In determining this best estimate view, a number of factors are considered, including the credibility of the results which will be affected by the volume of data available, any exceptional events that have occurred during the period under consideration and any known or expected trends in underlying data.
Maintenance expenses Allowance is made for future policy costs explicitly.
Expenses are determined by reference to an internal analysis of current and expected future costs.
Explicit allowance is made for future expense inflation.
For German business appropriate cost assumptions have been set in accordance with the rules of the local regulatory body.
These assumptions are intended to represent a best estimate of future experience, and further information about the effect of changes in key assumptions is given in note 39.
Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 263 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 31: Other intangible assets Purchased CustomerCapitalised Core deposit credit card related software Brands intangible relationships intangibles enhancements Total m m m m m m Cost: At 1 January 2010 596 2,770 300 877 487 5,030 Additions 153 153 Disposals 30 30 At 31 December 2010 596 2,770 300 877 610 5,153 Exchange and other adjustments 5 5 Additions 4 369 373 Disposals 25 25 At 31 December 2011 596 2,770 300 881 959 5,506 Accumulated amortisation: At 1 January 2010 21 393 58 237 234 943 Charge for the year 25 400 60 161 75 721 Disposals 7 7 At 31 December 2010 46 793 118 398 302 1,657 Exchange and other adjustments 2 2 Charge for the year 19 399 60 88 97 663 Disposals 12 12 At 31 December 2011 65 1,192 178 486 389 2,310 Balance sheet amount at 31 December 2011 531 1,578 122 395 570 3,196 Balance sheet amount at 31 December 2010 550 1,977 182 479 308 3,496 Included within brands above are assets of 380 million 31 December 2010: 380 million that have been determined to have indefinite useful lives and are not amortised.
These brands use the Bank of Scotland name which has been in existence for over 300 years.
These brands are well established financial services brands and there are no indications that they should not have an indefinite useful life.
The customerrelated intangibles include customer lists and the benefits of customer relationships that generate recurring income.
The purchased credit card relationships represent the benefit of recurring income generated from the portfolio of credit cards purchased and the core deposit intangible is the benefit derived from a large stable deposit base that has low interest rates.
Capitalised software enhancements principally comprise identifiable and directly associated internal staff and other costs.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 264 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 32: Tangible fixed assets Operating Total tangible Premises Equipment lease assets fixed assets m m m m Cost: At 1 January 2010 2,461 5,122 6,384 13,967 Exchange and other adjustments 26 34 76 16 Additions 175 766 1,672 2,613 Disposals 222 338 1,693 2,253 Disposal of businesses 1,005 1,005 At 31 December 2010 2,440 4,579 6,287 13,306 Exchange and other adjustments 45 22 67 Additions 149 660 1,436 2,245 Disposals 121 395 1,852 2,368 Disposal of businesses 14 7 330 351 At 31 December 2011 2,454 4,792 5,519 12,765 Accumulated depreciation and impairment: At 1 January 2010 884 2,597 1,262 4,743 Exchange and other adjustments 2 3 30 29 Impairment charged to the income statement 202 202 Depreciation charge for the year 146 535 954 1,635 Disposals 31 338 976 1,345 Disposal of businesses 148 148 At 31 December 2010 1,001 2,845 1,270 5,116 Exchange and other adjustments 17 18 35 Impairment charged to the income statement 65 65 Depreciation charge for the year 137 411 886 1,434 Disposals 38 349 967 1,354 Disposal of businesses 3 6 195 204 At 31 December 2011 1,097 2,983 1,012 5,092 Balance sheet amount at 31 December 2011 1,357 1,809 4,507 7,673 Balance sheet amount at 31 December 2010 1,439 1,734 5,017 8,190 At 31 December the future minimum rentals receivable under noncancellable operating leases were as follows: 2011 2010 m m Receivable within 1 year 987 1,168 1 to 5 years 1,389 1,791 Over 5 years 628 638 Total future minimum rentals receivable 3,004 3,597 Equipment leased to customers under operating leases primarily relates to vehicle contract hire arrangements.
During 2011 and 2010 no contingent rentals in respect of operating leases were recognised in the income statement.
In addition, total future minimum sublease income of 40 million at 31 December 2011 55 million at 31 December 2010 is expected to be received under noncancellable subleases of the Groups premises.
The impairment charge in 2011 relates to integration activities: the impairment charge of 202 million in 2010 comprised 150 million relating to oil drilling rigs under construction acquired from a previous lending relationship in Wholesale note 15 and 52 million relating to integration activities note 11.
Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 265 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 33: Other assets 2011 2010 m m Assets arising from reinsurance contracts held note 38 and note 40 2,534 2,146 Deferred acquisition and origination costs see below 693 602 Settlement balances 1,193 985 Corporate pension asset 3,873 2,320 Other assets and prepayments 6,135 6,590 Total other assets 14,428 12,643 Deferred acquisition and origination costs: 2011 2010 m m At 1 January 602 533 Costs deferred, net of amounts amortised to the income statement 92 69 Exchange and other adjustments 1 At 31 December 693 602 Note 34: Deposits from banks 2011 2010 m m Liabilities in respect of securities sold under repurchase agreements 14,389 24,017 Other deposits from banks 25,421 26,346 Deposits from banks 39,810 50,363 Included in the amounts reported above are deposits held as collateral for facilities granted, with a carrying value of 13,933 million 2010: 22,420 million and a fair value of 14,258 million 2010: 25,626 million.
Note 35: Customer deposits 2011 2010 m m Noninterest bearing current accounts 29,468 22,897 Interest bearing current accounts 72,562 77,785 Savings and investment accounts 238,132 222,226 Liabilities in respect of securities sold under repurchase agreements 7,996 11,145 Other customer deposits 65,748 59,580 Customer deposits 413,906 393,633 Included in the amounts reported above are deposits held as collateral for facilities granted, with a carrying value of 7,987 million 2010: 11,112 million and a fair value of 8,088 million 2010: 11,278 million.
Included in the amounts reported above are collateral balances in the form of cash provided in respect of repurchase agreements amounting to 323 million 2010: 122 million.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 266 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 36: Trading and other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 2011 2010 m m Liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss debt securities 5,339 6,665 Trading liabilities: Liabilities in respect of securities sold under repurchase agreements 12,378 14,612 Short positions in securities 3,701 1,755 Other 3,537 3,730 19,616 20,097 Trading and other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 24,955 26,762 The amount contractually payable on maturity of the debt securities held at fair value through profit or loss at 31 December 2011 was 5,487 million, which was 148 million higher than the balance sheet carrying value 31 December 2010: 6,607 million, which was 58 million lower than the balance sheet carrying value.
At 31 December 2011 there was a cumulative 183 million decrease in the fair value of these liabilities attributable to changes in credit spread risk: this is determined by reference to the quoted credit spreads of Lloyds TSB Bank plc, the issuing entity within the Group.
Of the cumulative amount, a decrease of 194 million arose in 2011 and none arose in 2010.
Liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss represent debt securities in issue which either contain substantive embedded derivatives which would otherwise need to be recognised and measured at fair value separately from the related debt securities, or which are accounted for at fair value to significantly reduce an accounting mismatch.
Note 37: Debt securities in issue 2011 2010 m m Mediumterm notes issued 63,366 80,975 Covered bonds note 22 38,196 32,150 Certificates of deposit issued 27,994 42,276 Securitisation notes note 22 37,412 40,742 Commercial paper 18,091 32,723 Total debt securities in issue 185,059 228,866 Note 38: Liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts Insurance contract and participating investment contract liabilities are comprised as follows: 2011 2010 1 1 Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net m m m m m m Life insurance see 1 below : Insurance contracts 62,399 2,452 59,947 61,871 2,044 59,827 Participating investment contracts 15,631 15,631 17,642 17,642 78,030 2,452 75,578 79,513 2,044 77,469 Nonlife insurance contracts see 2 below : Unearned premiums 566 23 543 632 22 610 Claims outstanding 395 2 393 584 15 569 961 25 936 1,216 37 1,179 Total 78,991 2,477 76,514 80,729 2,081 78,648 1 Reinsurance balances are reported within other assets note 33.
Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 267 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 38: Liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts continued 1 Life insurance The movement in life insurance contract and participating investment contract liabilities over the year can be analysed as follows: Participating Insurance investment Gross Reinsurance Net contracts contracts m m m At 1 January 2010 56,800 18,089 74,889 1,831 73,058 New business 3,807 325 4,132 48 4,084 Changes in existing business 1,348 858 490 208 282 Change in liabilities charged to the income statement note 10 5,155 533 4,622 256 4,366 Exchange and other adjustments 84 86 2 43 45 At 31 December 2010 61,871 17,642 79,513 2,044 77,469 New business 4,340 86 4,426 156 4,270 Changes in existing business 3,713 2,096 5,809 295 6,104 Change in liabilities charged to the income statement note 10 627 2,010 1,383 451 1,834 Exchange and other adjustments 99 1 100 43 57 At 31 December 2011 62,399 15,631 78,030 2,452 75,578 Liabilities for insurance contracts and participating investment contracts can be split into withprofit fund liabilities, accounted for using the FSAs realistic capital regime realistic liabilities and nonprofit fund liabilities, accounted for using a prospective actuarial discounted cash flow methodology, as follows: 2011 2010 With-profit Non-profit Withprofit Nonprofit fund fund Total fund fund Total m m m m m m Insurance contracts 13,467 48,932 62,399 13,598 48,273 61,871 Participating investment contracts 9,488 6,143 15,631 10,647 6,995 17,642 Total 22,955 55,075 78,030 24,245 55,268 79,513 With-profit fund realistic liabilities i Business description The Group has withprofit funds within Scottish Widows plc and Clerical Medical Investment Group Limited containing both insurance contracts and participating investment contracts.
The primary purpose of the conventional and unitised business written in the withprofit funds is to provide a smoothed investment vehicle to policyholders, protecting them against shortterm market fluctuations.
Payouts may be subject to a guaranteed minimum payout if certain policy conditions are met.
Withprofit policyholders are entitled to at least 90 per cent of the distributed profits, with the shareholders receiving the balance.
The policyholders are also usually insured against death and the policy may carry a guaranteed annuity option at retirement.
ii Method of calculation of liabilities Withprofit liabilities are stated at their realistic value, the main components of which are: Withprofit benefit reserve, the total asset shares for withprofit policies: Cost of options and guarantees including guaranteed annuity options : Deductions levied against asset shares: Planned enhancements to withprofits benefits reserve: and Impact of the smoothing policy.
The realistic assessment is carried out using a stochastic simulation model which values liabilities on a market consistent basis.
The calculation of realistic liabilities uses best estimate assumptions for mortality, persistency rates and expenses.
These are calculated in a similar manner to those used for the value of inforce business as discussed in note 30.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 268 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 38: Liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts continued iii Assumptions Key assumptions used in the calculation of withprofit liabilities, and the processes for determining these, are: Investment returns and discount rates The realistic capital regime dictates that withprofit fund liabilities are valued on a marketconsistent basis.
This is achieved by the use of a valuation model which values liabilities on a basis calibrated to tradable market option contracts and other observable market data.
The withprofit fund financial options and guarantees are valued using a stochastic simulation model where all assets are assumed to earn, on average, the riskfree yield and all cash flows are discounted using the riskfree yield.
The riskfree yield is defined as the spot yield derived from the relevant government bond yield curve.
Further information on significant options and guarantees is given on page 127.
Guaranteed annuity option take-up rates Certain pension contracts contain guaranteed annuity options that allow the policyholder to take an annuity benefit on retirement at annuity rates that were guaranteed at the outset of the contract.
For contracts that contain such options, key assumptions in determining the cost of options are economic conditions in which the option has value, mortality rates and take up rates of other options.
The financial impact is dependent on the value of corresponding investments, interest rates and longevity at the time of the claim.
Investment volatility The calibration of the stochastic simulation model uses implied volatilities of derivatives where possible, or historical volatility where it is not possible to observe meaningful prices.
Mortality The mortality assumptions, including allowances for improvements in longevity for annuitants, are set with regard to the Groups actual experience where this is significant, and relevant industry data otherwise.
Lapse rates persistency Lapse rates refer to the rate of policy termination or the rate at which policyholders stop paying regular premiums due under the contract.
Historical persistency experience is analysed using statistical techniques.
As experience can vary considerably between different product types and for contracts that have been in force for different periods, the data is broken down into broadly homogenous groups for the purposes of this analysis.
The most recent experience is considered along with the results of previous analyses and managements views on future experience, taking into consideration potential changes in future experience that may result from guarantees and options becoming more valuable under adverse market conditions, in order to determine a best estimate view of what persistency will be.
In determining this best estimate view a number of factors are considered, including the credibility of the results which will be affected by the volume of data available, any exceptional events that have occurred during the period under consideration, any known or expected trends in underlying data and relevant published market data.
Non-profit fund liabilities i Business description The Group principally writes the following types of life insurance contracts within its nonprofit funds.
Shareholder profits on these types of business arise from management fees and other policy charges.
Unit-linked business This includes unitlinked pensions and unitlinked bonds, the primary purpose of which is to provide an investment vehicle where the policyholder is also insured against death.
Life insurance The policyholder is insured against death or permanent disability, usually for predetermined amounts.
Such business includes whole of life and term assurance and longterm creditor policies.
Annuities The policyholder is entitled to payments for the duration of their life and is therefore insured against surviving longer than expected.
German insurance business is written through the Groups subsidiary Heidelberger Leben and comprises policies similar to the UK definitions above, except that there is participation by the policyholder in the investment, insurance and expense profits of Heidelberger Leben.
A minimum level of policyholder participation is prescribed by German law.
The following types of life insurance contracts are written: Traditional and unit linked endowment or pensions business: and Life insurance business.
ii Method of calculation of liabilities The nonprofit fund liabilities are determined on the basis of recognised actuarial methods and consistent with the approach required by regulatory rules.
The methods used involve estimating future policy cash flows over the duration of the inforce book of policies, and discounting the cash flows back to the valuation date allowing for probabilities of occurrence.
Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 269 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 38: Liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts continued iii Assumptions Generally, assumptions used to value nonprofit fund liabilities are prudent in nature and therefore contain a margin for adverse deviation.
This margin for adverse deviation is based on managements judgement and reflects managements views on the inherent level of uncertainty.
The key assumptions used in the measurement of nonprofit fund liabilities are: Interest rates The rates used are derived in accordance with the guidelines set by local regulatory bodies.
These limit the rates of interest that can be used by reference to a number of factors including the redemption yields on fixed interest assets at the valuation date.
Margins for risk are allowed for in the assumed interest rates.
These are derived from the limits in the guidelines set by local regulatory bodies, including reductions made to the available yields to allow for default risk based upon the credit rating of the securities allocated to the insurance liability.
Mortality and morbidity The mortality and morbidity assumptions, including allowances for improvements in longevity for annuitants, are set with regard to the Groups actual experience where this provides a reliable basis, and relevant industry data otherwise, and include a margin for adverse deviation.
For German business appropriate industry tables have been considered.
Lapse rates persistency Lapse rates are allowed for on some nonprofit fund contracts.
The process for setting these rates is as described for withprofit liabilities, however a prudent scenario is assumed by the inclusion of a margin for adverse deviation within the nonprofit fund liabilities.
Expenses are determined by reference to an internal analysis of current and expected future costs plus a margin for adverse deviation.
Key changes in assumptions A detailed review of the Groups assumptions in 2011 resulted in the following key impacts on profit before tax: Change in persistency assumptions 5million increase Change in the assumption in respect of current and future mortality rates 74million decrease Change in expense assumptions 22 million increase These amounts include the impacts of movements in liabilities and value of the inforce business in respect of insurance contracts and participating investment contracts.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 270 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 38: Liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts continued 2 Non-life insurance Gross nonlife insurance contract liabilities are analysed by line of business as follows: 2011 2010 m m Credit protection 206 380 Home 753 833 Health 2 3 Total gross non-life insurance contract liabilities 961 1,216 For nonlife insurance contracts, the methodology and assumptions used in relation to determining the bases of the earned premium and claims provisioning levels are derived for each individual underwritten product.
Assumptions are intended to be neutral estimates of the most likely or expected outcome.
There has been no significant change in the assumptions and methodologies used for setting reserves.
The reserving methodology and associated assumptions are set out below: The unearned premium reserve is determined on a basis that reflects the length of time for which contracts have been in force and the projected incidence of risk over the term of each contract.
Claims outstanding comprise those claims that have been notified and those that have been incurred but not reported.
Claims incurred but not reported are determined based on the historical emergence of claims and their average cost.
The notified claims element represents the best estimate of the cost of claims reported using projections and estimates based on historical experience.
The movements in nonlife insurance contract liabilities and reinsurance assets over the year have been as follows: Gross Reinsurance Net m m m Provisions for unearned premiums At 1 January 2010 788 31 757 Increase in the year 1,230 104 1,126 Release in the year 1,386 113 1,273 Change in provision for unearned premiums charged to income statement note 8 156 9 147 Exchange and other adjustments At 31 December 2010 632 22 610 Increase in the year 1,082 52 1,030 Release in the year 1,152 52 1,100 Change in provision for unearned premiums charged to income statement note 8 70 70 Exchange and other adjustments 4 1 3 At 31 December 2011 566 23 543 Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 271 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 38: Liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts continued These provisions represent the liability for shortterm insurance contracts for which the Groups obligations are not expired at the year end.
Gross Reinsurance Net m m m Claims outstanding Notified claims 289 9 280 Incurred but not reported 213 4 209 At 1 January 2010 502 13 489 Cash paid for claims settled in the year 467 11 456 Increase decrease in liabilities: Arising from current year claims 581 12 569 Arising from prior year claims 32 1 33 Change in liabilities charged to income statement note 10 82 2 80 At 31 December 2010 584 15 569 Cash paid for claims settled in the year 485 485 Increase decrease in liabilities: Arising from current year claims 470 470 Arising from prior year claims 171 12 159 Change in liabilities charged to income statement note 10 186 12 174 Exchange and other adjustments 3 1 2 At 31 December 2011 395 2 393 Notified claims 313 1 312 Incurred but not reported 82 1 81 At 31 December 2011 395 2 393 Notified claims 420 4 416 Incurred but not reported 164 11 153 At 31 December 2010 584 15 569 Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 272 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 38: Liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts continued Non-life insurance claims development table The development of insurance liabilities provides a measure of the Groups ability to estimate the ultimate value of claims.
The top half of the table below illustrates how the Groups estimate of total claims outstanding for each accident year shown has changed at successive year ends.
The bottom half of the table reconciles the cumulative claims to the amount appearing in the balance sheet.
The accident year basis is considered the most appropriate for the business written by the Group.
Non-life insurance all risks gross 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total m m m m m m m m Accident year Estimate of ultimate claims costs: At end of accident year 211 208 317 205 639 609 446 2,635 One year later 207 206 311 199 539 517 Two years later 204 204 299 195 494 Three years later 202 204 292 187 Four years later 201 205 285 Five years later 201 203 Six years later 201 Current estimate in respect of above claims 201 203 285 187 494 517 446 2,333 Current estimate of claims relating to general insurance business acquired in 2009 273 316 388 256 1,233 Current estimate of cumulative claims 474 519 673 443 494 517 446 3,566 Cumulative payments to date 470 514 668 432 463 443 195 3,185 Liability recognised in the balance sheet 4 5 5 11 31 74 251 381 Liability in respect of earlier years 5 Total liability included in the balance sheet 386 The liability of 386 million shown in the above table excludes 9 million of unallocated claims handling expenses.
Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 273 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 39: Life insurance sensitivity analysis The following table demonstrates the effect of changes in key assumptions on profit before tax and equity disclosed in these financial statements assuming that the other assumptions remain unchanged.
In practice this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some assumptions may be correlated.
These amounts include movements in assets, liabilities and the value of the inforce business in respect of insurance contracts and participating investment contracts.
The impact is shown in one direction but can be assumed to be reasonably symmetrical.
Increase Increase reduction in reduction in Change in profit before tax equity variable m m At 31 December 2011 1 Nonannuitant mortality 5% reduction 48 36 2 Annuitant mortality 5% reduction 154 115 3 Lapse rates 10% reduction 123 92 4 Future maintenance and investment expenses 10% reduction 207 156 5 Riskfree rate 0.25% reduction 55 41 6 Guaranteed annuity option take up 5% addition 4 3 7 Equity investment volatility 1% addition 9 7 8 Widening of credit default spreads on corporate bonds 0.25% addition 164 123 9 Increase in illiquidity premia 0.10% addition 87 66 Increase Increase reduction in reduction in Change in profit before tax equity variable m m At 31 December 2010 1 Nonannuitant mortality 5% reduction 64 46 2 Annuitant mortality 5% reduction 131 96 3 Lapse rates 10% reduction 163 117 4 Future maintenance and investment expenses 10% reduction 201 145 5 Riskfree rate 0.25% reduction 61 44 6 Guaranteed annuity option take up 5% addition 4 3 7 Equity investment volatility 1% addition 8 6 8 Widening of credit default spreads on corporate bonds 0.25% addition 152 110 9 Increase in illiquidity premia 0.10% addition 78 56 Assumptions have been flexed on the basis used to calculate the value of inforce business and the realistic and statutory reserving bases.
1 This sensitivity shows the impact of reducing mortality and morbidity rates on nonannuity business to 95 per cent of the expected rate.
2 This sensitivity shows the impact on the annuity and deferred annuity business of reducing mortality rates to 95 per cent of the expected rate.
3 This sensitivity shows the impact of reducing lapse and surrender rates to 90 per cent of the expected rate.
4 This sensitivity shows the impact of reducing maintenance expenses and investment expenses to 90 per cent of the expected rate.
5 This sensitivity shows the impact on the value of inforce business, financial options and guarantee costs, statutory reserves and asset values of reducing the riskfree rate by 25 basis points.
6 This sensitivity shows the impact of a flat 5 per cent addition to the expected rate.
7 This sensitivity shows the impact of a flat 1 per cent addition to the expected rate.
8 This sensitivity shows the impact of a 25 basis point increase in credit default spreads on corporate bonds and the corresponding reduction in market values.
Government bond yields, the riskfree rate and illiquidity premia are all assumed to be unchanged.
9 This sensitivity shows the impact of a 10 basis point increase in the allowance for illiquidity premia.
It assumes the overall corporate bond spreads are unchanged and hence market values are unchanged.
Government bond yields and the nonannuity riskfree rate are both assumed to be unchanged.
The increased illiquidity premium increases the annuity riskfree rate.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 274 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 40: Liabilities arising from non-participating investment contracts The movement in liabilities arising from nonparticipating investment contracts may be analysed as follows: Gross Reinsurance Net m m m At 1 January 2010 46,348 46,348 New business 3,953 65 3,888 Changes in existing business 1,070 1,070 Exchange and other adjustments 8 8 At 31 December 2010 51,363 65 51,298 New business 4,194 3 4,191 Changes in existing business 5,922 11 5,911 Exchange and other adjustments 1 1 At 31 December 2011 49,636 57 49,579 Note 41: Unallocated surplus within insurance businesses The movement in the unallocated surplus within longterm insurance businesses over the year can be analysed as follows: 2011 2010 m m At 1 January 643 1,082 Change in unallocated surplus recognised in the income statement note 10 340 439 Exchange and other adjustments 3 At 31 December 300 643 Note 42: Other liabilities 2011 2010 m m Settlement balances 1,937 1,269 Unitholders interest in Open Ended Investment Companies 18,249 15,617 Other creditors and accruals 11,855 12,810 Total other liabilities 32,041 29,696 Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 275 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 43: Retirement benefit obligations 2011 2010 2009 m m m Charge credit to the income statement 1 Defined benefit pension schemes 186 467 529 Other postretirement benefit schemes 13 12 7 Total defined benefit schemes 199 455 536 Defined contribution pension schemes 202 173 208 Total charge credit to the income statement 401 282 744 1 In 2010, the amount is shown net of a credit of 910 million following the Groups decision to cap all future increases to pensionable salary in its principal UK defined benefit pension schemes, together with a change in commutation factors in certain schemes note 11.
2011 2010 m m Amounts recognised in the balance sheet Defined benefit pension schemes 1,131 479 Other postretirement benefit schemes 174 166 Total amounts recognised in the balance sheet 957 313 2011 2010 m m Amounts recognised in the balance sheet Retirement benefit assets 1,338 736 Retirement benefit obligations 381 423 Total amounts recognised in the balance sheet 957 313 Pension schemes Defined benefit schemes The Group has established a number of defined benefit pension schemes in the UK and overseas, the three most significant being the defined benefit sections of the Lloyds TSB Group Pension Schemes Nos 1 and 2 and the HBOS Final Salary Pension Scheme.
These schemes provide retirement benefits calculated as a percentage of final salary depending upon the length of service: the minimum retirement age under the rules of the schemes at 31 December 2011 was generally 55 although certain categories of member are deemed to have a contractual right to retire at 50.
The latest full valuations of the two Lloyds TSB schemes were carried out as at 30 June 2008: the latest full valuation of the HBOS scheme was carried out as at 31 December 2008.
The results have been updated to 31 December 2011 by qualified independent actuaries.
The last full valuations of other Group schemes were carried out on a number of different dates: these have been updated to 31 December 2011 by qualified independent actuaries or, in the case of the Scottish Widows Retirement Benefits Scheme, by a qualified actuary employed by Scottish Widows.
The Groups obligations in respect of its defined benefit schemes are funded.
During 2009, the Group made oneoff contributions to the Lloyds TSB Group Pension Scheme No 1 and Lloyds TSB Group Pension Scheme No 2 of approximately 1 billion in aggregate.
These contributions took the form of interests in limited liability partnerships for each of the two schemes which contained assets of approximately 5 billion in aggregate entitling the schemes to annual payments of approximately 215 million in aggregate until 31 December 2014.
Thereafter, assuming that all distributions have been made, the value of the partnership interests will equate to a nominal amount.
At 31 December 2011, the limited liability partnerships held assets of approximately 4.7 billion: cash payments of 215 million were made to the pension schemes during the year 2010: 215 million.
The limited liability partnerships are fully consolidated in the Groups balance sheet see note 23.
The Group currently expects to pay contributions of approximately 650 million to its defined benefit schemes in 2012.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 276 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 43: Retirement benefit obligations continued 2011 2010 m m Amount included in the balance sheet Present value of funded obligations 28,236 26,862 Fair value of scheme assets 28,828 26,382 592 480 Unrecognised actuarial losses 539 959 Net amount recognised in the balance sheet 1,131 479 2011 2010 m m Movements in the defined benefit obligation At 1 January 26,862 27,073 Current service cost 380 384 Employee contributions 1 4 Interest cost 1,423 1,474 Actuarial losses gains 514 140 Benefits paid 912 950 Past service cost 20 46 Curtailments 25 1,081 Settlements 15 6 Exchange and other adjustments 12 58 At 31 December 28,236 26,862 2011 2010 m m Changes in the fair value of scheme assets At 1 January 26,382 23,518 Expected return 1,627 1,507 Employer contributions 833 648 Employee contributions 1 4 Actuarial gains 926 1,624 Benefits paid 912 950 Settlements 23 9 Exchange and other adjustments 6 40 At 31 December 28,828 26,382 Actual return on scheme assets 2,553 3,131 Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 277 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 43: Retirement benefit obligations continued Assumptions The principal actuarial and financial assumptions used in valuations of the defined benefit pension schemes were as follows: 2011 2010 % % Discount rate 5.00 5.50 Rate of inflation: Retail Prices Index 3.00 3.40 Consumer Price Index 2.00 2.90 Rate of salary increases 2.00 2.00 Rate of increase for pensions in payment 2.80 3.20 Years Years Life expectancy for member aged 60, on the valuation date: Men 27.3 27.2 Women 28.4 28.3 Life expectancy for member aged 60, 15 years after the valuation date: Men 28.8 28.2 Women 30.0 29.9 The mortality assumptions used in the scheme valuations are based on standard tables published by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries which were adjusted in line with the actual experience of the relevant schemes.
The table shows that a member retiring at age 60 as at 31 December 2011 is assumed to live for, on average, 27.3 years for a male and 28.4 years for a female.
In practice there will be much variation between individual members but these assumptions are expected to be appropriate across all members.
It is assumed that younger members will live longer in retirement than those retiring now.
This reflects the expectation that mortality rates will continue to fall over time as medical science and standards of living improve.
To illustrate the degree of improvement assumed the table also shows the life expectancy for members aged 45 now, when they retire in 15 years time at age 60.
Sensitivity analysis The effect of changes in key assumptions on the pension charge in the Groups income statement and on the net defined benefit pension scheme asset or liability is set out below: Increase decrease in the Increase decrease in the net defined benefit income statement charge pension scheme asset 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m 1 Inflation: Increase of 0.2 per cent 12 14 798 791 Decrease of 0.2 per cent 6 15 783 754 2 Discount rate: Increase of 0.2 per cent 10 20 909 930 Decrease of 0.2 per cent 17 15 957 976 Expected life expectancy of members: Increase of one year 38 40 655 620 Decrease of one year 40 41 667 632 1 At 31 December 2011, the assumed rate of inflation is 3.00 per cent 31 December 2010: 3.40 per cent.
2 At 31 December 2011, the assumed discount rate is 5.00 per cent 31 December 2010: 5.50 per cent.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 278 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 43: Retirement benefit obligations continued The expected return on scheme assets has been calculated using the following assumptions: 2011 2010 % % Equities and alternative assets 8.3 8.3 Fixed interest gilts 4.0 4.5 Index linked gilts 3.9 4.1 Nongovernment bonds 4.9 6.0 Property 7.3 7.5 Money market instruments and cash 3.9 4.3 The expected return on scheme assets in 2012 will be calculated using the following assumptions: 2012 % Equities and alternative assets 7.3 Fixed interest gilts 3.0 Index linked gilts 2.8 Nongovernment bonds 4.9 Property 6.6 Money market instruments and cash 2.6 Composition of scheme assets: 2011 2010 m m Equities 10,728 11,856 Fixed interest gilts 995 2,237 Index linked gilts 6,211 4,159 Nongovernment bonds 4,250 2,922 Property 1,708 1,654 Money market instruments, cash and other assets and liabilities 4,936 3,554 At 31 December 28,828 26,382 The assets of all the funded plans are held independently of the Groups assets in separate trustee administered funds.
The expected return on plan assets was determined by considering the expected returns available on the assets underlying the current investment policy.
Expected yields on fixed interest investments are based on gross redemption yields at the balance sheet date at a term and credit rating broadly appropriate for the bonds held.
Expected returns on equity and property investments are longterm rates based on the views of the plans independent investment consultants.
The expected return on equities allows for the different expected returns from the private equity, infrastructure and hedge fund investments held by some of the funded plans.
Some of the funded plans also invest in certain money market instruments and the expected return on these investments has been assumed to be the same as cash.
Experience adjustments history: 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 m m m m m m Present value of defined benefit obligation 28,236 26,862 27,073 15,617 16,795 17,378 Fair value of scheme assets 28,828 26,382 23,518 13,693 16,112 15,279 592 480 3,555 1,924 683 2,099 Experience gains losses on scheme liabilities 277 496 31 39 185 50 Experience gains losses on scheme assets 926 1,624 886 3,520 139 314 Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 279 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 43: Retirement benefit obligations continued The expense recognised in the income statement for the year ended 31 December comprises: 2011 2010 2009 m m m Current service cost 380 384 395 Interest cost 1,423 1,474 1,383 Expected return on scheme assets 1,627 1,507 1,320 Net actuarial losses recognised in year 7 43 Curtailments see below 25 910 Settlements 8 3 4 Past service cost 20 46 67 Total defined benefit pension expense credit 186 467 529 In 2010 the Group made changes to the terms of its principal UK defined benefit pension schemes, all future increases to pensionable salary will be capped each year at the lower of: Retail Prices Index inflation: each employees actual percentage increase in pay: and 2 per cent of pensionable pay.
In addition to this, during the second half of 2010 there was a change in the commutation factors in certain defined benefit schemes.
The combined effect of these changes was a reduction in the Groups defined benefit obligation of 1,081 million and a reduction in the Groups unrecognised actuarial losses of 171 million, resulting in a net curtailment gain of 910 million recognised in the income statement in 2010 and an equivalent reduction in the balance sheet liability.
Defined contribution schemes The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension schemes in the UK and overseas, principally the defined contribution sections of the Lloyds TSB Group Pension Schemes Nos 1 and 2.
During the year ended 31 December 2011 the charge to the income statement in respect of defined contribution schemes was 202 million 2010: 173 million: 2009: 208 million, representing the contributions payable by the employer in accordance with each schemes rules.
Other post-retirement benefit schemes The Group operates a number of schemes which provide postretirement healthcare benefits and concessionary mortgages to certain employees, retired employees and their dependants.
The principal scheme relates to former Lloyds Bank staff and under this scheme the Group has undertaken to meet the cost of postretirement healthcare for all eligible former employees and their dependants who retired prior to 1 January 1996.
The Group has entered into an insurance contract to provide these benefits and a provision has been made for the estimated cost of future insurance premiums payable.
For the principal postretirement healthcare scheme, the latest actuarial valuation of the liability was carried out at 30 June 2008: this valuation has been updated to 31 December 2011 by qualified independent actuaries.
The principal assumptions used were as set out above, except that the rate of increase in healthcare premiums has been assumed at 6.61per cent 2010: 7.54 per cent.
Amount included in the balance sheet: 2011 2010 m m Present value of unfunded obligations 188 175 Unrecognised actuarial losses 14 9 Retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet 174 166 Movements in the other postretirement benefits obligation: 2011 2010 m m At 1 January 175 170 Exchange and other adjustments 5 2 Insurance premiums paid 5 5 Charge for the year 13 12 At 31 December 188 175 Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 280 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 44: Deferred tax The movement in the net deferred tax balance is as follows: 2011 2010 m m Asset at 1 January 3,917 4,797 Exchange and other adjustments 3 68 Disposals 10 Income statement credit charge note 16 : Due to change in UK corporation tax rate 404 137 Other 1,525 534 1,121 671 Amount charged credited to equity: Availableforsale financial assets note 49 574 330 Cash flow hedges note 49 270 33 Sharebased compensation 25 20 869 277 Asset at 31 December 4,182 3,917 The statutory position reflects the deferred tax assets and liabilities as disclosed in the consolidated balance sheet and takes account of the inability to offset assets and liabilities where there is no legally enforceable right of offset.
The tax disclosure of deferred tax assets and liabilities ties to the amounts outlined in the table below which splits the deferred tax assets and liabilities by type.
2011 2010 2011 2010 Statutory position m m Tax disclosure m m Deferred tax assets 4,496 4,164 Deferred tax assets 7,995 8,513 Deferred tax liabilities 314 247 Deferred tax liabilities 3,813 4,596 Asset at 31 December 4,182 3,917 Asset at 31 December 4,182 3,917 Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 281 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 44: Deferred tax continued The deferred tax credit charge in the income statement comprises the following temporary differences: 2011 2010 2009 m m m Accelerated capital allowances 319 470 1,039 Pensions and other postretirement benefits 153 391 199 Longterm assurance business 596 110 188 Allowances for impairment losses 56 73 128 Trading losses 55 873 4,000 Tax on fair value of acquired assets 107 715 2,022 Other temporary differences 577 69 117 Deferred tax credit charge in the income statement 1,121 671 2,619 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are comprised as follows: 2011 2010 m m Deferred tax assets: Pensions and other postretirement benefits 33 Allowances for impairment losses 559 612 Other provisions 218 231 Derivatives 221 Availableforsale asset revaluation 288 519 Tax losses carried forward 5,862 6,572 Other temporary differences 1,068 325 Total deferred tax assets 7,995 8,513 2011 2010 m m Deferred tax liabilities: Accelerated capital allowances 243 562 Longterm assurance business 980 1,630 Pensions and other postretirement benefits 120 Tax on fair value of acquired assets 1,890 2,097 Effective interest rates 45 74 Other temporary differences 535 233 Total deferred tax liabilities 3,813 4,596 Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 282 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 44: Deferred tax continued On 23 March 2011, the Government announced that the corporation tax rate applicable from 1 April 2011 would be 26 per cent.
This change passed into legislation on 29 March 2011.
In addition, the Finance Act 2011, which passed into law on 19 July 2011, included legislation to reduce the main rate of corporation tax from 26 per cent to 25 per cent with effect from 1 April 2012.
The change in the main rate of corporation tax from 27 per cent to 25 per cent has resulted in a reduction in the Groups net deferred tax asset at 31 December 2011 of 394 million, comprising the 404 million charge included in the income statement and a 10 million credit included in equity.
The proposed further reductions in the rate of corporation tax by 1 per cent per annum to 23 per cent by 1 April 2014 are expected to be enacted separately each year.
The effect of these further changes upon the Groups deferred tax balances and leasing business cannot be reliably estimated at this stage.
Deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable.
Group companies have recognised deferred tax assets of 5,862million 2010: 6,572 million in relation to trading tax losses carried forward.
After reviews of mediumterm profit forecasts, the Group considers that there will be sufficient profits in the future against which these losses will be offset see note 3.
Deferred tax assets of 384 million 31 December 2010: 396 million have not been recognised in respect of capital losses carried forward as there are no predicted future capital profits.
Capital losses can be carried forward indefinitely.
Deferred tax assets of 733 million 31 December 2010: 227 million have not been recognised in respect of trading losses carried forward, mainly in certain overseas companies and in respect of other temporary differences in the insurance businesses.
Trading losses can be carried forward indefinitely, except losses in Spain which expire after 18 years.
In addition, deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of unrelieved foreign tax carried forward as at 31 December 2011 of 171 million 31 December 2010: 62 million, as there are no predicted future taxable profits against which the unrelieved foreign tax credits can be utilised.
These tax credits can be carried forward indefinitely.
Deferred tax liabilities Scottish Widows plc has a taxable difference of 152 million 2010: 152 million in respect of its holding of a life insurance subsidiary.
No deferred tax liability is required to be recognised in respect of this taxable temporary difference as Scottish Widows plc does not intend to dispose of this subsidiary company.
Note 45: Other provisions Customer Customer Vacant Provisions for remediation goodwill leasehold commitments provisions payments property Other Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2011 154 344 500 146 388 1,532 Exchange and other adjustments 14 51 21 79 95 Provisions applied 4 1,280 497 56 1,837 Release charge for the year 55 3,381 15 35 3,376 At 31 December 2011 81 2,496 3 140 446 3,166 Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 283 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 45: Other provisions continued Provisions for commitments Provisions are held in cases where the Group is irrevocably committed to advance additional funds, but where there is doubt as to the customers ability to meet its repayment obligations.
Customer remediation provisions Payment protection insurance There has been extensive scrutiny of the Payment Protection Insurance PPI market in recent years.
In October 2010, the UK Competition Commission confirmed its decision to prohibit the active sale of PPI by a distributor to a customer within seven days of a sale of credit.
This followed the completion of its formal investigation into the supply of PPI services other than store card PPI to nonbusiness customers in the UK in January 2009 and a referral of the proposed prohibition to the Competition Appeal Tribunal.
The Competition Commission consulted on the wording of a draft Order to implement its findings from October 2010, and published the final Order on 24 March 2011 which became effective on 6 April 2011.
Following an earlier decision to stop selling single premium PPI products, the Group ceased to offer PPI products to its customers in July 2010.
On 29 September 2009 the FSA announced that several firms had agreed to carry out reviews of past sales of single premium loan protection insurance.
Lloyds Banking Group agreed in principle that it would undertake a review in relation to sales of single premium loan protection insurance made through its branch network since 1 July 2007.
That review will now form part of the ongoing PPI work referred to below.
On 1 July 2008, the Financial Ombudsman Service FOS referred concerns regarding the handling of PPI complaints to the Financial Services Authority FSA as an issue of wider implication.
On 29 September 2009 and 9 March 2010, the FSA issued consultation papers on PPI complaints handling.
The FSA published its Policy Statement on 10 August 2010, setting out evidential provisions and guidance on the fair assessment of a complaint and the calculation of redress, as well as a requirement for firms to reassess historically rejected complaints which had to be implemented by 1 December 2010.
On 8 October 2010, the British Bankers Association BBA, the principal trade association for the UK banking and financial services sector, filed an application for permission to seek judicial review against the FSA and the FOS.
The BBA sought an order quashing the FSA Policy Statement and an order quashing the decision of the FOS to determine PPI sales in accordance with the guidance published on its website in November 2008.
The Judicial Review hearing was held in late January 2011 and on 20 April 2011 judgment was handed down by the High Court dismissing the BBAs application.
On 9 May 2011, the BBA confirmed that the banks and the BBA did not intend to appeal the judgment.
After publication of the judgment, the Group entered into discussions with the FSA with a view to seeking clarity around the detailed implementation of the Policy Statement.
As a result, and given the initial analysis that the Group has conducted of compliance with applicable sales standards, which is continuing, the Group has concluded that there are certain circumstances where customer contact and or redress will be appropriate.
Accordingly the Group has made a provision in its financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 of 3,200 million in respect of the anticipated costs of such contact and or redress, including administration expenses.
During 2011, the Group made redress payments of 1,045 million to customers.
The Group anticipates that all claims will have been settled by 2015.
However, there are still a number of uncertainties as to the eventual costs from any such contact and or redress given the inherent difficulties of assessing the impact of the detailed implementation of the Policy Statement for all PPI complaints, uncertainties around the ultimate emergence period for complaints, the availability of supporting evidence and the activities of claims management companies, all of which will significantly affect complaints volumes, uphold rates and redress costs.
Litigation in relation to insurance branch business in Germany During the year ended 31 December 2011 the Group has recognised a provision of 175 million in respect of litigation involving Clerical Medical Investment Group Limited in Germany.
Further details are provided in note 54.
Other The Group establishes provisions for the estimated cost of making redress payments to customers in respect of past product sales, in those cases where the original sales processes have been found to be deficient.
During 2011 management has again reviewed the adequacy of the provisions held having regard to current complaint volumes and the level of payments being made.
At 31 December 2011 the remaining such provisions held relate to past sales of a number of products, including mortgage endowment policies, sold through the branch networks.
Customer goodwill payments Following discussions with the FSA regarding the application of an interest rate variation clause in certain Bank of Scotland plc variable rate mortgage contracts Bank of Scotland plc applied for a Voluntary Variation of Permission VVOP in February 2011 and agreed to initiate a customer review and contact programme and to make goodwill payments to affected customers.
The Group made a provision of 500 million within its 2010 accounts in respect of this matter.
Since that time further information has become available which has resulted in Bank of Scotland plc applying for, and being granted, an amended VVOP by the FSA in November 2011.
No additional charge is required at this time.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 284 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 45: Other provisions continued Vacant leasehold property Vacant leasehold property provisions are made by reference to a prudent estimate of expected sublet income, compared to the head rent, and the possibility of disposing of the Groups interest in the lease, taking into account conditions in the property market.
These provisions are reassessed on a biannual basis and will normally run off over the period of underrecovery of the leases concerned, currently averaging three years: where a property is disposed of earlier than anticipated, any remaining balance in the provision relating to that property is released.
Other Provisions are made for staff and other costs related to Group restructuring initiatives at the point at which the Group becomes irrevocably committed to the expenditure.
Other provisions include those arising out of the insolvency of a third party insurer, which remains exposed to asbestos and pollution claims in the US.
The ultimate cost and timing of payments are uncertain.
The provision held of 38 million at 31 December 2011 represents management's current best estimate of the cost after having regard to actuarial estimates of future losses.
Note 46: Subordinated liabilities 2011 2010 m m Preference shares 1,216 1,165 Preferred securities 4,893 4,538 Undated subordinated liabilities 1,949 2,002 Enhanced Capital Notes 9,085 9,235 Dated subordinated liabilities 17,946 19,292 Total subordinated liabilities 35,089 36,232 These securities will, in the event of the windingup of the issuer, be subordinated to the claims of depositors and all other creditors of the issuer, other than creditors whose claims rank equally with, or are junior to, the claims of the holders of the subordinated liabilities.
The subordination of specific subordinated liabilities is determined in respect of the issuer and any guarantors of that liability.
The claims of holders of preference shares and preferred securities are generally junior to those of the holders of undated subordinated liabilities, which in turn are junior to the claims of holders of the dated subordinated liabilities.
The subordination of the dated Enhanced Capital Notes ranks equally with that of the dated subordinated liabilities.
The Group has not had any defaults of principal, interest or other breaches with respect to its subordinated liabilities during the year 2010: none.
No repayment or purchase by the issuer of the subordinated liabilities may be made prior to their stated maturity without the consent of the Financial Services Authority.
Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 285 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 46: Subordinated liabilities continued The movement in subordinated liabilities during the year was as follows: m At 1 January 2011 36,232 Issued during the year 2,302 Repurchases and redemptions during the year 4,021 Foreign exchange and other movements 576 At 31 December 2011 35,089 During December 2011, the Group completed the exchange of certain subordinated debt securities issued by Lloyds TSB Bank plc and HBOS plc for new subordinated debt securities issued by Lloyds TSB Bank plc by undertaking an exchange offer on certain securities which were eligible for call before December 2012.
This exchange resulted in a gain on the extinguishment of the existing securities of 599 million being the difference between the carrying amount of the securities extinguished and the fair value of the new securities issued together with related fees and costs.
2011 2010 Note m m Preference shares 6% Noncumulative Redeemable Preference Shares a 7.875% Noncumulative Preference Shares callable 2013 US$1,250 million b 249 277 7.875% Noncumulative Preference Shares callable 2013 e500 million b 150 182 6.0884% Noncumulative Fixed to Floating Rate Preference Shares callable 2015 745 million b 10 9 5.92% Noncumulative Fixed to Floating Rate Preference Shares callable 2015 US$750 million b 11 9 6.267% Noncumulative Fixed to Floating Rate Preference Shares callable 2016 US$1,000 million b 301 269 6.3673% Noncumulative Fixed to Floating Rate Preference Shares callable 2019 335 million b 2 2 6.475% Noncumulative Preference Shares callable 2024 186 million b 38 34 6.413% Noncumulative Fixed to Floating Rate Preference Shares callable 2035 US$750 million b 131 113 6.657% Noncumulative Fixed to Floating Rate Preference Shares callable 2037 US$750 million b 26 5 9.25% Noncumulative Irredeemable Preference Shares 300 million b 262 235 9.75% Noncumulative Irredeemable Preference Shares 100 million b 36 30 Total preference shares 1,216 1,165 a Since 2004, the Company has had in issue 400 6 per cent noncumulative preference shares of 25p each.
The shares, which are redeemable at the option of the Company at any time, carry the rights to a fixed rate noncumulative preferential dividend of 6 per cent per annum: no dividend shall be payable in the event that the directors determine that prudent capital ratios would not be maintained if the dividend were paid.
Upon winding up, the shares rank equally with any other preference shares issued by the Company.
The holder of the 400 25p 6 per cent preference shares has waived its right to payment for the period from 1 March 2010 to 1 March 2012. b In November 2009, as part of the state aid restructuring plan, the Group agreed to suspend the payment of coupons on these instruments for the two year period from 31 January 2010 to 31 January 2012.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 286 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 46: Subordinated liabilities continued 2011 2010 Note m m Preferred securities 6.90% Perpetual Capital Securities US$1,000 million b 247 249 6.85% Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Securities US$1,000 million b 316 107 8.117% Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Securities Class A 250 million b, c 260 253 7.627% Fixed to Floating Rate Guaranteed Nonvoting Noncumulative Preferred Securities e415 million b, d 340 308 7.375% Euro Stepup Nonvoting Noncumulative Preferred Securities callable 2012 e430 million a 16 16 6.35% Stepup Perpetual Capital Securities callable 2013 e500 million 239 241 6.071% Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Securities US$750 million 389 336 7.834% Sterling Stepup Nonvoting Noncumulative Preferred Securities callable 2015 250 million a 5 4 4.939% Nonvoting Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Securities e750 million a 20 17 7.286% Perpetual Regulatory Tier One Securities Series A 150 million 112 119 4.385% Stepup Perpetual Capital Securities callable 2017 e750 million a 88 85 6.461% Guaranteed Nonvoting Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Securities 600 million 444 421 13% Stepup Perpetual Capital Securities callable 2019 785 million a 12 10 13% Stepup Perpetual Capital Securities callable 2019 e532 million a 47 56 7.754% Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Securities Class B 150 million 104 98 12% Fixed to Floating Rate Perpetual Tier 1 Capital Securities callable 2024 US$2,000 million 1,301 1,288 7.281% Perpetual Regulatory Tier One Securities Series B 150 million 113 95 13% Stepup Perpetual Capital Securities callable 2029 700 million a 612 662 7.881% Guaranteed Nonvoting Noncumulative Preferred Securities 245 million 228 173 Total preferred securities 4,893 4,538 a In November 2009, as part of the state aid restructuring plan, the Group agreed to suspend the payment of coupons on these instruments for the two year period from 31 January 2010 to 31 January 2012. b These securities are callable at specific dates as per the terms of the securities at the option of the issuer and with approval from the FSA.
In November 2009, as part of the state aid restructuring plan, the Group agreed not to exercise any call options on these instruments for the two year period from 31 January 2010 to 31 January 2012. c The fixed rate on this security was reset from 8.117 per cent to 6.059 per cent with effect from 31 May 2010. d The fixed rate on this security was reset from 7.627 per cent to 3 months Euribor plus 2.875 per cent with effect from 9 December 2011.
Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 287 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 46: Subordinated liabilities continued 2011 2010 Note m m Undated subordinated liabilities 6.625% Undated Subordinated Stepup Notes 410 million a, b, c 1 6 Floating Rate Undated Subordinated Stepup Notes e300 million b, e 10 63 6.05% Fixed to Floating Rate Undated Subordinated Notes e500 million b, d, e 4 57 5.375% Undated Fixed to Floating Rate Subordinated Notes US$1,000 million a 12 12 8.625% Perpetual Subordinated Notes 200 million a 24 21 4.875% Undated Subordinated Fixed to Floating Rate Instruments e750 million a 75 65 Floating Rate Undated Subordinated Notes e500 million a 45 42 4.25% Perpetual Fixed to Floating Rate Reset Subordinated Guaranteed Notes e750 million Clerical Medical Finance plc 231 215 10.25% Subordinated Undated Instruments 100 million a 1 1 5.125% Stepup Perpetual Subordinated Notes callable 2015 560 million Scottish Widows plc 554 550 5.125% Undated Subordinated Fixed to Floating Notes e750 million a 52 47 7.5% Undated Subordinated Stepup Notes 300 million 5 3 5.125% Undated Subordinated Stepup Notes callable 2016 500 million a 2 6.5% Undated Subordinated Stepup Notes callable 2019 270 million a 1 7.375% Undated Subordinated Guaranteed Bonds 200 million Clerical Medical Finance plc 36 35 5.625% Cumulative Callable Fixed to Floating Rate Undated Subordinated Notes callable 2019 500 million a 12% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds 100 million a 30 21 5.75% Undated Subordinated Stepup Notes 600 million 3 3 7.375% Subordinated Undated Instruments 150 million a 1 8.75% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds 100 million a 4 4 8% Undated Subordinated Stepup Notes callable 2023 200 million a 9.375% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds 50 million a 17 16 5.75% Undated Subordinated Stepup Notes 500 million 3 3 6.5% Undated Subordinated Stepup Notes callable 2029 450 million a 6% Undated Subordinated Stepup Guaranteed Bonds callable 2032 500 million a 11 10 Floating Rate Primary Capital Notes US$250 million a, b 118 118 Primary Capital Undated Floating Rate Notes: Series 1 US$750 million a, b 175 173 a, b 183 181 Series 2 US$500 million Series 3 US$600 million a, b 235 232 13.625% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds 75 million a 16 20 11.75% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds 100 million 102 102 Total undated subordinated liabilities 1,949 2,002 a In November 2009, as part of the state aid restructuring plan, the Group agreed to suspend the payment of coupons on these instruments for the two year period from 31 January 2010 to 31 January 2012. b These securities are callable at specific dates as per the terms of the securities at the option of the issuer and with approval from the FSA.
In November 2009, as part of the state aid restructuring plan, the Group agreed not to exercise any call options on these instruments for the two year period from 31 January 2010 to 31 January 2012. c The fixed rate on this security was reset from 6.625 per cent to 4.64821 per cent with effect from 15 July 2010. d The fixed rate on this security was reset from 6.05 per cent to 3 month Euribor plus 2.25 per cent with effect from 23 November 2011. e Following an exchange, on 1 December 2011, certain holders elected to exchange some or all of the notes they held for dated subordinated liabilities issued by Lloyds TSB Bank plc.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 288 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 46: Subordinated liabilities continued With the exception of the two series identified in note b, the ECNs were issued in lower tier 2 format and are convertible into ordinary shares on the breach of a defined trigger.
The trigger on the ECNs offered in the exchange will be if the published core tier 1 ratio of the Group falls below 5 per cent as defined by the Financial Services Authority in May 2009.
2011 2010 Note m m Enhanced Capital Notes 7.625% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2019 151 million 142 142 8.125% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2019 4 million 4 4 9% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2019 97 million 98 103 7.8673% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2019 331 million 330 336 15% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2019 775 million 1,120 1,145 15% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2019 e487 million 601 635 8.875% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2020 e125 million 107 116 9.334% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2020 208 million 232 233 7.375% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2020 e95 million 79 82 Floating Rate Enhanced Capital Notes due 2020 e53 million a 38 41 7.875% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2020 US$408 million 313 288 11.04% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2020 736 million 861 872 7.5884% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2020 732 million 681 694 6.385% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2020 e662 million 503 525 6.439% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2020 e711 million 548 562 8% Fixed to Floating Rate Undated Enhanced Capital Notes callable 2020 US$1,259 million b 687 674 9.125% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2020 148 million 157 158 12.75% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2020 57 million 73 75 7.869% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2020 597 million 588 589 7.625% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2020 e226 million 184 189 7.875% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2020 US$986 million 629 631 11.125% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2020 39 million 44 45 8.5% Undated Enhanced Capital Notes callable 2021 US$277 million b 153 150 14.5% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2022 79 million 114 115 9.875% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2023 57 million 63 67 11.25% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2023 95 million 106 115 10.5% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2023 69 million 67 79 11.875% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2024 35 million 45 45 7.975% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2024 102 million 96 98 16.125% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2024 61 million 97 99 15% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2029 68 million 108 111 9% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2029 107 million 112 112 8.5% Enhanced Capital Notes due 2032 104 million 105 105 Total Enhanced Capital Notes 9,085 9,235 a Interest is payable quarterly in arrears at a rate of 3 month EURIBOR plus 3.1 per cent per annum.
b Issued in upper tier 2 format.
Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 289 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 46: Subordinated liabilities continued 2011 20010 Note m m Dated subordinated liabilities 9.125% Subordinated Bonds 2011 150 million 147 12% Guaranteed Subordinated Bonds 2011 100 million a 109 6.50% Notes 2011 US$150 million 99 4.75% Subordinated Notes 2011 e850 million 764 Subordinated Stepup Floating Rate Notes 2016 e500 million b, c 179 432 Subordinated Stepup Floating Rate Notes 2016 300 million b, c 184 296 Callable Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016 e500 million b, c 88 401 Callable Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016 e500 million b, c 124 417 Subordinated Callable Notes 2016 US$750 million b, c 191 440 Subordinated Callable Notes 2017 callable 2012 e1,000 million c 219 758 6.75% Subordinated Callable Fixed to Floating Rate Instruments 2017 callable 2012 Aus$200 million c 5 127 Subordinated Callable Floating Rate Instruments 2017 callable 2012 Aus$400 million c 38 255 5.109% Callable Fixed to Floating Rate Notes 2017 callable 2012 Can$500 million c 8 305 6.25% Instruments 2012 e12.8 million 8 10 Subordinated Callable Notes 2017 callable 2012 US$1,000 million c 192 548 6.305% Subordinated Callable Fixed to Floating Rate Notes 2017 callable 2012 500 million c 22 486 5.50% Subordinated Fixed Rate Notes 2012 e750 million 640 657 6.125% Notes 2013 e325 million 283 289 5.625% Subordinated Fixed to Floating Rate Notes due 2018 callable 2013 e1,000 million 902 946 4.25% Subordinated Guaranteed Notes 2013 US$1,000 million 636 619 6.45% Fixed to Floating Subordinated Guaranteed Bonds 2023 e400 million Clerical Medical Finance plc 176 173 11% Subordinated Bonds 2014 250 million 290 297 5.875% Subordinated Notes 2014 150 million 154 149 5.875% Subordinated Guaranteed Bonds 2014 e750 million 713 739 4.375% Callable Fixed to Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2019 e750 million 621 600 4.875% Subordinated Notes 2015 e1,000 million 854 838 6.625% Subordinated Notes 2015 350 million 357 343 6.9625% Callable Subordinated Fixed to Floating Rate Notes 2020 callable 2015 750 million 725 715 11.875% Subordinated Fixed to Fixed Rate Notes 2021 callable 2016 e1,147 million d 977 10.75% Subordinated Fixed to Fixed Rate Notes 2021 callable 2016 466 million d 467 9.875% Subordinated Fixed to Fixed Rate Notes 2021 callable 2016 US$568 million d 368 10.125% Subordinated Fixed to Fixed Rate Notes 2021 callable 2016 Can$387 million d 246 13% Subordinated Fixed to Fixed Rate Notes 2021 callable 2016 Aus$417 million d 276 10.5% Subordinated Bonds 2018 150 million 177 171 6.75% Subordinated Fixed Rate Notes 2018 US$2,000 million 1,205 1,176 6.375% Subordinated Instruments 2019 250 million 274 236 6.5% Dated Subordinated Notes 2020 e1,500 million 1,407 1,353 7.375% Dated Subordinated Notes 2020 3 4 5.75% Subordinated Fixed to Floating Rate Notes 2025 callable 2020 350 million 367 324 6.5% Subordinated Fixed Rate Notes 2020 US$2,000 million 1,360 1,202 Subordinated Floating Rate Notes 2020 e100 million 87 86 9.375% Subordinated Bonds 2021 500 million 709 647 5.374% Subordinated Fixed Rate Notes 2021 e160 million 150 139 9.625% Subordinated Bonds 2023 300 million 319 332 7.07% Subordinated Fixed Rate Notes 2023 e175 million 174 162 4.50% Fixed Rate Stepup Subordinated Notes due 2030 e750 million 463 463 7.625% Dated Subordinated Notes 2025 750 million 876 763 6% Subordinated Notes 2033 US$750 million 432 275 Total dated subordinated liabilities 17,946 19,292 a Issued by a group undertaking under the Companys subordinated guarantee.
b These securities are callable at specific dates as per the terms of the securities at the option of the issuer and with approval of the FSA.
In November 2009, as part of the state aid restructuring plan, the Group agreed not to exercise any call options on these instruments for the two year period from 31 January 2010 to 31 January 2012.
The interest rate payable on these securities reset during 2011. c Following an exchange, on 1 December 2011, certain holders elected to exchange some or all of the notes they held for new dated subordinated liabilities issued by Lloyds TSB Bank plc.
d These securities were issued in December 2011 as a result of an exchange offer.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 290 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 47: Share capital 1 Authorised share capital As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, the Company removed references to authorised share capital from its articles of association at the annual general meeting on 5 June 2009.
This change took effect from 1 October 2009.
2 Issued and fully paid share capital 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 Number of shares Number of shares Number of shares m m m Ordinary shares of 10p formerly 25p each At 1 January 68,074,129,454 63,774,511,536 5,972,855,669 6,807 6,378 1,493 Issued on redemption of preference shares and other subordinated liabilities in 2010 4,299,422,579 429 Placing and open offer 2,596,653,203 649 Issued on acquisition of HBOS 7,775,694,993 1,944 Capitalisation issue 407,943,501 102 Placing and compensatory open offer 10,408,535,000 2,602 Subdivision 4,074 Rights issue 36,505,088,579 3,651 Issued to the Lloyds TSB Foundations 107,740,591 11 Issued under employee share schemes 652,497,658 195,339 66 At 31 December 68,726,627,112 68,074,129,454 63,774,511,536 6,873 6,807 6,378 Limited voting ordinary shares of 10p formerly 25p each At 1 January 80,921,051 80,921,051 78,947,368 8 8 20 Capitalisation issue 1,973,683 Subdivision 12 At 31 December 80,921,051 80,921,051 80,921,051 8 8 8 Deferred shares of 15p each At 1 January 27,242,603,417 4,086 Subdivision of ordinary shares 27,161,682,366 4,074 Subdivision of limited voting ordinary shares 80,921,051 12 Cancellation of deferred shares 27,242,603,417 4,086 At 31 December 27,242,603,417 4,086 Total issued share capital 6,881 6,815 10,472 On 5 November 2010 the Company cancelled all of its deferred shares and an amount of 4,086 million was credited to the capital redemption reserve.
Share subdivision in 2009 At the general meeting held on 26 November 2009 the Companys shareholders approved the subdivision of the ordinary shares with each ordinary share of 25 pence subdivided into one ordinary share of 10 pence and a deferred share of 15 pence.
In addition, the shareholders approved the subdivision of the limited voting ordinary shares with each share of 25 pence subdivided into one limited voting ordinary share of 10 pence and a deferred share of 15 pence.
Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 291 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 47: Share capital continued Share issuances The shares issued in 2011 were in respect of employee share schemes.
On 18 February 2010, the Company issued 3,141 million ordinary shares as consideration for the redemption of certain preference shares and preferred securities.
During May and June 2010, the Company issued a further 1,158 million ordinary shares in relation to three separate exchanges for preference shares and other subordinated liabilities issued by the Group.
3 Share capital and control There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company other than as set out in the articles of association and: certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by law and regulations for example, insider trading laws : pursuant to the UK Listing Authoritys listing rules where directors and certain employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the Companys shares: and pursuant to the rules of some of the Companys employee share plans where certain restrictions may apply while the shares are subject to the plans.
Where, under an employee share plan operated by the Company, participants are the beneficial owners of shares but not the registered owners, the voting rights are normally exercised by the registered owner at the direction of the participant.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
In addition, the Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
Information regarding significant direct or indirect holdings of shares in the Company can be found on page 175.
The directors have authority to allot and issue ordinary and preference shares and to make market purchases of ordinary and preference shares as granted at the annual general meeting on 18 May 2011.
The authority to issue shares and the authority to make market purchases of shares will expire at the annual general meeting.
Shareholders will be asked, at the annual general meeting, to give similar authorities.
Subject to any rights or restrictions attached to any shares, on a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company every holder of shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote and on a poll every member present and entitled to vote has one vote for every share held.
Further details regarding voting at the annual general meeting can be found in the notes to the notice of the annual general meeting.
Ordinary shares The holders of ordinary shares excluding the limited voting ordinary shares, who held 99.9 per cent of the total ordinary share capital as at 31 December 2011, are entitled to receive the Companys report and accounts, attend, speak and vote at general meetings and appoint proxies to exercise voting rights.
Holders of ordinary shares excluding the limited voting ordinary shares may also receive a dividend subject to the provisions of the Companys articles of association and the restrictions noted below and on a winding up may share in the assets of the Company.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 292 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 47: Share capital continued In November 2009, as part of the restructuring plan that was a requirement for European Commission approval of state aid received by the Group, the Group agreed to suspend the payment of coupons and dividends on certain of the Groups preference shares and preferred securities for the twoyear period from 31 January 2010 to 31 January 2012.
Consequently, the terms of these instruments prevented the Company from making dividend payments on ordinary shares during the year.
Limited voting ordinary shares The limited voting ordinary shares are held by the Lloyds TSB Foundations the Foundations.
The holders of the limited voting ordinary shares, who held 0.1 per cent of the total ordinary share capital as at 31 December 2011, are entitled to receive copies of every circular or other document sent out by the Company to the holders of other ordinary shares.
These shares carry no rights to dividends but rank pari passu with the ordinary shares in respect of other distributions and in the event of winding up.
These shares do not have any right to vote at general meetings other than on resolutions concerning acquisitions or disposals of such importance that they require shareholder consent, or for the winding up of the Company, or for a variation in the class rights of the limited voting ordinary shares.
In the event of an offer for more than 50 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company, each limited voting ordinary share will convert into an ordinary share and shall rank equally with the ordinary shares in all respects from the date of conversion.
Preference shares The Company has in issue various classes of preference shares which are all classified as liabilities under IFRS and details of which are shown in note 46.
Note 48: Share premium account 2011 2010 2009 m m m At 1 January 16,291 14,472 2,096 Issued under employee share schemes 250 Shares issued on redemption and exchange of preference shares 1 and other subordinated liabilities 1,808 Capitalisation issue 102 Placing and Compensatory Open Offer of ordinary shares 1,303 2 Transfer to merger reserve 1,000 Rights issue 9,461 Issued to Lloyds TSB Foundations 30 3 Redemption of preference shares 11 2,684 At 31 December 16,541 16,291 14,472 1 On 18 February 2010, the Company issued 3,141 million ordinary shares as consideration for the redemption of certain preference shares and preferred securities: and during May and June 2010, the Company issued a further 1,158 million ordinary shares in relation to three separate exchanges for preference shares and other subordinated liabilities issued by the Group.
A total share premium of 1,808 million was recorded in respect of these transactions.
2 Distributable reserves of 1,000 million arose on the issue of preference shares in January 2009 which were classified as debt.
In June 2009, these preference shares were redeemed out of the proceeds of the placing and compensatory open offer of ordinary shares and the distributable element of this issue was transferred from the share premium account to the merger reserve.
3 In January 2010, the Company repurchased and cancelled certain preference shares amounting to 14 million.
This resulted in a transfer of 3 million from the merger reserve to the capital redemption reserve and a transfer of 11 million from the merger reserve to the share premium account.
In December 2009, the Group redeemed eight issues of preference shares in exchange for the issuance of Enhanced Capital Notes.
This resulted in a transfer of 26 million from the merger reserve to the capital redemption reserve and a transfer of 2,684 million from the merger reserve to the share premium account.
Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 293 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 49: Other reserves 2011 2010 2009 m m m Other reserves comprise: Merger reserve 8,107 8,107 8,121 Capital redemption reserve 4,115 4,115 26 Revaluation reserve in respect of availableforsale financial assets 1,326 285 783 Cash flow hedging reserve 325 391 305 Foreign currency translation reserve 55 29 158 At 31 December 13,818 11,575 7,217 The merger reserve primarily comprises the premium on shares issued on 13 January 2009 under the placing and open offer and shares issued on 16 January 2009 on the acquisition of HBOS plc.
The capital redemption reserve represents transfers from the merger reserve in accordance with companies legislation and amounts transferred from share capital following the cancellation of the deferred shares.
The revaluation reserve in respect of availableforsale financial assets represents the cumulative after tax unrealised change in the fair value of financial assets classified as availableforsale since initial recognition, or in the case of availableforsale financial assets obtained on acquisitions of businesses, since the date of acquisition.
The cash flow hedging reserve represents the cumulative after tax gains and losses on effective cash flow hedging instruments that will be reclassified to the income statement in the periods in which the hedged item affects profit or loss.
The foreign currency translation reserve represents the cumulative aftertax gains and losses on the translation of foreign operations and exchange differences arising on financial instruments designated as hedges of the Groups net investment in foreign operations.
Movements in other reserves were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 m m m Merger reserve At 1 January 8,107 8,121 343 Placing and open offer 3,781 Shares issued on acquisition of HBOS 5,707 1 Issue of preference shares 1,000 2 Redemption of preference shares 14 2,710 At 31 December 8,107 8,107 8,121 2011 2010 2009 m m m Capital redemption reserve At 1 January 4,115 26 Cancellation of deferred shares note 47 4,086 2 Redemption of preference shares 3 26 At 31 December 4,115 4,115 26 1 Distributable reserves of 1,000 million arose on the issue of preference shares in January 2009 which were classified as debt.
In June 2009, these preference shares were redeemed out of the proceeds of the placing and compensatory open offer of ordinary shares and the distributable element of this issue was transferred to the merger reserve.
2 In January 2010, the Company repurchased and cancelled certain preference shares amounting to 14 million.
Details of the preference shares repurchased are set out in note 46.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 294 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 49: Other reserves continued 2011 2010 2009 m m m Revaluation reserve in respect of available-for-sale financial assets At 1 January 285 783 2,851 Change in fair value of availableforsale financial assets 2,603 1,231 2,035 Change in fair value attributable to noncontrolling interests 1 Deferred tax 673 460 276 Current tax 8 2 1,930 763 1,756 Income statement transfers: Disposals note 9 343 399 97 Deferred tax 30 106 23 313 293 74 Impairment 80 114 621 Deferred tax 29 5 168 109 109 453 Other transfers 155 110 93 Deferred tax 40 29 26 115 81 67 At 31 December 1,326 285 783 2011 2010 2009 m m m Cash flow hedging reserve At 1 January 391 305 15 Change in fair value of hedging derivatives 916 1,048 530 Deferred tax 257 272 148 Current tax 3 659 779 382 Income statement transfer note 5 70 932 121 Deferred tax 13 239 29 57 693 92 At 31 December 325 391 305 2011 2010 2009 m m m Foreign currency translation reserve At 1 January 29 158 178 Currency translation differences arising in the year 58 33 652 Foreign currency losses on net investment hedges 26 162 814 Current tax 176 Deferred tax 358 26 162 632 At 31 December 55 29 158 Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 295 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 50: Retained profits 2011 2010 2009 m m m At 1 January 11,380 11,117 8,129 Loss profit for the year 2,787 320 2,827 Movement in treasury shares 276 20 10 Value of employee services: Share option schemes 125 154 116 Other employee award schemes 238 409 35 At 31 December 8,680 11,380 11,117 Retained profits are stated after deducting 33 million 2010: 47 million: 2009: 48 million representing 58million 2010 and 2009: 49 million treasury shares held.
Note 51: Ordinary dividends No dividends were paid on ordinary shares during 2010 or 2011 and the directors do not propose to pay a final dividend in respect of 2011: in November 2009, as part of the restructuring plan that was a requirement for European Commission approval of state aid received by the Group, the Group agreed to suspend the payment of coupons and dividends on certain of the Groups preference shares and preferred securities, for the two year period from 31 January 2010 to 31 January 2012.
In addition, the trustees of the following holdings of Lloyds Banking Group plc shares in relation to employee share schemes retain the right to receive dividends but chose to waive their entitlement to the dividends on those shares as indicated: the Lloyds Banking Group Share Incentive Plan holding at 31 December 2011: 8,091,460shares, at 31 December 2010: 5,744,722 shares, waived right to all dividends, the Lloyds TSB Group Employee Share Ownership Trust holding at 31 December 2011: 120,085,543shares, at 31 December 2010: 283,109,984 shares, on which it waived right to all dividends and holding at 31 December 2011: 253,052 shares, at 31 December 2010: nil shares, on which it waived right to all but a nominal amount of one penny in total, Lloyds TSB Group Holdings Jersey Limited holding at 31 December 2011: 42,846shares, at 31 December 2010: 42,846 shares, waived right to all but a nominal amount of one penny in total and the Lloyds TSB Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust holding at 31 December 2011: 1,398 shares, at 31 December 2010: 1,398 shares, waived right to all but a nominal amount of one penny in total.
Note 52: Share-based payments Charge to the income statement The charge to the income statement is set out below: 2011 2010 2009 m m m Deferred bonus plan 221 355 18 Executive and SAYE plans: Options granted in the year 13 59 13 Options granted in prior years 130 75 98 143 134 111 Share plans: Shares granted in the year 3 3 26 Shares granted in prior years 9 49 102 12 52 128 Total charge to the income statement 376 541 257 Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 296 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 52: Share-based payments continued During the year ended 31 December 2011 the Group operated the following sharebased payment schemes, all of which are equity settled.
Deferred bonus plans Bonuses in respect of the performance in 2011 of employees within certain of the Groups bonus plans have been recognised in these financial statements in full.
The amounts to be settled in shares are included within the total charge to the income statement detailed above.
Lloyds Banking Group executive share option schemes The executive share option schemes were longterm incentive schemes available to certain senior executives of the Group, with grants usually made annually.
Options were granted within limits set by the rules of the schemes relating to the number of shares under option and the price payable on the exercise of options.
The last grant of executive options was made in August 2005.
These options were granted without a performance multiplier and the maximum limit for the grant of options in normal circumstances was three times annual salary.
Between April 2001 and August 2004, the aggregate value of the award based upon the market price at the date of grant could not exceed four times the executives annual remuneration and, normally, the limit for the grant of options to an executive in any one year would be equal to 1.5 times annual salary with a maximum performance multiplier of 3.5.
Prior to 18 April 2001, the normal limit was equal to one years remuneration and no performance multiplier was applied.
Performance conditions for executive options For options granted up to March 2001 The performance condition was that growth in earnings per share must be equal to the aggregate percentage change in the Retail Prices Index plus three percentage points for each complete year of the relevant period together with a further condition that Lloyds Banking Group plcs ranking based on total shareholder return calculated by reference to both dividends and growth in share price over the relevant period should be in the top fifty companies of the FTSE 100.
The relevant period for the performance conditions began at the end of the financial year preceding the date of grant and continued until the end of the third subsequent year following commencement or, if not met, the end of such later year in which the conditions were met.
Once the conditions were satisfied the options remained exercisable without further conditions.
If they were not satisfied by the tenth anniversary of the grant the options would lapse.
For options granted from August 2001 to August 2004 The performance condition was linked to the performance of Lloyds Banking Group plcs total shareholder return calculated by reference to both dividends and growth in share price against a comparator group of 17 companies including Lloyds Banking Group plc.
The performance condition was measured over a three year period which commenced at the end of the financial year preceding the grant of the option and continued until the end of the third subsequent year.
If the performance condition was not then met, it was measured at the end of the fourth financial year.
If the condition was not then met, the options would lapse.
To meet the performance conditions, the Groups ranking against the comparator group was required to be at least ninth.
The full grant of options only became exercisable if the Group was ranked first.
A performance multiplier of between nil and 100 per cent was applied below this level to calculate the number of shares in respect of which options granted to Executive Directors would become exercisable, and were calculated on a sliding scale.
If Lloyds Banking Group plc was ranked below median the options would not be exercisable.
Options granted to senior executives other than Executive Directors were not so highly leveraged and, as a result, different performance multipliers were applied to their options.
For the majority of executives, options were granted with the performance condition but with no performance multiplier.
Options granted in 2004 became exercisable as the performance condition was met on the retest.
The performance condition vested at 14 per cent for Executive Directors, 24 per cent for Managing Directors, and 100 per cent for all other executives.
For options granted in 2005 The same conditions applied as for grants made up to August 2004, except that: the performance condition was linked to the performance of Lloyds Banking Group plcs total shareholder return calculated by reference to both dividends and growth in share price against a comparator group of 15 companies including Lloyds Banking Group plc: if the performance condition was not met at the end of the third subsequent year, the options would lapse: and the full grant of options became exercisable only if the Group was ranked in the top four places of the comparator group.
A sliding scale applied between fourth and eighth positions.
If Lloyds Banking Group was ranked below the median ninth or below the options would lapse.
Options granted in 2005 became exercisable as the performance condition was met when tested.
The performance condition vested at 82.5 per cent for all options granted.
Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 297 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 52: Share-based payments continued Movements in the number of share options outstanding under the executive share option schemes during 2010 and 2011 are set out below: 2011 2010 Weighted average Weighted average Number of exercise price Number of exercise price options pence options pence Outstanding at 1 January 13,363,301 233.09 8,784,978 476.56 Rebasement adjustment 7,523,547 26.43 Exercised Forfeited 2,140,790 225.91 2,945,224 296.36 Lapsed 1,047,642 324.92 Outstanding at 31 December 10,174,869 225.15 13,363,301 233.09 Exercisable at 31 December 10,174,869 225.15 13,363,301 233.09 No options were exercised during 2011 or 2010.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of options outstanding at the end of the year was 2.9 years 2010: 3.6 years.
Save-As-You-Earn schemes Eligible employees may enter into contracts through the SaveAsYouEarn schemes to save up to 250 per month and, at the expiry of a fixed term of three, five or seven years, have the option to use these savings within six months of the expiry of the fixed term to acquire shares in the Group at a discounted price of no less than 80 per cent of the market price at the start of the invitation.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of options outstanding at the end of the year was 1.7years 2010: 2.7 years.
No SAYE options were granted in 2011.
The weighted average fair value of SAYE options granted during 2010 was 0.33.
The values for the SAYE options have been determined using a standard BlackScholes model.
For the HBOS sharesave plan, no options were exercised during 2011 or 2010.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2011 had an exercise price of 1.8066 2010: 1.8066 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 2.0 years 2010: 2.9 years.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 298 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 52: Share-based payments continued Other share option plans Lloyds Banking Group executive share plan 2003 The plan was adopted in December 2003 and under the plan share options may be granted to senior employees.
Options under this plan have been granted specifically to facilitate recruitment and as such were not subject to any performance conditions.
The plans usage has now been extended to not only compensate new recruits for any lost share awards but also to make grants to key individuals for retention purposes with, in some instances, the grant being made subject to individual performance conditions.
2011 2010 Weighted average Weighted average Number of exercise price Number of exercise price options pence options pence Outstanding at 1 January 47,694,757 Nil 26,099,185 Nil Granted 16,395,016 Nil 13,429,561 Nil Rebasement adjustment 12,501,246 Nil Exercised 7,591,526 Nil 2,661,703 Nil Forfeited 3,498,178 Nil 1,673,532 Nil Outstanding at 31 December 53,000,069 Nil 47,694,757 Nil Exercisable at 31 December 2,310,418 Nil Nil The weighted average fair value of options granted in the year was 0.46 2010: 0.63.
The weighted average share price at the time that the options were exercised during 2011 was 0.51 2010: 0.63.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of options outstanding at the end of the year was 2.1years 2010: 2.4 years.
Lloyds Banking Group Share Buy Out Awards As part of arrangements to facilitate the recruitment of certain Executives, options have been granted by individual deed and, where appropriate, in accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
The awards were granted in recognition that the Executives outstanding awards over shares in their previous employing company lapsed on accepting employment with the Group.
Movements in the number of options outstanding are set out below: 2011 Weighted average Number of exercise price options pence Outstanding at 1 January Granted 21,728,172 Nil Exercised 406,935 Nil Outstanding at 31 December 21,321,237 Nil Exercisable at 31 December 2,398,593 Nil The weighted average fair value of options granted in the year was 0.38.
The weighted average share price at the time that the options were exercised during 2011 was 0.54.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of options outstanding at the end of the year was 9.6 years.
Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 299 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 52: Share-based payments continued HBOS share option plans The table below details the outstanding options for the HBOS Share Option Plan and the St Jamess Place Share Option Plan.
The final award under the HBOS Share Option Plan was made in 2004.
Under this plan, options over shares, at market value with a face value equal to 20 per cent of salary, were granted to employees with the exception of certain senior executives.
A separate option plan exists for some partners of St Jamess Place, which granted options in respect of Lloyds Banking Group plc shares.
The final award under the St Jamess Place Share Option Plan was made in 2009.
Movements in the number of share options outstanding under these schemes are set out below: 2011 2010 Weighted average Weighted average Number of exercise price Number of exercise price options pence options pence Outstanding at 1 January 24,695,494 415.70 14,301,748 880.27 Rebasement adjustment 12,899,990 61.23 Forfeited 213,498 253.88 2,506,244 611.90 Lapsed 2,423,444 624.75 Outstanding at 31 December 22,058,552 394.30 24,695,494 415.70 Exercisable at 31 December 14,227,020 582.82 15,320,780 593.79 No options were exercised during 2011 or 2010.
The options outstanding under the HBOS Share Option Plan and St Jamess Place Share Option Plan at 31 December 2011 had exercise prices in the range of 0.5183 to 8.7189 2010: 0.5183 to 8.7189 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 2.0 years 2010: 3.0 years.
Other share plans Lloyds Banking Group long-term incentive plan The LongTerm Incentive Plan LTIP introduced in 2006 is aimed at delivering shareholder value by linking the receipt of shares to an improvement in the performance of the Group over a three year period.
Awards are made within limits set by the rules of the plan, with the limits determining the maximum number of shares that can be awarded equating to three times annual salary.
In exceptional circumstances this may increase to four times annual salary.
The performance conditions for awards made in March, April and August 2008 are as follows: i For 50 per cent of the award the EPS Award the percentage increase in earnings per share of the Group on a compound annualised basis over the relevant period needed to be at least an average of 6 percentage points per annum greater than the percentage increase if any in the Retail Prices Index over the same period.
If it was less than 3 per cent per annum the EPS Award would lapse.
If the increase was more than 3 per cent but less than 6 per cent per annum then the proportion of shares released would be on a straight line basis between 17.5 per cent and 100 per cent.
The relevant period commenced on 1 January 2008 and ended on 31 December 2010. ii For the other 50 per cent of the award the TSR Award it was necessary for the Groups total shareholder return calculated by reference to both dividends and growth in share price to exceed the median of a comparator group 13 companies over the relevant period by an average of 7.5 per cent per annum for the TSR Award to vest in full.
17.5 per cent of the TSR Award would vest where the Groups total shareholder return was equal to median and vesting would occur on a straight line basis in between these points.
Where the Groups total shareholder return was below the median of the comparator group, the TSR Award would lapse.
The relevant period commenced on 6 March 2008 and ended on 5 March 2011.
In 2008, awards were made of 375per cent of base salary to the Group Chief Executive and two of the Executive Directors for retention purposes, and in light of data reviewed by the Remuneration Committee which showed total remuneration to be behind median both for the FTSE 20, and the other major UK banks.
As a consequence of the acquisition of HBOS and the general market turmoil, in March 2009 the Remuneration Committee decided that the performance test for the 2008 awards should be based on the performance of the Group up to 17 September 2008, the date prior to the announcement of the HBOS acquisition.
The performance test was on a fair value basis, on the estimated probability, as at that date, of achieving the performance conditions.
As a consequence, for all participants, other than those who were Executive Directors at the time the award was granted and a small number of other senior executives, the share awards vested at 29 per cent in March 2011.
The performance conditions for awards made in April, May and September 2009 are as follows: i Earnings per share EPS : relevant to 50 per cent of the award.
Performance will be measured based on EPS growth over a threeyear period from the baseline EPS of 2008.
If the growth in EPS reaches 26 per cent, 25 per cent of this element of the award, being the threshold, will vest.
If growth in EPS reaches 36 per cent, 100 per cent of this element will vest.
ii Economic Profit EP : relevant to 50 per cent of the award.
Performance will be measured based on the extent to which cumulative EP targets are achieved over the threeyear period.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 300 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 52: Share-based payments continued If the absolute improvement in adjusted EP reaches 100 per cent, 25 per cent of this element of the award, being the threshold, will vest.
If the absolute improvement in adjusted EP reaches 202 per cent, 100 per cent of this element will vest.
The EPS and EP performance measures applying to this 2009 LTIP award were set on the basis that the Group would enter into the Government Asset Protection Scheme.
As the Group is not participating in the Government Asset Protection Scheme, in June 2010 the Remuneration Committee approved restated performance measures on a basis consistent with the EPS and EP measures used for the 2010 LTIP awards.
An additional discretionary award was made in April, May and September 2009.
The performance conditions for those awards are as follows: i Synergy Savings: The release of 50 per cent of the shares will be dependent on the achievement of target runrate synergy savings in 2009 and 2010 as well as the achievement of sustainable synergy savings of at least 1.5 billion by the end of 2011.
The award will be broken down into three equally weighted annual tranches.
Performance will be assessed at the end of each year against annual performance targets based on a trajectory to meet the 2011 target.
The extent to which targets have been achieved will determine the proportion of shares to be banked each year.
Any release of shares will be subject to the Remuneration Committee judging the overall success of the delivery of the integration programme.
ii Integration Balanced Scorecard: The release of the remaining 50 per cent of the shares will be dependent on the outcome of a Balanced Scorecard of nonfinancial measures of the success of the integration in each of 2009, 2010 and 2011.
The Balanced Scorecard element will be broken down into three equally weighted tranches.
The tranches will be crystallised and banked for each year of the performance cycle subject to separate annual performance targets across the four measurement categories of Building the Business, Customer, Risk and People and Organisation Development.
The performance conditions for awards made in March and August 2010 are as follows: i EPS: relevant to 50 per cent of the award.
Performance will be measured based on EPS growth over a threeyear period from the baseline EPS of 2009.
If the absolute improvement in adjusted EPS reaches 158 per cent, 25 per cent of this element of the award, being the threshold, will vest.
If absolute improvement in adjusted EPS reaches 180 per cent, 100 per cent of this element will vest.
Vesting between threshold and maximum will be on a straight line basis.
ii EP: relevant to 50 per cent of the award.
Performance will be measured based on the compound annual growth rate of adjusted EP over the three financial years starting on 1 January 2010 relative to an adjusted 2009 EP base.
If the compounded annual growth rate of adjusted EP reaches 57 per cent per annum, 25 per cent of this element of the award, being the threshold, will vest.
If the compounded annual growth rate of adjusted EP reaches 77 per cent per annum, 100 per cent of this element will vest.
For awards made to Executive Directors, a third performance condition was set, relating to Absolute Share Price, relevant to 28 per cent of the award.
Performance will be measured based on the Absolute Share Price on 26 March 2013, being the third anniversary of the award date.
If the share price at the end of the performance period is 75 pence or less, none of this element of the award will vest.
If the share price is 114 pence or higher, 100 per cent of this element will vest.
Vesting between threshold and maximum will be on a straight line basis, provided that shares comprised in the Absolute Share Price element may only be released if both the EPS and EP performance measures have been satisfied at the threshold level or above.
The EPS and EP performance conditions will each relate to 36 per cent of the total award.
The performance conditions for awards made in March and September 2011 are as follows: i EPS: relevant to 50 per cent of the award.
The performance target is based on 2013 adjusted EPS outcome.
If the adjusted EPS reaches 6.4p, 25 per cent of this element of the award, being the threshold, will vest.
If adjusted EPS reaches 7.4p, 100 per cent of this element will vest.
The performance target is based on 2013 adjusted EP outcome.
If the adjusted EP reaches 567 million, 25 per cent of this element of the award, being the threshold, will vest.
If the adjusted EP reaches 1,234 million, 100 per cent of this element will vest.
Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 301 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 52: Share-based payments continued For awards made to Executive Directors, a third performance condition was set, relating to Absolute Total Shareholder Return, relevant to one third of the award.
Performance will be measured based on the annualised Absolute Total Shareholder Return over the three year performance period.
If the annualised Absolute Total Shareholder Return at the end of the performance period is less than 8 per cent, none of this element of the award will vest.
If the Absolute Total Shareholder Return is 8 per cent, 25 per cent of this element of the award, being the threshold, will vest.
If the Absolute Total Shareholder Return is 14 per cent or higher, 100 per cent of this element will vest.
The EPS and EP performance conditions will each relate to 33.3 per cent of the total award.
The ranges of exercise prices, weighted average exercise prices, weighted average remaining contractual life and number of options outstanding for the option schemes were as follows: Executive schemes SAYE schemes Other share option plans Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average average average exercise price remaining life Number of exercise price remaining life Number of exercise price remaining life Number of pence years options pence years options pence years options At 31 December 2011 Exercise price range 0 to 1 47.94 1.7 446,965,447 4.94 4.1 82,152,838 1 to 2 199.91 2.6 233,714 179.16 2.0 5,563,072 2 to 3 225.74 2.9 9,941,155 214.16 0.9 490,513 3 to 4 5 to 6 582.82 1.8 14,227,020 Executive schemes SAYE schemes Other share option plans Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average average average exercise price remaining life Number of exercise price remaining life Number of exercise price remaining life Number of pence years options pence years options pence years options At 31 December 2010 Exercise price range 0 to 1 47.74 2.7 658,912,847 7.41 2.5 55,656,496 1 to 2 199.91 3.6 262,725 178.74 2.8 7,984,764 2 to 3 225.83 3.9 12,052,934 210.74 1.4 1,146,423 3 to 4 324.92 0.2 1,047,642 5 to 6 567.65 2.9 15,462,949 Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 302 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 52: Shared-based payments continued The fair value calculations at 31 December 2011 for grants made in the year, using BlackScholes models and Monte Carlo simulation, are based on the following assumptions: Executive Share Plan Share Buy 2003 LTIP Out Awards Riskfree interest rate 0.73% 1.77% 0.86% Expected life 1.4 years 3.0 years 1.3 years Expected volatility 54% 86% 51% Expected dividend yield 1.7% 2.9% 1.6% Weighted average share price 0.48 0.62 0.41 Weighted average exercise price Nil Nil Nil Expected forfeitures 4% 4% 4% Expected volatility is a measure of the amount by which the Groups shares are expected to fluctuate during the life of an option.
The expected volatility is estimated based on the historical volatility of the closing daily share price over the most recent period that is commensurate with the expected life of the option.
The historical volatility is compared to the implied volatility generated from market traded options in the Groups shares to assess the reasonableness of the historical volatility and adjustments made where appropriate.
Share incentive plan Free shares An award of shares may be made annually to employees based on a percentage of each employees salary in the preceding year up to a maximum of 3,000.
The percentage is normally announced concurrently with the Groups annual results and the price of the shares awarded is announced at the time of award.
The shares awarded are held in trust for a mandatory period of three years on the employees behalf, during which period the employee is entitled to any dividends paid on such shares.
The award is subject to a nonmarket based condition: if an employee leaves the Group within this three year period for other than a good reason, all of the shares awarded will be forfeited.
The last award of free shares was made in 2008.
Matching shares The Group undertakes to match shares purchased by employees up to the value of 30 per month: these matching shares are held in trust for a mandatory period of three years on the employees behalf, during which period the employee is entitled to any dividends paid on such shares.
The award is subject to a nonmarket based condition: if an employee leaves within this three year period for other than a good reason, 100 per cent of the matching shares are forfeited.
Similarly if the employees sell their purchased shares within three years, their matching shares are forfeited.
The number of shares awarded relating to matching shares in 2011 was 30,999,387 2010: 17,411,651, with an average fair value of 0.42 2010: 0.63, based on market prices at the date of award.
Note 53: Related party transactions Key management personnel Key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of an entity: the Groups key management personnel are the members of the Lloyds Banking Group plc Group Executive Committee together with its NonExecutive Directors.
The table below details, on an aggregated basis, key management personnel compensation: 2011 2010 2009 m m m Compensation Salaries and other shortterm benefits 12 7 17 Postemployment benefits 2 1 Sharebased payments 11 8 Total compensation 23 17 18 Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 303 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 53: Related party transactions continued Aggregate contributions in respect of key management personnel to defined contribution pension schemes were 0.2 million 2010: 0.4 million.
2011 2010 2009 million million million Share option plans At 1 January 6 2 2 1 Granted, including certain adjustments includes entitlements of appointed directors 20 4 Exercised lapsed includes entitlements of former directors 4 At 31 December 22 6 2 1 2010 includes adjustments, using a standard HMRC formula, to negate the dilutionary impact of the Groups 2009 capital raising activities.
2011 2010 2009 million million million Share plans At 1 January 56 19 7 1 Granted, including certain adjustments includes entitlements of appointed directors 35 39 17 Exercised lapsed includes 31 million entitlements of former directors 33 2 5 At 31 December 58 56 19 1 2010 includes adjustments, using a standard HMRC formula, to negate the dilutionary impact of the Groups 2009 capital raising activities.
The tables below detail, on an aggregated basis, balances outstanding at the year end and related income and expense, together with information relating to other transactions between the Group and its key management personnel: 2011 2010 2009 m m m Loans At 1 January 3 2 3 Advanced includes loans of appointed directors 1 2 Repayments includes loans of former directors 1 1 1 At 31 December 3 3 2 The loans are on both a secured and unsecured basis and are expected to be settled in cash.
The loans attracted interest rates of between 1.09 per cent and 27.5 per cent in 2011 2010: 0.5 per cent and 17.90 per cent: 2009: 1.28 per cent and 24.90 per cent.
No provisions have been recognised in respect of loans given to key management personnel 2010 and 2009: nil.
2011 2010 2009 m m m Deposits At 1 January 4 4 6 Placed includes deposits of appointed directors 17 12 12 Withdrawn includes deposits of former directors 15 12 14 At 31 December 6 4 4 Deposits placed by key management personnel attracted interest rates of up to 5 per cent 2010: 4.25 per cent: 2009: 6.50 per cent.
At 31 December 2011, the Group did not provide any guarantees in respect of key management personnel 2010 and 2009: none.
At 31 December 2011, transactions, arrangements and agreements entered into by the Groups banking subsidiaries with directors and connected persons included amounts outstanding in respect of loans and credit card transactions of 3 million with four directors and three connected persons 2010: 2 million with six directors and four connected persons: 2009: 2 million with seven directors and four connected persons.
Subsidiaries Details of the principal subsidiaries are given in note 9 to the parent company financial statements.
In accordance with IAS 27, transactions and balances with subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation.
UK Government In January 2009, the UK Government through HM Treasury became a related party of the Company following its subscription for ordinary shares issued under a placing and open offer.
As at 31 December 2011, HM Treasury held a 40.2 per cent 31 December 2010: 40.6 per cent interest in the Companys ordinary share capital and consequently HM Treasury remained a related party of the Company during the year ended 31 December 2011.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 304 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 53: Related party transactions continued From 1 January 2011, in accordance with IAS 24 Revised, UK Governmentcontrolled entities became related parties of the Group.
The Group regards the Bank of England and entities controlled by the UK Government, including The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc, Northern Rock Asset Management plc and Bradford & Bingley plc, as related parties.
Since 31 December 2010, the Group has had the following significant transactions with the UK Government or UK Governmentrelated entities: Government and central bank facilities During the year ended 31 December 2011, the Group participated in a number of schemes operated by the UK Government and central banks and made available to eligible banks and building societies.
Special liquidity scheme and credit guarantee scheme The Bank of Englands UK Special Liquidity Scheme was launched in April 2008 to allow financial institutions to swap temporarily illiquid assets for treasury bills, with fees charged based on the spread between 3month LIBOR and the 3month gilt repo rate.
The scheme will operate for up to three years after the end of the drawdown period 30 January 2009 at the Bank of Englands discretion.
At 31 December 2011, the Group did not utilise the Special Liquidity Scheme.
HM Treasury launched the Credit Guarantee Scheme in October 2008 as part of a range of measures announced by the UK Government intended to ease the turbulence in the UK banking system.
It charged a commercial fee for the guarantee of new short and medium term debt issuance.
The fee payable to HM Treasury on guaranteed issues was based on a per annum rate of 50 basis points plus the median fiveyear credit default swap spread.
The drawdown window for the Credit Guarantee Scheme closed for new issuance at the end of February 2010.
At 31 December 2011, the Group had 23.5 billion of debt in issue under the Credit Guarantee Scheme 31 December 2010: 45.4 billion.
During the year, fees of 28 million paid to HM Treasury in respect of guaranteed funding were included in the Groups income statement.
Lending commitments The formal lending commitments entered into in connection with the Groups proposed participation in the Government Asset Protection Scheme have now expired and in February 2011, the Company together with Barclays, Royal Bank of Scotland, HSBC and Santander announced, as part of the Project Merlin agreement with HM Treasury, its capacity and willingness to increase business lending including to small and mediumsized enterprises during 2011. Business Growth Fund In May 2011 the Group agreed, together with The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and three other nonrelated parties, to subscribe for shares in the Business Growth Fund plc which is the company created to fulfil the role of the Business Growth Fund as set out in the British Bankers Associations Business Taskforce Report of October 2010.
During 2011, the Group has incurred sunk costs of 4 million which have been written off.
As at 31 December 2011, the Groups investment in the Business Growth Fund was 20 million.
Other government-related entities Other than the transactions referred to above, there were no other significant transactions with the UK Government and UK Governmentcontrolled entities including UK Governmentcontrolled banks during the period that were not made in the ordinary course of business or that were unusual in their nature or conditions.
Other related party transactions Pensions funds The Group provides banking and some investment management services to certain of the Group pension funds.
At 31 December 2011, customer deposits of 63 million 2010: 64 million and investment and insurance contract liabilities of 928 million 2010: 850 million related to the Groups pension funds.
During 2011, the Group sold at fair value certain nongovernment bonds, equities and alternative assets to Lloyds TSB Group Pension Scheme No 1 for 336 million and to Lloyds TSB Group Pension Scheme No 2 for 67 million.
Open Ended Investment Companies OEICs The Group manages 249 2010: 402 OEICs, and of these 142 2010: 111 are consolidated.
The Group invested 1,283 million 2010: 1,460 million and redeemed 884 million 2010: 982 million in the unconsolidated OEICs during the year and had investments, at fair value, of 4,431 million 2010: 7,920 million at 31 December.
The Group earned fees of 318 million from the unconsolidated OEICs 2010: 271 million.
Joint ventures and associates The Group provides both administration and processing services to its principal joint venture, Sainsburys Bank plc.
The amounts receivable by the Group during the year were 21 million 2010: 31 million, of which 10 million was outstanding at 31 December 2011 2010: 8 million.
At 31 December 2011, Sainsburys Bank plc also had balances with the Group that were included in loans and advances to banks of 1,173 million 2010: 1,277 million, deposits by banks of 780 million 2010: 1,358 million and trading liabilities of 340 million 2010: nil.
At 31 December 2011 there were loans and advances to customers of 5,185 million 2010: 5,660 million outstanding and balances within customer deposits of 88 million 2010: 151 million relating to other joint ventures and associates.
Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 305 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 53: Related party transactions continued In addition to the above balances, the Group has a number of other associates held by its venture capital business that it accounts for at fair value through profit or loss.
At 31 December 2011, these companies had total assets of approximately 11,500 million 2010: 12,216 million, total liabilities of approximately 10,807 million 2010: 11,937 million and for the year ended 31 December 2011 had turnover of approximately 7,376 million 2010: 3,829 million and made a net loss of approximately 83 million 2010: net profit of 182 million.
In addition, the Group has provided 5,767 million 2010: 3,316 million of financing to these companies on which it received 106 million 2010: 93 million of interest income in the year.
Note 54: Contingent liabilities and commitments Interchange fees The European Commission has adopted a formal decision finding that an infringement of European Commission competition laws has arisen from arrangements whereby MasterCard set a uniform Multilateral Interchange Fee MIF in respect of crossborder transactions in relation to the use of a MasterCard or Maestro branded payment card.
The European Commission has required that the MIF be reduced to zero for relevant crossborder transactions within the European Economic Area.
This decision has been appealed to the General Court of the European Union the General Court.
Lloyds TSB Bank plc and Bank of Scotland plc along with certain other MasterCard issuers have successfully applied to intervene in the appeal in support of MasterCards position that the arrangements for the charging of the MIF are compatible with European Union competition laws.
The UK Government has also intervened in the General Court appeal supporting the European Commission position.
An oral hearing took place on 8 July 2011 but judgment is not expected for six to twelve months.
MasterCard has reached an understanding with the European Commission on a new methodology for calculating intraEuropean Economic Area MIF on an interim basis pending the outcome of the appeal.
Meanwhile, the European Commission is pursuing an investigation with a view to deciding whether arrangements adopted by Visa for the levying of the MIF in respect of crossborder payment transactions also infringe European Union competition laws.
In this regard Visa reached an agreement with the European Commission to reduce the level of interchange for crossborder debit card transactions to the interim levels agreed by MasterCard.
The UKs OFT has also commenced similar investigations relating to the MIF in respect of domestic transactions in relation to both the MasterCard and Visa payment schemes.
The ultimate impact of the investigations on the Group can only be known at the conclusion of these investigations and any relevant appeal proceedings.
Interbank offered rate setting investigations Several government agencies in the UK, US and overseas, including the US Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the US SEC, the US Department of Justice and the FSA as well as the European Commission, are conducting investigations into submissions made by panel members to the bodies that set various interbank offered rates.
The Group, and or its subsidiaries, were at the relevant time and remain members of various panels that submit data to these bodies.
The Group has received requests from some government agencies for information and is cooperating with their investigations.
In addition, recently the Group has been named in private lawsuits, including purported class action suits in the US with regard to the setting of London interbank offered rates LIBOR.
It is currently not possible to predict the scope and ultimate outcome of the various regulatory investigations or private lawsuits, including the timing and scale of the potential impact of any investigations and private lawsuits on the Group.
Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS The FSCS is the UKs independent statutory compensation fund for customers of authorised financial services firms and pays compensation if a firm is unable to pay claims against it.
The FSCS is funded by levies on the industry and recoveries and borrowings where appropriate.
The levies raised comprise both management expenses levies and, where necessary, compensation levies on authorised firms.
Following the default of a number of deposit takers in 2008, the FSCS borrowed funds from HM Treasury to meet the compensation costs for customers of those firms.
The borrowings with HM Treasury, which total circa 20 billion, are on an interestonly basis until 31 March 2012 and the FSCS and HM Treasury are currently discussing the terms for refinancing these borrowings to take effect from 1 April 2012.
Each deposittaking institution contributes towards the management expenses levies in proportion to their share of total protected deposits on 31 December of the year preceding the scheme year, which runs from 1 April to 31 March.
In determining an appropriate accrual in respect of the management expenses levy, certain assumptions have been made including the proportion of total protected deposits held by the Group, the level and timing of repayments to be made by the FSCS to HM Treasury and the interest rate to be charged by HM Treasury.
For the year ended 31 December 2011, the Group has charged 179 million 2010: 46 million: 2009: 73 million to the income statement in respect of the costs of the FSCS.
Whilst it is expected that the substantial majority of the principal will be repaid from funds the FSCS receives from asset sales, surplus cash flow or other recoveries in relation to the assets of the firms that defaulted, to the extent that there remains a shortfall, the FSCS will raise compensation levies on all deposittaking participants.
The amount of any future compensation levies also depends on a number of factors including the level of protected deposits and the population of deposittaking participants and will be determined at a later date.
As such, although the Groups share of such compensation levies could be significant, the Group has not recognised a provision in respect of them in these financial statements.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 306 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 54: Contingent liabilities and commitments continued Litigation in relation to insurance branch business in Germany Clerical Medical Investment Group Limited CMIG has received a number of claims in the German courts, relating to policies issued by CMIG but sold by independent intermediaries in Germany, principally during the late 1990s and early 2000s.
CMIG has won the majority of decisions to date, although a small number of regional district and appeal courts have found against CMIG on specific grounds.
However, consistent with this strategy, and having regard to the costs involved in managing these claims, and the inherent risks of litigation, the Group has recognised a provision of 175 million.
Shareholder complaints The Group and two former members of the Groups Board of Directors have been named as defendants in a purported securities class action pending in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York.
The complaint, dated 23 November 2011, asserts claims under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in connection with alleged material omissions from statements made in 2008 in connection with the acquisition of HBOS.
In addition, a UKbased shareholder action group has threatened multiclaimant claims on a similar basis against the Group and two former directors in the UK.
No claim has yet been issued.
The Group considers that the claims are without merit and will defend them vigorously.
The claims have not been quantified and it is not possible to estimate the ultimate financial impact on the Group at this early stage.
Employee disputes The Group is aware that a union representing a number of the Groups employees and former employees is seeking to challenge the cap on pensionable pay introduced by the Group in 2011 on the grounds that it is unlawful.
This challenge is at a very early stage.
The Group will resist the challenge should it be pursued.
The Group also faces a number of other threats of legal action from employees in relation to terms of employment including pay and bonuses.
The Group considers that the complaints are without merit and, should proceedings be issued, they will be vigorously defended.
FSA investigation into Bank of Scotland In 2009 the FSA commenced a supervisory review into HBOS.
The supervisory review has now been superseded as the FSA has commenced enforcement proceedings against Bank of Scotland plc in relation to its Corporate division pre 2009.
The proceedings are ongoing and the Group is cooperating fully.
It is too early to predict the outcome or estimate reliably any potential financial effects of the enforcement proceedings but they are not currently expected to be material to the Group.
Regulatory matters In the course of its business, the Group is engaged in discussions with the FSA in relation to a range of conduct of business matters, including complaints handling, packaged bank accounts, savings accounts, product terms and conditions, interestonly mortgages, sales processes and remuneration schemes.
The Group is keen to ensure that any regulatory concerns are understood and addressed.
The ultimate impact on the Group of these discussions can only be known at the conclusion of such discussions.
Other legal actions and regulatory matters In addition, during the ordinary course of business the Group is subject to other threatened and actual legal proceedings which may include class action lawsuits brought on behalf of customers, shareholders or other third parties, regulatory investigations, regulatory challenges and enforcement actions, both in the UK and overseas.
All such material matters are periodically reassessed, with the assistance of external professional advisers where appropriate, to determine the likelihood of the Group incurring a liability.
In those instances where it is concluded that it is more likely than not that a payment will be made, a provision is established to managements best estimate of the amount required to settle the obligation at the relevant balance sheet date.
In some cases it will not be possible to form a view, either because the facts are unclear or because further time is needed properly to assess the merits of the case and no provisions are held against such matters.
However the Group does not currently expect the final outcome of any such case to have a material adverse effect on its financial position.
Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 307 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 54: Contingent liabilities and commitments continued 2011 2010 m m Contingent liabilities Acceptances and endorsements 81 48 Other: Other items serving as direct credit substitutes 1,060 1,319 Performance bonds and other transactionrelated contingencies 2,729 2,812 3,789 4,131 Total contingent liabilities 3,870 4,179 The contingent liabilities of the Group arise in the normal course of its banking business and it is not practicable to quantify their future financial effect.
2011 2010 m m Commitments Documentary credits and other shortterm traderelated transactions 105 255 Forward asset purchases and forward deposits placed 596 887 Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend: Less than 1 year original maturity: Mortgage offers made 7,383 8,113 Other commitments 56,527 60,528 63,910 68,641 1 year or over original maturity 40,972 47,515 Total commitments 105,583 117,298 Of the amounts shown above in respect of undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend, 53,459 million 2010: 63,630 million was irrevocable.
Operating lease commitments Where a Group company is the lessee the future minimum lease payments under noncancellable premises operating leases are as follows: 2011 2010 m m Not later than 1 year 348 356 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 1,187 1,120 Later than 5 years 1,489 1,706 Total operating lease commitments 3,024 3,182 Operating lease payments represent rental payable by the Group for certain of its properties.
Some of these operating lease arrangements have renewal options and rent escalation clauses, although the effect of these is not material.
No arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
Capital commitments Excluding commitments in respect of investment property note 28, capital expenditure contracted but not provided for at 31 December 2011 amounted to 296 million 2010: 339 million.
Of this amount, 292 million 2010: 282 million related to assets to be leased to customers under operating leases.
The Groups management is confident that future net revenues and funding will be sufficient to cover these commitments.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 308 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 55: Financial instruments 1 Measurement basis of financial assets and liabilities The accounting policies in note 2 describe how different classes of financial instruments are measured, and how income and expenses, including fair value gains and losses, are recognised.
The following table analyses the carrying amounts of the financial assets and liabilities by category and by balance sheet heading.
At fair value through profit or loss Derivatives designated Designated Held at as hedging Held for upon initial AvailableLoans and amortised Insurance instruments trading recognition for-sale receivables cost contracts Total m m m m m m m m At 31 December 2011 Financial assets Cash and balances at central banks 60,722 60,722 Items in the course of collection from banks 1,408 1,408 Trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 18,056 121,454 139,510 Derivative financial instruments 12,850 53,163 66,013 Loans and receivables: Loans and advances to banks 32,606 32,606 Loans and advances to customers 565,638 565,638 Debt securities 12,470 12,470 610,714 610,714 Availableforsale financial assets 37,406 37,406 Heldtomaturity investments 8,098 8,098 Total financial assets 12,850 71,219 121,454 37,406 610,714 70,228 923,871 Financial liabilities Deposits from banks 39,810 39,810 Customer deposits 413,906 413,906 Items in course of transmission to banks 844 844 Trading and other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 19,616 5,339 24,955 Derivative financial instruments 7,246 50,966 58,212 Notes in circulation 1,145 1,145 Debt securities in issue 185,059 185,059 Liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts 78,991 78,991 Liabilities arising from nonparticipating investment contracts 49,636 49,636 Unallocated surplus within insurance businesses 300 300 Financial guarantees 49 49 Subordinated liabilities 35,089 35,089 Total financial liabilities 7,246 70,582 5,388 675,853 128,927 887,996 Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 309 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 55: Financial instruments continued At fair value through profit or loss Derivatives designated Designated Held at as hedging Held for upon initial Available Loans and amortised Insurance instruments trading recognition forsale receivables cost contracts Total m m m m m m m m At 31 December 2010 Financial assets Cash and balances at central banks 38,115 38,115 Items in the course of collection from banks 1,368 1,368 Trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 23,707 132,484 156,191 Derivative financial instruments 7,406 43,371 50,777 Loans and receivables: Loans and advances to banks 30,272 30,272 Loans and advances to customers 592,597 592,597 Debt securities 25,735 25,735 648,604 648,604 Availableforsale financial assets 42,955 42,955 Heldtomaturity investments 7,905 7,905 Total financial assets 7,406 67,078 132,484 42,955 648,604 47,388 945,915 Financial liabilities Deposits from banks 50,363 50,363 Customer deposits 393,633 393,633 Items in course of transmission to banks 802 802 Trading and other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 20,097 6,665 26,762 Derivative financial instruments 4,398 37,760 42,158 Notes in circulation 1,074 1,074 Debt securities in issue 228,866 228,866 Liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts 80,729 80,729 Liabilities arising from nonparticipating investment contracts 51,363 51,363 Unallocated surplus within insurance businesses 643 643 Financial guarantees 54 54 Subordinated liabilities 36,232 36,232 Total financial liabilities 4,398 57,857 6,719 710,970 132,735 912,679 2 Reclassification of financial assets No financial assets were reclassified in 2011 In 2010 the Group reviewed its approach to managing a portfolio of government securities held as a separately identifiable component of the Groups liquidity portfolio.
Given the longterm nature of this portfolio, the Group concluded that certain of these securities will be able to be held until they reach maturity.
Consequently, on 1 November 2010, government securities with a fair value of 3,601 million were reclassified from availableforsale financial assets to heldtomaturity investments reflecting the Groups positive intent and ability to hold them until maturity.
In 2009, no financial assets were reclassified.
In 2008, in accordance with the amendment to IAS39 that became applicable during that year, the Group reviewed the categorisation of its financial assets classified as held for trading and availableforsale.
On the basis that there was no longer an active market for some of those assets, which are therefore more appropriately managed as loans, with effect from 1 July 2008, the Group transferred 2,993 million of assets previously classified as held for trading into loans and receivables.
With effect from 1 November 2008, the Group transferred 437 million of assets previously classified as availableforsale financial assets into loans and receivables.
At the time of these transfers, the Group had the intention and ability to hold them for the foreseeable future or until maturity.
As at the date of reclassification, the weighted average effective interest rate of the assets transferred was 6.3 per cent with the estimated recoverable cash flows of 3,524 million.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 310 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 55: Financial instruments continued Carrying value and fair value of reclassified assets The table below sets out the carrying value and fair value of reclassified financial assets.
2011 2010 2009 2008 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair Carrying Fair Carrying Fair value value value value value value value value m m m m m m m m From held for trading to loans and receivables 67 56 750 727 1,833 1,822 2,883 2,926 From availableforsale financial assets to loans and receivables 217 219 313 340 394 422 454 402 From availableforsale financial assets to heldtomaturity investments 3,624 3,846 3,455 3,539 Total carrying value and fair value 3,908 4,121 4,518 4,606 2,227 2,244 3,337 3,328 During the year ended 31 December 2011, the carrying value of assets reclassified to loans and receivables decreased by 779 million due to sales and maturities of 734 million and foreign exchange and other movements of 58million less accretion of discount of 13 million.
In respect of government securities reclassified from availableforsale financial assets to heldtomaturity investments, there was no change in the amounts recognised in the Groups income statement as interest income 2011: 138 million: 2010: 23 million and, for relevant securities, foreign exchange gains and losses 2011: 14 million loss: 2010: 39 million gain as such items are recognised in profit or loss on the same basis.
No financial assets were reclassified in accordance with paragraphs 50B, 50D or 50E of IAS 39 in 2011, 2010 and 2009: the following disclosures relate to those assets which were so reclassified in 2008. a Additional fair value gains losses that would have been recognised had the reclassifications not occurred The table below shows the additional gains losses that would have been recognised in the Groups income statement if the reclassifications had not occurred.
2011 2010 2009 2008 m m m m From held for trading to loans and receivables 3 34 208 347 The table below shows the additional gains losses that would have been recognised in other comprehensive income if the reclassifications had not occurred.
2011 2010 2009 2008 m m m m From availableforsale financial assets to loans and receivables 68 69 161 108 b Actual amounts recognised in respect of reclassified assets After reclassification the reclassified financial assets contributed the following amounts to the Group income statement.
2011 2010 2009 2008 m m m m From held for trading to loans and receivables: Net interest income 1 24 55 31 Impairment losses 6 49 158 Total amounts recognised 1 18 6 127 2011 2010 2009 2008 m m m m From availableforsale financial assets to loans and receivables: Net interest income 2 1 34 3 Impairment losses 8 2 56 23 Total amounts recognised 6 1 22 20 Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 311 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 55: Financial instruments continued 3 Fair values of financial assets and liabilities The following table summarises the carrying values of financial assets and liabilities presented on the Groups balance sheet.
The fair values presented in the table are at a specific date and may be significantly different from the amounts which will actually be paid or received on the maturity or settlement date.
2011 2010 Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value m m m m Financial assets Cash and balances at central banks 60,722 60,722 38,115 38,115 Items in the course of collection from banks 1,408 1,408 1,368 1,368 Trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 139,510 139,510 156,191 156,191 Derivative financial instruments 66,013 66,013 50,777 50,777 Loans and receivables: Loans and advances to banks 32,606 32,554 30,272 30,236 Loans and advances to customers 565,638 549,829 592,597 580,343 Debt securities 12,470 10,953 25,735 26,937 Availableforsale financial assets 37,406 37,406 42,955 42,955 Heldtomaturity investments 8,098 8,144 7,905 7,716 Financial liabilities Deposits from banks 39,810 40,012 50,363 50,520 Customer deposits 413,906 414,654 393,633 394,393 Items in course of transmission to banks 844 844 802 802 Trading and other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 24,955 24,955 26,762 26,762 Derivative financial instruments 58,212 58,212 42,158 42,158 Notes in circulation 1,145 1,145 1,074 1,074 Debt securities in issue 185,059 183,113 228,866 229,375 Liabilities arising from nonparticipating investment contracts 49,636 49,636 51,363 51,363 Financial guarantees 49 49 54 54 Subordinated liabilities 35,089 27,838 36,232 38,083 Valuation methodology Financial instruments include financial assets, financial liabilities and derivatives.
The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
Wherever possible, fair values have been calculated using unadjusted quoted market prices in active markets for identical instruments held by the Group.
Where quoted market prices are not available, or are unreliable because of poor liquidity, fair values have been determined using valuation techniques which, to the extent possible, use market observable inputs, but in some cases use nonmarket observable inputs.
Valuation techniques used include discounted cash flow analysis and pricing models and, where appropriate, comparison to instruments with characteristics similar to those of the instruments held by the Group.
Because a variety of estimation techniques are employed and significant estimates made, comparisons of fair values between financial institutions may not be meaningful.
Readers of these financial statements are thus advised to use caution when using this data to evaluate the Groups financial position.
Fair value information is not provided for items that do not meet the definition of a financial instrument.
These items include intangible assets, such as the value of the Groups branch network, the longterm relationships with depositors and credit card relationships: premises and equipment: and shareholders equity.
These items are material and accordingly the Group believes that the fair value information presented does not represent the underlying value of the Group.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 312 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 55: Financial instruments continued Valuation control framework The key elements of the control framework for the valuation of financial instruments include model validation, product implementation review and independent price verification.
These functions are carried out by appropriately skilled risk and finance teams, independent of the business area responsible for the products.
Model validation covers both qualitative and quantitative elements relating to new models.
In respect of new products, a product implementation review is conducted pre and posttrading.
Pretrade testing ensures that the new model is integrated into the Groups systems and that the profit and loss and risk reporting are consistent throughout the trade life cycle.
Posttrade testing examines the explanatory power of the implemented model, actively monitoring model parameters and comparing inhouse pricing to external sources.
Independent price verification procedures cover financial instruments carried at fair value.
The frequency of the review is matched to the availability of independent data, monthly being the minimum.
Valuation differences in breach of established thresholds are escalated to senior management.
The results from independent pricing and valuation reserves are reviewed monthly by senior management.
Formal committees, consisting of senior risk, finance and business management, meet at least quarterly to discuss and approve valuations in more judgemental areas, in particular for unquoted equities, structured credit, overthecounter options and the Credit Valuation Adjustment CVA reserve.
Fair value of financial instruments carried at amortised cost Cash and balances at central banks and items in the course of collection from banks The fair value approximates carrying value due to their shortterm nature.
Loans and receivables The Group provides loans and advances to commercial, corporate and personal customers at both fixed and variable rates.
The carrying value of the variable rate loans and those relating to lease financing is assumed to be their fair value.
For fixed rate lending, several different techniques are used to estimate fair value, as considered appropriate.
These techniques also take account of expected credit losses and changes in interest rates and expected future cash flows in establishing fair value.
For commercial and personal customers, fair value is principally estimated by discounting anticipated cash flows including interest at contractual rates at market rates for similar loans offered by the Group and other financial institutions.
The fair value for corporate loans is estimated by discounting anticipated cash flows at a rate which reflects the effects of interest rate changes, adjusted for changes in credit risk.
Certain loans secured on residential properties are made at a fixed rate for a limited period, typically two to five years, after which the loans revert to the relevant variable rate.
The fair value of such loans is estimated by reference to the market rates for similar loans of maturity equal to the remaining fixed interest rate period.
The fair values of assetbacked securities and secondary loans, which were previously within assets held for trading and were reclassified to loans and receivables, are determined predominantly from lead manager quotes and, where these are not available, by alternative techniques including reference to credit spreads on similar assets with the same obligor, market standard consensus pricing services, broker quotes and other research data.
Heldtomaturity investments The fair values of government securities are based on market prices.
Deposits from banks and customer deposits The fair value of deposits repayable on demand is considered to be equal to their carrying value.
The fair value for all other deposits is estimated using discounted cash flows applying either market rates, where applicable, or current rates for deposits of similar remaining maturities.
Items in course of transmission to banks The fair value approximates carrying value due to their shortterm nature.
Notes in circulation The fair value of notes in circulation which are payable on demand is considered to be equal to their carrying value.
Debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities The fair value of shortterm debt securities in issue is approximately equal to their carrying value.
Fair value for other debt securities and for subordinated liabilities is estimated using quoted market prices.
Valuation of financial instruments carried at fair value The valuations of financial instruments have been classified into three levels according to the quality and reliability of information used to determine the fair values.
Level 1 portfolios Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Products classified as level 1 predominantly comprise equity shares, treasury bills and other government securities.
Level 2 portfolios Level 2 valuations are those where quoted market prices are not available, for example where the instrument is traded in a market that is not considered to be active or valuation techniques are used to determine fair value and where these techniques use inputs that are based significantly on observable market data.
Examples of such financial instruments include most overthecounter derivatives, financial institution issued securities, certificates of deposit and certain assetbacked securities.
Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 313 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 55: Financial instruments continued Level 3 portfolios Level 3 portfolios are those where at least one input which could have a significant effect on the instruments valuation is not based on observable market data.
Such instruments would include the Groups venture capital and unlisted equity investments which are valued using various valuation techniques that require significant management judgement in determining appropriate assumptions, including earnings multiples and estimated future cash flows.
Certain of the Groups assetbacked securities and derivatives, principally where there is no trading activity in such securities, are also classified as level 3.
The table below provides an analysis of the financial assets and liabilities of the Group that are carried at fair value in the Groups consolidated balance sheet, grouped into levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable.
Valuation hierarchy Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m At 31 December 2011 Trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Loans and advances to customers 9,766 9,766 Loans and advances to banks 1,355 1,355 Debt securities: Government securities 21,326 2,041 23,367 Other public sector securities 375 808 1,183 Bank and building society certificates of deposit 3,248 3,248 Assetbacked securities: Mortgagebacked securities 187 524 711 Other assetbacked securities 178 1,605 203 1,986 Corporate and other debt securities 5,098 15,337 1,423 21,858 27,164 23,563 1,626 52,353 Equity shares 74,381 41 1,315 75,737 Treasury and other bills 299 299 Total trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 101,844 34,725 2,941 139,510 Availableforsale financial assets Debt securities: Government securities 25,143 93 25,236 Other public sector securities 27 27 Bank and building society certificates of deposit 323 43 366 Assetbacked securities: Mortgagebacked securities 1,803 1,803 Other assetbacked securities 807 257 1,064 Corporate and other debt securities 41 5,192 12 5,245 25,534 7,938 269 33,741 Equity shares 55 96 1,787 1,938 Treasury and other bills 972 755 1,727 Total availableforsale financial assets 26,561 8,789 2,056 37,406 Derivative financial instruments 204 63,160 2,649 66,013 Total financial assets carried at fair value 128,609 106,674 7,646 242,929 Trading and other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss debt securities 5,339 5,339 Trading liabilities: Liabilities in respect of securities sold under repurchase agreements 12,378 12,378 Short positions in securities 3,168 533 3,701 Other 3,537 3,537 3,168 16,448 19,616 Total trading and other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 3,168 21,787 24,955 Derivative financial instruments 35 57,436 741 58,212 Financial guarantees 49 49 Total financial liabilities carried at fair value 3,203 79,223 790 83,216 There were no significant transfers between level 1 and level 2 during the year.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 314 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 55: Financial instruments continued Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m At 31 December 2010 Trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Loans and advances to customers 9,811 9,811 Loans and advances to banks 2,734 2,734 Debt securities: Government securities 21,053 2,787 23,840 Other public sector securities 199 720 919 Bank and building society certificates of deposit 4,298 4,298 Assetbacked securities: Mortgagebacked securities 2 420 422 Other assetbacked securities 5 2,324 283 2,612 Corporate and other debt securities 2,950 16,973 1,186 21,109 24,209 27,522 1,469 53,200 Equity shares 88,806 46 1,367 90,219 Treasury and other bills 227 227 Total trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 113,242 40,113 2,836 156,191 Availableforsale financial assets Debt securities: Government securities 11,517 1,035 12,552 Other public sector securities 29 29 Bank and building society certificates of deposit 15 392 407 Assetbacked securities: Mortgagebacked securities 4,293 4,293 Other assetbacked securities 4,640 579 5,219 Corporate and other debt securities 711 11,399 22 12,132 12,272 21,759 601 34,632 Equity shares 49 161 2,045 2,255 Treasury and other bills 2,160 3,908 6,068 Total availableforsale financial assets 14,481 25,828 2,646 42,955 Derivative financial instruments 985 47,806 1,986 50,777 Total financial assets carried at fair value 128,708 113,747 7,468 249,923 Trading and other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss debt securities 6,665 6,665 Trading liabilities: Liabilities in respect of securities sold under repurchase agreements 14,612 14,612 Short positions in securities 861 894 1,755 Other 3 3,727 3,730 864 19,233 20,097 Total trading and other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 864 25,898 26,762 Derivative financial instruments 42 41,913 203 42,158 Financial guarantees 54 54 Total financial liabilities carried at fair value 906 67,811 257 68,974 Valuation methodology Asset-backed securities Where there is no trading activity in assetbacked securities, valuation models, consensus pricing information from third party pricing services and broker or lead manager quotes are used to determine an appropriate valuation.
Assetbacked securities are then classified as either level 2 or level 3 depending on whether there is more than one consistent independent source of data.
If there is a single, uncorroborated market source for a significant valuation input or where there are materially inconsistent levels then the security is reported as level 3.
Asset classes classified as level 3 mainly comprise certain collateralised loan obligations and collateralised debt obligations.
Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 315 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 55: Financial instruments continued Equity investments including venture capital Unlisted equities and fund investments are accounted for as trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss or as available forsale financial assets.
These investments are valued using different techniques as a result of the variety of investments across the portfolio in accordance with the Groups valuation policy and are calculated using International Private Equity and Venture Capital Guidelines.
Depending on the business sector and the circumstances of the investment, unlisted equity valuations are based on earnings multiples, net asset values or discounted cash flows.
A number of earnings multiples are used in valuing the portfolio including price earnings, earnings before interest and tax and earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
The particular multiple selected being appropriate for the type of business being valued and is derived by reference to the current marketbased multiple.
Consideration is given to the risk attributes, growth prospects and financial gearing of comparable businesses when selecting an appropriate multiple.
Discounted cash flow valuations use estimated future cash flows, usually based on management forecasts, with the application of appropriate exit yields or terminal multiples and discounted using rates appropriate to the specific investment, business sector or recent economic rates of return.
Recent transactions involving the sale of similar businesses may sometimes be used as a frame of reference in deriving an appropriate multiple.
For fund investments the most recent capital account value calculated by the fund manager is used as the basis for the valuation and adjusted, if necessary, to align valuation techniques with the Groups valuation policy.
Unquoted equities and property partnerships in the life funds Third party valuations are used to obtain the fair value of unquoted investments.
Management take account of any pertinent information, such as recent transactions and information received on particular investments, to adjust the third party valuations where necessary.
Derivatives Where the Groups derivative assets and liabilities are not traded on an exchange, they are valued using valuation techniques, including discounted cash flow and options pricing models, as appropriate.
The types of derivatives classified as level 2 and the valuation techniques used include: Interest rate swaps which are valued using discounted cash flow models: the most significant inputs into those models are interest rate yield curves which are developed from publicly quoted rates.
Foreign exchange derivatives that do not contain options which are priced using rates available from publicly quoted sources.
Credit derivatives are valued using standard models with observable inputs, except for the items classified as level 3, which are valued using publicly available yield and credit default swap CDS curves.
Less complex interest rate and foreign exchange option products which are valued using volatility surfaces developed from publicly available interest rate cap, interest rate swaption and other option volatilities: option volatility skew information is derived from a market standard consensus pricing service.
For more complex option products, the Group calibrates its models using observable atthemoney data: where necessary, the Group adjusts for outofthemoney positions using a market standard consensus pricing service.
Complex interest rate and foreign exchange products where there is significant dispersion of consensus pricing or where implied funding costs are material and unobservable are classified as level 3.
Where credit protection, usually in the form of credit default swaps, has been purchased or written on assetbacked securities, the security is referred to as a negative basis assetbacked security and the resulting derivative assets or liabilities have been classified as either level 2 or level 3 according to the classification of the underlying assetbacked security.
The Groups level 3 derivative assets include 1,172 million 31 December 2010: 1,177 million in respect of the value of the embedded equity conversion feature of the Enhanced Capital Notes issued in December 2009.
The embedded equity conversion feature is valued by comparing the market price of the Enhanced Capital Notes with the market price of similar bonds without the conversion feature.
The latter is calculated by discounting the expected enhanced capital note cash flows in the absence of a conversion using prevailing market yields for similar capital securities without the conversion feature.
The market price of the Enhanced Capital Notes was calculated with reference to multiple broker quotes.
Movements in the fair value of the derivative are recorded in net trading income.
Level 3 derivative assets also include 14 million 31 December 2010: 96 million in respect of credit default swaps written on level 3 negative basis assetbacked securities calculated as set out in the table below: 2011 2010 m m Fair value before credit valuation adjustment 18 114 Less: credit valuation adjustment 4 18 Carrying value 14 96 Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 316 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 55: Financial instruments continued Movements in Level 3 Portfolio The table below analyses movements in the level 3 financial assets portfolio.
Trading and other financial assets at fair value through AvailableDerivative Total financial profit or loss for-sale assets assets m m m m At 1 January 2010 2,912 2,611 1,937 7,460 Exchange and other adjustments 28 12 2 42 Gains losses recognised in the income statement 199 56 667 524 Gains recognised in other comprehensive income 271 271 Purchases 921 664 1,585 Sales 550 560 1,110 Transfers into the level 3 portfolio 64 780 844 Transfers out of the level 3 portfolio 738 296 66 1,100 At 31 December 2010 2,836 2,646 1,986 7,468 Exchange and other adjustments 8 45 8 61 Gains recognised in the income statement 139 78 672 889 Losses recognised in other comprehensive income 148 148 Purchases 518 343 861 Sales 747 580 1,327 Transfers into the level 3 portfolio 331 146 47 524 Transfers out of the level 3 portfolio 128 384 48 560 At 31 December 2011 2,941 2,056 2,649 7,646 Gains recognised in the income statement relating to those assets held at 31 December 2011 203 31 178 412 Losses recognised in other comprehensive income relating to those assets held at 31 December 2011 132 132 Gains losses recognised in the income statement relating to those assets held at 31 December 2010 151 81 667 597 Gains recognised in other comprehensive income relating to those assets held at 31 December 2010 269 269 The table below analyses movements in the Level 3 financial liabilities portfolio.
Derivative Financial Total financial liabilities guarantees liabilities m m m At 1 January 2010 197 38 235 Exchange and other adjustments 13 13 Additions 16 16 Redemptions 210 210 Transfers into the level 3 portfolio 203 203 At 31 December 2010 203 54 257 Losses recognised in the income statement 585 5 590 Redemptions 10 10 Transfers into the level 3 portfolio 18 18 Transfers out of the level 3 portfolio 65 65 At 31 December 2011 741 49 790 Losses recognised in the income statement relating to those liabilities held at 31 December 2011 93 5 98 Gains losses recognised in the income statement relating to those liabilities held at 31 December 2010 Transfers out of the level 3 portfolio arise when inputs that could have a significant impact on the instruments valuation become market observable after previously having been nonmarket observable.
In the case of assetbacked securities this can arise if more than one consistent independent source of data becomes available.
Conversely transfers into the portfolio arise when consistent sources of data cease to be available.
Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 317 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 55: Financial instruments continued Included within the gains losses recognised in the income statement are gains of 412 million 2010: losses of 597 million related to financial instruments that are held in the level 3 portfolio at the year end.
These amounts are included in other operating income.
Included within the gains losses recognised in other comprehensive income are losses of 132 million 2010: gains of 269 million related to financial instruments that are held in the level 3 portfolio at the year end.
At 31 December 2011 At 31 December 2010 Effect of reasonably possible Effect of reasonably possible alternative assumptions alternative assumptions Carrying Favourable Unfavourable Carrying Favourable Unfavourable value changes changes value changes changes Valuation basis technique Main assumptions m m m m m m Trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Assetbacked Lead manager Use of single pricing 203 1 1 283 8 8 securities or broker quote source consensus pricing from market data provider Equity and venture Various valuation Earnings, net asset 1,823 56 59 2,072 135 111 capital investments techniques value and earnings multiples, forecast cash flows Unlisted equities and 915 481 property partnerships in the life funds 2,941 2,836 Available-for-sale financial assets Assetbacked Lead manager Use of single pricing 257 1 1 579 34 34 securities or broker quote source consensus pricing from market data provider Equity and venture Various valuation Earnings, net asset 1,799 183 88 2,067 141 91 capital investments techniques value, underlying asset values, property prices, forecast cash flows 2,056 2,646 Derivative financial assets Industry standard Prepayment rates, 2,649 134 20 1,986 157 27 model consensus probability of default, pricing from market loss given default and data provider yield curves.
Equity conversion feature spread Financial assets 7,646 7,468 Derivative financial liabilities Industry standard Prepayment rates, 741 203 model consensus probability of default, pricing from market loss given default and data provider yield curves Financial guarantees 49 54 Financial liabilities 790 257 Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 318 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 55: Financial instruments continued Sensitivity of level 3 valuations Asset-backed securities Reasonably possible alternative valuations have been calculated for assetbacked securities by using alternative pricing sources and calculating an absolute difference.
The pricing difference is defined as the absolute difference between the actual price used and the closest, alternative price available.
Derivative financial instruments i In respect of the embedded equity conversion feature of the Enhanced Capital Notes, the sensitivity was based on the absolute difference between the actual price of the enhanced capital note and the closest, alternative broker quote available plus the impact of applying a 10 bps increase decrease in the market yield used to derive a market price for similar bonds without the conversion feature.
The effect of interdependency of the assumptions is not material to the effect of applying reasonably possible alternative assumptions to the valuations of derivative financial instruments.
ii In respect of credit default swaps written on level 3 negative basis assetbacked securities, reasonably possible alternative valuations have been calculated by flexing the spread between the underlying asset and the credit default swap, or adjusting market yields, by a reasonable amount.
The sensitivity is determined by applying a 60 bps increase decrease in the spread between the asset and the credit default swap.
Venture capital and equity investments Third party valuers have been used to determine the value of unlisted equities and property partnerships included in the Group's life insurance funds.
The valuation techniques used for unlisted equities and venture capital investments vary depending on the nature of the investment, as described in the valuation methodology section above.
Reasonably possible alternative valuations for these investments have been calculated by reference to the relevant approach taken as appropriate to the business sector and investment circumstances and as such the following inputs have been considered: for valuations derived from earnings multiples, consideration is given to the risk attributes, growth prospects and financial gearing of comparable businesses when selecting an appropriate multiple: the discount rates used in discounted cash flow valuations: and in line with International Private Equity and Venture Capital Guidelines, the values of underlying investments in fund investments portfolios.
Derivative valuation adjustments Derivative financial instruments which are carried in the balance sheet at fair value are adjusted where appropriate to reflect credit risk, market liquidity and other risks.
i Uncollateralised derivative valuation adjustments, excluding monoline counterparties The following table summarises the movement on this valuation adjustment account during 2011: 2011 2010 m m At 1 January 570 662 Income statement charge 718 20 Transfers 62 112 At 31 December 1,226 570 Represented by: 2011 2010 m m Credit Valuation Adjustment 1,425 671 Debit Valuation Adjustment 493 298 Funding Valuation Adjustment 294 197 1,226 570 Credit and Debit Valuation Adjustments CVA and DVA are applied to the Groups overthecounter derivative exposures with counterparties that are not subject to standard interbank collateral arrangements.
These exposures largely relate to the provision of risk management solutions for corporate customers within the Wholesale division.
A CVA is taken where the Group has a positive future uncollateralised exposure asset.
A DVA is taken where the Group has a negative future uncollateralised exposure liability.
These adjustments reflect interest rates and expectations of counterparty creditworthiness and the Groups own credit spread respectively.
Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 319 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 55: Financial instruments continued The CVA is sensitive to: the current size of the marktomarket position on the uncollateralised asset: expectations of future market volatility of the underlying asset: and expectations of counterparty creditworthiness.
In circumstances where exposures to a counterparty become impaired, any associated derivative valuation adjustment is transferred and assessed for specific loss alongside other nonderivative assets and liabilities that the counterparty may have with the Group.
Market Credit Default Swap CDS spreads are used to develop the probability of default for quoted counterparties.
For unquoted counterparties, internal credit ratings and market sector CDS curves and recovery rates are used.
The Loss Given Default LGD is based on market recovery rates and internal credit assessments.
The combination of a one per cent deterioration in the credit rating of derivative counterparties and a ten per cent increase in LGD increases the CVA by 140 million.
Current market value is used to estimate the projected exposure for products not supported by the model, which are principally complex interest rate options that are traded in very low volumes.
For these, the CVA is calculated on an addon basis in total contributing 84 million of the overall CVA balance at 31 December 2011.
The DVA is sensitive to: the current size of the marktomarket position on the uncollateralised liability: expectations of future market volatility of the underlying liability: and the Groups own CDS spread.
A one per cent rise in the CDS spread would lead to an increase in the DVA of 125 million to 618 million.
The risk exposures that are used for the CVA and DVA calculations are strongly influenced by interest rates.
Due to the nature of the Groups business the CVA DVA exposures tend to be on average the same way around such that the valuation adjustments fall when interest rates rise.
A one per cent rise in interest rates would lead to a 369 million fall in the overall valuation adjustment to 563 million.
The CVA model used by the Group does not assume any correlation between the level of interest rates and default rates.
The Group has also recognised a Funding Valuation Adjustment to adjust for the net cost of funding certain uncollateralised derivative positions where the Group considers that this cost is included in market pricing.
This adjustment is calculated on the expected future exposure discounted at a suitable cost of funds.
A ten basis points increase in the cost of funds will increase the funding valuation adjustment by approximately 11 million.
ii Uncollateralised derivative valuation adjustments monoline counterparties The Group has no significant derivative exposures remaining against monoline counterparties as shown in note 56 Credit risk.
iii Market liquidity The Group includes mid to bidoffer valuation adjustments against the expected cost of closing out the net market risk in the Groups trading positions within a timeframe that is consistent with historical trading activity and spreads that the trading desks have accessed historically during the ordinary course of business in normal market conditions.
At 31 December 2011, the Groups derivative trading business held mid to bidoffer valuation adjustments of 85 million 31 December 2010: 66 million.
iv Libor Overnight Index Swap basis The Groups derivative trading business applies 74 million 31 December 2010: 70 million of valuation adjustments against the changing market approach to valuing derivatives that are subject to daily collateral margin, where standard market practice is to pay interest on an Overnight Index Swap basis rather than a Libor rate.
No credit valuation adjustment is taken on collateralised swaps.
Own credit adjustments The carrying amount of issued notes that are designated under the IAS 39 fair value option is adjusted to reflect the effect of changes in own credit spreads.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement.
At 31 December 2011, the own credit adjustment arising from the fair valuation of 5,339 million 31 December 2010: 6,665 million of the Groups debt securities in issue designated at fair value through profit or loss resulted in a gain of 194 million 2010: no gain or loss.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 320 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 55: Financial instruments continued 4 Transferred financial assets that are not derecognised Repurchase and securities lending transactions The Group enters into repurchase and securities lending transactions in the normal course of business that do not result in derecognition of the financial assets concerned.
The carrying value of financial assets transferred under such arrangements, that did not qualify for derecognition, and their associated liabilities are as follows: 2011 2010 Carrying Carrying Carrying Carrying value of value of value of value of transferred associated transferred associated assets liabilities assets liabilities m m m m Trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 523 513 824 828 Debt securities classified as loans and receivables 5,045 4,326 1,386 1,043 Availableforsale financial assets 2,435 2,258 1,467 1,378 Total 8,003 7,097 3,677 3,249 In all cases the transferee has the right to sell or repledge the assets concerned.
Securitisations and covered bonds Details about the Groups securitisation and covered bond programmes, which may also result in financial assets not being derecognised in full, are provided in note 22.
Note 56: Financial risk management As a bancassurer, financial instruments are fundamental to the Groups activities and, as a consequence, the risks associated with financial instruments represent a significant component of the risks faced by the Group.
The primary risks affecting the Group through its use of financial instruments are: credit risk: market risk, which includes interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk: liquidity risk: capital risk: and insurance risk.
Information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks and capital can be found on pages 99 to 170.
The following additional disclosures, which provide quantitative information about the risks within financial instruments held or issued by the Group, should be read in conjunction with that earlier information.
Market risk The Group uses various market risk measures for risk reporting and setting risk appetite limits and triggers.
These measures include Value at Risk and Stress Scenarios.
Interest rate risk In the Groups retail banking business interest rate risk arises from the different repricing characteristics of the assets and liabilities.
Liabilities are either insensitive to interest rate movements, for example interest free or very low interest customer deposits, or are sensitive to interest rate changes but bear rates which may be varied at the Groups discretion and that for competitive reasons generally reflect changes in the Bank of Englands base rate.
There is a relatively small volume of deposits whose rate is contractually fixed for their term to maturity.
Many banking assets are sensitive to interest rate movements: there is a large volume of managed rate assets such as variable rate mortgages which may be considered as a natural offset to the interest rate risk arising from the managed rate liabilities.
However, a significant proportion of the Groups lending assets, for example many personal loans and mortgages, bear interest rates which are contractually fixed for periods of up to five years or longer.
The Group establishes two types of hedge accounting relationships for interest rate risk: fair value hedges and cash flow hedges.
The Group is exposed to fair value interest rate risk on its fixed rate customer loans, its fixed rate customer deposits and the majority of its subordinated debt, and to cash flow interest rate risk on its variable rate loans and deposits together with its floating rate subordinated debt.
The majority of the Groups hedge accounting relationships are fair value hedges where interest rate swaps are used to hedge the interest rate risk inherent in the fixed rate mortgage portfolio.
At 31 December 2011 the aggregate notional principal of interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges was 93,215 million 2010: 75,831 million with a net fair value asset of 5,484 million 2010: asset of 3,166 million note 19.
The gains on the hedging instruments were 1,982 million 2010: gains of 280 million.
The losses on the hedged items attributable to the hedged risk were 1,999 million 2010: losses of 452 million.
In addition the Group has cash flow hedges which are primarily used to hedge the variability in the cost of funding within the wholesale business.
Note 19 shows when the hedged cash flows are expected to occur and when they will affect income for designated cash flow hedges.
The notional principal of the interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges at 31 December 2011 was 152,314 million 2010: 112,507 million with a net fair value liability of 358 million 2010: liability of 843 million note 19.
In 2011, ineffectiveness recognised in the income statement that arises from cash flow hedges was a loss of 13 million 2010: gain of 160 million.
Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 321 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 56: Financial risk management continued Currency risk Foreign exchange exposures comprise those originating in treasury trading activities and structural foreign exchange exposures, which arise from investment in the Groups overseas operations.
The corporate and retail businesses incur foreign exchange risk in the course of providing services to their customers.
All nonstructural foreign exchange exposures in the nontrading book are transferred to the trading area where they are monitored and controlled.
These risks reside in the authorised trading centres who are allocated exposure limits.
The limits are monitored daily by the local centres and reported to the market and liquidity risk function in London.
Associated VaR and the closing, average, maximum and minimum are disclosed on page 165.
Risk arises from the Groups investments in its overseas operations.
The Groups structural foreign currency exposure is represented by the net asset value of the foreign currency equity and subordinated debt investments in its subsidiaries and branches.
Gains or losses on structural foreign currency exposures are taken to reserves.
The Group hedges part of the currency translation risk of the net investment in certain foreign operations using currency borrowings and cross currency derivatives.
At 31 December 2011 the aggregate notional principal of these currency borrowings was 2,245 million: the aggregate notional principal of the cross currency derivatives was 49 million 2010: cross currency derivatives 86 million with a fair value liability of 1 million 2010: asset of 2 million and they were designated on an aftertax basis as hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
In 2011, an ineffectiveness gain of 23 million before tax and 17 million after tax 2010: ineffectiveness loss of 28 million before tax and 20 million after tax was recognised in the income statement arising from net investment hedges.
The Groups main overseas operations are in the Americas, Asia, Australasia and Europe.
Details of the Groups structural foreign currency exposures, after net investment hedges, are as follows: Functional currency of Group operations 2011 2010 m m Euro: Gross exposure 585 2,468 Net investment hedge 848 3,270 263 802 US dollar: Gross exposure 341 47 Net investment hedge 122 145 219 98 Swiss franc: Gross exposure 15 53 Net investment hedge 15 53 Australian dollar: Gross exposure 1,232 1,567 Net investment hedge 1,226 1,634 6 67 Japanese yen: Gross exposure 20 17 Net investment hedge 20 17 Other nonsterling 170 155 Total structural foreign currency exposures, after net investment hedges 167 742 Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 322 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 56: Financial risk management continued Credit risk The Groups credit risk exposure arises in respect of the instruments below and predominantly in the United Kingdom, the European Union, Australia and the United States.
Credit risk appetite is set at Board level and is described and reported through a suite of metrics devised from a combination of accounting and credit portfolio performance measures, which include the use of various credit risk rating systems as inputs.
The Group uses a range of approaches to mitigate credit risk, including internal control policies, obtaining collateral, using master netting agreements and other credit risk transfers, such as asset sales and credit derivative based transactions.
Maximum credit exposure The maximum credit risk exposure of the Group in the event of other parties failing to perform their obligations is detailed below.
No account is taken of any collateral held and the maximum exposure to loss, which includes amounts held to cover unitlinked and With Profits funds liabilities, is considered to be the balance sheet carrying amount or, for nonderivative offbalance sheet transactions and financial guarantees, their contractual nominal amounts.
2011 2010 m m Loans and receivables: 1 Loans and advances to banks, net 32,606 30,272 1 Loans and advances to customers, net 565,638 592,597 1 Debt securities, net 12,470 25,735 2 Deposit amounts available for offset 4,174 8,105 606,540 640,499 Availableforsale financial assets excluding equity shares 35,468 40,700 Heldtomaturity investments 8,098 7,905 3 Trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss excluding equity shares : Loans and advances 11,121 12,545 Debt securities, treasury and other bills 52,652 53,427 63,773 65,972 Derivative assets: Derivative assets, before offsetting under master netting arrangements 66,013 50,777 2 Amounts available for offset under master netting arrangements 46,618 31,740 19,395 19,037 Assets arising from reinsurance contracts held 2,534 2,146 Financial guarantees 10,831 22,975 4 Irrevocable loan commitments and other creditrelated contingencies 57,329 67,809 Maximum credit risk exposure 803,968 867,043 Maximum credit risk exposure before offset items 854,760 906,888 1 Amounts shown net of related impairment allowances.
2 Deposit amounts available for offset and amounts available for offset under master netting arrangements do not meet the criteria under IAS 32 to enable loans and advances and derivative assets respectively to be presented net of these balances in the financial statements.
3 Includes assets within the Groups unitlinked funds for which credit risk is borne by the policyholders and assets within the Groups With Profits funds for which credit risk is largely borne by the policyholders.
Consequently, the Group has no significant exposure to credit risk for such assets which back related contract liabilities.
4 See note 54 Contingent liabilities and commitments for further information.
Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 323 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 56: Financial risk management continued B.
Credit quality of assets Loans and receivables The disclosures in the table below and those on pages 324 to 325 are produced under the combined businesses approach used for the Groups segmental reporting.
The Group believes that, for reporting periods immediately following a significant acquisition such as the acquisition of HBOS in 2009, this combined businesses basis, which includes the allowance for loan losses at the acquisition date on a gross basis, more fairly reflects the underlying provisioning status of the loans.
The remaining acquisitionrelated fair value adjustments in respect of this lending are therefore identified separately in this table.
The analysis of lending between retail and wholesale has been prepared based upon the type of exposure and not the business segment in which the exposure is recorded.
Included within retail are exposures to personal customers and small businesses, whilst included within wholesale are exposures to corporate customers and other large institutions.
Loans and advances Loans and advances designated Loans and advances to customers Loans and at fair value advances Retail Retail through to banks mortgages other Wholesale Total profit or loss m m m m m m At 31 December 2011 Neither past due nor impaired 32,494 330,727 41,448 146,655 518,830 11,121 Past due but not impaired 15 12,742 1,093 2,509 16,344 Impaired no provision required 6 1,364 1,604 3,544 6,512 provision held 105 6,701 2,940 44,116 53,757 Gross 32,620 351,534 47,085 196,824 595,443 11,121 Allowance for impairment losses 14 2,731 1,848 23,139 27,718 Fair value adjustments 2,087 Net balance sheet carrying value 32,606 565,638 11,121 At 31 December 2010 Neither past due nor impaired 30,259 339,509 45,058 159,274 543,841 12,545 Past due but not impaired 13,215 1,289 3,427 17,931 Impaired no provision required 2,189 433 5,313 7,935 provision held 20 5,591 5,149 45,931 56,671 Gross 30,279 360,504 51,929 213,945 626,378 12,545 Allowance for impairment losses 20 2,073 2,587 24,975 29,635 Fair value adjustments 13 4,146 Net balance sheet carrying value 30,272 592,597 12,545 The criteria that the Group uses to determine that there is objective evidence of an impairment loss are disclosed in note 2 H. All impaired loans which exceed certain thresholds, principally within the Groups Wholesale division, are individually assessed for impairment by reviewing expected future cash flows including those that could arise from the realisation of security.
Included in loans and receivables are advances which are individually determined to be impaired with a gross amount before impairment allowances of 48,142 million 31 December 2010: 51,608 million.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 324 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 56: Financial risk management continued The table below sets out the reconciliation of the allowance for impairment losses of 18,732million 31 December 2010: 18,373 million shown in note 25 to the allowance for impairment losses on a combined businesses basis of 27,718 million 31 December 2010: 29,635 million shown above: 2011 2010 m m Allowance for impairment losses on loans and advances to customers 18,732 18,373 1 HBOS allowance at 16 January 2009 11,147 11,147 2 HBOS charge covered by fair value adjustments 10,474 8,823 Amounts subsequently written off 13,083 9,136 8,538 10,834 Foreign exchange and other movements 448 428 Allowance for impairment losses on loans and advances to customers on a combined businesses basis 27,718 29,635 1 Comprises an allowance held at 31 December 2008 of 10,693 million and a charge for the period from 1 January 2009 to 16 January 2009 of 454 million.
2 This represents the element of the charge on loans and advances to customers in HBOSs results that was included within the Groups fair value adjustments in respect of the acquisition of HBOS on 16 January 2009.
Loans and advances which are neither past due nor impaired Loans and advances designated Loans and advances to customers Loans and at fair value advances Retail Retail through to banks mortgages other Wholesale Total profit or loss m m m m m m At 31 December 2011 Good quality 32,141 323,060 29,123 71,907 11,065 Satisfactory quality 171 5,432 9,747 42,311 45 Lower quality 9 970 1,127 24,676 11 Below standard, but not impaired 173 1,265 1,451 7,761 Total loans and advances which are neither past due nor impaired 32,494 330,727 41,448 146,655 518,830 11,121 At 31 December 2010 Good quality 29,835 332,614 30,076 57,552 12,220 Satisfactory quality 265 5,259 11,084 42,906 163 Lower quality 16 834 1,170 45,750 83 Below standard, but not impaired 143 802 2,728 13,066 79 Total loans and advances which are neither past due nor impaired 30,259 339,509 45,058 159,274 543,841 12,545 The definitions of good quality, satisfactory quality, lower quality and below standard, but not impaired applying to retail and wholesale are not the same, reflecting the different characteristics of these exposures and the way they are managed internally, and consequently totals are not provided.
Wholesale lending has been classified using internal probability of default rating models mapped so that they are comparable to external credit ratings.
Good quality lending comprises the lower assessed default probabilities, with other classifications reflecting progressively higher default risk.
Classifications of retail lending incorporate expected recovery levels for mortgages, as well as probabilities of default assessed using internal rating models.
Further information about the Groups internal probabilities of default rating models can be found on pages 129 to 130.
Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 325 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 56: Financial risk management continued Loans and advances which are past due but not impaired Loans and advances designated Loans and advances to customers Loans and at fair value advances Retail Retail through to banks mortgages other Wholesale Total profit or loss m m m m m m At 31 December 2011 030 days 1 5,989 868 1,163 8,020 3060 days 9 2,618 195 481 3,294 6090 days 4 1,833 25 260 2,118 90180 days 2,302 4 159 2,465 Over 180 days 1 1 446 447 Total loans and advances which are past due but not impaired 15 12,742 1,093 2,509 16,344 At 31 December 2010 030 days 6,498 1,004 1,331 8,833 3060 days 2,674 246 498 3,418 6090 days 1,811 29 394 2,234 90180 days 2,223 10 337 2,570 Over 180 days 9 867 876 Total loans and advances which are past due but not impaired 13,215 1,289 3,427 17,931 A financial asset is past due if a counterparty has failed to make a payment when contractually due.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 326 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 56: Financial risk management continued Debt securities classified as loans and receivables An analysis by credit rating of the Groups debt securities classified as loans and receivables is provided below: Rated BB AAA AA A BBB or lower Not rated Total m m m m m m m At 31 December 2011 Assetbacked securities: Mortgagebacked securities 2,008 2,326 1,423 1,024 369 29 7,179 Other assetbacked securities 3,585 430 374 237 403 1 5,030 5,593 2,756 1,797 1,261 772 30 12,209 Corporate and other debt securities 150 67 320 537 Gross exposure 5,743 2,756 1,864 1,261 772 350 12,746 Allowance for impairment losses 276 Total debt securities classified as loans and receivables 12,470 At 31 December 2010.
Assetbacked securities: Mortgagebacked securities 6,524 2,856 1,057 840 222 151 11,650 Other assetbacked securities 7,535 2,514 1,377 475 823 103 12,827 14,059 5,370 2,434 1,315 1,045 254 24,477 Corporate and other debt securities 163 164 459 106 166 758 1,816 Gross exposure 14,222 5,534 2,893 1,421 1,211 1,012 26,293 Allowance for impairment losses 558 Total debt securities classified as loans and receivables 25,735 Availableforsale financial assets excluding equity shares An analysis of the Groups availableforsale financial assets is included in note 26.
The credit quality of the Groups availableforsale financial assets excluding equity shares is set out below: Rated BB AAA AA A BBB or lower Not rated Total m m m m m m m At 31 December 2011 Debt securities: Government securities 19,051 6,179 6 25,236 Other public sector securities 27 27 Bank and building society certificates of deposit 81 177 71 37 366 Assetbacked securities: Mortgagebacked securities 626 491 398 185 103 1,803 Other assetbacked securities 399 299 224 34 90 18 1,064 1,025 790 622 219 193 18 2,867 Corporate and other debt securities 1,609 856 2,351 341 88 5,245 Total debt securities 21,766 8,002 3,044 597 193 139 33,741 Treasury bills and other bills 1,717 10 1,727 Total held as available-for-sale financial assets 23,483 8,002 3,054 597 193 139 35,468 At 31 December 2010 Debt securities: Government securities 12,462 78 12 12,552 Other public sector securities 29 29 Bank and building society certificates of deposit 225 162 20 407 Assetbacked securities: Mortgagebacked securities 2,809 673 601 202 8 4,293 Other assetbacked securities 3,625 781 395 115 79 224 5,219 6,434 1,454 996 317 87 224 9,512 Corporate and other debt securities 1,135 4,824 5,150 913 42 68 12,132 Total debt securities 20,031 6,581 6,308 1,250 129 333 34,632 Treasury bills and other bills 4,439 1,629 6,068 Total held as availableforsale financial assets 24,470 6,581 7,937 1,250 129 333 40,700 Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 327 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 56: Financial risk management continued Heldtomaturity investments An analysis of the credit quality of the Groups heldtomaturity investments is provided below: Rated BB AAA AA A BBB or lower Not rated Total m m m m m m m At 31 December 2011 Government securities 6,319 1,779 8,098 At 31 December 2010 Government securities 7,905 7,905 Debt securities, treasury and other bills held at fair value through profit or loss An analysis of the Groups trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss is included in note 18.
The credit quality of the Groups debt securities, treasury and other bills held at fair value through profit or loss is set out below: Rated BB AAA AA A BBB or lower Not rated Total m m m m m m m At 31 December 2011 Debt securities, treasury and other bills held at fair value through profit or loss Trading assets: Government securities 1,994 6 2,000 Bank and building society certificates of deposit 1,147 1,574 142 2,863 Assetbacked securities: Mortgagebacked securities 63 34 1 1 99 Other assetbacked securities 19 151 52 222 82 185 53 1 321 Corporate and other debt securities 304 141 312 489 151 179 1,576 Total debt securities held as trading assets 2,380 1,479 1,939 631 152 179 6,760 Treasury bills and other bills 224 75 299 Total held as trading assets 2,604 1,554 1,939 631 152 179 7,059 Other assets held at fair value through profit or loss: Government securities 17,667 1,027 950 642 644 437 21,367 Other public sector securities 908 170 35 59 11 1,183 Bank and building society certificates of deposit 330 55 385 Assetbacked securities: Mortgagebacked securities 194 45 255 116 2 612 Other assetbacked securities 320 198 794 383 53 16 1,764 514 243 1,049 499 53 18 2,376 Corporate and other debt securities 3,415 2,111 6,197 5,195 1,199 2,165 20,282 Total other assets held at fair value through profit or loss 22,504 3,881 8,286 6,395 1,907 2,620 45,593 Total held at fair value through profit or loss 25,108 5,435 10,225 7,026 2,059 2,799 52,652 Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 328 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 56: Financial risk management continued Rated BB AAA AA A BBB or lower Not rated Total m m m m m m m At 31 December 2010 Debt securities, treasury and other bills held at fair value through profit or loss Trading assets: Government securities 651 888 84 1,623 Bank and building society certificates of deposit 3,086 506 100 3,692 Other assetbacked securities 191 633 196 1,020 Corporate and other debt securities 1,205 1,209 1,839 183 13 470 4,919 Total debt securities held as trading assets 2,047 5,816 2,541 367 13 470 11,254 Treasury bills and other bills 219 8 227 Total held as trading assets 2,266 5,824 2,541 367 13 470 11,481 Other assets held at fair value through profit or loss: Government securities 20,509 1,113 408 33 6 148 22,217 Other public sector securities 778 62 68 2 9 919 Bank and building society certificates of deposit 52 107 447 606 Assetbacked securities: Mortgagebacked securities 259 68 48 23 24 422 Other assetbacked securities 298 372 458 384 70 10 1,592 557 440 506 407 70 34 2,014 Corporate and other debt securities 3,870 1,619 4,397 3,269 1,275 1,760 16,190 Total other assets held at fair value through profit or loss 25,766 3,341 5,826 3,711 1,351 1,951 41,946 Total held at fair value through profit or loss 28,032 9,165 8,367 4,078 1,364 2,421 53,427 Credit risk in respect of trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss held within the Groups unitlinked funds is borne by the policyholders and credit risk in respect of With Profits funds is largely borne by the policyholders.
Consequently, the Group has no significant exposure to credit risk for such assets which back those contract liabilities.
Derivative assets An analysis of derivative assets is given in note 19.
The Group reduces exposure to credit risk by using master netting agreements and by obtaining collateral in the form of cash or highly liquid securities.
In respect of the Group's maximum credit risk relating to derivative assets of 19,395 million 2010: 19,037 million, cash collateral of 5,269 million 2010: 1,429 million was held and a further 7,875 million was due from OECD banks 2010: 8,385 million.
Financial guarantees and irrevocable loan commitments These represent undertakings that the Group will meet a customers obligation to third parties if the customer fails to do so.
Commitments to extend credit represent unused portions of authorisations to extend credit in the form of loans, guarantees or letters of credit.
The Group is theoretically exposed to loss in an amount equal to the total guarantees or unused commitments, however, the likely amount of loss is expected to be significantly less: most commitments to extend credit are contingent upon customers maintaining specific credit standards.
Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 329 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 56: Financial risk management continued C. Collateral held as security for financial assets A general description of collateral held as security in respect of financial instruments is provided on pages 131 and 132.
The Group holds collateral against loans and receivables and irrevocable loan commitments: qualitative and, where appropriate, quantitative information is provided in respect of this collateral below.
Collateral held as security for trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss and for derivative assets is also shown below.
Loans and receivables The disclosures below are produced under the combined businesses approach used for the Groups segmental reporting.
The Group believes that, for reporting periods immediately following a significant acquisition, such as the acquisition of HBOS in 2009, this combined businesses basis, which includes the allowance for loan losses at the acquisition on a gross basis, more fairly reflects the underlying provisioning status of the loans.
The Group holds collateral in respect of loans and advances to banks and customers as set out below.
The Group does not hold collateral against debt securities, comprising assetbacked securities and corporate and other debt securities, which are classified as loans and receivables.
Loans and advances to banks The Group may require collateral before entering into a credit commitment with another bank, depending on the type of financial product and the counterparty involved, and netting arrangements are obtained whenever possible and to the extent that such agreements are legally enforceable.
Collateral is held as part of reverse repurchase or securities borrowing transactions.
There were reverse repurchase agreements which are accounted for as collateralised loans within loans and advances to banks with a carrying value of 508 million 2010: 4,185 million, against which the Group held collateral with a fair value of 511 million 2010: 3,909 million, all of which the Group is able to repledge.
Included in these amounts in 2010 are collateral balances in the form of cash provided in respect of reverse repurchase agreements amounting to 4 million.
These transactions were generally conducted under terms that are usual and customary for standard secured lending activities.
Loans and advances to customers The Group holds collateral against loans and advances to customers in the form of mortgages over residential and commercial real estate, charges over business assets such as premises, inventory and accounts receivable, charges over financial instruments such as debt securities and equities, and guarantees received from third parties.
Retail lending Mortgages An analysis by loantovalue ratio of the Groups residential mortgage lending is provided below.
The value of collateral used in determining the loantovalue ratios has been estimated based upon the last actual valuation, adjusted to take into account subsequent movements in house prices, after making allowance for indexation error and dilapidations.
Neither past due Past due but nor impaired not impaired Impaired Gross m m m m At 31 December 2011 Less than 70 per cent 137,224 3,203 1,420 141,847 70 per cent to 80 per cent 60,236 1,894 843 62,973 80 per cent to 90 per cent 53,113 2,250 1,103 56,466 90 per cent to 100 per cent 40,236 2,182 1,196 43,614 Greater than 100 per cent 39,918 3,213 3,503 46,634 Total 330,727 12,742 8,065 351,534 Neither past due Past due but nor impaired not impaired Impaired Gross m m m m At 31 December 2010 Less than 70 per cent 140,267 3,191 1,376 144,834 70 per cent to 80 per cent 57,979 1,869 787 60,635 80 per cent to 90 per cent 53,732 2,381 1,138 57,251 90 per cent to 100 per cent 43,263 2,413 1,359 47,035 Greater than 100 per cent 44,268 3,361 3,120 50,749 Total 339,509 13,215 7,780 360,504 Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 330 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 56: Financial risk management continued Other No collateral is held in respect of retail credit cards or overdrafts, or unsecured personal loans.
For nonmortgage retail lending to small businesses, collateral will often include second charges over residential property and the assignment of life cover.
The majority of nonmortgage retail lending is unsecured.
At 31 December 2011, total nonmortgage lending amounted to 47,085 million 2010: 51,929 million, against which the Group held an impairment allowance of 1,848 million 2010: 2,587 million.
Gross impaired nonmortgage lending amounted to 4,544 million 2010: 5,582 million.
The fair value of the collateral held in respect of this lending was 43 million 2010: 40 million.
In determining the fair value of collateral, no specific amounts have been attributed to the costs of realisation and the value of collateral for each loan has been limited to the principal amount of the outstanding advance in order to eliminate the effects of any  and to provide a clearer representation of the Groups exposure.
Unimpaired nonmortgage retail lending amounted to 42,541 million 2010: 46,347 million.
Lending decisions are predominantly based on an obligors ability to repay from normal business operations rather than reliance on the disposal of any security provided.
Collateral values are rigorously assessed at the time of loan origination and are thereafter monitored in accordance with business unit credit policy.
The Group credit risk disclosures for unimpaired nonmortgage retail lending report assets gross of collateral and therefore disclose the maximum loss exposure.
The Group believes that this approach is appropriate.
The value of collateral is reassessed if there is observable evidence of distress of the borrower.
Unimpaired nonmortgage retail lending, including any associated collateral, is managed on a customerbycustomer basis rather than a portfolio basis.
No aggregated collateral information for the entire unimpaired nonmortgage retail lending portfolio is provided to key management personnel.
Wholesale lending Reverse repurchase transactions There were reverse repurchase agreements which are accounted for as collateralised loans with a carrying value of 16,835 million 2010: 3,096 million, against which the Group held collateral with a fair value of 16,936 million 2010: 2,987 million, all of which the Group is able to repledge.
Included in these amounts are collateral balances in the form of cash provided in respect of reverse repurchase agreements amounting to 34 million 2010: 42 million.
Impaired lending The value of collateral is reevaluated and its legal soundness reassessed if there is observable evidence of distress of the borrower: this evaluation is used to determine potential loss allowances and managements strategy to try to either repair the business or recover the debt.
At 31 December 2011, total wholesale lending amounted to 196,824 million 2010: 213,945 million, against which the Group held an impairment allowance of 23,139 million 2010: 24,975 million.
Gross impaired wholesale lending amounted to 47,660 million 2010: 51,244 million.
The fair value of the collateral held in respect of impaired wholesale lending which is secured was 13,977 million 2010: 14,520 million.
In determining the fair value of collateral, no specific amounts have been attributed to the costs of realisation.
For the purposes of determining the total collateral held by the Group in respect of impaired secured wholesale lending, the value of collateral for each loan has been limited to the principal amount of the outstanding advance in order to eliminate the effects of any  and to provide a clearer representation of the Groups exposure.
Impaired secured wholesale lending and associated collateral relates to lending to property companies and to customers in the financial, business and other services: transport, distribution and hotels: and construction industries.
Unimpaired lending Wholesale unimpaired lending amounted to 149,164 million 2010: 162,701 million.
Wholesale lending decisions are predominantly based on an obligors ability to repay from normal business operations rather than reliance on the disposal of any security provided.
Collateral values are rigorously assessed at the time of loan origination.
The types of collateral taken and the frequency with which collateral is required at origination is dependent upon the size and structure of the borrower.
For exposures to corporate customers and other large institutions, the Group will often require the collateral to include a first charge over land and buildings owned and occupied by the business, a mortgagee debenture over the companys undertaking and one or more of its assets, and keyman insurance.
The Group maintains policies setting out acceptable collateral, maximum loantovalue ratios and other criteria to be considered when reviewing a loan application.
The decision as to whether or not collateral is required will be based upon the nature of the transaction and the credit worthiness of the customer.
Other than for project finance, object finance and income producing real estate where charges over the subject assets are a basic requirement, the provision of collateral will not determine the outcome of a credit application.
The fundamental business proposition must evidence the ability of the business to generate funds from normal business sources to repay debt.
The extent to which collateral values are actively managed will depend on the credit quality and other circumstances of the obligor.
Although lending decisions are predominantly based on expected cash flows, any collateral provided may impact the pricing and other terms of a loan or facility granted: this will have a financial impact on the amount of net interest income recognised and on internal lossgivendefault estimates that contribute to the determination of asset quality.
For unimpaired wholesale lending which is secured the Group reports assets gross of collateral and therefore discloses the maximum loss exposure.
The Group believes that this approach is appropriate as collateral values at origination and during a period of good performance may not be representative of the value of collateral if the obligor enters a distressed state.
Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 331 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 56: Financial risk management continued Unimpaired secured wholesale lending is predominantly managed on a cash flow basis.
On occasion, it may include an assessment of underlying collateral, although, for impaired lending, this will not always involve assessing it on a fair value basis.
No aggregated collateral information for the entire unimpaired secured wholesale lending portfolio is provided to key management personnel.
Trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss excluding equity shares In respect of trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, the fair value of collateral accepted under reverse repurchase transactions which are accounted for as collateralised loans that the Group is permitted by contract or custom to sell or repledge was 15,765 million 2010: 14,299 million.
Of this, 3,740 million was sold or repledged 2010: 3,161 million.
In addition, securities held as collateral in the form of stock borrowed amounted to 10,438 million 2010: 72,224 million.
Of this amount, 5,308 million 2010: 52,393 million had been resold or repledged as collateral for the Groups own transactions.
Derivative assets, after offsetting of amounts under master netting arrangements The Group reduces exposure to credit risk by using master netting agreements and by obtaining collateral in the form of cash or highly liquid securities.
In respect of the net derivative assets after offsetting of amounts under master netting arrangements of 19,395 million 2010: 19,037 million, cash collateral of 5,269 million 2010: 1,429 million was held.
Irrevocable loan commitments and other credit-related contingencies At 31 December 2011, the Group held irrevocable loan commitments and other creditrelated contingencies of 57,329 million 2010: 67,809 million.
Collateral is held as security, in the event that lending is drawn down, on 13,279 million 2010: 13,011 million of these balances.
Lending decisions in respect of irrevocable loan commitments are based on the obligors ability to repay from normal business operations rather than reliance on the disposal of any security provided.
For wholesale commitments, it is the Groups practice to request collateral whose value is commensurate with the nature of the commitment.
For retail mortgage commitments, the majority are for mortgages with a loan tovalue ratio of less than 100 per cent.
Aggregated collateral information covering the entire balance of irrevocable loan commitments over which security will be taken is not provided to key management personnel.
D. Collateral pledged as security Repo and stock lending transactions The Group pledges assets primarily for repurchase agreements and securities lending transactions which are generally conducted under terms that are usual and customary for standard securitised borrowing contracts.
The fair value of collateral pledged in respect of repurchase transactions, accounted for as secured borrowings, where the secured party is permitted by contract or custom to repledge was 39,679 million 2010: 53,781 million.
In addition, the following financial assets on the balance sheet have been pledged as collateral as part of securities lending transactions: Assets pledged 2011 2010 m m Trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 3,102 4,289 Loans and advances to customers 37,926 102,151 Debt securities classified as loans and receivables 398 4,324 Availableforsale financial assets 1,618 13,375 43,044 124,139 In addition to the assets detailed above, the Group also holds assets that are encumbered through the Groups assetbacked conduits and its securitisation and covered bond programmes.
Further details of these assets are provided in notes 22 and 23.
E. Collateral repossessed 2011 2010 m m Residential property 968 1,046 Other 13 32 981 1,078 In respect of retail portfolios, the Group does not take physical possession of properties or other assets held as collateral and uses external agents to realise the value as soon as practicable, generally at auction, to settle indebtedness.
Any surplus funds are returned to the borrower or are otherwise dealt with in accordance with appropriate insolvency regulations.
In certain circumstances the Group takes physical possession of assets held as collateral against wholesale lending.
In such cases, the assets are carried on the Groups balance sheet and are classified according to the Groups accounting policies.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 332 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 56: Financial risk management continued F. Treatment of customers experiencing financial difficulty The Group operates a number of schemes to assist borrowers who are experiencing financial difficulties.
Details of the material elements of these schemes are set out below and in the Risk Management report on pages 132 to 134.
Retail customers The Group classifies the treatments offered to customers who have experienced financial difficulty into the following categories: Forbearance: a temporary account change to assist customers through periods of financial difficulty where arrears do not accrue at the original contractual payments, for example capital payment breaks and payment assistance breaks.
Any arrears existing at the commencement of the arrangement are retained.
Financial distress assistance: an arrangement for customers in financial distress where arrears accrue at the contractual payment, for example shortterm arrangements to pay and term extensions.
Repair: an account change used to repair a customers position when they have emerged from financial difficulty, for example capitalisation of arrears.
Treatments offered to UK retail secured customers in financial difficulty Forbearance Capital payment break These allow customers who are currently on a capital and interest repayment basis to temporarily transfer their loan onto an interest only basis in order to reduce their contractual monthly payment and help them through their period of financial difficulty.
During this period, the Group regularly reviews the customers situation and works with them to try to restore their position and return them to a full capital and interest repayment basis.
Prior to allowing the transfer, the Group undertakes a full financial review to confirm the customers financial difficulty and ability to maintain the revised level of payment.
The transfers are initially for twelve months and are limited to a maximum of three years during the lifetime of the mortgage.
Commensurate with the aim of this activity i. e. to manage customers through their temporary financial difficulty during the capital payment break arrears accrue based on the temporary interest only contractual monthly payment.
On expiry of the break, the customer is transferred back onto capital and interest repayment terms, with the outstanding balance recovered across the remaining term of the original loan.
Forbearance Payment assistance break These agreements allow customers to suspend monthly payments for a limited period in order to address shortterm financial difficulties.
This treatment is only available as a forbearance tool to customers who are less than one monthly payment in arrears and for a maximum period of three months during the term of the mortgage.
Arrears do not accrue during the break.
The contractual monthly payment is recalculated at the end of the break to take account of missed interest and, if appropriate, capital payments.
Financial distress Term extension These allow customers to permanently extend their mortgage term in order to reduce their contractual monthly payment.
Term extensions are rarely granted to customers in financial distress as the focus is on minimising the longer term impact on the customer.
The maximum term for the extension is aligned to the overall standard term limits for mortgages and, in general, the mortgage must be up to date.
The contractual monthly payment is reset when the term extension is implemented and any subsequent arrears will accrue based on this revised payment.
Financial distress Arrangement to pay Customers who are experiencing shortterm financial difficulties may reach agreement with the Group to pay an amount differing from their normal contractual monthly payment for a specified period of time.
This is agreed with the customer as being affordable and practical based on their individual circumstances.
Arrangements to pay less than the contractual monthly payment can be granted for up to three months after which the customers circumstances will be reviewed.
During the arrangement period, there is no clearing down of arrears such that, unless the customer is paying more than their contractual monthly payment, arrears balances will remain and the loan will continue to be reported as impaired or past due.
When customers come to the end of their arrangement period they will continue to be managed as a mainstream collections case, if still in arrears.
Repair Capitalisation of arrears Once customers have evidenced recovery from financial difficulty and reestablished a strong payment record, this treatment allows the repair of the customers financial position through the permanent capitalisation of arrears.
Customers must demonstrate that they can meet the contractual terms of their loan by making six consecutive contractual monthly payments and must give their permission for the capitalisation.
Arrears may not be capitalised more than twice in a five year period.
The contractual monthly payment is reset when the capitalisation is implemented to enable repayment over the original term.
Any subsequent arrears will accrue based on this revised payment.
Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 333 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 56: Financial risk management continued Customers receiving support from UK Government sponsored programmes The Group participates in a number of UK Government sponsored programmes designed to support households, which are described on page 133.
Where these schemes provide borrowers with a state benefit that is used to service the loan, there is no change in the reported status of the loan which is managed and reported in accordance with its original terms.
The Group assesses whether a loan benefitting from a UK Government sponsored programme is impaired using the same accounting policies and practices as it does for loans not benefitting from such a programme.
There is no direct impact on the impairment status of a loan benefitting from the Mortgage Rescue schemes, as these schemes involve the purchase, and eventual sale, of the property.
The loans included within the Income Support for Mortgage Interest scheme and the Homeowner Mortgage Support scheme may be impaired, in accordance with the normal definition of impairment.
The Income Support for Mortgage Interest scheme remains the most successful of the Government backed schemes.
It is the longestrunning, is the most widely known and provides both the customer and the Group with an assurance as to the maintenance of at least two years worth of interest payments.
The Group estimates that around 3 billion of its mortgage exposures are receiving this benefit.
This includes those who are also receiving other treatments for financial difficulty.
The Groups own UK retail secured schemes have also shown signs of success with over 86 per cent of customers who have accepted capital payment breaks having maintained or improved their arrears position over the twelve months after transfer.
The Group believes that its mortgage payment arrangements continue to be an effective way to manage shortterm affordability issues.
Treatments offered to Irish retail secured customers in financial difficulty While the treatments offered to mortgage customers in financial difficulty in the UK and in Ireland are broadly similar, the current period of economic distress in Ireland and resultant regulatory Code of Conduct on Mortgage Arrears have resulted in an environment of ongoing assistance to customers, with greater flexibility within policy as to the duration and frequency of treatments.
Care is taken to keep customers informed of their position and their circumstances are regularly reviewed: at least every six months.
UK and Irish retail secured loans and advances The amount of UK and Irish retail secured loans and advances subject to forbearance, financial distress and repair treatment at the period end is set out below: Total loans and advances receiving Impairment allowance as % of loans treatment and advances receiving treatment 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m % % Forbearance 4,028 4,424 2.7 1.6 1,2 Financial distress 729 603 9.8 10.1 1 Repair 1,772 3,719 6.7 3.7 Total UK and Irish retail secured loans and advances 339,121 348,433 0.8 0.6 1 Where the treatment involves a permanent change to the contractual basis of the customers account i. e. capitalisation of arrears and term extensions, those commenced during the year and remaining as customers at the year end are shown.
2 The financial distress balances include arrangements to pay where the customer is paying less than the contractual payment and had such arrangements at the year end.
The loans analysed above comprise 1.9 per cent of the overall UK and Irish retail secured portfolios at 31 December 2011 2010: 2.5 per cent.
At 31 December 2011, 10.9 per cent 2010: 8.7 per cent of the balances receiving treatment were impaired.
Collective impairment assessment of retail secured loans subject to forbearance and similar treatments Loans which have received forbearance or similar treatments are grouped with other assets with similar risk characteristics and assessed collectively for impairment as described below.
The loans are not considered as impaired loans unless they meet the standard definitions.
The Group's approach is to ensure that provisioning models, supported by management judgement, appropriately reflect the underlying loss risk of exposures.
The Group uses sophisticated behavioural scoring to assess customers' credit risk.
The underlying behavioural scorecards consider many different characteristics of customer behaviour, both static and dynamic, from internal sources and also from credit bureaux data, including characteristics that may identify when a customer has been in arrears on products held with other firms.
Hence, these models take a range of potential indicators of customer financial distress into account.
The performance of such models is monitored and challenged on an ongoing basis, in line with the Groups model governance policies.
The models are also regularly recalibrated to reflect up to date customer behaviour and market conditions.
Specifically, regular detailed analysis of modelled provision outputs is undertaken to demonstrate that the risk of forbearance or other similar activities is recognised, that the outcome period adequately captures the risk and that the underlying risk is appropriately reflected.
Where this is not the case, additional provisions are applied to capture the risk.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 334 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 56: Financial risk management continued Treatments offered to UK retail unsecured customers in financial difficulty Customers who are experiencing shortterm financial difficulties may reach agreement with the Group to pay an amount differing from their normal contractual payment for a specified period of time.
The terms of the arrangements and qualifying criteria depend on the unsecured product and on the assessment of the customers ability to return to making normal payments.
UK retail unsecured loans and advances UK retail unsecured loans and advances receiving forbearance and financial distress treatments at 31 December 2011 represent less than 2.5 per cent of the unsecured portfolios and, of that, over 90 per cent is already reported and provisioned for as impaired loans: in aggregate, impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans in collections represent 86.5 per cent.
Collective impairment assessment of UK retail unsecured loans and advances subject to forbearance and similar treatments Credit risk provisioning for the UK retail unsecured portfolio is undertaken on a purely collective basis.
The approach used is based on segmented cash flow models, divided into two primary streams for loans judged to be impaired and those that are not.
Accounts subject to repayment plans and collections refinance loans are among those considered to be impaired.
For exposures that are judged to be impaired, provisions are determined through modelling the expected cure rates, writeoff propensity and cash flows.
The segmentation is very granular with segments explicitly relating to repayment plans and refinance loans treatments.
Payments of less than the monthly contractual amount are reflected in reduced cash flow forecasts when calculating the impairment allowance for these accounts.
The output of the models is monitored and challenged on an ongoing basis.
The models are run monthly meaning that current market conditions and customer processes are reflected in the output.
Where the risks identified are not captured in the underlying models, appropriate additional provisions are made.
Wholesale customers Wholesale credit facilities are reviewed on a regular basis and more frequently where required.
When financial stress is exhibited, the customer is typically transferred at an early stage to the specialist Business Support Unit BSU and Customer Support teams.
In order to support wholesale customers that encounter difficulties during the current economic downturn, the Group increased the size of its dedicated BSU to cover all its UK and International portfolios.
The Group has detailed processes to identify customers in financial distress.
These are designed to ensure that early warning signs are acted upon and the Group takes appropriate action and, where possible, works with each customer to try to resolve the issues, to restore the business to a financially viable position and to facilitate a business turnaround.
The main types of forbearance for wholesale customers in financial distress are set out below.
Treatments offered to wholesale customers Covenant resets and breach of covenant waivers This consists of an agreement by the Group either to amend a clause in a loan agreement or similar document or to waive a breach of a clause, which will typically relate to a financial commitment linked to the credit quality of the customer.
The identification of a covenant breach will usually occur through one of the following: the processing of audited or management accounts: contact from the customer during preparation of their compliance certificate: the receipt of customer information from which covenant compliance is calculated: or the receipt of a compliance certificate from a customer or agent.
A customer is not automatically classed as being in default as a result of a covenant breach, but an actual or projected breach will prompt a review of the customers circumstances and their facilities.
Extension of facilities outside of agreed terms These allow customers to formally extend their facility term in order to reduce their contractual repayments or to improve their liquidity position.
Term extensions are also granted as part of normal corporate activities.
Capital repayment holidays These allow customers who are currently on a capital and interest repayment basis to temporarily transfer their loan onto an interestonly basis in order to reduce their contractual repayments and help them through their period of financial difficulty.
Prior to allowing the transfer, the Group undertakes a full financial review to confirm the customers financial difficulty and ability to maintain the revised level of repayment.
The aim of this activity is to manage customers through their temporary financial distress, and accordingly, on expiry of the break, the customer is transferred back onto capital and interest repayment terms, with the outstanding balance recovered across the remaining term of the original loan.
Debt for equity swaps This type of forbearance involves the Group writing off debt, either partially or in whole, in exchange for equity in the company, usually in the form of ordinary shares, warrants, options or other equity instruments.
The primary goals of debt for equity swaps are to reduce the debt service capital Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 335 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 56: Financial risk management continued and interest burden on the borrower, to encourage early repayment of outstanding loans to the Group, to protect the value of the residual debt provided, and or to benefit from any future growth in value of the borrower.
Debt for equity swaps are typically used as a last resort.
Partial debt write off An agreement to write off part of a contractual financial obligation in order to facilitate survival of a corporate entity on a going concern basis.
Partial debt writeoffs are typically used as a last resort.
G. Loans renegotiated during the year Loans and advances that were renegotiated during the year that would otherwise have been past due or impaired totalled 2,505 million at 31 December 2011 2010: 5,475 million.
Details of loans and advances renegotiated are provided below: Total loans and advances renegotiated during the year that would otherwise have been past due or impaired 2011 2010 m m Capitalisation of arrears 1,677 2,804 Interest rate adjustment 28 337 Payment holidays 172 221 Interest capitalisation 269 10 Forbearance of principal 359 2,103 Total 2,505 5,475 H. Credit market exposures The Groups credit market exposures primarily relate to assetbacked securities exposures held in Wholesale division.
An analysis of the carrying value of these exposures, which are classified as loans and receivables note 24, availableforsale financial assets note 26 or trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss note 18 depending on the nature of the investment, is set out below.
Net exposure Net exposure Loans and at 31 December at 31 December receivables Available-for-sale Trading 2011 2010 m m m m m Asset-backed securities Mortgagebacked securities: US residential 4,063 4,063 4,242 NonUS residential 1,837 1,189 99 3,125 7,898 Commercial 1,175 613 1,788 3,516 7,075 1,802 99 8,976 15,656 Collateralised debt obligations: Collateralised loan obligations 915 195 52 1,162 4,686 Other 264 264 494 1,179 195 52 1,426 5,180 Federal family education loan programme 3,380 146 3,526 7,777 Personal sector 145 366 511 3,967 Other assetbacked securities 314 322 20 656 1,035 Total uncovered assetbacked securities 12,093 2,831 171 15,095 33,615 1 Negative basis 36 150 186 1,109 Total Wholesale asset-backed securities 12,093 2,867 321 15,281 34,724 Direct 9,067 1,317 321 10,705 22,296 Conduits note 23 3,026 1,550 4,576 12,428 Total Wholesale asset-backed securities 12,093 2,867 321 15,281 34,724 1 Negative basis means bonds held with separate matching credit default swap protection.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 336 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 56: Financial risk management continued Exposures to monolines At 31 December 2011, the Group had no direct exposure to subinvestment grade monolines on credit default swap CDS contracts.
Its exposure to investment grade monolines through CDS contracts was 14 million gross exposure: 168 million and through wrapped loans and receivables was 178 million gross exposure: 274 million.
The exposure to monolines arising from negative basis trades is calculated as the marktomarket of the CDS protection purchased from the monoline insurer after credit valuation adjustments.
The exposure to monolines on wrapped loans and receivables and bonds is the internal assessment of amounts that will be recovered on interest and principal shortfalls.
In addition, the Group has 1,550 million 2010: 1,985 million of monoline wrapped bonds and 274 million 2010: 425 million of monoline wrapped liquidity commitments on which the Group currently places no reliance on the guarantor.
An analysis of the Wholesale divisions assetbacked securities portfolio by credit rating is provided below.
Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 337 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 56: Financial risk management continued Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is defined as the risk that the Group has insufficient financial resources to meet its commitments as they fall due, or can only secure them at excessive cost.
The Group carries out monthly stress testing of its liquidity position against a range of scenarios, including those prescribed by the FSA.
The Groups liquidity risk appetite is also calibrated against a number of stressed liquidity metrics.
The table below analyses assets and liabilities of the Group into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining contractual period at the balance sheet date: balances with no fixed maturity are included in the over 5 years category.
The Groups assets and liabilities may be repaid or otherwise mature earlier or later than implied by their contractual terms and readers are, therefore, advised to use caution when using this data to evaluate the Groups liquidity position.
The table below analyses financial instrument liabilities of the Group, excluding those arising from insurance and participating investment contracts, on an undiscounted future cash flow basis according to contractual maturity, into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date: balances with no fixed maturity are included in the over 5 years category.
The majority of the Groups nonparticipating investment contract liabilities are unitlinked.
These unitlinked products are invested in accordance with unit fund mandates.
Clauses are included in policyholder contracts to permit the deferral of sales, where necessary, so that linked assets can be realised without being a forced seller.
The principal amount for undated subordinated liabilities with no redemption option is included within the over five years column: interest of approximately 187 million 2010: 448 million per annum which is payable in respect of those instruments for as long as they remain in issue is not included beyond five years.
Further information on the Groups liquidity exposures is provided on pages 112 to 118.
Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 339 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 56: Financial risk management continued Liabilities arising from insurance and participating investment contracts are analysed on a behavioural basis, as permitted by IFRS 4, as follows: Up to 1-3 3-12 1-5 Over 5 1 month months months years years Total m m m m m m At 31 December 2011 748 1,724 5,257 18,132 53,130 78,991 At 31 December 2010 2,481 1,459 5,072 18,431 53,286 80,729 The following tables set out the amounts and residual maturities of Lloyds Banking Groups off balance sheet contingent liabilities and commitments.
Within 1-3 3-5 Over 5 1 year years years years Total m m m m m At 31 December 2011 Acceptances and endorsements 81 81 Other contingent liabilities 1,514 1,092 426 757 3,789 Total contingent liabilities 1,595 1,092 426 757 3,870 Lending commitments 71,216 13,999 17,380 2,287 104,882 Other commitments 701 701 Total commitments 71,917 13,999 17,380 2,287 105,583 Total contingents and commitments 73,512 15,091 17,806 3,044 109,453 Within 13 35 Over 5 1 year years years years Total m m m m m At 31 December 2010 Acceptances and endorsements 48 48 Other contingent liabilities 1,897 1,248 269 717 4,131 Total contingent liabilities 1,945 1,248 269 717 4,179 Lending commitments 76,456 22,537 13,424 3,739 116,156 Other commitments 1,038 61 43 1,142 Total commitments 77,494 22,598 13,424 3,782 117,298 Total contingents and commitments 79,439 23,846 13,693 4,499 121,477 Capital risk Capital risk is defined as the risk of the Group having a suboptimal amount or quality of capital or that capital is inefficiently deployed across the Group.
Capital risk appetite is set by the Board and reported through various metrics that enable the Group to manage capital constraints and market expectations.
The Group Chief Executive, assisted by the Group Asset and Liability Committee, regularly reviews performance against risk appetite.
A key metric is the Groups core tier 1 capital ratio which the Group currently aims to maintain prudently in excess of 10 per cent.
The Group maintains its own buffer to ensure that the regulatory minimum requirements and regulatory targets and buffers are met at all times.
Additionally an extensive series of stress analyses is undertaken during the year to determine the adequacy of the Groups capital resources against the FSA minimum requirements in severe economic conditions.
Insurance risk Insurance risk is the risk of reductions in earnings, capital and or value, through financial or reputational loss, due to fluctuations in the timing, frequency and severity of insured underwritten events and to fluctuations in the timing and amount of claim settlements.
This includes fluctuations in profits due to customer behaviour.
The Groups appetite for solvency and earnings in insurance entities is reviewed and approved annually by the Board.
Insurance risks are measured using a variety of techniques including stress and scenario testing, and, where appropriate, stochastic modelling.
Ongoing monitoring is in place to track the progression of insurance risks.
This normally involves monitoring relevant experiences against expectations, as well as evaluating the effectiveness of controls put in place to manage insurance risk.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 340 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 57: Consolidated cash flow statement A Change in operating assets 2011 2010 2009 m m m Change in loans and receivables 39,361 40,101 50,935 Change in derivative financial instruments, trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 5,867 7,378 12,063 Change in other operating assets 1,131 863 1,056 Change in operating assets 44,097 31,860 61,942 B Change in operating liabilities 2011 2010 2009 m m m Change in deposits from banks 10,480 32,162 71,267 Change in customer deposits 20,283 13,249 11,474 Change in debt securities in issue 43,893 5,655 26,578 Change in derivative financial instruments, trading and other liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 14,249 160 27,037 Change in investment contract liabilities 793 8,161 5,415 Change in other operating liabilities 139 2,938 2,066 Change in operating liabilities 19,187 45,683 105,927 Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 341 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 57: Consolidated cash flow statement continued C Non-cash and other items 2011 2010 2009 m m m Depreciation and amortisation 2,175 2,432 2,560 Impairment of tangible fixed assets 65 202 Revaluation of investment properties 107 434 214 Allowance for loan losses 8,069 10,771 16,028 Writeoff of allowance for loan losses 7,405 6,909 4,090 Impairment of availableforsale financial assets 80 106 602 Impairment of goodwill 240 Change in insurance contract liabilities 2,081 4,021 5,986 Customer goodwill payments provision 500 Payment protection insurance provision 3,200 German insurance business litigation provision 175 Other provision movements 294 49 95 Net charge credit in respect of defined benefit schemes 199 455 529 Gain on acquisition 11,173 1 Impact of consolidation and deconsolidation of OEICs 6,094 878 660 Unwind of discount on impairment allowances 226 403 446 2 Foreign exchange impact on balance sheet 302 1,159 156 3 Liability management gains within other income 599 423 1,498 Interest expense on subordinated liabilities 2,155 3,619 2,550 Loss on disposal of businesses 21 314 Other noncash items 1,186 472 340 Total non-cash items 1,035 11,825 10,753 Contributions to defined benefit schemes 838 653 1,867 Payments in respect of customer goodwill payments provision 497 Payments in respect of payment protection insurance provision 1,045 Other 6 1 21 Total other items 2,374 652 1,846 Non-cash and other items 1,339 11,173 8,907 1 These OEICs Openended investment companies are mutual funds which are consolidated if the Group manages the funds and also has a majority beneficial interest.
The population of OEICs to be consolidated varies at each reporting date as external investors acquire and divest holdings in the various funds.
The consolidation of these funds is effected by the inclusion of the fund investments and a matching liability to the unitholders: and changes in funds consolidated represent a noncash movement on the balance sheet.
2 When considering the movement on each line of the balance sheet, the impact of foreign exchange rate movements is removed in order to show the underlying cash impact.
3 A number of capital transactions entered into by the Group in 2009, 2010 and 2011 involved the exchange of existing securities for new issues and as a result there was no related cash flow.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 342 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 57: Consolidated cash flow statement continued D Analysis of cash and cash equivalents as shown in the balance sheet 2011 2010 2009 m m m Cash and balances at central banks 60,722 38,115 38,994 1 Less: mandatory reserve deposits 1,070 1,089 728 59,652 37,026 38,266 Loans and advances to banks 32,606 30,272 35,361 Less: amounts with a maturity of three months or more 6,369 4,998 7,937 26,237 25,274 27,424 Total cash and cash equivalents 85,889 62,300 65,690 1 Mandatory reserve deposits are held with local central banks in accordance with statutory requirements: these deposits are not available to finance the Groups daytoday operations.
Included within cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2011 is 21,601 million 2010: 14,694 million: 2009:13,323 million held within the Groups life funds, which is not immediately available for use in the business.
E Acquisition of group undertakings and businesses 2011 2010 2009 m m m Net assets of HBOS acquired note 14 18,960 Satisfied by: Issue of shares 7,651 Gain on acquisition 11,173 Cash and cash equivalents acquired, net of acquisition costs 16,341 2,483 Net cash inflow arising from acquisition of HBOS 16,477 Acquisition of and additional investment in joint ventures 10 65 215 Net cash outflow inflow arising from acquisitions in the year 10 65 16,262 Payments to former members of Scottish Widows Fund and Life Assurance Society acquired during 2000 3 8 35 Net cash outflow inflow 13 73 16,227 F Disposal and closure of group undertakings and businesses 2011 2010 2009 m m m Intangible assets 170 Other net assets and liabilities 319 742 241 319 742 411 Loss on sale of businesses 21 314 Net cash inflow from disposals 298 428 411 Report of the independent auditors on the consolidated financial Lloyds Banking Group statements 206 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 343 Consolidated financial statements 208 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 216 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 344 Parent company financial statements 345 Notes to the parent company financial statements 348 1 20 171 355 Note 58: Future accounting developments The following pronouncements may have a significant effect on the Groups financial statements but are not applicable for the year ending 31 December 2011 and have not been applied in preparing these financial statements.
Save as disclosed, the full impact of these accounting changes is being assessed by the Group.
Pronouncement Nature of change IASB effective date Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Requires an entity to disclose information to enable users of its Annual and interim periods Instruments: Disclosures financial statements to evaluate the effect or potential effect of netting beginning on or after  Financial arrangements on the entitys balance sheet.
Assets and Financial Liabilities IFRS 10 Consolidated Supersedes IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements Annual periods beginning Financial Statements and SIC12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities and establishes on or after 1 January 2013. principles for the preparation of consolidated financial statements when an entity controls one or more entities.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Requires an entity to disclose information that enables users of financial Annual periods beginning Other Entities statements to evaluate the nature of, and risks associated with, its on or after 1 January 2013. interests in other entities and the effects of those interests on its financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement The standard defines fair value, sets out a framework for measuring fair Annual periods beginning value and requires disclosures about fair value measurements.
It applies on or after 1 January 2013. to IFRSs that require or permit fair value measurements or disclosures about fair value measurements.
IAS 19 Employee Benefits Prescribes the accounting and disclosure by employers for employee Annual periods beginning benefits.
Actuarial gains and losses remeasurements in respect of on or after 1 January 2013. defined benefit pension schemes can no longer be deferred using the corridor approach and must be recognised immediately in other comprehensive income.
At 31 December 2011, unrecognised actuarial losses were 539 million.
The income statement charge for 2011 would have been approximately 200 million higher under the revised standard.
Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Inserts application guidance to address inconsistencies identified Annual periods beginning Instruments: Presentation in applying the offsetting criteria used in the standard.
Some gross on or after 1 January 2014.
Offsetting Financial Assets and settlement systems may qualify for offsetting where they exhibit certain Financial Liabilities characteristics akin to net settlement.
1 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Replaces those parts of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition Annual periods beginning and Measurement relating to the classification, measurement and on or after 1 January 2015. derecognition of financial assets and liabilities.
Requires financial assets to be classified into two measurement categories, fair value and amortised cost, on the basis of the objectives of the entitys business model for managing its financial assets and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the instruments.
The availableforsale financial asset and heldtomaturity investment categories in IAS 39 will be eliminated.
The requirements for financial liabilities and derecognition are broadly unchanged from IAS 39.
1 IFRS 9 is the initial stage of the project to replace IAS 39.
Future stages are expected to result in amendments to IFRS 9 to deal with changes to the impairment of financial assets measured at amortised cost and hedge accounting.
Until all stages of the replacement project are complete, it is not possible to determine the overall impact on the financial statements of the replacement of IAS 39.
At the date of this report, these pronouncements are awaiting EU endorsement.
Note 59: Approval of financial statements The consolidated financial statements were approved by the directors of Lloyds Banking Group plc on 27 February 2012.
Overview r Business review r Governance r Financial statements Other information r
