68 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation and accounting policies IFRS 2 'Share-based Payments' Amendments relating to group cash-settled share-based payment transactions and vesting conditions: The Companys and Groups consolidated financial statements IAS 28 'Investments in Associates' Consequential amendments arising are prepared in accordance with International Financial from amendments to IFRS 3: Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting IAS 31 'Interests in Joint Ventures' Consequential amendments arising Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations endorsed from amendments to IFRS 3: by the European Union, and with those parts of the Companies IAS 39 'Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement' Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
Amendments for eligible hedged items: IFRIC 17 'Distributions of Non-cash Assets': The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of assets and liabilities IFRIC 18 'Transfers of Assets from Customers': and held at fair value, including those of the central counterparty CCP IFRS various Annual improvements 2010. clearing business of the Groups majority-owned subsidiary Cassa di Compensazione e Garanzia S. p. A. CC&G, and on the basis of The following standards, amendments and interpretations have been the Groups accounting policies.
issued by the IASB and IFRIC with an effective date, subject to EU endorsement, that does not impact on these financial statements.
The Group uses a columnar format for the presentation of its Consolidated Income Statement.
This enables the Group to aid the Effective date for periods readers understanding of its results by presenting profit for the year beginning on or after before amortisation of purchased intangibles and non-recurring items.
IFRS 9 'Financial Instruments': 1 January 2013 This is the profit measure used to calculate adjusted earnings per IAS 24 'Related Party Disclosures': 1 January 2011 share and is considered to be the most appropriate as it best reflects IFRIC 14 'Prepayments of a Minimum the Groups underlying cash earnings and is the primary measure of Funding Requirement': 1 January 2011 performance monitored by the Groups Executive Committee.
Profit IFRIC 18 'Transfers of Assets from before acquisition amortisation and non-recurring items is reconciled Customers': and 1 July 2010 to profit before taxation on the face of the Income Statement.
IFRIC 19 'Extinguishing Financial The Company is a public limited company incorporated and Liabilities with Equity Instruments'.
The address of its registered office is 10 Paternoster Square, London, EC4M 7LS.
The impact on the Groups financial statements of the future standards, amendments and interpretations is still under review, Recent accounting developments but the Group does not currently expect any of these changes to The following standards and interpretations have been issued by the have a material impact on the results or the net assets of the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and IFRIC and Company or the Group.
have been adopted for the first time in these financial statements: Accounting policies IFRS 3 revised Business Combinations Comprehensive Consolidation revision to applying the acquisition method, has been adopted The Consolidated Financial Statements comprise the financial and applied to all acquisitions from 1 April 2010.
The revised statements of the Company and its subsidiaries with all inter-company standard maintains the acquisition method for business balances and transactions eliminated, together with the Groups combinations, but has made significant changes in other areas attributable share of the results of associates and joint ventures.
when compared to IFRS 3 such as all payments on the purchase The results of subsidiaries sold or acquired are included in the of a business are recognised at their fair value as at the acquisition income statement up to, or from, the date that control passes.
In addition any contingent consideration is classified as a As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the debt with any subsequent remeasurement taken through the Companys Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive income statement and all acquisition costs are expensed in the Income has not been included in these financial statements.
period that they are incurred.
The 4.8m acquisition of ProMac The Companys comprehensive income for the year is disclosed S. p. A. and 1m acquisition of MTS France S. A. S. were the only within the statement of changes in equity.
significant acquisitions during the period.
Investments in joint ventures and associates are accounted for IAS 27 revised Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements under the equity method.
The Groups investments in joint has been adopted and will apply to all acquisitions from 1 April ventures and associates are initially recognised at cost, and its 2010.
The revised standard requires the effects of all transactions share of profits or losses after tax from joint ventures and with non-controlling interests to be recorded in equity if there is associates is included in the Consolidated Income Statement.
no change in control and these transactions will no longer result Cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the in goodwill or gains and losses.
In the current period the remaining carrying amount of the investment in the Groups Balance Sheet.
19.9 per cent in EDX Limited and 10 per cent of Servizio Titoli S. p. A.
The financial statements of joint ventures and associates are used not controlled by the Group were acquired resulting in a 5.5m by the Group to apply the equity method, under which the Groups adjustment to retained earnings.
Income Statement reflects the Groups share of the results of The following standards and amendments were also effective for operations of the associates.
A company is considered an the first time in the current period, but the adoption of these did not associate where the Group has a significant influence.
have a material impact on these consolidated financial statements: London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2011 Overview Business Review Governance Group financial statements Other information Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 69 The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase Share based compensation method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate The Group operates a number of equity settled share based of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities compensation plans for employees.
The charge to the income incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group statement is determined by the fair value of the options granted in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Adjustments to fair values or shares awarded at the date of grant as an indirect measure include those made to bring accounting policies into line with of the value of employee services received by the Group and those of the Group.
recognised over the relevant vesting period.
The Group applies a policy of treating transactions with Foreign currencies non-controlling interests through the economic entity model.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, Acquisitions of shares from non-controlling interests result in which is the Group and Companys presentation and Companys the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant functional currency.
share acquired of the carrying value of the net assets of the subsidiary being recognised in equity.
Foreign currency transactions are converted into the functional currency using the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for in the Companys Foreign exchange gains or losses resulting from the settlement financial statements at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
of such transactions and from the translation at year-end rates of Cost is adjusted to reflect changes in consideration arising from monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies contingent consideration amendments.
are recognised in the income statement.
Translation differences on non-monetary items, such as equities or bonds held at fair value Revenue through profit or loss, are reported as part of their fair value gain Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or loss.
Exceptions to this are where the non-monetary items form or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and part of the net investment in a foreign operation or are designated services provided in the normal course of business, net of as hedges of a net investment, or as cash flow hedges.
Such discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes.
exchange differences are initially recognised in equity.
Revenue is recognised in the period when the service or supply The results and financial position of all Group entities that have is provided.
The sources of revenue are: a functional currency different from the presentation currency a Maintenance contracts, membership and other fees revenue are converted into the presentation currency as follows: is recognised on a straight-line basis over the period to which a assets and liabilities including goodwill, purchased intangible the fee relates: assets and fair value adjustments are converted at the closing b Admission fees revenue is recognised at the time of admission balance sheet rate to trading: b income and expenses are translated and recorded in the income c Royalties revenue is recognised at the earlier of cash receipt or statement at the average monthly rates prevailing: and the date at which they are earned or measurable with certainty: c all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate d IT products where there is no significant service obligation the component of equity.
revenue is recognised upon delivery and acceptance of the software or hardware by the customer: On consolidation, exchange differences arise from the translation e IT solutions where software is sold requiring significant of the net investment in foreign operations, and of borrowing modification, integration or customisation, the consideration and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such is allocated between the different elements on a fair value basis.
investments, are taken to shareholders equity.
When a foreign Revenue is recognised using a percentage of completion method.
operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences The stage of completion is determined by reference to the costs that were recorded in equity are recognised in the income incurred to date as a proportion of the total estimated costs or statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
the services performed to date as a percentage of total services to be performed.
Provision is made for all foreseeable future Finance income and expenses losses in the period in which they are identified: Finance income and expense comprises interest earned on f Software and Licence fees revenue is recognised when the cash deposited with financial counterparties and interest paid on performance under the contract has occurred and the revenue borrowings which reflect the agreed market-based or contractual has been earned: and rate for each transaction undertaken during the financial year.
g Other all other revenue is recognised in the month in which Recurring fees and charges levied on committed bank facilities the service is provided.
In interim reports, Borsa Italiana group and the payments and cash management transactions and services defers some of the income received from cash trading and FTSE provided by the Groups banks are charged to the income statement MIB futures trading and clearing.
This deferral results in revenues as accrued.
Credit facility arrangement fees are capitalised and then being recognised at the average price of transactions forecast amortised back to the income statement over the term of the facility for the full year, as pricing levels reduce during the year when subject to protected utilisation.
If a facility is deemed unlikely to customers achieve incremental volume targets.
be drawn over its life the arrangement fees will be charged to the income statement.
Fees and charges are included within other Non-recurring items finance costs.
Items of income and expense that are material by size and or nature and are non-recurring are classified as non-recurring items Fair value gains and losses on financial instruments includes the on the face of the income statement within their relevant category.
movement in the market valuations of derivative instruments held The separate reporting of these items together with impairment as fair value hedges.
of goodwill and amortisation of purchased intangible assets helps give an indication of the Groups underlying performance.
For further information visit: www.
com 70 Group financial statements Property, plant and equipment Classification of financial assets Property, plant and equipment are included in the financial Financial assets excluding clearing business statements at cost less accumulated depreciation and any The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: provision for impairment.
at fair value through profit or loss, available-for-sale and loans and receivables.
The classification depends on the purpose for which Freehold buildings, fixed plant and plant and equipment are the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines the stated at cost and are depreciated to residual value on a straight classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
line basis over the estimated useful economic lives of the assets which are as follows: a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include a Freehold buildings 33 to 50 years: financial assets held for liquidity purposes and are initially b Fixed plant five to 20 years: and recognised at fair value and any subsequent changes in fair c Plant and equipment three to 15 years.
value are recognised directly in the Income Statement.
These Leasehold properties and improvements are included at cost and assets are financial instruments not designated as hedges.
depreciated to residual value over the shorter of the period of the b Available-for-sale financial assets lease or the useful economic life of the asset.
Investments other than term deposits and interests in joint ventures, associates and subsidiaries are designated as available Intangible assets for sale and are recorded on trade date at fair value plus transaction Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries represents costs with changes in fair value recognised in equity.
Where the fair the excess of consideration paid over the fair value of the Groups value is not reliably measurable, the investment is held at cost less share of net identifiable assets purchased.
It is not amortised but any provision for impairment.
Assets such as shares in clearing and is tested for impairment annually and when there are indications payment transmission operations and long term equity investments that the carrying value may not be recoverable, and is carried at that do not qualify as associates or joint ventures are usually cost less accumulated impairment losses.
classified as available for sale.
On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the assets c Loans and receivables and liabilities acquired.
These may include brand names, customer Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with relationships, licences and software intellectual property, all of which fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active are recorded as intangible assets and held at cost less accumulated market.
They are included in current assets, except for those amortisation and impairment.
These assets are amortised on a with maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet straight line basis over their useful economic lives, which do not date which are classified as non-current assets.
Loans and normally exceed 25 years or the term of the licence.
The amortisation receivables comprise trade and other receivables and cash period and method are reviewed and adjusted, as appropriate, at each and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
Third party software costs for the development and Financial assets and liabilities of the central counterparty implementation of systems which enhance the services provided CCP clearing business by the Group are capitalised and amortised over their estimated Assets and liabilities of the CCP clearing service relate to CC&G, useful economic lives of three years.
the subsidiary that performs the CCP clearing business.
CC&G clears derivatives, equities and bond transactions on Italian Internal product development expenditure is capitalised if the costs regulated markets, guaranteeing the successful receipt or delivery can be reliably measured, the product or process is technically of securities for the transactions to be settled on both the sale and and commercially feasible, future economic benefits are probable purchase side of transactions with the respective counterparties.
and the Group has sufficient resources to complete the development It enters into a contractual arrangement in respect of each side and to use or sell the asset.
The assets are recorded at cost including of the transaction, bears the counterparty risk associated with labour, directly attributable costs and any third party expenses, the counterparties honouring their obligations and, in the event and amortised over useful economic lives of three years.
of a failure to deliver by any counterparty, is required itself to complete delivery of the appropriate securities.
Accordingly, CC&G must Current and deferred taxation record an asset and a liability on its balance sheet in respect of The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax each of the sale and purchase sides of each transaction.
However, laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in except in respect of failed transactions CC&G as a CCP clearer the countries where the Company and its subsidiaries operate and does not bear any price risk and the value of the sale and purchase generate taxable income.
Full provision is made, using the liability side of each transaction are the same: consequently, the principal method, for temporary differences arising between the tax bases CCP asset and liability amounts largely match each other.
of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
Deferred taxation is determined using tax rates that are Income recognised through the CCP clearing business includes net substantially enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected treasury income earned on margin and default funds held as part to apply when the asset is realised or liability settled.
Deferred tax of our risk management process and is shown separately from assets are recognised to the extent it is probable that they will be the Group revenues.
recoverable against future taxable profits.
This amount has been shown separately on the face of the income statement to distinguish the income stream from those arising from the Groups other activities and provide the reader with a greater understanding of the operating activities of the Group.
London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2011 Overview Business Review Governance Group financial statements Other information Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 71 Accounting treatments of CCP financial assets and liabilities The Group hedges a proportion of its net investment in Borsa Italiana include the following: S. p. A. by designating euro borrowings as a net investment hedge.
a Derivatives, trading assets and liabilities In order to qualify for hedge accounting, a transaction must meet These transactions are initially recorded at fair value, which strict criteria as regards documentation, effectiveness, probability coincides with the market value of the open positions on the of occurrence and reliability of measurement.
The Group documents IDEM derivatives market in which CC&G operates as CCP, and at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging are subsequently re-measured on the basis of the market price instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management of each derivative instrument at the period end.
Since the asset objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
and liability positions of the CCP clearer are matched, the same Effectiveness testing is conducted at each reporting date and at the amount is recorded for both the assets and liabilities and no fair commencement and conclusion of any hedge in order to verify that value gains or losses are recognised in the income statement.
the hedge continues to satisfy all the criteria for hedge accounting to be maintained.
The ineffective portion is recognised in the b Receivables for and liabilities under repurchase transactions income statement within finance costs.
These represent repurchase transactions repos by clearing members in the bond market using CC&Gs clearing and guarantee Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income statement service.
They represent the value of transactions already settled in the period when the hedged item affects profit or loss for example, spot and not yet settled at term.
These transactions are initially when the forecast transaction that is hedged takes place.
When a recognised at fair value and are subsequently measured at hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer amortised cost, by allocating the yield on the repo pro-rated over meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss the duration of the contract the coupon accrued in the period existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised and the difference between the spot and forward prices.
Since when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income the asset and liability positions for repos are matched, the same statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to amount is recorded for both assets and liabilities and no gain or occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is loss is recognised in the income statement.
immediately transferred to the income statement.
c Other receivables from and payables to clearing members Inventories These comprise accounts receivable and payable deriving Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
from the activities of clearing members in derivatives, equities Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out FIFO method.
They mainly represent amounts to be Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary received or paid for initial and variation margins, option course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
premiums and default fund contributions and are initially recorded at fair value.
They are generally settled on the next Trade receivables day and, accordingly, are not discounted back to current value.
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are stated at their fair d Financial assets and liabilities at fair value value, which is usually the original invoiced amount less provision These represent quoted equity and bond securities which CC&G for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is acquires usually as a result of failure by a counterparty to deliver established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not its side of a transaction and are recognised initially at fair value, be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms based on the market price of each security.
The difference between of the receivables.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, the settlement price of each security at trade date and the market probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial price of that security at the period end is recognised as a fair value reorganisation and default or delinquency in payments are gain or loss in the income statement.
considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying e Cash and cash equivalents restricted amount and the present value of the portion deemed recoverable.
These amounts include amounts received from clearing members to The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an cover initial and variation margins and default fund contributions as allowance account and the amount of the loss is recognised in the collateral against default or insolvency and are deposited with income statement.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously banks.
Such amounts are initially recognised at fair value and are written off are credited in the income statement.
subsequently recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest method, if the time value of money is significant.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and term Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities deposits that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a and are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The method of recognising Borrowings the resulting gain or loss depends on whether or not the derivative Bank borrowings are initially recorded at the fair value of amounts is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so the nature of the received, net of direct issue costs and transaction costs including item being hedged.
Subsequently, these liabilities are carried at The Group applies fair value hedge accounting for hedging interest amortised cost, and interest is charged to the income statement over risk on borrowings.
Any gain or loss is recognised in the income the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Similarly direct issue costs and transaction costs including upfront facility fees are charged to the income statement over the period The Group designates as cash flow hedges both foreign currency of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
derivatives and hedges of interest rate movements on floating rate borrowings associated with highly probable forecast transactions.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity.
com 72 Group financial statements Provisions Pension costs A provision is recognised where there is a present obligation, The Group operates defined benefit and defined contribution whether legal or constructive, as a result of a past event for which pension schemes.
For the defined benefit schemes the service it is probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be required cost, representing benefits accruing to employees, is included as to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the an operating expense and the expected return on scheme assets amount of the obligation.
Provision is made in the financial statements and interest cost from unwinding of the discount on scheme for the lower of the cost of fulfilling lease commitments for property obligations are included as finance income and finance expenses space surplus to business requirements after taking into account respectively.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience income from sub-letting, and any compensation or penalties arising adjustments, changes in actuarial assumptions or differences from failure to fulfil the lease commitments.
Such provisions are between actual and expected returns on assets are recognised discounted where the time value of money is considered material.
at each period end net of tax in the statement of comprehensive income.
The net asset or liability recognised on the balance sheet Share capital comprises the difference between the present value of pension The Companys own shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust are obligations and the fair value of scheme assets.
For defined deducted from equity until they vest unconditionally for employees contribution schemes, the expense is charged to the Income and are held at cost.
Consideration paid in respect of these treasury Statement as incurred.
shares is deducted from equity until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Assets held for sale Assets are classified as assets held for sale when their carrying Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
and a sale is considered highly probable.
They are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Leases Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of 2.
Financial risk management ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating The Groups financial risk management programme seeks to leases.
Payments made under operating leases are charged to the minimise potential adverse effects on its financial performance income statement on a straight-line basis.
Lease incentives are from its exposure to capital risk, credit risk, market risk including spread over the term of the lease.
foreign exchange, fair value and cash flow interest rate risks The Group leases certain plant and equipment where the Group and liquidity risk.
has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
These are Financial risk management is not speculative.
It is performed classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the at a Group level, where the treasury function identifies, evaluates leases commencement at the lower of the fair value of the leased and hedges financial risks from a Group perspective and locally, property and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
where operating units manage regulatory and operational risks.
Each lease payment is apportioned between the finance charge The Treasury Committee, chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, and the liability so as to achieve a constant rate on the finance meets at regular intervals to oversee capital management and to balance outstanding.
The plant and equipment acquired under review the management of foreign exchange, interest rate and finance leases is depreciated over the shorter of the useful life credit risks, and the investment of excess liquidity.
of the asset and the lease term.
The treasury function, the Treasury Committee and, as Due to the immaterial value of finance leases within the Group, appropriate, the operating units work within Group Board they are not disclosed separately within the accounts.
London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2011 Overview Business Review Governance Group financial statements Other information Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 73 Capital risk Risk description Risk management approach The Group considers that a scarcity The Group is mindful of its overall cost of capital, as it seeks to provide superior returns of debt or equity driven by its own to its shareholders, fulfil its obligations to the relevant regulatory authorities and other performance or financial market stakeholders and ensure that it is not overly dependent upon short and medium term debt conditions and an increase that might not be available at renewal.
Maintaining the flexibility to invest for growth is in regulatory requirements are a key capital management consideration.
the principal risks to managing The Group can manage its capital structure by varying returns to shareholders, issuing new its capital.
shares, or increasing or reducing borrowings.
The Board reviews dividend policy and funding The Groups capital base comprises capacity on a regular basis and the Group maintains comfortable levels of debt facility headroom.
equity capital, debt capital and The Group has the strategic objective of maintaining an investment grade credit rating.
retained profits, details of which are To maintain the financial strength to access new capital at reasonable cost, the Group set out in the Consolidated Statement monitors capital in a number of ways, including reviewing its leverage ratio, Net debt to of Changes in Equity and in note 26. adjusted EBITDA Group consolidated earnings before net finance charges, taxation, impairment, depreciation and amortisation and non-recurring items.
This ratio calculates total current and non-current borrowings less the cash and cash equivalents that are not set aside to meet regulatory requirements and compares this with its adjusted EBITDA.
Net debt to adjusted EBITDA at 31 March 2011 was 1.0 times 2010: 1.5 times.
The Group also has two bank facility covenants that have a bearing on its capital structure, a net leverage covenant and a debt service ratio.
Performance against these covenants is comfortable and they should not inhibit the Groups operations or financing plans.
As at 31 March 2011 approximately 125 million cash and cash equivalents was set aside to cover regulatory and operational requirements.
This amount is subject to ongoing review with regulators in the UK and Italy.
In particular, discussions continue with the FSA following their proposal to amend the basis on which the regulatory capital is calculated for LSE plc.
Indications are that this could increase the total amount set aside by up to one third.
Credit risk Risk description Risk management approach CC&G, in its role as central counterparty CC&G clearer CCP to Italian financial market To address the market participant risk, CC&G has established financial safeguards against participants, guarantees final settlement single or multiple defaults.
Clearing membership selection is based upon supervisory capital, of transactions acting as buyer towards technical and organisational criteria.
Each member must pay margins, computed at least daily, each seller and as seller towards each to cover the theoretical costs which CC&G would incur in order to close out open positions in buyer.
It faces the risk of losses from the the event of the members default.
Margins are calculated using established international risk deterioration in the creditworthiness, or models and are debited by CC&G directly from participants accounts held with Bank of Italy.
Clearing members also contribute to default funds managed by CC&G to guarantee the integrity of the markets in the event of multiple defaults in extreme market circumstances.
As a consequence of its risk management Amounts are determined on the basis of the results of periodic stress testing examined by approach described below, CC&G CC&Gs risk committee and exceed standards agreed by the European Association of Central invests significant amounts of margin Counterparty Clearing Houses.
To date, no default of a direct participant has occurred.
and default fund cash with Italian banks and faces the risk of direct loss from a Deposit counterparty risk for CC&G margin and default funds is managed by investing cash deterioration or failure of one or more with counterparties that are rated investment grade or who, if not rated, are publicly quoted and deposit counterparties.
have a minimum level of capital, for periods of up to 12 months.
CC&G liaises closely with the Bank of Italy regarding the Italian banking institutions with whom these funds are deposited.
More broadly, credit risk relates to the Groups customers and counterparties Group being unable to meet their obligations Credit risk is controlled through policies developed at a Group level.
Group companies make to the Group either in part or in a judgement on the credit quality of their customers based upon the customers financial full, including: position and past experience.
Management assesses customer credit quality as high based customer receivables upon a low concentration of credit risk across a large number of customers, the recurring repayment of cash and cash nature of the billing and collection arrangements and, historically, a low incidence of default.
equivalents including bank deposits Credit risk of cash and cash equivalents is managed by limiting the exposure to 25 million settlement of derivative financial with counterparties who have a minimum long term rating of Aa3 per Moodys.
Derivative instruments transactions are undertaken with well-capitalised counterparties, authorised by policy, to limit the credit risk underlying these transactions.
The Group recognises that sovereign and geo-political risk assessment plays a part in its criteria for counterparty selection.
com 74 Group financial statements Market risk Foreign Exchange Risk description Risk management approach The Group operates predominantly in The Group seeks, where it can, to match the currency of its assets with the currency of its the UK, Italy and Sri Lanka.
Subject to its approach to capital management, the Group aims to balance the exception of MillenniumIT, which currency of its debt liabilities with its EBITDA generation in the same currency.
invoices some contracts in US dollars The Group applies this methodology to its net asset exposure, in particular to movements regarded as reasonably correlated to between sterling and the euro, by regularly distributing its euro cash earnings in dividends the Sri Lankan Rupee and the Indian and by absorbing euro cash earnings through interest payments on debt re-denominated in Rupee, Group companies generally euros through the use of cross-currency swaps.
At 31 March 2011 265.1m 2010: 284.0m of invoice revenues, incur expenses and the Groups debt was swapped into euros and designated as a hedge of the net investment in purchase assets in their respective the Italian Group and a gain of 6.5m for the financial year 2010: loss of 9.9m on foreign local currencies.
As a result, foreign currency borrowings was recognised in equity.
The hedge was fully effective.
exchange risk arises mainly from the translation of the Groups euro Whilst transactional foreign exchange exposure is limited, the Group hedges material earnings, assets and liabilities into its transactions in accordance with Group Treasury policy which requires that cash flows of reporting currency, sterling, and from more than 1m or equivalent per annum should be hedged.
Hedge accounting is considered large intercompany transactions.
in each case and applied to certain transactions, following review at Treasury Committee, where material levels of income statement volatility might result.
The Group faces less significant foreign exchange exposures from transaction The Group reviews sensitivities to movements in exchange rates which are appropriate to risk on export earnings, occasional market conditions.
As at 31 March 2011 the Group has considered movements in the euro over strategic investments made in currencies the last year including recent volatility affecting this currency and has concluded that a 10 per other than the currency of the investing cent movement in rates is a reasonable benchmark.
At 31 March 2011, if sterling had weakened operation and dividends that are strengthened by 10 per cent against the euro with all other variables held constant, post tax remitted in currencies other than the profit for the year would have been 0.8m higher 0.6m lower 2010: 1.8m higher 1.5m lower : currency of the recipient operation.
however, equity would have been 10.8m lower 2010: 16.4m lower 8.8m higher 2010: 13.4m higher.
This reflects foreign exchange gains losses on translation of euro denominated trade receivables, financial assets at fair value through profit or loss and foreign exchange gains losses on translation of euro denominated borrowings.
Market risk Cash Flow and Fair Value Interest Rate Risk Risk description Risk management approach The Groups interest rate risk arises To provide a degree of income statement stability, and reflecting material levels of cash and through the impact of changes in cash equivalents held for short periods, the Group seeks to maintain a proportion of its net debt market rates on cash flows associated at fixed rates of interest over the medium term.
Substantially all of the Groups borrowings have with cash and cash equivalents, been issued at fixed rates of interest with only a proportion, 100 million 2010: 100 million, investments in financial assets and swapped to floating rates.
Given the cash generative nature of the Groups businesses, net debt borrowings held at floating rates.
has fallen and floating rate borrowings have been repaid using free cash generated during the year.
As a result fixed rate borrowings are greater than 100 per cent of net debt.
Opportunities to swap further fixed rate borrowings to floating rate have been evaluated during the year but not executed.
This is due in part to unfavourable economics and in part to the Groups preference to increase floating rate borrowings naturally as strategic investments are undertaken.
In its review of the sensitivities to potential movements in interest rates, the Group has considered interest rate volatility over the last year and prospects for rates over the next 12 months and has concluded that a two percentage point upward movement and no downward movement reflects a reasonable level of risk to current rates.
At 31 March 2011, if interest rates on sterling-denominated and euro-denominated cash and borrowings including floating rate swap obligations had been two percentage points higher with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been 2.2m higher 2009: 1.7m higher mainly as a result of higher interest income on floating rate cash and cash equivalents.
London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2011 Overview Business Review Governance Group financial statements Other information Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 75 Liquidity risk Risk description Risk management approach The Groups operations are exposed to Group businesses are profitable and generate strong free cash flow.
The Group maintains liquidity risk to the extent that they are sufficient liquid resources to meet its financial obligations as they fall due and to invest in capital unable to meet their daily payment expenditure, make dividend payments, support acquisitions or repay borrowings.
In addition, CC&G and maintains headroom through undrawn committed borrowing facilities to supplement its cash flow.
certain other subsidiary companies are Management monitors forecasts of the Groups liquidity, prepared to reflect expected cash required to maintain a level of liquidity flow, and overlays sensitivities to these forecasts to reflect assumptions about more difficult within their own legal entities to meet market conditions.
regulatory requirements and or ensure the smooth operation of their Treasury policy requires that the Group maintains adequate credit facilities provided by a respective markets.
diversified lending group to at least cover its expected funding requirements for the next 24 months.
During the year, a new five year 250 million committed revolving credit facility was arranged, replacing shorter dated facilities and broadening the funding support from the Groups syndicate of banks.
At 31 March 2011 500m of the Groups facilities were unutilised 2010: 368.4m, with committed lines of credit including bond issues having an average life to maturity of over five years.
CC&G has access to bespoke committed and uncommitted lines of credit with intra-day financing from the Bank of Italy to meet the cash requirements of the clearing and settlement cycle that it manages in association with Monte Titoli see note 22.
In addition, the Group maintains operational support facilities from banks to manage intraday and overnight liquidity.
The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Less than Between 1 Between 2 Over 1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years At 31 March 2011 m m m m Borrowings 0.1 500.0 Trade and other payables 156.5 CCP liabilities 116,104.5 Derivative financial instruments 0.3 12.9 116,261.4 512.9 Less than Between 1 Between 2 Over 1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years At 31 March 2010 m m m m Borrowings 0.9 106.2 500.0 Trade and other payables 137.1 CCP liabilities 84,257.5 Derivative financial instruments 2.7 16.3 84,395.5 2.7 106.2 516.3 3.
Significant judgements and estimates Judgements and estimates are regularly evaluated based on historical experience, current circumstances and expectations of future events.
a Goodwill is tested for impairment annually.
The recoverable amounts of relevant cash generating units are based on value in use calculations using managements best estimate of future performance and estimates of the return required by shareholders to determine an appropriate discount rate.
Sensitivity analysis is provided in note 13: b The determination of the defined benefit pension asset or liability is based on the present value of future pension obligations using assumptions determined by the Group with advice from an independent qualified actuary.
Sensitivity analysis is provided in note 19: c Purchased intangible assets are valued on acquisition using appropriate methodologies and amortised over their estimated useful economic lives.
These valuations and lives are based on managements best estimates of future performance and periods over which value from the intangible assets is realised.
Sensitivity analysis is provided in note 13: d The property provision is determined taking into consideration future expected receipts from sub-letting and future property costs based on advice from independent property advisers: e Estimates are required in determining the provision for corporation taxes.
The Group recognises liabilities for the estimated tax charge at the period end and where the final tax liability is different from that estimate, such differences are reflected in the period in which such determination is made: and f The determination in the financial statements of the Company of the value of subsidiary companies for the purpose of impairment testing is based on their forecast cash flows and an appropriate discount rate.
The basis of such values cannot be precise and is subject to market variations in both cases.
Segmental information Segmental disclosures for the year ended 31 March 2011 are shown below: Capital Post Trade Information Technology Markets Services Services Services Other Group m m m m m m Revenue 281.5 99.3 184.7 82.1 1.8 649.4 Inter-segmental revenue 33.5 33.5 Revenue from external customers 281.5 99.3 184.7 48.6 1.8 615.9 Net treasury income through CCP business 51.3 51.3 Other Income 7.7 7.7 Total income 281.5 150.6 184.7 48.6 9.5 674.9 Expenses Depreciation and software amortisation 32.3 5.5 10.4 1.3 49.5 Other recurring expenses 104.6 54.3 72.4 52.3 3.8 287.4 Share of profit loss after tax of joint ventures associates 1.9 5.0 3.1 Operating profit loss before amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items 142.7 90.8 106.9 5.0 5.7 341.1 Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 47.1 Non-recurring items 11.0 Operating profit 283.0 Net finance expense 44.8 Profit before taxation 238.2 Net treasury income through CCP business of 51.3m comprises gross interest income of 227.3m less gross interest expense of 176.0m.
Included within both gross interest income and gross interest expense is 150.4m relating to repo transactions: net of repo transactions gross interest income was 76.9m and gross interest expense was 25.6m.
Comparative segmental disclosures for the year ended 31 March 2010 restated are as follows: Post Trade Information Technology Capital Markets Services Services Services Other Group m m m m m m Revenue 295.3 100.0 169.3 39.9 1.6 606.1 Inter-segmental revenue 0.5 0.5 Revenue from external customers 295.3 100.0 169.3 39.4 1.6 605.6 Net treasury income through CCP business 16.2 16.2 Other Income 6.5 6.5 Total income 295.3 116.2 169.3 39.4 8.1 628.3 Expenses Depreciation and software amortisation 45.7 4.8 10.9 0.8 0.6 62.8 Other recurring expenses 116.7 51.9 55.8 51.8 10.6 286.8 Share of profit loss after tax of joint ventures associates 1.9 3.5 1.6 Operating profit loss before amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items 131.0 59.5 106.1 13.2 3.1 280.3 Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 54.3 Non-recurring items 43.7 Operating profit 182.3 Net finance expense 40.7 Profit on disposal of shares in subsidiaries 2.7 Profit before taxation 144.3 Net treasury income through CCP business of 16.2m comprises gross interest income of 498.3m less gross interest expense of 482.1m.
Included within both gross interest income and gross interest expense is 462.9m relating to repo transactions: net of repo transactions gross interest income was 35.4m and gross interest expense was 19.2m.
London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2011 Overview Business Review Governance Group financial statements Other information Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 77 The segmental reporting has been restated to show Information Services and Technology Services as separate segments.
This reflects the management re-organisation of the chief operating decision maker, which is the Executive Committee, and associated changes in the reporting of the business lines.
Technology Services combines IT Services with MillenniumIT reflecting the similar nature of their products and services.
There have been no changes to the profit for the year and accordingly no third Balance Sheet has been presented.
Inter-segmental revenue represent sales of software from MillenniumIT to other segments.
Geographical disclosure 2011 2010 m m Revenue UK 305.9 292.5 Italy 168.8 163.0 Other 141.2 150.1 Total 615.9 605.6 Revenue is allocated based on the country in which the customer is located.
Expenses by nature Expenses comprise the following: 2011 2010 Notes m m Cost of sales 37.0 27.7 Employee costs 6 117.4 111.0 Depreciation and non-acquisition software amortisation 49.5 62.8 Amortisation of purchased intangibles assets and non-recurring costs 7 68.1 98.0 IT costs 65.7 72.5 Other costs 67.3 75.6 Total expenses 405.0 447.6 Foreign exchange gains or losses included in the income statement are immaterial.
Employee costs 2011 2010 Employee costs comprise the following: Notes m m Salaries and other short term benefits 92.0 84.5 Social security costs 15.2 15.5 Pension costs 19 5.2 7.5 Share based compensation 35 5.0 3.5 Total 117.4 111.0 2011 2010 The number of employees in the Group was: Average Year end Average Year end UK 497 492 568 539 Italy 455 456 496 458 1 Sri Lanka 534 587 453 461 Other 29 28 28 30 1,515 1,563 1,545 1,488 The Company has no employees.
1 Average from date of acquisition.
Amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items 2011 2010 Notes m m Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 13 47.1 54.3 Merger costs 15.4 Restructuring costs 3.5 30.1 Property costs 2.1 Integration costs 13.6 Revaluation on acquisition within joint venture 10.0 Total affecting operating profit 58.1 98.0 Profit on disposal of shares in subsidiary 0.3 Total affecting profit before tax 58.1 97.7 Tax effect on items affecting profit before tax and tax non-recurring items: Deferred tax on amortisation of purchased intangible assets 6.4 9.4 Tax effect on other items affecting profit before tax 1.7 11.9 Total tax effect on items affecting profit before tax and tax non-recurring items 8.1 21.3 Total charge to income statement 50.0 76.4 Merger costs comprise costs incurred and committed to date associated with the proposed merger with TMX Group Inc. and primarily comprise non-contingent advisers fees.
Restructuring costs mainly comprise headcount restructuring costs arising from the cost saving programmes announced in July 2009 and May 2010.
Property costs are an impairment provision relating to a freehold building now held for resale.
The revaluation on acquisition within joint venture relates to the acquisition by the Groups FTSE joint venture of the remaining 50 per cent of the FXI Chinese index business, and the consequent upward revaluation of FTSEs existing interest in that company.
London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2011 Overview Business Review Governance Group financial statements Other information Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 79 8.
Net finance expense 2011 2010 Notes m m Finance income Bank deposit and other interest income 1.3 2.5 Expected return on defined benefit pension scheme assets 19 14.5 11.8 Fair value gains on financial instruments 0.6 Investment income 0.3 0.3 16.1 15.2 Finance expense Interest payable on bank and other borrowings 42.8 38.9 Fair value losses on financial instruments 0.1 Other finance fees 1.8 1.2 Interest on discounted provision for leasehold properties 1.5 1.2 Defined benefit pension scheme interest cost 19 14.7 14.6 60.9 55.9 Net finance expense 44.8 40.7 9.
Taxation 2011 2010 Taxation charged to the income statement m m Current tax: UK corporation tax for the year at 28% 38.1 27.8 Overseas tax for the year 55.3 37.4 Adjustments in respect of previous years 1.0 6.9 94.4 58.3 Deferred tax see note 17 : Deferred tax for the current year 10.4 2.1 Adjustments in respect of previous years 4.1 1.6 Deferred tax on amortisation of purchased intangible assets 6.4 9.4 Taxation charge 81.7 52.6 The adjustments in respect of previous years corporation tax are mainly in respect of tax returns agreed with relevant tax authorities.
2011 2010 Taxation on items not credited charged to income statement m m Current tax credit : Tax allowance on share options awards in excess of expense recognised 1.3 0.4 Deferred tax charge credit : Defined benefit pension scheme actuarial gain losses 9.0 0.5 Tax allowance on share options awards less than expense recognised 0.5 0.6 Adjustments relating to change in UK tax rate 0.7 6.5 1.5 For further information visit: www.
com 80 Group financial statements Factors affecting the tax charge for the year The reconciling items between the profits multiplied by the UK corporation tax rate of 28 per cent and the income statement tax charge for the year are explained below: 2011 2010 m m Profit before taxation 238.2 144.3 Profit multiplied by the UK rate of corporation tax at 28% 66.7 40.4 Expenses not deductible income not taxable 1.6 2.6 Share of joint venture and associates consolidated at profit after tax 3.8 0.5 Deferred tax arising on consolidation 7.5 Overseas earnings taxed at higher rate 13.2 9.7 Adjustments in respect of previous years 5.1 5.3 Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 6.4 5.7 Taxation charge 81.7 52.6 10.
Earnings per share Earnings per share is presented on four bases: basic earnings per share, diluted earnings per share, adjusted basic earnings per share and adjusted diluted earnings per share.
Basic earnings per share is in respect of all activities and diluted earnings per share takes into account the dilution effects which would arise on conversion or vesting of share options and share awards under the Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP.
Adjusted basic earnings per share and adjusted diluted earnings per share exclude amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items to enable a better comparison of the underlying earnings of the business with prior periods.
2011 2010 Basic earnings per share 56.4p 33.8p Diluted earnings per share 55.9p 33.5p Adjusted basic earnings per share 73.7p 60.1p Adjusted diluted earnings per share 72.9p 59.6p m m Profit for the financial year attributable to equity holders 151.6 90.4 Adjustments: Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 47.1 54.3 Merger costs 15.4 Restructuring costs 3.5 30.1 Property costs 2.1 Integration costs 13.6 Acquisition revaluations 10.0 Non-recurring profit on disposal of shares in subsidiary 0.3 Tax effect of amortisation and non-recurring items 8.1 21.3 Non-recurring items, amortisation and taxation attributable to non-controlling interests 3.7 6.0 Adjusted profit for the financial year attributable to equity holders 197.9 160.8 Weighted average number of shares million 268.6 267.6 Effect of dilutive share options and awards million 2.8 2.4 Diluted weighted average number of shares million 271.4 270.0 The weighted average number of shares excludes those held in the ESOP.
London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2011 Overview Business Review Governance Group financial statements Other information Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 81 11.
Dividends 2011 2010 m m Final dividend for 2010 paid 16 August 2010: 16.0p per Ordinary share 2009: 16.0p 42.9 42.7 Interim dividend for 2011 paid 5 January 2011: 8.8p per Ordinary share 2010: 8.4p 23.7 22.5 66.6 65.2 The Board has proposed a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 March 2011 of 18.0p per share, which is estimated to amount to 48.5m, to be paid on 22 August 2011.
The goodwill primarily represents the growth potential and assembled workforces of the Italian Group, MillenniumIT and Turquoise.
The Company has no intangible assets.
During the year the goodwill and purchased intangibles allocated to Servizio Titoli were transferred to assets held for sale.
Impairment tests for goodwill Goodwill has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to 10 cash generating units CGUs.
The composition of the Groups Italian operations six CGUs as at 31 March 2010 was reallocated on 1 April 2010 to reflect the impact of the restructuring of the Groups segments, as set out in note 4.
Consequently, the Groups Italian operations now comprise seven CGUs, with goodwill previously associated with its Information & Technology Services CGU now allocated to its Information Services CGU and Technology Services CGUs.
MillenniumIT comprises two CGUs Software and Enterprise Service Provider, and Turquoise constitutes one CGU.
The recoverable amounts of these CGUs have been determined based on value in use calculations, using discounted cash flow projections prepared by management covering the five year period ending 31 March 2016.
Cash flows beyond this period are extrapolated using the estimated long term growth rates and applying the pre-tax discount rates referred to below.
London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2011 Overview Business Review Governance Group financial statements Other information Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 83 The amount of the net book value of goodwill allocated to each CGU is set out below.
Net book value of goodwill Pre-tax discount Impact of rate used in value restructuring of Transfers to held in use 31 March 2010 segments Disposals for sale assets Foreign exchange 31 March 2011 calculations Cash generating unit m m m m m m Italian group: Issuer 19.5 0.1 19.4 13.2% Equities Trading 66.0 0.6 65.4 13.2% Derivatives Trading 29.6 0.3 29.3 13.2% Fixed Income Trading 74.6 0.7 73.9 13.0% Information & Technology Services 136.7 136.7 N A Information Services 122.2 1.0 121.2 13.4% Technology Services 14.5 0.2 14.3 13.2% Post Trade Services 393.6 5.4 4.5 383.7 13.5% MillenniumIT: Software 0.9 0.9 17.3% Enterprise Service Provider 0.8 0.8 15.1% Turquoise 8.5 1.1 7.4 15.5% 730.2 1.1 5.4 7.4 716.3 Management has based its value in use calculations for each CGU on key assumptions about short and medium term revenue and cost growth, long term economic growth rates used to determine terminal values and pre-tax discount rates.
The values assigned to short and medium term revenue and cost growth assumptions reflect current trends, anticipated market developments, discussions with customers and suppliers, and managements experience, taking account of an expected recovery in underlying financial markets.
Long term growth rates assumed to be 2.3 per cent for each of the Italian CGUs, 3.0 and 13.5 per cent for MillenniumITs Software and Enterprise Service Provider CGUs respectively, and 3.4 per cent for Turquoise represent managements internal forecasts based on external estimates of GDP and inflation for the 10 year period 1 January 2006 to 31 December 2015, and do not exceed the long term average growth rates for the countries in which the CGUs operate.
Pre-tax discount rates are based on a number of factors including the risk-free rates in Italy, Sri Lanka and the UK as appropriate, the Groups estimated market risk premium and a premium to reflect the inherent risks of each of the CGUs.
Value in use calculations for each CGU are sensitive to changes in short and medium term revenue and cost growth assumptions, long term growth rates and pre-tax discount rates.
The impact on value in use of a change in these assumptions is shown below: Impact on value in use of: Excess of value 0.5% reduction in 0.5% increase in in use over 5% reduction in 5% increase in long-term growth pre-tax discount carrying value revenues costs rate rate Cash generating unit m m m m m Italian group: Issuer 8.5 9.3 5.3 3.9 5.1 Equities Trading 35.7 20.3 9.9 10.4 13.7 Derivatives Trading 62.8 10.1 4.8 5.1 6.7 Fixed Income Trading 58.3 32.2 17.1 14.7 19.3 Information Services 60.4 22.1 9.4 11.9 15.7 Technology Services 13.4 6.9 4.7 1.3 1.6 Post Trade Services 514.3 78.2 22.4 48.7 64.0 Management believes goodwill allocated to MillenniumIT and Turquoise CGUs is unlikely to be materially impaired under any reasonable changes to key assumptions.
The excess of value in use over carrying value is determined by reference to the net book value as at 31 March 2011.
Revenue and cost sensitivities assume a five per cent change in revenues or costs for each of the five years in the value in use calculations.
Investment in joint ventures The Group owns 50 per cent of the 1,000 1 issued equity shares in FTSE International Ltd FTSE, a company incorporated in Great Britain which provides financial indices to international clients.
FTSE is a joint venture with The Financial Times Ltd, a subsidiary of Pearson plc.
The Groups investment of 13.7m at 31 March 2011 represents the Groups share of the joint ventures net assets as at 31 December 2010, FTSEs accounting reference date, adjusted for subsequent dividends received.
The following amounts represent the Groups 50 per cent share of the revenue and expenses and assets and liabilities of FTSE for the years ended 31 December 2009 and 2010.
December 2010 December 2009 m m Revenue 51.2 43.9 Expenses, including tax 36.2 40.4 Profit after tax 15.0 3.5 Non-current assets 29.8 7.7 Current assets 31.0 21.1 Total assets 60.8 28.8 Current liabilities 36.5 23.9 Non-current liabilities 8.1 1.1 Total liabilities 44.6 25.0 Net assets 16.2 3.8 The Group has a 49 per cent interest in TOKYO AIM, a company incorporated in Japan to provide secondary market listings in Tokyo.
TOKYO AIM is a joint venture with Tokyo Stock Exchange Group, a company incorporated in Japan, and the Group has recognised its 1.6m 2010: 2.0m share of TOKYO AIMs loss in the income statement.
2011 2010 m m Share of net assets of FTSE at 31 December 16.2 3.8 Dividend paid by FTSE in March 2.5 1.5 Share of net assets of TOKYO AIM as at 31 March 3.6 4.8 Investment in joint ventures at 31 March 17.3 7.1 The Group is entitled, under a shareholders agreement, to receive royalties from FTSE.
The amount receivable by the Group from FTSE for the year ended 31 March 2011 was 11.3m 2010: 9.6m.
During the year the Group received dividends of 3.7m 2010: 2.3m from FTSE.
The final dividend for 2010, of which the Groups share is 2.5m 2009: 1.5m, was approved by the shareholders and paid after the publication of FTSEs 31 December 2010 results.
The Company had no investment in joint ventures.
Investment in associates 2011 2010 m m 1 April 1.5 1.9 Share of profit after tax 0.1 0.1 Share of capital decrease and dividend distribution 0.2 Disposal 0.8 0.3 Foreign exchange 0.2 31 March 0.6 1.5 The Groups share of the results of its principal associates, all of which are unlisted and have a reporting date of 31 December 2010, and its aggregated assets and liabilities are as follows: Country of Assets Liabilities Revenues Profit % interest incorporation m m m m held MTS Associated Markets Belgium 2.8 1.4 2.1 0.1 20.0 MTS Portugal SA Portugal 2.2 0.3 0.8 0.1 15.0 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2011 Overview Business Review Governance Group financial statements Other information Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 85 16.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings Shares Loans Total Company m m m 1 April 2009 3,404.5 343.8 3,748.3 Acquisition of London Stock Exchange Group Holdings Ltd 7.0 7.0 Other movements during the year 10.7 10.7 1 April 2010 3,411.5 333.1 3,744.6 Acquisition of London Stock Exchange Group Holdings R Ltd 10.8 10.8 Other movements during the year 4.3 4.3 31 March 2011 3,422.3 337.4 3,759.7 Based on the results of the impairment tests performed in respect of the Italian group and London Stock Exchange plc, no impairment of the carrying value of the goodwill referred to in note 13, or the Companys investment in subsidiary undertakings was considered necessary.
Country of Principal Country of principal % equity and Principal subsidiaries: activity incorporation operations votes held Held directly by the Company: London Stock Exchange plc Recognised investment exchange UK UK 100 London Stock Exchange Group Holdings Italy Ltd Holding company UK UK 100 London Stock Exchange Group Holdings Ltd Holding company UK UK 100 London Stock Exchange Group Holdings R Ltd Holding company UK UK 100 Held indirectly by the Company Borsa Italiana S. p. A. Recognised investment exchange Italy Italy 99.96 Cassa di Compensazione e Garanzia S. p. A. CCP for clearing Italy Italy 86.36 Monte Titoli S. p. A. Pre-settlement, settlement and Italy Italy 98.80 centralised custody BIt Market Services S. p. A.
Retail information services & market technology Italy Italy 99.99 Servizio Titoli S. p. A.
Corporate secretary advisory Italy Italy 99.99 ProMac S. p. A.
Trading platform Italy Italy 99.60 Societa per il Mercato dei Titoli di Stato S. p. A.
Wholesale fixed income bonds Italy Italy 60.37 MTS France S. A. S. Wholesale fixed income bonds Italy Italy 58.78 EuroMTS Ltd Wholesale fixed income bonds UK UK 60.37 MTSNext Ltd Wholesale fixed income bonds UK UK 60.37 EDX London Ltd Derivatives exchange UK UK 100 Proquote Ltd Market data provider UK UK 100 Turquoise Global Holdings Ltd Holding company UK UK 51 Turquoise Services Ltd Trading facility UK UK 51 Millennium Information Technologies Ltd Holding company Sri Lanka Sri Lanka 100 Millennium Information Technologies Software Ltd IT solutions provider Sri Lanka Sri Lanka 100 The Group acquired in the year 94.4 per cent of the share capital of ProMac S. p. A.
77.5 per cent of MTS France S. A. S. 10 per cent of Servizio Titoli S. p. A. and the 19.9 per cent of EDX that it did not already own.
London Stock Exchange Group plc holds directly or indirectly 100 per cent of the Ordinary shares, being the only class of shares in issue, of certain other subsidiaries, none of which has actively traded during the year.
A full list of subsidiaries will be annexed to the next annual return of London Stock Exchange Group plc.
Deferred taxation The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year are shown below.
Acquisition Provisions deferred and other Accelerated tax tax and temporary depreciation amortisation differences Total Group m m m m 1 April 2009 0.7 101.5 4.6 97.6 Tax charged credited to income statement: 0.8 9.4 2.8 5.8 Tax credited to other comprehensive income: defined benefit pension scheme actuarial loss 0.5 0.5 allowance on share options awards 0.6 0.6 foreign exchange 3.0 3.0 Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.4 0.4 31 March 2010 1.5 89.5 2.9 88.1 Tax charged credited to the income statement: 0.2 6.4 6.5 12.7 Tax credited to other comprehensive income: defined benefit pension scheme actuarial loss 8.3 8.3 allowance on share options awards 0.5 0.5 foreign exchange 1.1 1.1 Transfer to held for sale 2.7 0.2 2.5 Transfer between current and deferred tax 0.5 0.5 31 March 2011 1.7 79.3 0.9 80.1 Assets at 31 March 2011 1.1 11.1 12.2 Liabilities at 31 March 2011 2.8 79.3 10.2 92.3 Net liabilities assets at 31 March 2011 1.7 79.3 0.9 80.1 Assets at 31 March 2010 0.2 6.0 6.2 Liabilities at 31 March 2010 1.7 89.5 3.1 94.3 Net liabilities assets at 31 March 2010 1.5 89.5 2.9 88.1 The deferred tax assets are recoverable against future taxable profits and are due after more than one year.
The purchased intangible assets of the Italian group create a deferred tax liability due to the difference between their accounting and tax treatment.
This liability is amortised at the same rate as the intangible assets.
The Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets in respect of losses of 54m 2010: 39m.
The assets would be recognised in the future only if suitable taxable income were to arise within the Group.
There was no deferred tax in the Company.
Available for sale investments Available for sale financial investments of 0.4m 2010: 0.4m represent the cost of the Groups 0.6 per cent interest in the unlisted ordinary shares of Euroclear plc.
The fair value of these shares cannot be reliably measured because they are unquoted.
Retirement benefit asset obligation The Group operates separate defined benefit and defined contribution schemes.
The assets of the defined benefit and defined contribution schemes in the UK are held separately from those of the Group in a separate trustee administered fund and the funds are primarily managed by Schroder Investment Management Limited, Investec Asset Management Limited, Legal & General Investment Management Limited, PIMCO Europe Limited and Aviva Investors.
The Other plans relate to the severance and leaving indemnity scheme Trattamento di Fine Rapporto TFR operated by the Italian group in accordance with Italian law and the employee benefit and retirement plan operated by MillenniumIT.
The Company has no retirement benefit obligations.
On 7 April 2011 the Trustees of the Groups Defined Benefit Plan signed an agreement with Pension Insurance Corporation Limited to insure for a premium of around 158m all future payments to scheme members who were pensioners at 31 March 2011.
The actuarial liability of these benefits at 31 March 2011 was 140.5m, with the excess of the insurance premium over the liabilities being funded from the Plan surplus.
The contract includes an obligation to insure future retirements over the next five years on consistent pricing terms for a total premium currently estimated to be 45m.
London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2011 Overview Business Review Governance Group financial statements Other information Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 87 Defined benefit schemes The UK defined benefit scheme is non-contributory and provides benefits based on final pensionable pay related to salary earned in the last five years of employment.
The scheme was closed to new members in 1999.
Pension scheme obligations and costs are determined by an independent qualified actuary on a regular basis using the projected unit credit method.
The obligations are measured by discounting the best estimate of future cash flows to be paid out by the scheme and are reflected in the Group balance sheet.
The TFR operated by the Italian group is classified as an unfunded defined benefit scheme for funds accumulated prior to 1 July 2007.
The service cost, representing deferred salaries accruing to employees, was included as an operating expense and was determined by law at 6.91 per cent of salary payments subject to certain adjustments.
The scheme obligation comprises accumulated service costs and is revalued by law at a rate equal to 75 per cent of national life price index 1.5 per cent by an independent qualified actuary.
Since 1 July 2007, the Group retains no obligation, as contributions are made directly into Italian state funds in the manner of a defined contribution scheme.
The employee benefit and retirement plan operated by MillenniumIT is classified as a defined benefit plan.
The net obligation in respect of this plan is the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
Once an employee is continuously employed for more than five years, he or she is entitled to a payment equivalent to half a months gross salary multiplied by the number of years in service at MillenniumIT.
Defined contribution schemes The Groups defined contribution schemes are now the only schemes open to new employees in the UK and Italy.
For the UK pension plan, a core contribution of eight per cent of pensionable pay is provided and the Group will match employee contributions up to a maximum of six per cent of pensionable pay.
For the TFR, 6.91 per cent of pensionable pay is provided.
Amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: 2011 2010 UK Pension Italian plan UK Pension Italian plan m m m m Defined contribution schemes 2.2 1.3 4.3 2.4 Defined benefit scheme current service cost 0.7 1.0 0.7 0.1 Total pension charge included in employee costs see note 6 2.9 2.3 5.0 2.5 Finance income and expense Interest cost 14.3 0.4 14.3 0.3 Expected return on assets 14.5 11.8 Net finance income expense 0.2 0.4 2.5 0.3 Total recognised in the income statement 2.7 2.7 7.5 2.8 Defined benefit assets obligations for UK pension scheme 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 m m m m m Fair value of assets: Equities 39.3 37.2 25.1 33.2 35.7 Bonds 219.5 218.5 202.6 190.9 185.2 Property 23.3 13.3 7.1 8.8 3.7 Total fair value of assets 282.1 269.0 234.8 232.9 224.6 Present value of funded obligations 244.5 264.4 229.8 221.1 239.6 Surplus deficit 37.6 4.6 5.0 11.8 15.0 The main actuarial assumptions are set out below: 2011 2010 UK Pension Italian plan UK Pension Italian plan Inflation rate CPI 2.5% Inflation rate RPI 3.5% 2.0% 3.7% 2.0% Rate of increase in salaries 5.0% 3.5% 5.2% 3.5% Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.7% 3.0% 4.0% 3.0% Discount rate 5.6% 4.1% 5.5% 4.1% Expected return on assets as at the start of the year: equities 7.6% 7.6% bonds 4.8% 5.2% property 6.8% 6.7% Life expectancy from age 60 Years : Non retired male member 27.8 27.7 Non retired female member 30.6 30.5 Retired male member 26.2 26.1 Retired female member 29.1 29.0 For further information visit: www.
com 88 Group financial statements In July 2010, the Government announced that in the future it will use the Consumer Prices Index CPI in place of the Retail Prices Index RPI in its determination of the statutory minimum pension increases that apply to deferred pension increases within the UK defined benefits scheme.
The change in assumption has resulted in an additional 7.3m actuarial gain in the current year, which is credited to reserves.
Increases in pensions in payment continue to reference RPI under the terms of the scheme.
Expected return on equities and property are determined by applying an appropriate risk premium to the risk free rate measured with reference to the return on Government bonds.
Expected returns on bonds are derived from returns on Government and corporate bonds of an equivalent term to the investments held.
The mortality assumptions are based on the standard tables S1NA published by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries adjusted to take account of projected future improvements in life expectancy from the Self Administered Pension Scheme SAPS mortality survey, which was published in 2008.
We have used an allowance for the medium cohort effect and applied a one per cent underpin in respect of future mortality improvements.
Sensitivities The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the scheme obligations are: Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme obligations Inflation rate Increase decrease by 0.5% Increase decrease by 4.3m Rate of increase in pensions payment Increase decrease by 0.5% Increase decrease by 14.8m Discount rate Increase decrease by 0.5% Decrease increase by 19.3m Mortality rate Increase by 1 year Increase by 6.9m Movement in defined benefit obligation during the year 2011 2010 UK Pension Italian plan UK Pension Italian plan m m m m 1 April 264.4 7.3 229.8 8.3 Obligations arising from acquisition 0.6 Reclassification to other payables 0.6 Current service cost 0.7 1.0 0.7 0.1 Interest expense 14.3 0.4 14.3 0.3 Benefits paid 8.1 1.8 7.0 2.5 Actuarial gain loss 26.8 0.3 27.4 Curtailment gain 0.8 Foreign exchange 0.2 0.1 31 March 244.5 6.4 264.4 7.3 Movement in fair value of UK plan assets during the year 2011 2010 m m 1 April 269.0 234.8 Expected return on assets 14.5 11.8 Contributions received 1.4 3.8 Benefits paid 8.1 7.0 Actuarial gain 5.3 25.6 31 March 282.1 269.0 The actual return on plan assets was 19.8m 2010: 37.4m.
Defined benefit actuarial gains and losses recognised The experience adjustments and the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions of the pension scheme during the year are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income: 2011 2010 UK Pension Italian plan UK Pension Italian plan m m m m Recognised up to 1 April 2.7 1.3 4.5 1.3 Net actuarial gain loss recognised in the year 32.1 0.3 1.8 Cumulative amount recognised at 31 March 34.8 1.0 2.7 1.3 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2011 Overview Business Review Governance Group financial statements Other information Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 89 The last actuarial valuation of the defined benefit scheme was carried out at 31 March 2009 by an independent qualified actuary.
Following the valuation, ordinary contributions were increased from 36 per cent to 41 per cent of pensionable salaries.
The Group expects to contribute approximately 1.3m to the defined benefit scheme during the year to 31 March 2012.
The next actuarial valuation as at 31 March 2012 may result in an adjustment to future contribution levels.
The Group estimates the present value of the duration of defined benefit obligations on average fall due over 20 years.
History of experience gains and losses for UK scheme 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Experience adjustments arising on scheme assets: Gain loss m 5.3 25.6 11.2 3.7 10.7 Percentage of scheme assets 1.9% 9.5% 4.8% 1.6% 4.8% Experience adjustments arising on scheme liabilities: Experience gain loss m 1.5 7.5 1.3 0.7 0.4 Impact of changes in assumptions m 25.3 34.9 1.1 24.8 11.4 Total m 26.8 27.4 0.2 25.5 11.0 Percentage of scheme liabilities Experience gain loss 0.6% 2.8% 0.6% 0.3% 0.2% Impact of changes in assumptions 10.3% 13.2% 0.5% 11.2% 4.8% Total 10.9% 10.4% 0.1% 11.5% 4.6% 20.
Inventories 2011 2010 m m Work in progress 0.9 1.5 Finished goods 0.5 0.7 1.4 2.2 The Company has no inventories.
Trade and other receivables Group Company 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m Trade receivables 82.4 84.8 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 7.3 6.8 Trade receivables net 75.1 78.0 Amounts due from Group undertakings 154.5 161.4 Other receivables 3.6 5.7 Prepayments and accrued income 48.1 48.5 0.5 126.8 132.2 155.0 161.4 The carrying values less impairment provision of trade and other receivables are reasonable approximations of fair values.
Trade receivables that are not past due are not considered to be impaired.
The ageing of past due debtors for the Group is as follows: 2011 2010 Impaired Not impaired Impaired Not impaired m m m m 0 to 3 months past due 24.8 15.3 Greater than 3 months past due 7.3 5.2 6.8 4.1 7.3 30.0 6.8 19.4 The carrying amounts of the Groups trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 2011 2010 m m Sterling 58.3 56.0 Euro 61.8 70.9 Other Currencies 6.7 5.3 126.8 132.2 For further information visit: www.
com 90 Group financial statements Movements on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 2011 2010 m m At 1 April 6.8 6.6 Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.1 Provision for receivables impairment 0.8 0.7 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible 0.3 0.2 Provisions no longer required 0.1 0.1 Foreign exchange 0.1 0.3 At 31 March 7.3 6.8 The creation and release of provision for impaired receivables have been included in operating expense in the income statement.
Amounts charged to the allowance account are written off when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash.
The other classes within trade and other receivables and the other categories of financial assets do not contain impaired assets.
Financial instruments by category The financial instruments of the Group and Company are categorised as follows: Group Company Assets at fair value Assets at fair Loans and Available through Loans and value through receivables for sale profit or loss Total receivables profit or loss Total 31 March 2011 m m m m m m m Assets as per balance sheet Financial assets of the CCP clearing business CCP trading assets 7,309.5 7,309.5 Receivables for repurchase transactions 98,863.1 98,863.1 Other receivables from clearing members 3,983.1 3,983.1 Financial assets held at fair value 22.2 22.2 Cash and cash equivalents of clearing members 5,929.3 5,929.3 Financial assets of the CCP clearing business 108,775.5 7,331.7 116,107.2 Assets held at fair value 8.6 8.6 Total financial assets for CCP clearing 108,775.5 7,340.3 116,115.8 Trade and other receivables 78.7 78.7 155.0 155.0 Cash and cash equivalents 267.0 267.0 0.8 0.8 Available for sale financial assets 0.4 0.4 Interest rate swaps 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.3 0.3 Total 109,121.2 0.4 7,341.0 116,462.6 155.8 0.4 156.2 Group Company Derivatives used Other financial Derivatives used Other financial for hedging liabilities Total for hedging liabilities Total m m m m m m Liabilities as per balance sheet Financial liabilities of the CCP clearing business CCP trading liabilities 7,309.5 7,309.5 Liabilities under repurchase transactions 98,863.1 98,863.1 Other payables to clearing members 9,910.9 9,910.9 Financial liabilities held at fair value 21.0 21.0 Financial liabilities of the CCP clearing business 116,104.5 116,104.5 Trade and other payables 156.5 156.5 210.4 210.4 Provisions 31.5 31.5 Borrowings 499.1 499.1 499.0 499.0 Cross currency interest rate swaps 12.9 12.9 12.9 12.9 Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.3 0.3 Total 13.2 116,791.6 116,804.8 12.9 709.4 722.3 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2011 Overview Business Review Governance Group financial statements Other information Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 91 The valuation of CCP assets held at fair value through profit or loss is performed with reference to quoted prices from the markets to which they relate and therefore are all considered to be level 1.
The derivative financial instruments are considered to be level 2.
The cross currency interest rate swaps are used to change the currency of borrowings to reduce exposure to net assets and cash flow denominated in currencies other than sterling.
These are designated as a hedge of the Groups net investment in the Italian group and qualify for effective hedge accounting as both legs of the swap are at fixed rate.
The effectiveness of the hedges has been tested by means of a regression analysis and ineffectiveness was found to be negligible.
During the period, the Group executed two cross-currency swaps, of 50m each, to exchange a proportion of its sterling bond obligations swapping 100m sterling equivalent of the 2016 250m bond into euros.
The two new swaps were in addition to four existing cross-currency swaps, also of 50m each, which effectively exchanged some of the proceeds of the 2016 and the 2019 250m bonds from sterling into euros.
The swaps are designated part of the Groups net investment hedge and these derivative financial instruments exactly match the terms of the underlying bonds, the sterling coupon interest rates and their timings and so these hedges are expected to be perfectly effective.
For the year ended 31 March 2011, the Group recognised the 3.4m movement in mark to market value of these derivatives in reserves 2010 : 16.3m.
In September 2010, the Group cancelled four interest rate contracts of 30m each that swapped drawn bank borrowings from floating into fixed rates of interest.
Upon cancellation, 2.6m of accelerated interest was charged to the income statement.
These hedges had been accounted for as cashflow hedges.
The Group continued to hold four interest rate contracts of 25m each, which swapped a proportion of the 2016 sterling bond issue obligation from fixed interest rates into floating interest rates.
These swaps were arranged for a period of two years from January 2010, were accounted for as fair value hedges, and were effective hedges.
For the financial year ended 31 March 2011 the Group recognised the movement in mark to market value of these derivatives 0.1m in the income statement 2010: 0.6m.
The interest rate swaps are used to manage exposure to movements in interest rates.
The Groups financial assets held at fair value consist largely of Italian equities restricted in use for the operations of CC&G as manager of the clearing and guarantee system.
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets such as trading and available-forsale securities is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
The CCP clearing business assets and liabilities comprise: a CCP trading assets and liabilities The fair value of open positions on the derivatives market IDEM in which CC&G operates as the central counterparty and relate to: i derivative instruments on the S&P MIB index index futures, mini index futures, index options : and ii derivative instruments in respect of individual stocks equity futures, equity options.
b Receivables for liabilities under repurchase transactions Repos The value of repo transactions executed by participants in the MTS market who use the central counterparty guarantee service provided by CC&G refers to the value of transactions for which the spot part has been settled while the forward part has still to be settled.
c Other receivables from clearing members Sums receivable as initial margin, variation margin, option premiums and securities as collateral resulting from the activity of participants in the IDEM, MTA and MTS markets.
d Other payables to clearing members Liability to members for amounts delivered as initial margin, variation margin, option premiums and securities as collateral, resulting from the activity of participants in the IDEM, MTA and MTS markets.
e Assets and liabilities held at fair value i Equities and bonds, listed on regulated markets, which CC&G has already withdrawn from the settlement system but has not yet delivered to the intermediaries who have bought them: and ii Securities traded but not yet settled as part of the CCP function.
f Cash and cash equivalents of clearing members Cash and cash equivalents at bank, representing margins and default fund amounts received in connection with the CCP clearing service.
As at 31 March 2011, there were no provisions for impairment in relation to any of the CCP financial assets 2010: nil and none of these assets were past due 2010: nil.
com 92 Group financial statements The financial instruments of the Group and the Company at the previous years balance sheet date were as follows: Group Company Assets at fair value Assets at fair Loans and Available through Loans and value through receivables for sale profit or loss Total receivables profit or loss Total 31 March 2010 m m m m m m m Assets as per balance sheet Financial assets of the CCP clearing business CCP trading assets 5,467.9 5,467.9 Receivables for repurchase transactions 72,687.0 72,687.0 Other receivables from clearing members 1,489.8 1,489.8 Financial assets held at fair value 24.6 24.6 Cash and cash equivalents of clearing members 4,580.7 4,580.7 Financial assets of the CCP clearing business 78,757.5 5,492.5 84,250.0 Assets held at fair value 9.5 9.5 Total financial assets for CCP clearing 78,757.5 5,502.0 84,259.5 Trade and other receivables 83.7 83.7 199.5 199.5 Cash and cash equivalents 223.1 223.1 Available for sale financial assets 0.4 0.4 Interest rate swaps 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.6 Total 79,064.3 0.4 5,502.6 84,567.3 199.5 0.6 200.1 Group Company Derivatives used Other financial Derivatives used Other financial for hedging liabilities Total for hedging liabilities Total m m m m m m Liabilities as per balance sheet Financial liabilities of the CCP clearing business CCP trading liabilities 5,467.9 5,467.9 Liabilities under repurchase transactions 72,687.0 72,687.0 Other payables to clearing members 6,078.3 6,078.3 Financial liabilities held at fair value 24.3 24.3 Financial liabilities of the CCP clearing business 84,257.5 84,257.5 Trade and other payables 137.1 137.1 203.3 203.3 Provisions 33.9 33.9 Borrowings 606.7 606.7 606.7 606.7 Interest rate swaps 2.7 2.7 2.7 2.7 Cross currency interest rate swap 16.3 16.3 16.3 16.3 Total 19.0 85,035.2 85,054.2 19.0 810.0 829.0 The comparatives for financial instruments have been updated to exclude prepayment and accrued income which is not considered a financial asset and to include provisions as a financial liability.
Cash and cash equivalents Group Company 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m Cash at bank 152.1 123.8 0.8 0.1 Short term deposits 114.9 99.3 267.0 223.1 0.8 0.1 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2011 Overview Business Review Governance Group financial statements Other information Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 93 Cash and cash equivalents is held with authorised counterparties of a high credit standing, in interest bearing current and call accounts, short term deposits and AAA rated liquidity funds.
Management does not expect any losses from non-performance by the counterparties holding cash and cash equivalents, and there are no differences between their book and fair values.
Cash and cash equivalents does not include amounts held by CC&G on behalf of its clearing members, the use of which is restricted to the operation of CC&G as manager of the clearing and guarantee system see note 22.
Cash and cash equivalents does include amounts held by regulated entities for regulatory and operational purposes.
At 31 March 2011, the Group set aside 125.0m 2010: 125m, for such purposes, with the amount subject to regular review with regulators in the UK and Italy.
Assets held for sale The assets and liabilities related to Servizio Titoli S. p. A. are presented as held for sale at 31 March 2011 as the Group was in the process of selling the company.
A sale agreement was signed in April 2011 and completion occurred on 10 May 2011.
Total consideration for the sale was 32.4m.
During the year the Group decided to put up for sale a freehold property, which resulted in this asset being classified as held for sale at 31 March 2011.
Assets classified as held for sale 2011 2010 m m Property, plant and equipment 9.6 Intangible assets 22.4 Other current assets 4.9 36.9 Liabilities classified as held for sale 2011 2010 m m Trade and other payables 1.4 Other current liabilities 3.4 4.8 The carrying amounts of assets and liabilities are reasonable approximations of fair value.
There have been no transactions recognised during the year in the statement of comprehensive income relating to the company classified as held for sale.
Borrowings Group Company 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m Current Bank borrowings and trade finance loans 0.1 0.9 0.1 0.9 Non-current Bond 499.5 499.6 499.5 499.6 Deferred arrangement fees bank borrowings 0.5 106.2 0.5 106.2 499.0 605.8 499.0 605.8 For further information visit: www.
com 94 Group financial statements The Group has the following unsecured bank facilities: Carrying value at Interest rate Facility 31 March 2011 percentage at Type Expiry date m m 31 March 2011 Multi-currency revolving credit facility July 2013 250.0 LIBOR 0.8 Multi-currency revolving credit facility November 2015 250.0 LIBOR 1.0 Total bank facilities 500.0 Notes issued July 2006 July 2016 250.0 252.0 6.125 Notes issued June 2009 October 2019 250.0 247.5 9.125 Total Bonds 500.0 499.5 Total Debt 1,000.0 499.5 CC&G has direct intra-day access to refinancing with the Bank of Italy to cover its operational liquidity requirements of 1.2 billion.
In addition, uncommitted credit lines of 1bn are available from major Italian banks in relation to support of the MTS markets.
If these are drawn they are guaranteed by Italian Government bonds.
CC&G also has available to it 200m of committed facilities with banks, available for short term CCP related activity purposes only.
Non-current borrowings In July 2006, the Company issued a 250m bond which is unsecured and is due for repayment in July 2016.
Interest is paid semi-annually in arrears in January and July each year.
The issue price of the bond was 99.679 per 100 nominal.
The coupon on the bond is dependent on movements in the Companys credit rating with Moodys which was unchanged throughout the financial year.
The bond coupon remained at 6.125 per cent throughout this period.
In June 2009 the Company issued another 250m bond which is unsecured and is due for repayment in October 2019.
Interest is paid semi-annually in arrears in April and October each year.
The issue price of the bond was 99.548 per 100 nominal.
The coupon on the bond is dependent on the Companys credit ratings with Moodys and Standard & Poors which were unchanged throughout the financial year.
The bond coupon remained at 9.125 per cent throughout this period.
During the year the Company repaid outstanding drawings from its unsecured committed revolving facilities and signed a new 250m five year unsecured committed revolving facility which allowed the Company to cancel two shorter-dated facilities of 200m and 25m.
All capitalised arrangement fees associated with the new and cancelled committed facilities were expensed during the year.
Fair values The fair and carrying values of the Groups borrowings are as follows: Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value 2011 2011 2010 2010 Group m m m m Borrowings within one year 0.1 0.1 0.9 0.9 after more than one year 499.0 573.0 605.8 664.0 499.1 573.1 606.7 664.9 The fair and carrying values of the Companys borrowings are as follows: Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value 2011 2011 2010 2010 Company m m m m Borrowings after more than one year 499.0 573.0 605.8 664.0 499.0 573.0 605.8 664.0 The fair values of borrowings are based on discounted cash flows using a rate based on borrowing cost.
Floating rate borrowings bear interest at an agreed margin over LIBOR.
The carrying amounts of the Groups borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: 2011 2010 Drawn Swapped Effective Drawn Swapped Effective Currency m m m m m m Sterling 499.0 265.0 234.0 498.7 176.7 322.0 Euro 265.0 265.0 107.1 176.7 283.8 Sri Lankan Rupees 0.1 0.1 0.9 0.9 Total 499.1 499.1 606.7 606.7 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2011 Overview Business Review Governance Group financial statements Other information Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 95 27.
Analysis of net debt Group Company 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m Due within one year Cash and cash equivalents 267.0 223.1 0.8 0.1 Bank borrowings 0.1 0.9 Derivative financial assets 0.7 0.6 0.4 0.6 Derivative financial liabilities 0.3 2.7 2.7 267.3 220.1 1.2 2.0 Due after one year Deferred arrangement fees bank borrowings 0.5 106.2 106.2 Bonds 499.5 499.6 499.5 499.6 Derivative financial liabilities 12.9 16.3 12.9 16.3 Total net debt 244.6 402.0 511.2 624.1 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt Group Company 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m Increase in cash in the year 46.7 82.5 0.7 0.1 Bond issue notes due 2019 248.9 248.9 Bank loan repayments less new drawings 104.6 257.3 103.8 257.9 B share redemptions 2.3 2.3 Reduction in net debt resulting from cash flows 151.3 93.2 104.5 11.4 Foreign exchange movements 0.1 3.2 2.4 6.6 Movement on derivative financial assets and liabilities 5.9 16.8 5.9 18.4 Bond valuation adjustment 0.1 0.5 0.1 0.5 Other non-cash movements 0.6 0.6 Net debt at start of year 402.0 482.7 624.1 624.8 Net debt at end of year 244.6 402.0 511.2 624.1 28.
Provisions Property Group m 1 April 2009 26.7 Non-recurring charges during the year 9.2 Utilised during the year 3.2 Interest on discounted provision 1.2 31 March 2010 33.9 Utilised during the year 3.9 Interest on discounted provision 1.5 31 March 2011 31.5 Current 3.7 Non-current 27.8 31 March 2011 31.5 The property provision represents the estimated net present value of future costs for lease rentals and dilapidation costs less the expected receipts from sub-letting space which is surplus to business requirements.
The leases have between three and 17 years to expiry.
The Company has no provisions.
Ordinary share capital 2011 2010 Authorised millions m millions m 79 Ordinary shares of 6 271.1 18.8 271.1 18.8 86p More information about the shares and rights attached to the ordinary shares is given in the Directors Report on pages 58 and 61.
Net cash flow generated from operations Group Company 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m Profit before taxation 238.2 144.3 123.9 80.4 Depreciation and amortisation 96.7 123.0 Property impairment 2.5 Gain loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.4 2.3 Profit on disposal of shares in subsidiary 2.7 Net finance expense 44.8 40.7 140.5 135.7 Share of profit after tax of joint ventures 13.1 1.6 Decrease increase in inventories 0.7 1.1 Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 5.2 15.5 3.7 38.1 Increase decrease in trade and other payables 13.9 8.7 0.4 0.6 Increase in CCP financial assets 30,334.8 49,495.8 Increase in CCP liabilities 30,325.1 49,498.8 Defined benefit pension obligation contributions in excess of expenses charged 0.9 4.9 Provisions utilised during the year 3.9 3.2 Provisions created during the year 9.2 Decrease increase in assets held at fair value from operating activities 0.7 4.6 Share scheme expense 5.0 3.5 Foreign exchange gains losses on operating activities 2.1 0.1 3.4 14.3 Cash generated from absorbed by operations 381.8 301.2 9.9 3.5 Comprising: Ongoing operating activities 394.4 325.0 7.5 3.5 Non-recurring items 12.6 23.8 2.4 381.8 301.2 9.9 3.5 31.
Commitments and contingent liabilities Contracted capital commitments and other contracted commitments not provided for in the financial statements of the Group were 2.5m 2010: 2.0m and 23.8m 2010: 3.1m respectively, of which 0.2m 2010: nil related to commitments of joint ventures.
23.8m other commitments relates to professional and other fees, the majority of which are conditional on the successful completion of the proposed merger with TMX Group, Inc.
The Group has committed to fully fund the cash needs of Turquoise within an agreed framework for the 24 months from 17 February 2010, the date of acquisition.
London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2011 Overview Business Review Governance Group financial statements Other information Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 97 32. Business combinations Acquisitions in the year to 31 March 2011 In the year to 31 March 2011 the Group made two acquisitions involving the acquisition of an additional 94.4 per cent and 77.5 per cent of the issued share capital of ProMac S. p. A. and MTS France S. A. S. respectively.
Contribution post-acquisition Fair value of Operating profit Date acquired Consideration Goodwill assets acquired Revenue loss Company acquired m m m m m ProMac S. p. A.
9 September 2010 4.7 4.7 0.1 0.4 MTS France S. A. S. 4 November 2010 1.3 1.4 1.1 0.8 Total 6.0 6.1 1.2 0.4 The assets and liabilities arising out of each acquisition at the relevant acquisition date are as follows: Promac S. p. A. MTS France S. A. S. Total Book value Fair value Book value Fair value Book value Fair value m m m m m m Non-current assets: Intangible assets 0.3 0.3 Property, plant and equipment Other non-current assets 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents 2.6 2.6 2.2 2.2 4.8 4.8 Other current assets 1.8 1.8 0.5 0.5 2.3 2.3 Current liabilities: Other current liabilities 0.2 0.2 0.7 1.3 0.9 1.5 Net assets 4.4 4.7 2.0 1.4 6.4 6.1 Fair value adjustments to investment in original holdings 0.1 Total consideration 6.0 Satisfied by: Cash 6.0 These fair values are preliminary and will be finalised during the following financial year.
Acquisitions in prior year There were no adjustments to the fair value of assets acquired for MillenniumIT.
The fair value of assets acquired for Turquoise was adjusted during the year resulting in a reduction of goodwill by 1.3m.
Leases The Group leases various office properties under non-cancellable operating leases.
The total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are due as follows: Property Equipment 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m Less than one year 21.0 17.0 3.1 1.0 More than one year and less than five years 78.4 70.4 3.4 2.1 More than five years 112.4 119.6 211.8 207.0 6.5 3.1 Operating lease payments of 19.0m 2010: 15.6m were charged to the income statement in the year in relation to property and 3.9m 2010: nil in the year in relation to equipment.
com 98 Group financial statements The total future minimum lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable operating leases for property where the Group is lessor are due as follows: Group 2011 2010 m m Less than one year 4.4 4.4 More than one year and less than five years 18.1 18.9 More than five years 14.7 18.2 37.2 41.5 The Company has no lease commitments.
Share schemes The London Stock Exchange Group Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, approved at the 2004 AGM, has two elements, a conditional award of Performance Shares and an award of Matching Shares linked to investment by the executive of annual bonus in the Companys shares.
Vesting of these awards is dependent upon the Companys total shareholder return performance and for awards made since 2008 adjusted basic earnings per share.
Further details are provided in the Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 57.
Under the Groups previous share option plan approved by shareholders in 2002, the maximum value of shares placed under option to an individual was equivalent to 100 per cent of their annual salary.
No further awards will be made under this scheme.
Prior to 2002, under the previous long-term incentive scheme comprising the Initial and Annual Share Plans option grants and share awards were made based on approvals prior to the Groups listing in July 2001.
No further option grants or share awards will be made under this scheme apart from the SAYE scheme available to all staff.
Under both the Initial and Annual Share Plan, share awards have a vesting period of three years and share options become exercisable at 20 per cent per annum over five years with a contractual life of 10 years.
The SAYE scheme and International Sharesave Plan provide for grants of options to employees who enter into a SAYE savings contract and options were granted at 20 per cent below fair market value.
Share awards were granted at nil cost to employees and other share options were granted at fair market value or above.
The Group established an ESOP discretionary trust to administer the share plans and to acquire the shares to meet commitments to Group employees.
At the year end 1,867,465 2010: 2,874,538 shares were held by the trust, funded by an interest free loan from the Group.
The Company has no employees, but in accordance with SIC 12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities has the obligation for the assets, liabilities, income and costs of the ESOP trust and these have been consolidated in the Groups financial statements.
The cost of the Groups shares held by the trust are deducted from retained earnings.
Movements in the number of share options and awards outstanding and their weighted average exercise prices are as follows: Share options SAYE Scheme LTIP Weighted average Weighted average Weighted average Number exercise price Number exercise price Number exercise price At 1 April 2009 1,602,674 3.33 624,211 5.53 3,629,342 Granted 64,960 3.45 2,649,045 Exercised 333,299 3.37 80,656 3.50 340,267 Forfeited 5,838 3.45 98,584 6.06 1,286,488 At 31 March 2010 1,328,497 3.32 444,971 5.79 4,651,632 Granted 100,674 7.00 2,504,605 Exercised 968,863 3.22 25,194 5.69 5,676 Forfeited 14,956 5.49 87,821 6.18 1,533,627 At 31 March 2011 445,352 4.30 331,956 5.69 5,616,934 Exercisable at: 31 March 2011 299,422 2.43 31 March 2010 1,269,105 3.17 9,425 10.26 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2011 Overview Business Review Governance Group financial statements Other information Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 99 The weighted average share price during the year was 7.36 2010: 7.40.
The range of exercise prices and weighted average remaining contractual life of awards and options outstanding are as follows: 2011 2010 Weighted average Weighted average Number remaining Number remaining outstanding contractual life outstanding contractual life Exercise price range Years Years Share options Up to 3 312,250 0.2 Between 3 and 4 353,246 2.6 952,837 2.1 Above 4 92,106 2.0 63,410 0.1 SAYE Between 5 and 6 331,956 0.4 435,546 1.4 Above 10 9,425 0.1 LTIP Nil 5,616,934 1.6 4,651,632 1.7 Total 6,394,242 1.7 6,425,100 1.8 The fair value of share awards and share options granted during the year was determined using a stochastic valuation model.
The key assumptions used in the valuation were as follows: Performance Related Equity Plans Matching Performance Matching Performance Restricted Market Value Shares Shares Shares Shares Options 15 Feb 2011 27 Sep 2010 14 Sep 2010 14 Sep 2010 14 Sep 2010 Grant date share price 9.000 7.065 6.890 6.890 6.890 Exercise price n. a n. a n. a n. a 7.000 Volatility 53% 55% 54% 54% 54% Expected life 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3.5 years Dividend yield 2.80% 3.50% 3.60% 3.60% 3.60% Fair value TSR 4.37 3.56 3.42 3.42 1.96 Fair value EPS 8.27 6.33 6.16 6.16 2.26 The volatility assumption is based on a statistical analysis of weekly share prices since the London Stock Exchanges flotation in July 2001.
The fair value for the Performance and Matching Shares granted during the year is based on a Total Shareholder Return TSR pricing model which takes account of the TSR vesting condition.
The fair value of all other shares granted is based on a Black-Scholes model.
Holders of share awards and share options are not entitled to receive dividends declared during the vesting period.
Transactions with related parties FTSE International Ltd Details of transactions with FTSE International Ltd are included in note 14.
Key management compensation Compensation for Directors of the Company and key personnel who have authority for planning, directing and controlling the Group: 2011 2010 m m Salaries and other short term benefits 8.6 7.1 Pensions 0.4 0.5 Share based payments 0.7 9.7 7.6 For further information visit: www.
com 100 Group financial statements Inter-company transactions with subsidiary undertakings The Company has loan agreements with some subsidiary undertakings.
Details as at 31 March 2011 are shown in the table below: Amount in millions due Interest in millions from owed to as at 31 March Interest rate as at credit charge Loan counterparty 2011 2010 Term 31 March 2011 2011 2010 LSE plc 183.5 m 178.5 m 25 years from May 2006 with LIBOR plus 8.3 m 6.7 m five equal annual repayments 2% per annum commencing in May2027.
London Stock Exchange 15.6m 21.0m Repayable on demand.
Non-interest nil nil Employee Benefit Trust bearing London Stock Exchange 450m 450.0m Five years from March 2009, EURIBOR plus 21.8m 26.6m Group Holdings Italy repayable in fullon maturity in 4.0% Limited Italian Branch March 2014. per annum London Stock Exchange 120.5m 89.5m 20 years from January2008 with EURIBOR plus 2.7m 1.2m Group Holdings Italy fiveequal repayments commencing 1.2% per annum Limited Italian Branch in January 2024.
Borsa Italiana S. p. A. nil nil Agreement assigned from LSEG plc EURIBOR plus nil 1.2m to London Stock Exchange Group 1.2% per annum Holdings italy Limited Italian Branch during FY2010.
London Stock Exchange 28.6m 33.8m Fifth anniversary of the initial LIBOR plus 1.7m 0.5m Group Holdings Limited utilisation date which was 4.0% per annum October 2009.
During the year the Company charged in respect of employee share schemes 3.1m 2010: 2.1m to the London Stock Exchange plc, 1.7m 2010: 1.1m to London Stock Exchange Group Holdings Italy Ltd and 0.3m 2010: 0.1m to Millennium Information Technologies Ltd.
The Company received dividends of 123.3m 2010: 109.0m and 55.0m 2010: 51.1m respectively from its subsidiaries London Stock Exchange plc and London Stock Exchange Group Holdings Italy Limited.
Other statutory information Auditors remuneration payable to  LLP and its associates comprise the following: 2011 2010 m m Audit of parent company and consolidated accounts 0.2 0.2 Audit of subsidiary companies 0.8 1.0 Other audit related 0.2 0.1 Other fees: Taxation 0.3 0.3 Corporate finance 0.3 0.3 Other assurance services 0.4 0.1 2.2 2.0 Further details of the services provided by PwC are given in the Report of the Audit and Risk Committee on page 47.
Directors emoluments comprise the following: 2011 2010 m m Salary and fees 2.6 3.8 Performance bonus 2.2 1.9 Benefits 0.1 0.2 4.9 5.9 Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes 0.1 0.1 5.0 6.0 During the year two Directors 2010: two had retirement benefits accruing under defined contribution schemes and no Director 2010: none had retirement benefits accruing under a defined benefit scheme.
Further details of Directors emoluments are included in the Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 57.
London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2011
