102 Other Information Market structures To understand all the services offered by a diversified exchange business, it is important to recognise both the process of trading financial instruments, and the various trading platforms available within the EU.
With an effective date of introduction of November 2007, the EUs Markets in Financial Instruments Directive sought to increase competition and consumer protection in investment services.
Information provided here focuses on two main areas: The process of trading Process Explanation LSE Groups involvement Electronic trading Computerised systems for matching Equities London and buy and sell orders of financial Italian trading platforms instruments, such as equities, bonds and Turquoise panandderivatives.
European trading ETFs, ETCs London and Italian trading platforms Bonds MTS, MOT and ORB Derivatives EDX, IDEM andIDEX Clearing After a trade has been matched, usually CC&G acts as a CCP by a tradingsystem, it is cleared.
At this for Italian cash equities, stage, a central counterparty CCP derivatives and fixed stands between the buyer andseller.
CC&G also By simultaneously buying from the seller, provides clearing and selling to the buyer, the CCP reduces processing functions the counterparty risk to both parties.
This for London Stock is because ifone party defaults, the CCP Exchange equities and will still ensure that the trade is completed Turquoise derivatives.
Settlement Settlement is the process of delivering Monte Titoli operates the title to the financial instrument to the X-TRM and EXPRESS II buyer against payment to the seller.
systems, which cover For equities, this normally takes place Italian pre-settlement and three days after the trade.
Netted settlement, creating netted settlement reduces a large number settlement instructions, of positions to a single position payment.
making the actual payments Settlement operates both for transactions and delivering securities.
through a trading system and those completed over the counter OTC Custody A custodian or Central Securities Monte Titoli provides Depositary CSD undertakes Italian custody services for the safekeeping and administration financial instruments such of securities on behalf of issuers as equities and bonds, and investors.
whether dematerialised or in paper form.
fide-materialised securities are those that can beheld without the need for paper certificates.
London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2011 Post Trade Overview Business Review Governance Group financial statements Other information Other Information Market Structures 103 Trading under MiFID Explanation Attributes LSE Groups involvement Exchange model Traded through trading Regulated Trading platforms offered for trading platforms run by an operator Order driven by the London Stock of a regulated market.
Neutral Exchange and Transparent Borsa Italiana, including Liquid securities listed on the Widest stock coverage Groups primary markets Widest client base Reported business done off Telephone trading On exchange trade order book and reported to reporting and publication regulated market.
MTF MiFID allowed for the setting Regulated MTF services provided up of Multilateral Trading Order driven through Turquoise and Facilities MTF, new panNeutral Euro MTS European trading ventures Transparent thereby promoting venue Can include dark choice.
Trading is of securities pool trading listed on the primary market ofaregulated exchange.
OTC Over the counter OTC Regulated OTC trade reporting and negotiated market operated Large or block trades publication service by electronic networks or Way to trade less telephone.
Electronically liquid stock connected market consisting of dealers who are inconstant contact thereby facilitating trading directly between two parties.
What is dark pool trading?
Private trading networks within Europe these are MTFs developed to enable the internal matching oforders between buyers and sellers without being visible until the trade is complete, thereby creating aregulated environment in which to execute larger trades.
Turquoise, the Groups pan-European MTF provides a dark pool service, as well as Lit trading whereby traders can see potential buy and sell orders in advance.
Brokers also operate OTC dark pools.
For further information visit: www.
