62 Governance Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, The financial risk management objectives and policies of the the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements Group and the exposure of the Group to capital risk, credit in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
risk, market risk and liquidity risk are discussed on pages 72 to 75.
The Group continues to meet Group and individual Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial entity capital requirements and day-to-day liquidity needs statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors through the Groups cash resources and available credit have prepared the Group and Company financial statements in facilities.
Committed funding at 31 March 2011 increased to accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 1,000 million 2010: 975 million all of which is committed IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial until July 2013 or beyond 2010: 950 million committed until statements are required by law to give a true and fair view February 2012, described further in the Financial Review of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of on pages 26 to 29. the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
The Directors have reviewed the Groups forecasts and projections, In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are taking into account reasonably possible changes in trading required to: performance, which show that the Group has sufficient financial select suitable accounting policies and then apply resources.
On the basis of this review, and after making due them consistently: enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the make judgements and estimates that are reasonable Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in and prudent: operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, state that the financial statements comply with IFRSs as they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the adopted by the European Union: and financial statements.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will Directors Responsibility Statement continue in business.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are set out on pages 38 to 39 of this Annual Report, confirm that, The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above to the best of their knowledge and belief: requirements in preparing the financial statements.
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group: and the financial position of the Company and the Group and to the Directors report contained in the Annual Report includes enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the a fair review of the development and performance of the Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 business and the position of the Company and Group taken and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding and uncertainties that they face.
the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud By order of the Board and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website and legislation in the governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Going Concern Lisa Condron The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely Group Company Secretary to affect its future development, performance and position are 13 May 2011 set out in the Introduction, Market Positon and Outlook and Business Review on pages 1 to 37.
In particular, the current economic conditions have created a number of risks and uncertainties for the Group and these are set out in Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 32 to 37.
London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2011
