68 Man Group plc Annual Report 2011 Financial Review continued 13.
Franchise value goodwill and other intangible assets continued Capitalised computer software Costs that are directly associated with the procurement or development of identifiable and unique software products, which will generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as capitalised computer software.
Capitalised computer software is amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives 3 years and are subject to regular impairment reviews.
Amortisation of capitalised computer software is included in other costs in the Income Statement.
Certain technology assets were reclassified from intangible assets to leasehold improvements and equipment during the year.
Investments in fund products and other investments 2011 2010 Financial Financial assets at assets at fair value Availablefair value Availablethrough for-sale through for-sale profit financial Loans and profit financial Loans and $m or loss assets receivables Total or loss assets receivables Total Investments in fund products: Loans to fund products 551 551 373 373 Other investments in fund products 363 3 366 409 2 411 363 3 551 917 409 2 373 784 1 Other investments 11 11 72 72 1 This excludes the Pension Asset of $91 million 2010: $69 million which is discussed in Note 20.
Investments are initially recognised at fair value.
Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on trade-date.
A financial asset is classified at fair value through profit or loss if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term or if so designated by management.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, and are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative equity investments that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories, and are carried at fair value, with gains and losses taken to equity, until sold or impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously reported in equity is included in the Income Statement.
Other investments in fund products and other investments expose Man to market risk and therefore the commitment process is subject to limits consistent with the Boards risk appetite.
The largest single investment in fund products was $45 million 2010: $70 million.
The market risk from other investments in fund products and other investments is modelled using a value at risk VaR methodology using a 95% confidence interval and one month time horizon.
The VaR is estimated to be $30 million at 31 March 2011 2010: $59 million.
Loans to fund products Loans to fund products are short term advances primarily to Man structured fund products ie IP220 products.
The loans are repayable on demand.
The average balance is not materially different from the year end balance 2010: $599 million.
The increase in the balance compared to the prior year is due to routine rebalancing in March as a result of negative performance.
Refer to AFI Note 18 for a discussion regarding funding commitments to fund products.
Loans to fund products are funded from available cash liquidity.
The liquidity requirements of loans to fund products are subject to our routine stress testing and any stress liquidity requirements are provided by either cash or capacity from the committed bank facility.
Loans to fund products expose Man to credit risk and therefore the credit decision making process is subject to limits consistent with the Boards risk appetite.
The carrying value represents Mans maximum exposure to credit risk.
Loans are closely monitored against the assets held in the funds.
The largest single loan to a fund product was $41 million 2010: $18 million.
Fund entities are not externally rated, but our internal modelling indicates that fund products have a probability of default that is equivalent to a credit rating of BBB or better.
Other Investments in fund products Man uses capital to invest in our fund products as part of our ongoing business to build our product breadth and to trial investment research developments before we market the products to investors.
These investments are generally held for less than one year.
Other investments in fund products are recorded at fair value with gains and losses reported in the Income Statement.
Total net gains on investments in fund products reported in income were $32 million 2010: $52 million.
Investment in fund products includes $50 million 2010: $18 million of Man and GLG fund products which are held against outstanding deferred compensation arrangements.
Any movement in fair value of these assets will be offset by a corresponding move in the deferred compensation liability in the Income Statement.
