06 Man Group plc Annual Report 2011 2 What are the Boards responsibilities and key priorities?
Man Group plc 07 Annual Report 2011 The Boards core responsibilities are to set strategy, determine acceptable risk, support and challenge management and engage with shareholders.
Board of Directors from left to right Patrick OSullivan Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee, Kevin Hayes Finance Director, Alison Carnwath Senior Independent Director, Dugald Eadie, Jon Aisbitt Chairman, Ruud Hendriks, Peter Clarke Chief Executive, Phillip Colebatch Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Frdric Jolly.
08 Man Group plc Annual Report 2011 Chairmans Review the value derived from the immediacy of our communication.
We were pleased to discuss private investors views on the transaction at the UK shareholder meeting held in September which returned a vote of over 90% in favour.
Strategy review and development While plans for GLG integration were being put into effect, the Board moved on to rationalise other areas of the business, approving the disposal of Mans non-strategic stake in BlueCrest and agreeing to take full ownership of credit manager Ore Hill.
At the annual Board strategy review we discussed the shape of the business, its cost base, product range and performance and the opportunities available over the next 18 months.
Our debate was informed by updates from key executives on the performance and development of AHL, new sales channels and geographic reach, and progress in the refocused Man Multi-Manager and nascent Man Systematic Strategies businesses.
We explored the likely impacts of longer term macro risks on Mans business.
We reviewed our remuneration philosophy and ensured that our executive compensation Jon Aisbitt arrangements were aligned to the strategic Chairman goals of the business.
Risk appetite and governance Consideration of risk is a key component in the development of strategy.
At a special meeting Acquisition of GLG dedicated to risk, the Board discussed the The 2011 financial year The acquisition of GLG represents the delivery likely impact on the business of a range of was very significant for of one of the key strategic objectives agreed macro-economic scenarios in terms of their by the Board.
Its purpose is to diversify our implications for funds under management, Man and a very busy year business model through the acquisition of an product demand, earnings and liquidity.
established franchise with liquid alternative was followed by a review of the Companys investment styles as a complement to Mans existing risk appetite statements and a detailed existing managed futures and multi-manager assessment of their continued relevance and It started with the evaluation of the strategic capability.
It expands the range of content we value and of how the business had performed case for the acquisition of GLG, approval of can offer to institutions and intermediaries against them.
At subsequent meetings the managements negotiating mandate, oversight and it creates new product development Board redefined its risk appetite statements of the due diligence process and presentation and sales opportunities.
to cover both the risks which apply to the of the transaction to shareholders.
With the operation of the investment management acquisition completed, we turned our attention Having agreed the strategic case for the business and the risks which apply to Man as to a review of the Companys risk appetite and acquisition, the Board established and a company.
These statements are discussed the Boards risk governance framework.
This progressively refined managements negotiating more fully in the Risk management section of led in turn to the third area of focus for the year mandate, oversaw the due diligence process the Annual Report.
PG 48 The Board also which was our review of the Companys capital and gave approval to proceed.
Our next task reviewed and endorsed changes made to and liquidity requirements and the structure of was to review and approve the circulars seeking the Companys risk governance framework its funding.
All these areas of work are central shareholder approval of the transaction in both following the acquisition of GLG and agreed to the Boards leadership role of determining the UK and US.
In the month following the the detailed allocation of responsibilities for strategy and risk appetite and ensuring that announcement of the acquisition, we were able the identification and oversight of risk between the business is appropriately resourced and to meet with over 40% of Mans shareholder managements Risk and Assurance Committee funded for long term success.
Our Chief Executive and Finance Director and Finance Committee, the Audit and Risk continued throughout the year both to support were joined by Noam Gottesman, the coCommittee and the full Board.
and challenge the executive in their day to day CEO of GLG, in meetings with our largest delivery of business objectives.
shareholders and their feedback confirmed Man Group plc 09 Annual Report 2011 Capital and liquidity of the new franchise to be integrated into Mans Another Board change in prospect this year Key elements of Man Groups risk appetite existing business in such a way as to preserve is the retirement of Dugald Eadie at the 2011 are its capital and liquidity positions.
The limits the driving strengths of each.
During his nine years the Board sets for these are determined by a service on the Board, Dugald has helped number of factors, including the capital which In the course of the year, as part of our guide the business through substantial and the firm wishes to hold for investment in funds investment in the development of AHL, the successive periods of change and has been and for loans to funds.
When reviewing capital Board renewed the Companys long term a valuable chairman and member of the adequacy the Board must also consider Mans funding commitment to the Oxford-Man Remuneration and Audit and Risk Committees.
longer term liquidity needs to enable it to Institute of Quantitative Finance which is We are grateful for his tireless contribution withstand financial shock or sustained periods part of Oxford University.
In recognition of and support and wish him all the very best for of stress.
Determining the optimal position the importance of AHL to the business, we the future.
Alison Carnwath, who has given and the implications for the use of any surplus subsequently visited the Institute to get a me excellent support as Senior Independent capital, such as that realised through the better understanding of its work and explored Director, will step down from this role following recent disposal of the Companys investment with leading professors and the CEO of AHL the Annual General Meeting while remaining on in BlueCrest, has been a major area of debate.
the contribution made by the Institute to the the Board.
She will be succeeded by Patrick The balance we seek is to retain capital for development of AHLs quantitative trading OSullivan, the Chairman of our Audit and Risk organic growth, take advantage of strategic model.
We were also able to appreciate at first Committee.
Board biographies PG 82 opportunities as they arise and provide a hand the benefit derived by AHLs research cushion against financial stress, while satisfying team from their daily contact with academic Shareholder engagement and reporting the requirement for an efficient balance sheet researchers, the continuing supply of leading We like to engage with investors actively and and shareholder appetite for dividends.
We edge ideas and the access to a pool of talent directly.
In addition to our intensive interaction have reviewed the Executive Committees for future recruitment.
with shareholders on the acquisition of GLG, proposals for the future sizing and management we have renewed our dialogue with institutional of the Companys capital and liquidity and are Management talent and Board succession investors on Mans executive compensation currently working on the approval of a capital Proper stewardship requires the attraction, arrangements and have consulted on and liquidity plan to transition the Company to development and retention of appropriate governance issues such as director the targeted position.
We continue to believe management talent.
The acquisition of GLG reappointment and independence.
that a capital buffer of $300m in excess of our significantly strengthened Mans investment regulatory capital requirement is appropriate.
management expertise and has attracted a Man is committed to reporting on its business number of new executives to the business.
The and performance in the most transparent and Dividend Board itself also needs regularly refreshing to effective way.
I have sought to give you in my Last year we indicated our intention to pay ensure it remains fit for purpose.
I am a strong Review a clear picture of the Boards priorities a dividend of at least 22 cents per share for advocate of the importance of the diversity of and activities during the year and have provided the year ended 31 March 2011.
The Board Board membership on which there is currently, more detail on its structure and operation in my is now recommending the payment of a final particularly in respect of gender diversity, much Corporate Governance Report.
PG 80 I hope dividend of 12.5 cents 7.68 pence per share debate.
Securing the right balance of skills, you find that this years Annual Report delivers which will bring the total dividend for the year experience and perspectives on the Board is a a straightforward and compelling account of to the committed level.
The Board has adopted key responsibility and one to which I continue the continuing evolution of Mans business in a progressive dividend policy and intends to devote a substantial amount of time.
The response to market demand and wins your to ensure that dividend payments remain Nomination Committee report describes the confidence in the combination of ambition and sustainable.
PG 90 enduring strength on which it is built.
Monitoring and challenging I am pleased that Emmanuel Manny Roman, Jon Aisbitt The Board receives regular reports and updates who joined Man as Chief Operating Officer Chairman on the progress of the business and its financial last year following the acquisition of GLG, performance from the Chief Executive and was appointed an executive director earlier Finance Director.
Manny played a major part in are frequently tested and the assumptions the integration of GLG, and has a wealth of underlying financial projections freely experience in trading, markets and business challenged.
Throughout the year the Board management which will help the executive closely monitored and debated management team realise new opportunities.
The Board has plans for the integration of GLG.
We were keen also been strengthened by the appointment to ensure the streamlining of the combined of Matthew Lester as a non-executive director operation, the capture of operating efficiencies and as a member of the Audit and Risk and and the leveraging of value.
We needed to Nomination Committees.
His broad financial, satisfy ourselves that the governance and regulatory and markets experience will be a control of decision making in the extended great asset to us.
