30 Man Group plc Annual Report 2011 6 What differentiates our Investment Managers?
Man Group plc 31 Annual Report 2011 Mans investment managers are leaders in their chosen fields.
AHL in systematic managed futures trading GLG in discretionary strategies Man Multi-Manager in fund of funds portfolios and managed accounts.
Each follows a distinct strategy, and each benefits from Mans product structuring and distribution expertise.
Together, they provide investors with a uniquely diverse range of investment strategies.
32 Man Group plc Annual Report 2011 AHL AHLs strategy is to invest in people, technology and operational infrastructure to produce world leading systematic trading strategies and thereby optimise investment returns.
Our research pipeline continued to build during the 2011 financial year, and we returned 4.5% in investment performance.
Tim Wong AHL World World 1 2 3 AHL Diversified plc stocks bonds AHL track record since inception 26 March 1996 to 31 March 2011 Total return 819.7% 125.8% 138.4% Annualised return 15.9% 5.6% 6.0% 1 AHL Diversied plc World Bonds World Stocks Annualised volatility 17.7% 15.4% 2.9% 10000 8000 6000 4000 2011 financial year: attribution analysis % 6.8% 2000 2.9% 2.2% 1.8% 1.9% 0.0% 5.1% 6.0% 1000 Agriculturals Bonds Credit Currencies Energies Interest Metals Stock 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 Rates Indicies 1.
Man AHL Diversified plc is valued weekly: however, for comparative purposes, statistics have been calculated using the last weekly valuation for each month.
MSCI World Equity Net Total Return Index USD hedged.
Citigroup World Government Bond Index hedged to USD total return.
Man Group plc 33 Annual Report 2011 Performance review Differentiated research to improve be used as a back-up trading centre, which Man AHL Diversified plc returned 4.5% net investment performance further enhances the resilience of our disaster of fees in the 2011 financial year, with gains One of AHLs major research projects since recovery network.
sourced from trading in bonds and interest rates, 2008 2009 has been the development of a currencies, metals and agriculturals.
new range of momentum systems that use a Technology and operational efficiency predictor optimiser framework, along with the Technology and operational infrastructure Within bonds and rates, long positions generated enhancement of our existing trend following are central components of AHL operations, strong gains for most of 2010, as continued systems.
After first being extensively researched and significant investment has been made to global economic uncertainty combined with and rigorously tested, both of these were improve capabilities across each of these areas.
Eurozone sovereign debt issues spurred a flight successfully introduced into client portfolios This is highlighted by the tenfold increase in to safe haven assets.
Profits were also generated across all sectors, starting in December 2009 research computing power over the past two by long commodity linked currency positions, and continuing throughout 2010.
Even though years and the improvement of our middle and as commodity prices surged and the second they have recently been deployed, we have back office operational systems.
Following the round of quantitative easing was introduced in already begun to look at ways of improving these completion of the GLG acquisition, a project is the second half of 2010.
Long silver and gold models as part of our continuous process of under way to explore potential synergies across positions also benefited from these factors in model enhancement.
addition to the demand from investors for a hedge against inflation.
Electronic trade execution has also been a top We are excited about our move to Riverbank priority, and we have successfully increased House in June of this year.
The new state of On the negative side, trading in stocks and the range of markets traded by our adaptive the art building will enhance our ability to share energies generated losses over the period.
These second generation information and also improve productivity.
We Equity markets were quite volatile during the trade execution algorithms are an integral look forward to showing our clients around our year, especially after the terrible events in Japan, component of our investment process, shown new offices after we complete the move later which led to sharp reversals.
Trading conditions by the significant reduction in transaction costs this year.
in energy markets were also challenging, with achieved where these have been applied.
choppy natural gas prices one notable example.
Looking ahead, we will continue to recruit Our large research resource has also enabled exceptional investment professionals across The majority of investors in AHL have a medium us to simultaneously implement a number our research, operations and trading teams as to long term investment horizon.
This approach of strategies across a range of sectors and well as expand our technological capabilities.
It is justified by the long-term performance of Man instruments.
This includes trading cash equities is this commitment to research and continuous AHL Diversified plc, with the fund achieving a and options, as well as researching other investment in people and technology that has net annualised return to 31 March 2011 of 15.9% instruments to further diversify our investment driven the strong long-term performance of since its inception in 1996.
All of these projects require close AHLs investment programmes throughout a track record has been achieved across the full collaboration across different teams based in range of market environments.
range of market conditions, with performance our offices in London, Oxford and Hong Kong.
particularly good during periods of acute equity market weakness, such as in 2008.
The negative Unique collaboration with Oxford correlation to equities and other asset classes University AHL explained reinforces the investment case for AHL within Our Man Research Laboratory MRL based in AHL is a world-leading managed futures both traditional and hedge fund portfolios.
Oxford, which is co-located within the Oxfordmanager, with assets under management Man Institute of Quantitative Finance OMI, has totalling $22.7 billion 31 March 2011 and Progress on strategic priorities grown to 13 full time employees spanning AHLs over 20 years of trading experience.
AHLs strategy is to invest in people, technology main research areas.
AHL is the only investment and operational infrastructure to produce world manager in the world to have its own staff Investment decisions are 100% systematic, leading trading programmes exclusively focused and research laboratory embedded within the with systems sampling over 4,000 prices daily on managed futures, and thereby optimise University of Oxford.
Through this relationship, in order to identify and profit from trends across investment returns.
AHLs researchers had the opportunity to attend a broad range of sectors, including currencies, over 100 seminars, conferences and workshops bonds, stocks, energies, interest rates, metals, Investment in people presented by world leading academics at the agriculturals and credit.
Trading is spread across Consistent with previous years, AHL continued OMI in 2010.
These seminars have provided 300 markets, which helps control risk across to invest heavily in people during the 2011 AHLs researchers with access to academic the portfolio.
financial year, with total headcount now standing leaders in a range of disciplines.
Hires were made across all parts of the of the MRL in the same purpose designed Risk management is of paramount importance, business, reflecting AHLs commitment to further building as the OMI has raised the profile of with portfolios targeting a level of volatility rather expand its trading, operations and research AHL within the academic world.
Risk is controlled in real-time by capabilities.
AHL now has 88 research analysts, for the Oxford-Man Institute has been extended a dynamic volatility process applied across which is more than double the number at the to 2015, highlighting Mans commitment to this all positions, which reduces position sizes as end of 2007.
This constitutes one of the largest unique initiative.
volatility increases and vice versa.
In addition and most experienced teams in the industry.
a variety of risk measures such as VaR, stress The steady growth in the research team over Strategic importance of Asia testing and leverage are monitored daily against time has allowed AHL to adjust its structure and Our trade execution desk in Hong Kong continued pre-defined limits.
benefit from more focused research on particular to grow, reflecting the strategic importance of segments of the portfolio.
Asia to AHLs current and future operations.
Since Trades are executed either electronically using establishing the office in April 2009, we have seen AHLs proprietary trade execution platform or a significant improvement in our trade execution by the 19 strong team of non-discretionary across the Asian markets, and forged stronger execution traders.
On average around 3,000 relationships with counterparties in the region.
trades are executed daily using a network of The Hong Kong trade execution desk can also over 60 executing brokers.
34 Man Group plc Annual Report 2011 GLG GLG was acquired by Man in October 2010 to create a diversified, worldleading investment management platform capable of meeting growing investor demand for liquid, transparent strategies.
GLGs overwhelming strategic priority is to deliver investment performance to meet client needs.
Pierre Lagrange GLG Investment performance Total return Annualised return Financial year to 3 years to 5 years to 31 March 2011 31 March 2011 31 March 2011 GLG Alternative 1 GLG Alpha Select Fund 5.4% 10.9% 11.1% 2 GLG Atlas Macro Fund 10.4% n a n a 3 GLG Emerging Markets Fund 3.9% 0.7% 13.6% 4 GLG European Distressed Fund 20.8% n a n a 5 GLG European Long Short Fund 11.3% 5.6% 5.9% Source: Man database and Bloomberg.
There is no guarantee of 6 trading performance and past or projected performance is not a GLG European Opportunity Fund 1.8% 7.9% 8.3% reliable indicator of future performance.
Returns may increase or 7 decrease as a result of currency fluctuations.
GLG Global Convertible Fund 4.6% 5.9% 4.2% 8 GLG Global Opportunity Fund 5.5% 1.6% 4.5% 1 Represented by GLG Alpha Select Fund Class C EUR 2 Represented by GLG Atlas Macro Fund Class A USD 9 GLG Market Neutral Fund 22.9% 10.7% 9.3% 3 Represented by GLG Emerging Markets Fund Class A Restricted to Unrestricted 31 08 2007 USD 10 GLG North American Opportunity Fund 11.0% 9.2% 4.0% 4 Represented by GLG European Distressed Fund Class A USD 5 Represented by GLG European Long Short Fund Class D GLG Long Only UCITS III Restricted to Unrestricted 29 06 2007 EUR 6 Represented by GLG European Opportunity Fund Class 11 GLG Japan Core Alpha Equity Fund 9.5% 2.3% 5.2% D Restricted to Unrestricted 31 08 2007 EUR 7 Represented by GLG Global Convertible Fund Class A 12 GLG Performance Fund 9.8% 3.2% 0.4% USD 13 8 Represented by GLG Global Opportunity Fund Class Z GLG UK Select Fund 10.2% n a n a USD 9 Represented by GLG Market Neutral Fund Class Z Restricted to Unrestricted 31 08 2007 USD Indices 10 R epresented by GLG North American Opportunity Fund Class A Restricted to Unrestricted 29 06 2007 USD 14 World stocks 9.3% 0.4% 0.6% 11 R epresented by GLG Japan Core Alpha Equity Fund 15 Class C to Class AAX 28 01 2010 JPY World bonds 1.5% 3.3% 4.5% 12 R epresented by GLG Performance Fund Class A USD 16 13 Represented by GLG UK Select Fund Class AX GBP Corporate bonds 9.2% 8.0% 6.5% 14 Represented by MSCI World USD, NDTR Hedged Index 15 Represented by Citigroup World Government Bond Index hedged to USD total return Hedge fund indices 16 Represented by Citigroup High Grade Corp Bond TR 17 17 H FRI index performance over the past 4 months is subject HFRI Fund Weighted Composite Index 9.5% 4.1% 5.0% to change Man Group plc 35 Annual Report 2011 GLG explained months of this year seeing for example the Arab include our award winning UK Alpha Select From inception as an entrepreneurial start up in Spring, continued instability in the Eurozone and fund, Euro Opportunity and the Market 1995, GLGs raison dtre has been to deliver the Japanese earthquake.
We believe that it is Neutral Fund.
substantial excess returns across the course of a major competitive advantage that our experts the economic cycle.
GLG services a full range from different asset classes and vantage There has been integration in all back and of clients, from high net worth individuals, to points macro-economist and stock-pickers, middle office activities, ranging from legal, sovereign wealth funds, pension funds, family distressed debt managers or equity strategists compliance and risk to information technology, trusts and foundations to private banks and can put their heads together and share communications and HR.
The result is that intermediaries.
The result is that investment decisions GLG has acquired the business processes are more rounded and better informed than if and discipline associated with a large, public Performance is delivered through a they were taken in isolation.
company such as Man, further fostering comprehensive range of liquid investment styles entrepreneurial lifeblood.
and products, encompassing pure hedge Unique collaboration between hedge funds, long only investment products and hybrid and long only The acquisition also led to a pooling of investment structures, in all asset classes from Unusually for a firm known for its hedge fund intellectual capital, bringing together some of equities, fixed income and emerging markets to strategies, GLG has a strong tradition of the finest minds in the investment management credit and convertibles.
The aim throughout has leadership in long only fund management.
In the early months as a single been to exceed client expectations by delivering Our Japan Core Alpha fund is for example company, we have developed a number a combination of attractive returns, portfolio a leading long only investor in Japan whose of combined products, for example Man transparency and outstanding client service.
performance has been recognised in a IP220 GLG which is a structured investment The success of this strategy is evident in a wide succession of industry awards over recent combining AHL with a portfolio of GLG hedge array of awards and ratings at the Company, years.
Long only funds account for around half funds.
Our in-house structuring capabilities fund and individual level.
of the total assets under GLGs management.
give us significant competitive advantage in this The long only perspective is crucial in area.
We also created a new business unit in Performance review understanding the investment needs of our the form of Man Systematic Strategies, which During the financial year GLGs alternative retail and institutional clients.
combines GLGs former quantitative capabilities strategies performed well in both absolute with elements of AHL and Man Multi-Manager.
terms and relative to peers across the range Capital protection as well as capital PG 47 of strategies offered to investors.
Many of the growth main products delivered double digit returns While capital growth generally attracts most Priorities for the coming year including the Atlas Macro, Emerging Equity, attention in our industry, we put as much The overwhelming strategic priority for the Euro Distressed, Euro Long Short, Market emphasis on capital protection, as we believe coming year is to continue to deliver investment Neutral and North American Opportunity investors are equally concerned with both.
performance and to meet clients needs.
This performance was recognised Our philosophy is to find a balance between are putting heavy emphasis for example on with funds nominated in seven categories active investing and risk management.
This can developing our range of UCITS products, where at the 2010 EuroHedge awards.
Our long be found in all our products, with pragmatic we are a pioneer in tailoring absolute return only products also performed strongly, solutions tailored to the specific demands strategies for retail investors including a range of outperforming their benchmarks.
of each mandate and all benefiting from the equity strategies, emerging markets and global significant expenditure allocated to our risk macro and North American Opportunities.
Strategy and competitive advantage platform.
We also evaluate how individual Another priority is the integration of Ore Hill, Investment culture preserved within Man portfolio managers make investment decisions, the credit manager platform which was fully Acquired last year as a single manager platform using a variety of behavioural metrics to acquired by Man in March this year.
We will also within Man, GLGs investment management promote greater awareness of a fund managers look for opportunities to build our investment culture has been left absolutely intact.
This helps foster management expertise in certain, specialist to our offices in Curzon Street, Mayfair, will talent and enhance investment performance.
areas and geographies, for example in Asia.
still see our 100 investment managers and analysts monitoring corporate and economic Benefits of joining Man To summarise, GLG has been integrated into news on our proprietary  GLGs investment management process is Man quickly and with sensitivity to our mission systems.
The diversity of strategies and styles unchanged as a result of the acquisition, but to deliver performance to investors.
GLGs is reflected in the multiple languages spoken on there are many aspects of the firm which have entrepreneurial culture has been encouraged to the trading floor: our chief investment strategist been transformed.
We have, for example, flourish as part of one of the worlds largest and is of Lebanese origin, our macro-trader is combined the sales and marketing capabilities most robust financial institutions.
of Moroccan and Austrian extraction, and of Man and GLG, with the result that our funds the few British are as likely to be surrounded and strategies are now made available to a by colleagues from Egypt, Kazakhstan, broader range of clients than was the case Switzerland and Zimbabwe as by Americans when we were an independent company.
This or a Belgian such as myself.
It is not relevant is perhaps most evident in Asia, where we where you come from: what really matters is were under-represented before the merger, that we have a sense of common purpose and and where there was demand from Mans that we excel at investing.
long-established customer base for access to a single platform manager such as GLG.
There Collegiate approach have been over 80 marketing events around the Our traders are by definition fiercely world in the first six months since completion.
individualistic, and need to have the courage Note that although we are of course motivated of their convictions.
But they recognise that to increase assets under management, they do a better job for clients by pooling this is never at the expense of investment insights and information in a highly collegiate performance: in fact, we have imposed soft environment.
We live in times of frequent close constraints on those funds where there macro-economic dislocation, with the early was a risk of reaching capacity levels.
These 36 Man Group plc Annual Report 2011 Multi-manager Man Multi-Manager has made substantial progress in the course of the 2011 financial year after its restructure in 2010, resulting in improved investment performance, mandate wins and an industry leading managed account platform.
Our strategic priorities are to focus on delivering superior investment performance through insight gained from our position level transparency, and to provide flexible investment Luke Ellis solutions for clients using the best Man Multi-Manager of in-house and external managers.
We will continue to invest in and grow our platform.
Investment performance Financial year to 31 March 2011 The table below shows performance for our core set of dynamic fund of hedge funds, our specialist strategies and our flagship guaranteed product Man IP 220.
Financial year to 31 March 2011 Man Dynamic Selection 5.6% Man Absolute Return Strategies II 6.1% Man GLG Multi-Strategy 7.9% Man Managed Futures Strategies 9.8% Man Commodity Strategies 11.2% Man IP 220 8.0% 1 Man Dynamic Selection Class ISI12 2 Man Absolute Return Strategies II Class ARS2I1 HFRI Fund of Funds Composite Index 5.1% 3 GLG Multi-Strategy Fund Class A USD Shares 4 Man Managed Futures Strategies USD I 5 Man Commodity Strategies USD I 6 Man-IP 220 Limited USD class bonds World stocks 9.3% 7 MSCI World Equity Net Total Return Index USD Hedged 8 Citigroup World Government Bond Index hedged to USD World bonds 1.5% total return Man Group plc 37 Annual Report 2011 Review of the 2011 financial year these competitive and differentiating qualities, process, with the team utilising daily position Last year Man Multi-Manager reported on whilst maintaining an absolute dedication to level data available across the MAC platform to its successful formation as an integrated performance pervading the culture of the Multidelve deeper into the strategies.
investment management business and the Manager business.
driving force behind expanding Mans managed Risk management is more than a control account MAC platform.
Investing in hedge funds function.
Fully integrated into the investment is both an investment tool for discretionary Our discretionary investment offering, primarily process specialist risk analysts help their portfolio management and the bedrock of a for institutional investors, is focused around research colleagues understand the risks robust hedge fund allocation and risk advisory a core set of dynamic fund of hedge fund hedge fund managers are taking and portfolio service for institutional investors.
products that are managed by senior portfolio managers the risks their portfolios are managers each with 25 years investment exposed to.
We are therefore delighted to report that the experience, supported by experienced business made significant progress with both deputies and junior analysts.
For retail investors, Together our investment professionals seek to lines of investor offering during the course portfolios such as that of the successful IP 220 maximise profits within established risks limits, of our 2011 financial year.
Most importantly, series are managed by a dedicated team that and minimise or hedge remaining risks.
this has translated into improved investment actively trades the investment components performance, mandate wins and a strong that make up a guaranteed or income paying 3.
Managed accounts: the backbone for pipeline of transparent, flexible hedge structured products.
By minimising fraud risk, delivering on liquidity, Guided by a top-down asset allocation model and providing data for the meaningful analysis Since I formally took up my role as CIO and set by Man Multi-Managers Investment essential to make active investment decisions Head of the Multi-Manager business in October Board, the Portfolio Management team uses MACs are at the core of the Man Multi-Manager 2010, we have reviewed the quality of our its collective insight into markets to deliver business.
approved list of hedge funds, the investment portfolios that produce results greater than the process we use to allocate client capital, the sum of their underlying parts individual hedge Institutional clients invested in our portfolios, the infrastructure that supports decisions, and fund strategies.
majority of which allocate a substantial portion most importantly our people.
The conclusions of capital through MACs, benefit from increased are clear.
We have a real competitive edge in 2.
Insight into hedge fund strategies transparency and reporting.
breadth of managed accounts and the daily The Hedge Fund Research team are the insight they give us into hedge fund strategies: eyes and ears of the business, delivering They also provide the solution for a growing the systems we use to assimilate this data are value added insight into over 120 hedge number of institutional clients that Man works in industry leading: and the quality of investment fund managers on Mans approved list and partnership with to deliver a range of investment talent across the various teams is very strong.
across the industry, answering key questions advisory, risk and analytical solutions tailored to such as: Is there alpha in the strategy, where fit into their investment process and traditional Strategic priorities does it come from, when is it most prevalent, asset allocation framework.
Our strategic priorities for the next reporting and how has it changed?.
Regular discussion period and beyond are designed to enhance with the managers is just one step of the BVK mandate win Andr Heimrich and Dajana Brodmann In March 2011 Bayerische accounts, BVK is going back to these origins Versorgungskammer BVK, Germanys and will therewith be able to better measure largest public pension fund, awarded and manage risk at the overall portfolio level.
By Man Multi-Manager a managed account switching to managed accounts, BVK aims to mandate for at least EUR 1.2 billion.
avoid fraud cases like those experienced by the hedge fund industry in 2008.
As a first step, we Andr Heimrich, BVKs Head of Asset are planning to migrate our existing commodity Management describes what BVK is looking to and currency strategies to our managed achieve with this mandate.
Looking forward, Dajana Brodmann, Deputy Head, Alternative BVK is keen to invest in liquid hedge fund Investments, explains why BVK decided to strategies by using managed accounts on its award the mandate to Man.
area, Man demonstrated a substantial track own managed account platform.
Top of our record over many years.
agenda are: Man came out on top after an intensive and detailed selection process that stretched over a It was also important for BVK to be able 100% transparency period of 12 months and encompassed an set up its own managed account platform considerably improved liquidity compared to original universe of 20 candidates.
We were in Luxemburg, to select the managers for other offshore and onshore investments impressed by the expertise and experience the unit itself and equally to select the other control of the underlying assets demonstrated by the Man team in managed service providers required.
Man was very a significant reduction in operational risk.
It flexible in this regard and convinced BVK with was also very important to us that the chosen great expertise, competence and experience.
BVK has been applying these investment candidate was able to understand different Man also impressed BVK with a brand new principles for decades in the long-only world, hedge fund strategies and, as part of its online reporting tool, that allows customised where investments are made through German risk management, draw conclusions on the implementation to meet our specific needs.
In a way, with the switch investment activities of the asset manager and Finally, the independence of Man Group was from offshore fund investments to managed make actionable decisions if required.
In this also an important criterion.
