114 Man Group plc Annual Report 2011 Additional Financial Information continued 2.
Significant accounting policies schedule continued Other new or revised standards and interpretations issued but not yet effective include those listed below, but none of them are expected to have a significant impact of the financial statements of Man: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures - Amendments enhancing disclosures about transfers of financial assets IAS 12 Income Taxes Limited scope amendment recovery of underlying assets IAS 24 Related Parties Revised definition of related parties Annual Improvements to IFRS 2010 Amendment to IFRIC 14, Pre-payments of a Minimum Funding Requirement IFRIC 19 Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements IAS 28 Investments in Joint Ventures and Associates 3.
Funds under management FUM unaudited The Financial Review includes a summary of FUM and the movements during the year.
FUM and movements in FUM flows are important to understand the business.
An investor subscribes capital to fund products based on the funds prospectus which defines the relationship between the investor and the fund entity.
The fund entity is controlled by an independent fund board which represents the interests of the investors.
Mans relationship with the fund entity is defined by the investment management agreement IMA.
The IMA specifies the investment objectives, the types of permitted investments, and the fee arrangements.
Investors are charged management fees based on asset exposure and in certain cases incentive fees based on investment performance.
The asset exposure, or FUM, is supported by the investors capital and any financing provided to the fund entities by banks and prime brokers, referred to as leverage.
FUM grow through new investor subscriptions, increased leverage, positive investment performance and foreign currency movement: and reduce by redemptions, reduced leverage, negative investment performance and foreign currency movements.
Generally there is a strong correlation between investment performance and growth in FUM.
If the products have investment performance in line with the investors expectations we may see increased FUM through increased subscriptions from existing and new investors.
Where investment performance is less than expected, redemptions may increase, new subscriptions may be lower and negative investment performance will reduce the investors capital which could also reduce the leverage component.
The investment performance during FY2011 of the fund products is explained in the Investment Manager section starting on page 30.
Movements in funds under management The movements in FUM are described below: Net sales Positive net sales is a measure of our ability to attract new investors and retain existing investors.
Redemptions generally occur when performance is less than expected or the investor wishes to change investment strategy.
A switch by the investor from one fund product immediately into another product within Man is netted in the analysis.
Investment performance The investment performance is the investors return and generates performance fees for Man when the fund has reached the performance highwater mark or benchmark.
Performance fee income is only recognised at the end of the performance period as that is the point at which it can be reasonably estimated with sufficient certainty.
Foreign exchange impact on funds under management Changes in FUM as a result of foreign currency are not relevant to the investor as they choose the currency of their fund based on their particular investment strategy.
As FUM is a measure of Mans earning base, changes in FUM denominated in currencies other than USD affect the management and performance revenue earned.
Other movements Other movements reflect the change in leverage as a result of the routine re-balancing of the level of leverage in the fund products, primarily the guaranteed products.
This re-balance is primarily determined by investment movement that increases or decreases the investors equity that is available to support the borrowing.
