26 Man Group plc Annual Report 2011 5 How is our marketplace evolving?
Man Group plc 27 Annual Report 2011 Hedge fund momentum continues to build, driven by structural demand for risk adjusted returns.
The winning firms will be those which can deliver performance on a global scale.
Emmanuel Roman Chief Operating Officer 28 Man Group plc Annual Report 2011 Industry and regulation review Geopolitical risk in the form of escalating Our financial year closed with a powerful tension and conflict in the Middle East, financial reminder for investors across all asset classes risk characterised by the sharpening debate and subsequent actions on Eurozone debt of the very broad spectrum of risks they face as and above all the exogeneous shock of the they put their capital to work.
tragic earthquake in Japan generated marked impacts across a number of asset classes.
As a result, there is renewed investor emphasis At the same time long term, structural drivers continue to underpin the search for on balancing risk and return.
For instance, against a demographic backdrop of increasing longevity, target annual return rates for institutional investors to meet long term pension funding obligations remain around 78%.
For private investors globally, there are more personalised funding obligations retirement plans, family education, healthcare and real estate needs, but with a similar demographic backdrop of longer life expectancy.
The fast growing high net worth investor population in Asia Pacific as well as the retiring boomer generations in US and developed Europe are investing to grow and protect wealth.
In the developed West, the cost of the financial crisis will increase the importance of sources of personal capital as state services erode.
In an investment landscape which has moved definitively beyond crisis, if still subject to episodic volatility and shocks, sitting substantially in cash or low yielding bonds does little to address these investment objectives and obligations.
Seeking upside in long only equity brings the potential for higher returns, but very significant levels of volatility, annualising at 16.7% for the MSCI World Equity Net Total Return Index USD Hedged in 2010.
Cash, bonds, stocks, commodities and real estate will always form a meaningful part of investor portfolios, but there is renewed interest among both institutional and private investors in investments which actively manage both downside risk and upside potential and diversify existing holdings.
Industry style performance: April 1 2010 31 March 2011 Investor appetite for alternatives % continues to build, but manager selection 18 matters 16 The industrys performance-led recovery last World Stocks year, from a financial crisis low point of assets 14 of around $1.3 trillion at the end of March 2009, 12 was sustained through 2010 into 2011, with 10 industry Funds Under Management estimated HFRI Equity Hedge 8 to be around $2 trillion at the end of March 2011.
Managed Futures An increasing portion of this industry growth is 6 HFRI Macro HFRI Event Driven attributable to investor flows 3.7% for the 12 4 HFRI Relative Value World Bonds months ending 31 March 2011 versus a net 2 outflow of 0.8% for the previous year.
Hedge funds now represent around 8% of the $24.7 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 trillion global investment funds market, up Return % from 7% at the end of 2009.
Active equity and 1 Citigroup World Government Bond Index hedged to USD total return.
alternatives institutional mandate searches are 2 MSCI World Equity Net Total Return Index USD Hedged.
Volatility % Man Group plc 29 Annual Report 2011 In assessing the hedge fund investment Investor appetite for controlled, transparent and Regulatory outcomes may raise barriers proposition, investors now benefit from a broad flexible investment outcomes is translating into to entry perspective across three very different trading As with the investment landscape, the last three years: crash crisis 2008: initial fears sharp a strong preference for liquid strategies, years have provided a useful perspective on the rallies in 2009 and the volatile, macro-driven un-benchmark constrained, with low distinct phases of the evolution in the regulatory market of 2010 and early 2011.
On a three year correlations to traditional allocations framework.
annnualised basis until the end of March 2011, continued growth in the use of managed hedge fund composite performance is up 4.1% accounts: and Despite broad recognition that hedge funds with an annualised volatility of 8.5%, while world appetite for overlay strategies, in particular were not the source of systemic risk in stocks are up 0.4% with an annualised volatility portfolio protection against tail events.
2008, the crisis provided a catalyst in the of 20.4%.
The hedge fund proposition of US and Europe in particular to review and delivering competitive risk-adjusted returns has Product formats which are known and trusted introduce new regulation.
Initial proposals been decisively re-inforced.
remain a central transparency theme, with from Continental Europe especially provoked UCITS a prime example.
Mainly centred concern from managers and investors and Hedge fund composite performance masks in Europe, but with an increasingly global early drafts of the legislation were substantially considerable performance dispersion between following, appetite for UCITS has been reworked, with the help of industry bodies and within styles.
Familiar offshore structures from including AIMA and the Hedge Fund Standards over-weighted style allocation for 2010, is long established centres with appropriate Board.
We have seen significant legislative estimated to have produced a performance safeguards on custody, valuation and proposals in the US and Europe, details of range of around 62 percentage points from administration also continue to be favoured by which continue to emerge.
The daily pricing and liquidity other words, manager selection matters.
For achievable in some styles is opening up new Across geographies, approaches have differed.
single managers, consistent risk-adjusted markets and platforms, in particular in the life Europe has initiated a series of separate reviews performance above the mean of this dispersion insurance space.
ranging from its regulatory architecture, to is the benchmark.
For fund of funds it affirms manager and product regulation, to a review of the proposition that manager selection skills, as Intermediaries and investors continue to look trading and settlement.
In the US, the largest well as asset allocation, matter to returns.
for long-term relationships with their managers single piece of financial services legislation in addition to acceptable returns.
Scale and since the Depression has sought to cover a Transparency the entry level criteria set cumulative alpha lengthy track records, strong broad spectrum of issues including manager by investors client service, innovation, the confidence of registration,  institutions Consistent risk adjusted performance remains regulators and financial counterparties matter and proprietary trading.
Meanwhile in Asia, central to investor decision making.
However, as the industry continues to mature.
Industry economies perhaps less directly affected by the transparency perhaps better expressed as capital is concentrating with scale players, global financial crisis have focussed on selling knowing and understanding investments made with around 77% of industry FUM represented processes and disclosures.
and the firm that makes them has for some by funds with more than $1 billion in assets, time been regularly cited in investor surveys as although there is some evidence of interest In many cases, we are now seeing the top one of the top considerations.
rebuilding in niche firms, provided that they can level legislation being finalised, and we now also demonstrate institutional level resourcing move into the detailed phase of rulemaking.
We need to continue our focus on the detailed rules to ensure this remains the case.
The costs Hedge funds are a small but growing part of the global investment universe associated with these regulatory changes will be significant: whilst very hard to estimate, figures in the billions of euros across the industry in Europe have been mooted.
Opportunities for firms delivering strength across the board Driven by structural demand for risk adjusted Global investment fund assets: return, hedge fund industry momentum continues to build.
The scale of the industry USD 24.7 trillion remains small compared to the size of the global investment universe, and smaller still against measures of total global wealth.
Capitalising in size on this structural demand Global UCITS: will fall to those industry players that can bring together long term performance, the ability to USD 8.01 trillion Global hedge deliver this performance globally in a way which fund industry: accesses local preferences, and firm pedigree.
USD 2.02 Mans overriding goal is to be the leading trillion alternative investment manager globally.
The acquisition of GLG has brought us closer to this goal.
The assets of the combined firm highly Source: 1.
European Fund and Asset Management Association EFAMA, International Statistical Release Q4 2010. regarded investment management, broad Source: 2.
HFR Global Hedge Fund Industry Report, Q1 2011. distribution and global reputation position us well for further advancement.
