60 Man Group plc Annual Report 2011 Financial Review continued 3.
Revenue and operating margins Performance fees are calculated as a percentage of the net appreciation of the relevant fund products net asset value at the end of a given contractual period referred to as the performance period, subject to high water marks and in some cases performance hurdles.
Performance fees are only recognised when they can be measured reliably.
Performance fees can only be measured reliably at the end of the performance period as the net asset value NAV of the fund products could move significantly, as a result of market movements, between Mans financial reporting period end and the end of the performance period.
Management fees, which include all non-performance related fees and interest income from loans to fund products, are recognised in the period in which the services are rendered.
Investor risk and return appetite drives the demand for the investment products we sell.
As markets become more volatile or investment returns do not meet expectations demand can change or investors can redeem from fund products.
The level of FUM drives the aggregate level of management fee revenue so in order to sustain a profitable business operating costs must be flexible with different levels of FUM.
Our strategy with regards to financial sustainability is to maintain net margins through a flexible cost base that reacts to changes in FUM.
The significant costs associated with the business are: distribution costs, asset services costs, compensation and other costs.
Distribution costs Distribution costs paid to intermediaries and employees are directly related to their sales activity and the FUM serviced by them.
The expense is therefore scalable to sales volumes, FUM and the associated management fee income to sustain margins.
Distribution costs of $318 million 2010: $325 million consist of two components: placement fees which are payable to distributors and employees when a fund product is first launched and are based on the amount of investors capital introduced: and servicing fees which are payable to distributors and employees for ongoing services and are based on the current NAV of the fund products.
Placement fee expense for the year was $151 million 2010: $171 million, as is described in Note 13.3.
This relates primarily to amortisation of placement fees.
Servicing fee expense is charged to the income statement in the period incurred.
Servicing fee expense for the period was $167 million 2010: $154 million.
Distribution costs include $36 million 2010: $42 million relating to employees.
Asset services Asset services includes custodial, valuations, fund accounting, and registrar functions performed by third parties under contract to Man, on behalf of the funds.
The cost of these services is based on activity or FUM, therefore variable with activity levels.
Previously many of these services had been performed internally.
During the year we commenced an initiative to transition these services to third party providers and thereby reduce our internal resources.
Asset services costs for the year were $16 million 2010: nil.
It is anticipated that these costs will increase during calendar year 2011 CY2011 with a corresponding decrease over time in internal costs, primarily compensation and headcount related other costs.
Compensation $m 2011 2010 Salaries fixed 173 145 variable 165 87 Share-based payment charge 86 50 Fund product based payment charge 15 5 Social security costs 40 26 Pension costs 22 17 Compensation costs before restructuring and GLG acquisition costs 501 330 Restructuring 55 19 GLG acquisition costs 10 Total compensation costs 566 349 Compensation is our largest category of expense and an important component in our ability to retain and attract talent at Man.
Our compensation strategy is set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 94 to 106.
In the short term the variable component of compensation adjusts with performance.
In the medium term the active management of headcount can reduce fixed based compensation, if required.
Historically Mans compensation has been in the range of 18% to 25% of revenues, excluding restructuring costs.
The compensation at GLG has been between 55% 65% of revenue.
Salaries, including bonuses, are charged to the Income Statement in the period in which they are incurred.
