130 Man Group plc Annual Report 2011 Independent auditors report on the parent company financial statements We have audited the parent company financial statements of Man Opinion on financial statements Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2011 which comprise the Parent In our opinion the parent company financial statements: Company Balance Sheet and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally 31 March 2011: Accepted Accounting Practice.
have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities Companies Act 2006. set out on page 113, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that they Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an In our opinion: opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the parent company financial statements are prepared is This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for consistent with the parent company financial statements.
the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do Matters on which we are required to report by exception not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received Scope of the audit of the financial statements from branches not visited by us: or An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures the parent company financial statements and the part of the in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused accounting records and returns: or by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have made: or been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness we have not received all the information and explanations we require of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the for our audit.
overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Man Group plc Annual Other matter Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial We have reported separately on the group financial statements of Man statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2011. or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Richard Oldfield Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 26 May 2011
