72 Man Group plc Annual Report 2011 Financial Review continued 18.
Investments in associates and joint ventures continued Associates are entities in which Man holds an interest and over which it has significant influence but not control.
Joint ventures are entities in which Man has joint control through contractual arrangements.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are recorded by the equity method of accounting and at cost plus or minus our share of cumulative post-acquisition movements in undistributed profits or losses.
Our share of postacquisition distributable profits or losses, net of taxes is recognised in the income statement, and our share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
Gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its joint ventures and associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entities.
Where Man has investments in certain fund entities over which it is able to exert significant influence but not control, these are classified as associates.
Man has applied the scope exclusion within IAS 28 Investments in Associates for mutual funds, unit trusts and similar entities and has classified such holdings as investments and measured them at fair value through profit or loss.
Summary financial information of our associates has not been provided as it is considered excessive in length and is not considered meaningful.
Details of all associates will be annexed in the Companys annual return.
BlueCrest Capital Management The interest in BlueCrest Capital Management LLP BlueCrest, previously reported as an associate, together with the existing loan note was sold on 21 March 2011 for $533 million of cash and $100 million par value new loan note.
A gain of $257 million has been recorded on the sale of the equity interest and a gain of $11 million has been recorded on the repayment of the loan note in finance income in the Income Statement.
In 2011 the share of associate income after tax from BlueCrest was $67 million 2010: $73 million.
Ore Hill Mans 50% equity investment in Ore Hill, a US based credit specialist fund manager, was acquired in 2008, and is treated as a joint venture.
On 29 March 2011 we reached a definitive agreement with the principals of Ore Hill to acquire the remaining 50% equity interest in their business for approximately $18 million, including the issuance of $15 million of Man shares to the principals.
An impairment charge of $22 million has been recorded against the existing carrying value to be in line with the valuation of the overall business.
The transaction subsequently completed on 3 May 2011, following investor and regulatory consents.
Deferred compensation arrangements Man operates cash and equity settled, share-based schemes as well as fund product based compensation arrangements.
Details of these schemes may be found in the Remuneration Report on pages 94 to 106.
In respect of equity settled share-based schemes, the fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the share awards and options granted is recognised as an expense, with the corresponding credit being recognised in equity.
The fair value of the share awards and options granted in exchange for employee services is calculated using a binomial model that takes into account the effect of both financial and demographic assumptions.
Financial assumptions include the future share price volatility, dividend yield, risk-free interest rate, and the best estimate outcome of performance conditions.
Forfeiture and early vesting are based upon historic observable data.
The fair values per option and award granted during the year to employees, and the assumptions used in the calculations are contained in the Additional Financial Information Note 14.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the shares and options awarded granted.
Changes to the original estimates, if any, are included in the Income Statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
For cash settled share-based compensation schemes, a liability is recognised for the goods or services acquired, measured initially at the fair value of the liability.
At each balance sheet date until the liability is settled, and at the date of settlement, the fair value of the liability is re-measured, with any changes in fair value recognised in the Income Statement for the year, taking into account the period of vesting to date.
Man also operates compensation plans in which deferred compensation is invested in Man fund products.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the fund units is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the awards, re-measured at each reporting date until the settlement date is reached.
The fair value of the awards equates to the fair value of the underlying fund products at the settlement date.
During the year, $101 million 2010: $55 million was included in compensation expense for share-based payment and deferred fund product plans, split between equity settled charge of $76 million 2010: $50 million, cash-settled share based payments totalling $10 million 2010: nil, and deferred fund product plans of $15 million 2010: $5 million.
19.1 Employee Trusts The Employee Trusts have the obligation to deliver shares, options and fund product based payments which have been granted to employees.
Man contributed funds in order for the Trusts to meet their current year obligations of $24 million 2010: $44 million in the period.
At year end the Employee Trusts held 51.8 million Man shares, derivative contracts over $50 million notional value options and $17 million fund units to deliver against the future obligations.
The Trusts are fully consolidated into Man and shares held are treated as treasury stock for EPS purposes.
