02 Man Group plc Annual Report 2011 1 How do we generate long-term value?
Man Group plc 03 Annual Report 2011 We deliver strong long-term investment performance across a unique range of alternative investment strategies to a growing global investor base.
People management, global distribution and product structuring, innovation, risk management and community engagement contribute to the sustainability of our business model.
PG 38 Independent Our Investors fund entities Distribution & Investment Investor client services management solutions People management: innovation: risk management: community engagement 04 Man Group plc Annual Report 2011 A sustainable business model Independent fund entities Investment management Investor solutions Man acts as the investment manager Mans investment managers have expertise Man offers private investors and institutions for a series of independent fund entities.
in a diverse range of investment strategies, a wide range of investment products and The independent fund entities pay Man which offer investment opportunities solutions in onshore formats approved by management fees and performance fees.
matched to investor appetite for risk local regulators such as UCITS or on an and return.
Management fees are charged for providing investment management services at a AHL We offer a range of liquidity profiles percentage of each entitys gross investment AHL is a systematic, trend-following managed daily, weekly or monthly and additional exposure.
Gross investment exposure is futures manager with a 24 year performance transparency through managed accounts.
referred to in this report as Funds Under track record.
PG 24 Our structuring capabilities mean that GLG we can offer capital guarantees and Performance fees are charged as a percentage Acquired in October 2010, GLG has expertise principal protection, which generates of the investment performance earned above across a wide range of discretionary investment additional fees.
a benchmark return or a previous higher strategies including equity long short and long valuation high water mark.
PG 24 only, credit and convertibles, emerging markets, macro and special situations.
PG 34 The fund entities are independently governed.
Their investment performance, assets and Man Multi-Manager liabilities are separate from Man and not Man Multi-Manager provides actively consolidated into Mans financial statements.
managed, thematic fund of funds offerings and manages our guaranteed product range.
Our extensive managed accounts platform offers institutional investors control, transparency and sophisticated risk management.
Long-only 14.0 Includes Pemba Ore Hill and Man Convertibles Our shareholders seek sustainable long term returns, and it Business is our responsibility to ensure that the business drivers are Sustainability in place to support this aspiration.
Man Group plc 05 Annual Report 2011 Our Investors Distribution and client services Man has a geographically diverse investor base with offices in 16 countries to serve Private investors our investors in their local market, local language and local time zone.
We distribute Mans private investor base is focused on to private investors via a network of 3,850 intermediaries and manage our institutional the mass affluent market and high net worth relationships directly.
Our long established local relationships with intermediaries, individuals.
A key growth driver with private institutions and regulators provide access to investors, local market expertise and investors is the increased availability of differentiated client service.
PG 44 onshore products, which make diversified, risk adjusted hedge fund returns available to an expanding global market.
Institutional investors Man has around 1,000 institutional clients predominantly pension funds, insurance companies, banks, asset managers, sovereign wealth funds and endowments.
Institutional investors continue to grow their allocations to hedge fund strategies and seek the transparency, risk management and liquidity offered by managed accounts.
Multi-manager 21% The quality of our investment management underpins the sustainability of our business.
Other key drivers are: managing our people and remunerating them appropriately: expertise in distribution and product structuring: innovation: robust risk management and community engagement.
