Man Group plc 57 Annual Report 2011 1.
Basis of Preparation Accounting policies The audited consolidated financial information has been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
Mans principal accounting policies have been consistently applied in the preparation of the financial information presented in the Financial Review and Additional Financial Information.
Accounting policies are included in the relevant sections, and an index of the significant policies is provided in the Additional Financial Information Note 2.
The impact of new accounting standards and amendments applicable to Mans financial year ended 2011 and accounting standards that are not yet effective are not expected to be significant.
The impact is outlined in AFI 2.
Man acquired GLG Partners, Inc GLG on 14 October 2010, which became a wholly owned subsidiary of Man from that date.
As a result, the income and expenses of GLG are included in the Group Income Statement, and the cash flows of GLG are included in the Group Cash Flow Statement, for the last 5.5 months of the financial year.
The assets and liabilities of GLG are included in the Group Statement of Financial Position as at 31 March 2011.
Further details relating to the accounting for the GLG acquisition are included in Note 13.
Consolidated group and reporting currency The consolidated group is Man Group plc and its subsidiaries Man.
The stand alone parent company financial statements of Man Group plc have been included in the Additional Financial Information.
The majority of revenues, assets, liabilities and funding are denominated in USD and therefore Mans reporting currency is US dollars USD.
Judgemental areas and accounting estimates The areas of significant judgement are: the assignment and evaluation of franchise value goodwill and intangible assets: and the determination of fair values for investments, deferred compensation awards and pension obligations.
A description of the assumptions made is given in the relevant sections of the Financial Review and Additional Financial Information.
Going concern Mans business activity is discussed on pages 1 to 47, together with the significant risk factors pages 48 to 50.
Mans liquidity and capital positions are set out in Notes 17 and 21 and 22 respectively.
The directors have concluded that there is a reasonable expectation that Man has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the consolidated and parent financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis using the historical cost convention, except for the measurement at fair value certain financial instruments that are available-for-sale or held at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial reporting controls The Companys systems of internal control aim to safeguard assets, ensure that proper accounting records are maintained, and ensure that the financial information used in the business and published externally is robust and reliable.
The financial reporting controls comply with the guidance given in Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
The Corporate Governance Report is provided on pages 80 to 93.
Independent audit The Independent auditors report from PwC on page 76 expresses an unqualified opinion.
Audited financial information has been indicated with grey background shading.
Mans relationship with independent fund entities Man acts as the investment manager to fund entities.
Having considered all significant aspects of Mans relationships with fund entities, the directors are of the opinion that, although Man may have significant influence over the fund entities, the existence of independent boards of directors at the fund entities: termination provisions in the investment management agreements, which allow for the removal of the investment manager: the influence of investors: and, the arms length nature of Mans contracts with the fund entities: Man does not control the fund entities and their associated assets, liabilities and net income should not be consolidated into Mans financial statements.
An understanding of the aggregate funds under management and the fees earned from the fund entities is relevant to an understanding of Mans results and earnings sustainability and this information is provided in Note 2 and AFI 17.
