10 Man Group plc Annual Report 2011 3 What is our strategy for growth?
Man Group plc 11 Annual Report 2011 After fundamentally reshaping our business this year with the acquisition of GLG, Man is well positioned for growth.
Peter Clarke Chief Executive 12 Man Group plc Annual Report 2011 Chief Executives Review In the course of the 2011 financial year we have transformed our business, delivered positive investment performance and seen an improvement in fund flows.
A largely supportive industry backdrop and the actions we have taken this year position us well for future growth and returns.
Our growth strategy has four key elements.
Deliver strong long-term performance Across a wide range of liquid alternative investment styles.
Create a diverse range of fund strategies and formats To meet the needs of private investors and institutions, worldwide.
Expand our global investor base Through strong local relationships and partnerships.
Continue to build our corporate reputation Based on strong governance, risk management, financial discipline and innovation.
Man Group plc 13 Annual Report 2011 Industry backdrop Renewed investor focus on risk-adjusted Although there will always be a place for returns niche firms, this year has seen continued Our 2011 financial year saw periods of volatility concentration of flows into larger scale across financial markets.
Investors have now alternative asset managers.
Investors are paying experienced three sharply different but equally as much attention to the sustainability of the challenging trading years: the liquidity driven firm as they are to the expertise of the manager.
crisis in 2008: initial fears followed by sharp Given the complexity of the due diligence rallies in 2009 and the volatile, macro-driven process, partnering with a trustworthy, multimarket of 2010 and early 2011.
On a three year strategy manager can generate economies annualised basis to the end of March 2011, of scale for the investor.
Scale also benefits hedge fund composite performance is up 4.1% investment managers.
As my new GLG with an annualised volatility of 8.5%, while world colleagues affirm, being part of a larger stocks are up 0.4% with an annualised volatility organisation allows portfolio managers to of 20.4%.
The hedge fund industrys ability to focus on what adds most value: delivering deliver diversifying, risk-adjusted returns across investment performance.
challenging markets has been reaffirmed.
Investor demand for institutional quality Hedge fund industry assets break the and scale is one of a series of forces at play $2 trillion barrier in our industry which are increasing barriers By the middle of our financial year, renewed to entry and strengthening our competitive investor focus on the hedge fund proposition advantage.
Others include an ever increasing was starting to translate into an uptick in inflows.
volume of regulatory initiatives across multiple By March 2011, total capital invested in the jurisdictions, some of which we need to absorb global hedge fund industry exceeded $2 trillion into our business model while others are drivers for the first time in its history.
A notable example in the latter about 8% of global invested assets, so there category is the growth of the UCITS format remains plenty of room for further growth.
which has become a global phenomenon, opening up new markets for alternatives in Manager selection matters Asia and Latin America as well as Europe.
Fortunes have remained notably mixed among alternative investment managers, Supportive market environment with wide performance dispersion between Taking all of these industry trends into account, and within styles.
It is not enough for investors my conclusion is that market conditions are simply to increase their allocation to alternatives: broadly supportive to diversified, large scale manager selection can make a significant managers such as Man.
We have fundamentally difference to returns.
reshaped our business in the past year to directly address investor requirements and to Importance of global scale position Man to perform across market cycles.
Demand for alternatives is global, and global We can now offer strong long-term investment scale is required to capitalise on this demand.
performance across a unique range of Total capital invested in global hedge fund Broad distribution be it direct or through third investment strategies and formats to a growing industry parties is a rare commodity in our industry.
investor base, and share with our investors the I continue to believe that global distribution benefits of our global scale.
brings an under-appreciated but deeply significant level of competitive advantage.
PG 26 Manny Roman, Mans Chief Operating Officer, discusses industry $2trillion trends in greater depth.
14 Man Group plc Annual Report 2011 Chief Executives Review continued Review of Mans 2011 financial year FY2011 investment performance: Man: risk return in CY2010 dispersion between styles % In the course of the 2011 financial year, Man 18 delivered $2.8 billion of positive investment World stocks 16 AHL performance to our investors.
GLG Atlas Macro 14 12 AHL had a strong 2010 calendar year up Man-IP 220 GLG Market Neutral 14.8% but suffered in volatile markets in the 10 GLG Emerging Markets first quarter of 2011, to end the financial year 8 GLG European Long Short up 4.5%.
The diversification benefits enjoyed 6 GLG Alpha Select by investors in AHL were starkly visible in May Man Dymanic Selection 4 GLG Global Opportunity and August 2010.
Global equity markets were World bonds 2 down 7.4% and 3.4% respectively, while AHL limited losses to 1.9% in May and was up 6.8% 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 in August.
PG 32 Return % GLG saw strong performance in FY 2011 across a range of discretionary styles, with long only products generally outperforming their benchmarks and double digit returns in a range of alternative strategies including macro, European distressed, European long short, market neutral and North American Quarterly sales trend FY2011 opportunities.
PG 34 $ billion Calendar year performance is widely reviewed 5.5 across our industry.
In calendar 2010 our managers delivered a textbook example of 4.1 the benefits of risk adjusted performance which investors seek.
Although performance conditions in 2011 to date have been 1.4 challenging, our strong long term track records 0.7 are providing a helpful backdrop to this years Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 sales initiatives.
Funds under Management Funds under management: $ billion improving flows trend Funds under management increased from $39.4 billion at 31 March 2010 to $69.1 billion at 31 March 2011, largely driven by the 11.7 13.7 acquisition of GLG.
3.5 $69.1 billion 2.8 25.4 Significantly, the sales trend improved steadily throughout the year driven by GLG flows, 39.4 strong AHL performance, an uptick in demand for guaranteed products and initial allocations from one of the two large scale institutional mandates won in the period.
The sales pipeline suggests that this trend will March 2010 Acquired Sales Redemptions Investment FX and other March 2011 continue, with over $2 billion still to fund from movement movements the USS and BVK institutional mandates and $2 billion raised after our financial year end from the launch in Japan of Nomura Global Trend, an open-ended fund advised by AHL.
PG 17 Volatility % Man Group plc 15 Annual Report 2011 Profitability dividend payment for the year of 12.5 cents per Deepen our distribution reach, specifically The business remains profitable and share, taking the total dividend payment for the in onshore regulated markets and across operationally cash generative.
Statutory profit year to 22.0 cents.
The Board has a progressive institutions worldwide before tax from continuing operations was dividend policy, and intends to ensure that Maintain focus on efficiency by continually lower than the previous year, at $324 million the dividend payment remains sustainable.
evaluating our cost base 2010: $541 million.
The biggest contribution PG 108 to this reduction was a non-cash impairment I am pleased to report significant progress on in Man Multi-Manager, taken although the Progress on strategic priorities all five of these priorities, and particularly on our business is profitable and making good In our 2010 Annual Report, we set out five acquisition of GLG Partners, Inc. GLG.
Adjusted profit before strategic priorities for the firm in the 2011 tax from continuing operations for the year to financial year.
PG 24 Harness new single manager content by executing on acquisitions stakes Capital management and dividend Invest in AHL to ensure that we capture the Mans financial position remains strong, with a programmes full potential regulatory capital surplus of currently around Maximise Man Multi-Manager by rebuilding $900 million and net cash of around $900 scale and profitability million.
The Board has recommended a final Expertise across a broad range of investment styles Multi-manager Single manager Actively managed Managed futures Macro and special Emerging markets Credit and Equity alternative fund of funds situations convertibles and long only Man Dynamic Selection Man AHL Diversified GLG Atlas Macro GLG Emerging GLG Market Neutral GLG Alpha Select plc Markets GLG European GLG European Long Distressed Short Guaranteed products Man IP220 GLG GLG Ore Hill GLG Japan Core Alpha FUM FUM FUM FUM FUM FUM 14.4bn 22.7bn 0.6bn 2.6bn 6.5bn 22.3bn Compliance and risk management Fully Product structuring and operations integrated Global distribution 16 Man Group plc Annual Report 2011 Chief Executives Review continued Our key strategic achievement in the 2011 financial year was the acquisition and integration of GLG, which has transformed our business.
GLG acquisition and integration Both transactions demonstrate our general Deepen our Distribution reach We acquired GLG in October 2010 for a total preference for wholly-owned investment One of Mans key assets is our sales force consideration of $1.7 billion, $628 million of management.
The Ore Hill transaction and distribution network which, post the GLG which was in the form of Man shares issued to also illustrates a further benefit of the GLG acquisition, has over 300 people working in GLG Principals.
In GLG, we have a single manager sales, marketing and client service in 25 offices expertise across a wide range of liquid styles platform to which we can add investment worldwide.
Local specialists with longstanding complements that of AHL and Man Multimanagement teams organically, to gain relationships with investors, intermediaries and Manager.
We see considerable growth potential exposure to new strategies and markets.
regulators are responsible for identifying the in marketing GLG strategies through our global strategies and formats most appropriate for sale distribution network, as well as in the creation Capture the full potential of AHL in their local markets.
We continue to invest in AHL, our world-leading managed futures manager.
AHLs research This has been an extraordinarily busy period of Extensive integration planning after the team has continued to expand and now sales activity.
As part of the GLG integration, announcement of the acquisition meant that numbers nearly 90 researchers.
Research each office identified a focus list of GLG we were ready to operate as one business very activity has been grouped into sector teams to strategies and took these to market immediately soon after the completion of the transaction.
encourage idea generation and accelerate the after deal completion.
We continue to focus on Consistent with the approach we take with AHL implementation of the research pipeline.
AHL UCITS formats, and now offer 14 alternative and Man Multi-Manager, the unique investment has expanded its operations in Hong Kong to strategies including GLGs with $3.4 billion culture and focus of the GLG investment continue its strong tradition of being first into under management in 22 countries within and management teams remains unchanged, but new markets, and is broadening its trading outside the EU, as well as long only strategies is now supported by a fully integrated, larger capabilities to include a renminbi share class.
scale product structuring, distribution and Our unique and very successful collaboration client service capabilities.
Our newly integrated with the University of Oxford has been extended Testament to the strength of our distribution sales force began marketing Mans combined for another three years.
This continues to network lies in our fourth quarter sales of $5.5 range of strategies immediately after close, give AHL access to early exposure to leading billion the highest quarterly sales amount since and we have been very encouraged by early academic research, as well as significantly September 2008.
Christoph Mller, our Head of progress.
Our first combined product Man enhanced recruitment opportunities.
The Sales, gives more colour on the strength of our IP220 GLG was launched in the fourth quarter Oxford team is heavily involved in the Distribution and Product Structuring operations.
of our financial year and started trading with development and implementation of AHLs PG 44 $400 million under management after year extensive research pipeline.
We have also created a new venture, Man more about these developments.
PG 32 Maintain focus on efficiency Systematic Strategies, which pools expertise We have made significant progress this year from GLG, AHL and Man Multi-Manager to Maximise Man Multi-Manager on operational efficiency.
After the GLG develop new systematic trading ideas.
PG 46 In September 2010, Man Multi-Manager acquisition completed, I restructured the transitioned to new leadership with the Executive Committee to augment investment While the acquisition is on track to deliver $50 recruitment of Luke Ellis to head the business.
management focus, reorganise some activities million of cost savings by September 2011, In the course of the last financial year, the under a new Chief Operating Officer role and the real value will lie in our ability to generate Man Multi-Manager team have focused on clarify responsibilities across the enlarged firm.
revenue synergies as we capitalise on the expanding Mans managed account MAC We continue to manage our cost base actively investment management, structuring and platform both as a discretionary investment to preserve operating margins, while investing distribution power of the combined firm.
tool, and as the foundation of a robust hedge appropriately in technology, infrastructure fund allocation and risk advisory service for and expertise.
A key example of this active Pierre Lagrange has written more about GLGs institutional investors.
Tangible evidence of the management is our decision to appoint Citi to performance and strategy.
PG 34 success of this strategy came in the form of perform global shareholder and transfer agency two $1 billion mandate wins from the UK services on our behalf, a move expected to Disposal of BlueCrest interest and Universities Superannuation Fund USS and generate positive operating leverage as funds integration of Ore Hill Germanys Bayerische Versorgungskammer under management increase.
In March 2011 we made two further changes to BVK.
Luke has written more about the our investment management portfolio.
After a development of Man Multi-Manager.
PG 36 Kevin Hayes analyses the movements in our cost successful eight year commercial relationship base further in his Financial Review.
with BlueCrest, we sold our c. 25% interest PG 54 to BlueCrest for a total consideration of $633 million, generating a pre-tax profit on disposal of around $250 million.
Post year end, we also took our ownership of Ore Hill from 50% to 100% for a consideration of $18 million.
Ore Hill is being integrated into GLG, to lead GLGs expansion into the US credit markets.
Man Group plc 17 Annual Report 2011 $2 billion fund launch Strategic priorities for the Outlook in Japan coming year As I look forward, my working assumption is Since the end of our financial year, our Our key priority for the next reporting period that markets will remain volatile.
With a strong team in Japan has raised a remarkable is to capitalise on the substantial business suite of liquid investment strategies designed $2 billion with the launch of Nomura transformation we undertook in the 2011 to capture value for investors across market Global Trend.
cycles, Man is well placed to continue to attract investors even in tough markets.
In partnership with Nomura, we designed Our corporate strategy remains as follows.
an AHL fund offering daily liquidity, exposure Strong investment performance across the to high yielding currencies and the potential for To deliver strong long-term investment board in calendar year 2010 has provided monthly dividends.
This is a brand new product performance.
Although concept, and these features were especially Across a unique range of alternative recent performance conditions having been appealing to the Japanese retail sector.
investments strategies and formats challenging, we remain focused on building To a growing global investor base.
Investors can choose to have exposure to one And to continue to build our corporate of three different currency baskets reputation based on strong governance, We expect the current high level of regulatory risk management, financial discipline and and policy change to continue, but at a slower Japanese Yen innovation.
pace, with the detailed implementation of Brazilian Real, Australian Dollar and South regulation now becoming clear.
Man is well African Rand To deliver this strategy, we will placed to address these new regulatory Chinese Renmimbi, Indian Rupee and environments given our scale, relationships Indonesian Rupiah Realise the full potential of AHL through and brand.
I continue to regard scale as a investment and research, and develop new competitive advantage in this area.
Foreign exchange hedging is provided by quantitative strategies Nomura Asset Management, with the AHL Continue to build out GLG single manager Although our focus this year will be on organic investment being managed in US dollars.
strategies, focusing on talent and superior growth, we remain prepared to use our financial investment performance strength to invest in our talent pool and develop Nomura Global Trend has been actively Maximise Man Multi-Manager through new market opportunities as they arise.
marketed by the combined Man and Nomura managed accounts and tailored institutional team, with over a hundred seminars and study portfolio solutions Man now has a highly competitive suite of sessions held thoughout the Nomura branch Deepen our sales reach across the investment strategies, strong global distribution network.
The response has been exceptional combined firm, using GLG strategies and significant scale advantages.
By executing and, because the fund is open-ended, it can individually and in combination with AHL well on a compelling strategy in a structurally continue to grow.
and Man Multi-Manager favourable market, we can achieve substantial Increase efficiency, with focus on using asset and profit growth over the years to come.
The success of this launch in the immediate our capital and resources effectively.
aftermath of the Japan earthquake is testament Peter Clarke both to the commitment and expertise of I am grateful to everyone at Man for the Chief Executive our Japanese team and their counterparts at commitment, expertise and sheer hard work Nomura, and to the resilience of the Japanese they have contributed this year in making markets.
There can be no better demonstration substantial progress on each of our objectives.
of the benefits of local expertise, innovative I look forward to continued progress in the next product structuring and strong distribution reporting period.
18 Man Group plc Annual Report 2011 Chief Executives Review continued Strategy and objectives What is our core purpose?
To create and preserve investor wealth through the long term, differentiated returns offered by our unique alternative investment management capabilities What is our overriding goal?
To be the leading alternative investment manager globally What is our corporate strategy to deliver growth and returns?
To deliver strong long-term investment performance across a unique range of alternative investment strategies and formats to a growing global investor base and continue to build our corporate reputation based on strong governance, risk management, financial discipline and innovation How will we put our strategy into action?
Realise the full potential of AHL and develop new quantitative strategies PG 32 Continue to build out GLG single manager strategies PG 34 Maximise Man Multi-Manager PG 36 Deepen sales reach: capitalise on enlarged suite of products and solutions PG 44 Increase efficiency, with focus on using our capital and resources effectively PG 75 What makes our business model sustainable, for the benefit of all stakeholders?
High quality investment management PG 30 Focus on people and their remuneration PG 40 Global distribution and product structuring PG 44 Innovation PG 46 High business process standards PG 48 Commitment to building our corporate reputation What is our ambition for the future?
To earn a place in every investors portfolio Man Group plc 19 Annual Report 2011 Strong performance and Industry capital concentrating Alternative asset classes have Market drivers renewed investor focus on risk with scale players.
increased their share of overall Chief Operating Officer Emmanuel adjusted returns are driving investment funds, but still Roman describes the evolution of growth in hedge fund assets.
represent a small portion our marketplace PG 26 of the market.
Alternatives as a % of global Hedge fund assets under % of industry FUM represented investment fund assets end management, Q1 2011 by funds $1bn, Q1 2011 2010 2009: 7% $2trillion 77% 8% Opportunities Deliver strong long-term Chief Executive Peter Clarke investment performance describes our strategy for growth and progress this year PG 10 Continue to build our corporate reputation Investors Create a diverse range of strategies and formats Expand our global investor base Key risks Our principal risks are integration risk, fund underperformance risk, discretionary trading risk, operational risk, regulatory risk, reputation risk and key person risk.
Chief Risk Officer Jonathan Eliot describes our risk management framework in more detail PG 48 Man identifies its principal risks across the firm and assesses their likely impact.
We measure and monitor the size of our risks, and implement controls and transactions to reduce and hedge exposures in order to ensure that they stay within our firm-wide risk appetite framework.
We regularly report on the status of these risks to senior management and the Board via a well established governance structure.
Fund outperformance Growth in funds Growth in gross KPIs vs benchmarks.
Our financial and non financial KPIs illustrate and measure the relationship between the experience of the fund investors, our financial performance Return on shareholders Growth in earnings Growth in net and creation of shareholder value.
management Finance Director Kevin Hayes reviews fee income.
