38 Man Group plc Annual Report 2011 7 What makes our business model sustainable?
Man Group plc 39 Annual Report 2011 For each element, we describe the role it plays Our shareholders seek a sustainable in delivering our sustainable business, and long term income stream, and it is our highlight some performance indicators PIs that our management uses to monitor success.
responsibility to ensure the business drivers are in place to support this In the context of this annual report, we focus on our shareholders and regulators as the aspiration.
However, there is far wider range of The quality of our investment management stakeholders with whom we communicate underpins the sustainability of our business on responsible business matters, including employees current and prospective, and to operate effectively it needs a strong communities, and customers, as well as platform that ensures all our stakeholders addressing the scope and nature of our environmental impacts.
Details of our activities with all of these will be found on our CR website www.
Here, we focus on the other elements mansustainability.
As an example, whilst of our business which we regard as key the environment is not central to the business model, in the website, we describe the drivers to ensure our business model development of our infrastructure buildings delivers a sustainable shareholder return.
and IT, using state of the art technology, and demonstrate how this helps reduce our environmental impacts.
People and their remuneration PG 40 The data featured on the CR website has been Distribution and product structuring PG 44 independently verified by The Virtuous Circle Ltd, and is used in our submissions to, and Innovation PG 46 successful memberships, of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and FTSE4Good.
Both Risk management PG 48 of these are internationally acknowledged Community engagement PG 52 in the sustainable investment field and take an independent and rigorous approach to evaluating sustainability performance.
40 Man Group plc Annual Report 2011 Our people Man is fundamentally a people business.
Hiring the most talented people in the industry, motivating them to excel, retaining them and ensuring that they develop to their full potential is critical to making our business model sustainable.
Michael Robinson Head of Human Resources Man has approximately 1,600 permanent Risk management employees of whom 800 are based in the Our focus on risk management is reflected in UK, 400 in Switzerland and 100 in the US.
our hiring process where we adopt a robust Key to business sustainability The remainder are located around the world referencing process and pre-employment Attracting and retaining the best people in regional offices, supporting our investment screening.
Psychometric and skill based People-related aspects of risk management managers and servicing investors and assessments are used to assist candidate distributors.
These figures include 250 individuals selection, thus ensuring that those joining Man Performance indicators who were integrated into our organisation at the reflect our culture and have the necessary skills Employee turnover completion of the acquisition of GLG.
to contribute to Mans success.
Length of service Human Resources HR strategy Every role within Man is assessed to identify Our HR activities in the last financial year were those which impact risks.
Individuals working in heavily focused on supporting the integration key areas of operations are identified as control of GLG.
We also continued to make progress functions and are registered with the FSA as on issues which I consider are fundamental to Approved Persons.
ensuring the sustainability of our business: the HR aspects of risk management: performance Performance monitoring monitoring: talent management: remuneration: Our management and employees are assessed employee communication and operating annually on the achievement of both financial efficiency.
This assessment is taken into account in determining individual GLG integration variable pay.
The integration of Man and GLG was a key priority for HR in the last financial year.
All Talent management business functions are now integrated and At Man we believe that talent should be we have harmonised UK benefit plans and identified and nurtured from the outset HR policies across the combined firm.
We ran of an individuals professional career.
integration events and invited management and We monitor length of service and turnover specialist teams from around the world to share to evaluate the effectiveness of our talent ideas and generate plans for the future.
included defining the culture and values of the organisation with the intention of keeping the best from both organisations.
Man Group plc 41 Annual Report 2011 We offer exceptional graduates a rotational Mans culture is grounded in mutual respect Employee statistics by function programme, strong support network and and non-discrimination irrespective of age, % the opportunity to study for a professional disability, gender, race, religion, sexual qualification.
Each programme is designed to orientation or educational background.
We offer 1 6 broaden a graduates overall knowledge of the tangible support to our people, which includes alternative investment market and equip them making arrangements for disabled employees 2 for a career in a core area of our business.
In including those who may have become 5 1,600 addition, we recruit significant numbers of postdisabled during their employment with us.
Remuneration 4 3 Our strategy of recruiting a relatively small Remuneration has been a key focus this number of talented individuals has resulted year.
The Remuneration Committee has 2011 in a 78% retention rate since the beginning reviewed remuneration policy and processes 1.
Investment Management 20% of the graduate programme in 2007.
The to ensure that remuneration is aligned with 2.
Sales & Marketing 21% success of the programme has resulted in risk management whilst maintaining Man`s 3.
Products & Client Operations 18% over 40 graduate trainees who are now in competitive positioning in the markets in which permanent roles.
Further information is set out in the 4.
Technology Group 15% Remuneration Highlights and Report.
Governance 16% Developing our employees remains critical 6.
Central Management and Support 10% for employee engagement and business Employee communication sustainability.
We have invested over $2 Communication to our employees remains million this year in training and sponsorship of an important element of employee engagement Employee turnover excluding GLG professional qualifications.
Over 80% of our and this year was no exception.
Peter Clarke % investment professionals have a PhD or other frequently conducted business updates with postgraduate qualification.
employees globally, including at GLGs Curzon Enforced 11.5 Street office on the day the acquisition was Succession planning is an important part of announced.
Business heads conduct their Voluntary our people management and helps us develop own updates at regular intervals throughout 13.1 leadership across every level of our business.
the year which frequently include presentations From our succession plans, we identify from other senior managers.
Webcasts development plans at an individual level to detailing company and business area strategy ensure we manage our talent pool effectively.
by our CEO, COO and key business heads Average length of service are available on the company intranet as are Yrs International assignments and relocations are quarterly sales updates.
an opportunity for employees to develop in an 5.9 increasingly global marketplace.
They create 5.2 4.8 4.8 4.7 value for both the company and the individual 4.1 by supporting business reorganisations, ensuring that we retain key skills and foster knowledge transfer.
At the end of March 2011, 7% of permanent employees were on an assignment, primarily Investment Sales & Products Technology Governance Central between Switzerland, the UK and the US.
Management Marketing & Client Group Management Operations & Support Graduate rotations made up half of all short term assignments, supporting our commitment to develop future leaders with global experience.
Peter Clarke and Emmanuel Roman at GLGs offices on the day of the acquisition announcement.
In the context of current focus on the value of gender diversity, Man is working to support the development of female talent and maximise the contribution of women to the business.
42 Man Group plc Annual Report 2011 Remuneration highlights Our approach is intended to be equitable and Our primary objective is to ensure robust against variable business conditions and that Man delivers market leading time-spans.
As performance measurement and remuneration design continue to evolve we will performance and that this is sustainable keep these principles under continuous review over the long-term with our shareholders to ensure best practice.
We remain open to continuing dialogue with our shareholders.
appropriately rewarded for their investment.
Put simply, we aim to GLG acquisition The rapid integration of GLG in terms of have the best people making the best business, results and strategy objectives has decisions for our investors, shareholders been a key priority.
Compensation timetables and remuneration structures across the and other stakeholders.
enlarged firm have been reviewed with this aim.
Following the acquisition of GLG in October 2010, it was announced that with effect from The key principles that underpin our December 2011 the Company would change its financial year end from March to December.
approach are: This move aligns the Companys financial reporting with the calendar year based fund performance reporting and performance fee Remuneration is structured to support earning periods common across the wider corporate strategy and sound risk investment management industry.
GLG already operated a calendar year reporting and management: remuneration cycle.
Employees interests are aligned with The Company adopted a firm-wide staff those of shareholders and our bonus performance and remuneration process for the pool is drawn from the Companys profits: period ending December 2010.
This resulted in a nine-month performance evaluation and Incentives are designed to encourage remuneration period for Man staff from 1 April behaviour focused on longer-term 2010 to 31 December 2010 alongside the annual performance and remuneration cycle of GLG strategy and performance: and staff.
This will be followed by an annual cycle Total remuneration is competitive for all staff for calendar years 2011 onwards, consistent with the financial reporting years.
The against the talent markets from results for the financial year ended 31 March which we hire.
2011 accordingly include a three month accrual 1 January 2011 to 31 March 2011 on account of bonuses in respect of the remuneration cycle for the year to 31 December 2011.
Remuneration across the enlarged business comprises a combination of cash and deferred components.
The Companys deferral policy is benchmarked to the market to ensure that it is consistent with wider stakeholder interests, the firms strategic and business objectives, the competitive market environment, and is appropriate for the risk profile of each function in accordance with latest regulatory good practice.
GLG operated a two-year deferral period.
Relevant Man staff arrangements have, with effect from this year, operated with a three year deferral period.
Man Group plc 43 Annual Report 2011 As part of the GLG transaction, shares in A new Chief Risk Officer has been Base salaries for Executive Directors are Man were offered to principals and senior appointed to ensure there is a robust reviewed annually and have been frozen for contributors at GLG in exchange for their framework in place for risk management.
the third consecutive year and remain at shareholdings in GLG.
These consideration Risk reporting is now embedded in the 2008 levels.
shares are subject to vesting and lockannual cycle so that the Remuneration Fees for the Chairman and non-executive up conditions as set out in the Circular to Committee can assess the impact on directors are reviewed annually.
No increase shareholders relating to the acquisition.
has been made to the Chairmans fees since addition, to facilitate business integration and to The FSA classifies Code Staff as those his appointment in 2007.
No increase to further staff alignment with shareholders, grants staff whose activities could have a material non-executive director fees has been made of restricted options were made to a number of impact on a firms risk profile.
They have since 2009. identified future value contributors across the been identified through a rigorous risk The total compensation package includes enlarged firm.
These options have an exercise mapping process to determine those with bonus award dependant upon individual price of 10% above the market price at grant responsibility for risk and the risk control performance, risk management and the premium priced and are subject to a three year framework.
The Remuneration Committee determined and senior employees are also invited to the remuneration for Executive Directors, participate in the Company share and fund The Remuneration Committee is focused on and reviewed and approved remuneration product plans, enabling them to share a targeted and appropriate compensation for the Executive Committee members, directly in the success of the Company and policy having regard to business strategy, Code Staff, senior control functions staff investor products.
Employees can opt to financial performance, risk, regulation and the and other senior staff for the nine month participate in the employee share and fund competitive environment.
It aims to ensure that performance period to 31 December 2010. plans, so they may also be aligned with aggregate compensation costs are balanced so For the Executive Committee and senior shareholders and investors.
that the Company remains successful, attracts staff 50% of annual bonus for 2010 has A summary of the total fixed and variable and retains high quality individuals, performs been delivered in deferred compensation compensation costs for the Group for for investors and delivers shareholder value.
deferred into Man shares and funds.
the last three years is given below.
2011 Amongst other measures, the Remuneration UK pension liabilities have been reduced is consolidated from GLG Acquisition on Committee tracks the Companys in the defined benefit pension plan through 14 October 2010.
This is reflected in the compensation to revenue ratio, which has been the offer of an enhanced transfer value to increase in remuneration costs for 2011. amongst the lowest in the industry given the deferred members.
The plan has also been As explained above, for the year ended dominance of systematic investment strategies closed for future benefit accrual effective 31 31 March 2011 the above figures include a in Mans business.
These changes have been made nine month performance bonus period and management businesses such as GLG typically to manage risk and future liabilities.
a three month bonus accrual for Man staff.
have higher compensation to revenue ratios.
The acquisition of GLG will accordingly increase Overview of key aspects of remuneration the firms overall compensation ratio, but the 2011 2010 2009 Committee will continue to target a combined $m $m $m ratio which appropriately reflects the balance Revenue including gains losses on investments of the firms business.
and other financial instruments 1,680 1,384 2,228 Remuneration governance and risk Salaries and related personnel costs fixed costs 212 178 213 management Cash performance bonus costs The Remuneration Committee is a Committee 2011 9 month actual: 3 month accrual 188 97 179 of the Board with delegated authorities in Amortisation of prior years share awards IFRS 2 charge 101 55 71 place.
It reviewed and updated its terms of Note Marketing incentives 36 42 62 reference in November 2010 taking into account requirements of the business and emerging best Total variable compensation costs 325 194 312 practice.
In addition it has reviewed how the Change in variable compensation costs 1 year change 68% 38% business takes into account the impact of risk 2 year change 4% on reward and has assessed the governance Compensation cost Revenue 32.0% 26.9% 23.6% framework and processes making the changes below to ensure that reward is aligned with risk Diluted Earning per share EPS on continuing operations management.
Steps taken include: cents per share 14.0 24.8 28.4 Change in diluted EPS 1 year change 44% 13% A harmonised appraisal process has been 2 year change 51% adopted for 2011 covering performance against financial and non-financial Note: This year employee marketing incentives have been included in relation to upfront commissions with 2009 and 2010 objectives, how the performance was restated on this basis.
This excludes restructuring compensation costs of $55 million and GLG acquisition costs of $10 achieved as well as compliance with risk million Financial Review note 6.
The difference between the compensation ratios provided in the table above and those management requirements.
on pages 25 and 60 is due to the inclusion of marketing incentives in the table above.
44 Man Group plc Annual Report 2011 Distribution and product structuring Mans longstanding distribution partnerships and expertise in product structuring give us unrivalled access to a global investor base.
The GLG acquisition has given our sales teams a much broader range of liquid investment strategies to offer investors.
We have a strong sales pipeline and are well placed to grow assets.
Christoph Mller Global Sales the distribution of our products.
We conduct a less established presence in the Americas, extensive due diligence as part of our initial although Man already has a strong presence selection process and continually review our in Canada and South America.
We have made Key to business sustainability distributor base to ensure that we are working progress with the highly influential investment Strong relationships with dependable with the strongest players in each region and consultant community in the United States, intermediaries sector.
We work closely with our distributors to and see further potential to steadily build our Differentiated client service ensure that their sales people are well educated presence in this key strategic market as a Expertise in global regulatory frameworks and fully understand our products.
association with our distributors helps us build Performance indicators our knowledge of major trends and changes in 2011 review Sales and redemptions trends investor appetite.
In the first half of the 2011 financial year, sales were slow against a backdrop of uncertain Unrivalled distribution and product Our sales-led approach enables us to deliver markets and investor sentiment.
There was a structuring are fundamental strengths of returns to our investors in formats designed slow but steady build of assets into onshore Mans business model to meet their needs and comply with local products worldwide, as demand for hedge Man operates two distinct distribution models, regulatory requirements.
To do this effectively, fund styles gradually increased but investors marketing to private investors via third party Man has built a team of 125 product structuring continued to prefer liquid, transparent formats.
intermediaries and directly to institutions.
Man experts, who have experience of operating Institutional demand remained focused on has a global sales and client service team under 22 different regulatory frameworks.
The tailored portfolio solutions and managed supporting our private investor distribution breadth of our product structuring expertise account structures which provide transparency, network of 3,850 intermediaries, as well as a affords Man considerable competitive control and flexibility.
20 sales offices across the globe, many of The second half saw a significant increase in which have been in place for over 10 years Over many years, Man has built an investor sales momentum after the acquisition of GLG but with some new additions notably Milan base in 135 different countries.
Over 19% of and strong AHL performance.
Operating as in the last year.
By establishing and maintaining our funds under management originate from a single integrated sales force, we have been a dedicated local presence, we develop longAsia notably Japan, Australia, Hong Kong, rolling out the enlarged product suite globally in term relationships and outstanding Singapore and new markets in South Korea an intensive campaign of roadshows.
Over 56% of our funds under our product suite has been high and translated management are in Europe, with a more into positive flows for AHL and GLG in the Our intermediary network is actively maintained balanced mix here between private investors fourth quarter.
It covers a wide range of the and institutions.
The acquisition of GLG has largest global and strategic regional financial strengthened our investor base in Southern We also saw demand re-building for guaranteed institutions as well as smaller intermediaries Europe and the UK.
Both Man and GLG have products.
Our third quarter launch Man Synergy which offer us scale, flexibility and efficiency in Man Group plc 45 Annual Report 2011 FUM by geography raised $350 million with strong sales in particular example came in Singapore, where we have % from Latin America and the Middle East.
We secured regulatory approval from the Monetary launched our first AHL GLG combination in the Authority MAS for onshore distribution of the 1 fourth quarter Man IP220 GLG.
first UCITS managed futures fund a process 4 which reflects our continued commitment to 3 Continued investor focus on onshore liquid working with regulators in all the jurisdictions in strategies has driven an increase in UCITS which we operate.
Man now has a total of $10.8 billion under management in UCITS Our fourth quarter launch of the first combined formats $0.8 billion in AHL strategies, $2.6 AHL GLG guaranteed product Man IP220 2 billion in GLG alternatives, and $7.4 billion in GLG raised $400 million, which will be long only.
included in funds under management in the 2011 2010 next reporting period.
Europe 56 42 The year ended with two very positive pieces launches of Man IP220 GLG, and we expect 2.
Asia Pacific 25 40 of sales news.
In March 2011, we won a large them to become a significant part of our funds 3.
Americas 10 10 managed accounts mandate from Bayerische under management over time.
Middle East and Africa 9 7 Versorgungskammer BVK in Germany.
PG 37 After the year end, our team in Likewise institutional interest in single manager Japan raised an outstanding $2 billion with funds both from AHL and GLG is offering FUM by type our partners at Nomura.
PG 17 These two good growth potential.
% successes give us an excellent start to the next reporting period.
We continue to target new markets and held 1 our first client event in India in March 2011.
Pipeline It was well attended with a strong panel of Demand in open ended alternatives continues speakers and good participation from the key $69.1bn to be strong both in AHL as evidenced by distributors, asset managers and banks.
India the recent Japan launch and GLG.
Private remains a mid-term opportunity and has its banking channels, where Man has longstanding share of developmental challenges, but it also relationships, are showing interest in GLG single has many of the market characteristics which 2 manager strategies, significantly increasingly have served us well in breaking new ground 2011 2010 our sales options.
We expect UCITS and in the past burgeoning mass affluence, 1.
Private investors 52 68 other onshore regulated formats to become improving longevity rates and a growing sense 2.
Institutions 48 32 an increasingly important component of our against the backdrop of volatile domestic equity funds under management.
There are only a few markets of the need for risk adjusted returns managers with the relevant resources, products and a managed approach to diversification.
and performance to succeed in this market in We are also looking to establish a presence alternatives and we are pre-eminent among in China, and will continue to pioneer new these.
Mans familiarity with regulatory regimes opportunities as we aim to be the leading and our relationships with regulators has alternative investment manager globally.
A recent Sales and redemptions profile $m Guaranteed Open ended Institutional FoF Long only 9.6 2.1 3.7 10.0 H1 sales H1 redemptions H2 sales H2 redemptions 46 Man Group plc Annual Report 2011 Innovation Hedge funds are the Galapagos Islands of finance.
The rate of innovation, evolution, competition, adaptation, births and deaths, the whole range of evolutionary phenomena, occurs at an extraordinarily rapid clip.
Andrew Lo Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
The scale of Mans operations and the strength of our financial position give us flexibility to innovate.
Key to business sustainability Observing market trends and responding Not every idea will work.
But in the rapidly evolving quickly markets in which we operate, a constant flow of new Creating new solutions to ever changing investor needs ideas and the capability to bring them to scale if they Scaling successful solutions to a global catch on or close them down if they fail is critical to market business sustainability.
Performance indicators % of FUM generated from products and solutions under three years old In March 2011, 27% of our funds under management ex GLG were generated from products or solutions less than three years old.
We expect this percentage to increase in the period following the acquisition of GLG, to reflect new opportunities for innovation from a more diverse range of investment management expertise.
This page features a selection of the innovative ideas we are currently developing.
Man Group plc 47 Annual Report 2011 Man Systematic Strategies Man Commodity Plus is the recognition that sustainability is the Sandy Rattray sets out his plans for this Reto Grau of Man Multi-Manager discusses this investment required to address environmental, new venture.
For sustainable investing strategies to permeate a wider investor base, they must compete head-on with global equity funds and benchmarks, and prove that sustainability themes and styles are capable of providing above-index returns and not simply exact a feel-good performance tax.
Our approach is based on developing investment strategies to harness global themes.
Take Chinas 12th Five Year Plan as an example of large-scale material investment We created the Man Systematic Strategies Man Commodity Plus was developed for the being made to address demographic and group MSS in January 2011 to pool expertise pension fund of a leading European bank environmental change.
It outlines spending from GLG, AHL and Man Multi-Manager.
The which already held an allocation to Mans directives according to seven efficiency themes new group is responsible for developing and successful commodity fund of hedge funds ranging from energy savings and non-fossil managing profitable systematic strategies Man Commodity Strategies.
The client alternative sources to new materials, all whose driven by cutting edge technology.
wanted more upside beta participation in aggregate value-added output is estimated to commodity bull markets than a diversified mix equate to as much as 15% of Chinas GDP in MSS launched Mans first exchange traded of commodity hedge fund strategies would 2020.
Under the 12th Five Year Plan, Chinas fund in January 2011.
Designed in partnership deliver, so the Man Multi-Manager team growth in healthcare infrastructure investment with ETF provider Source, Man GLG Europe developed a bespoke solution delivering an will run at more than a 25% compounded Plus Source ETF produces European equity optimised risk-return profile in line with the annual growth rate while the construction index plus returns based on fundamental clients appetite.
I allocate dynamically between of 36 million low cost, social housing units brokers ideas provided specifically for Man Commodity Strategies and a discretionally will potentially add more than $1 trillion of GLG.
The MSS team then uses proprietary managed directional component Dynamic investment.
From a public equities perspective, quantitative technologies to enhance these Trend Allocation which is based on systematic these themes represent interconnected recommendations, with the objective of trend signals that are measured weekly using a industrial value chains that range from higher generating steady alpha at low risk.
Over the proprietary quantitative model.
This additional margin, upstream companies to downstream past three years, the index behind the product component provides a flexible way of increasing distributors each uniquely reflecting in differing has outperformed MSCI Europe every year, or decreasing commodity exposure through degrees  investment.
In the in both positive and negative environments, ETFs, options and futures across seven case of Chinas low cost and social housing, generating annual outperformance of 4.2%.
representative markets: WTI crude oil, Brent its publicly-listed value chain extends from crude oil, gold, copper, wheat, corn, live cattle.
banks positioned as social housing funding MSSs second product is Man TailProtect, mechanisms to building aggregates and an actively managed, systematic investment Mainstreaming sustainability: why themes services providers, whose involvement vehicle designed to provide tail risk protection matter can be expected to generate positive to institutional investors.
Using sophisticated GLGs Jason Mitchell discusses the GLG Global earnings revisions.
models designed at Man, and incorporating Sustainability Fund.
some of the latest volatility forecasting In summary, we believe that this type of research output of the Oxford-Man Institute of approach could ultimately popularise more Quantitative Finance, the product is designed to performance-oriented, global sustainability be profitable during market stress periods such strategies over traditionally index-bound as May 2010, when it returned 23.8%.
socially responsible investing and small-cap cleantech funds, and in the process help Man Systematic Strategies has made a to mainstream sustainability.
strong start, and has around $1.3 billion under management.
Ask any number of experts, and youll get the same number of different definitions.
At GLG, our approach is driven by performance potential as opposed to definitional debate.
Our starting point 48 Man Group plc Annual Report 2011 Risk management One of Mans key objectives is to deliver the benefits of robust risk management to our fund investors.
Risk management is an area of ever increasing focus for investors in the context of both volatile investment markets and the changes within the Company following the acquisition of GLG.
Jonathan Eliot Chief Risk Officer 1 For Investment Management risks i. e. i maintenance of positive net income, risks to fund investors, key areas addressed ii management of risk taking activity in the by the Risk Appetite Statements include: Man balance sheet via a capital and liquidity Key to business sustainability framework, Managing risk, not avoiding it i compliance with investment mandates, iii adherence to the terms of Mans external Risk appetite set by the Board ii maintenance of liquidity of investments in financing arrangements Regular review of capital and liquidity buffers order to be able to meet contractual terms, iii management of the portfolio in line with There is also a schedule of specific allowances Performance indicators external financing terms when applicable, and for certain activities e. g. loans to funds and Regulatory capital excess iv management and mitigation of counterparty seed capital that are controlled under a range of Level of seed capital investment risk.
In this section we highlight the key developments and priorities in risk management at Man over There is also a focus on managing the firms Qualitative Risk Appetite Statements principally the past year.
We continue to take the approach governance processes to avoid the occurrence address: of identifying each risk across the firm and of fraud events both internal and external, and assessing its likely impact.
We measure and to minimise the risk of operational losses.
i avoidance of unresolved conflicts of interest monitor the size of our risks, and implement between Man and investors controls and transactions to reduce and hedge Given the broad range of Mans investment ii risk of material consequences from the loss exposures in order to ensure that they stay functions, across Man Multi-Manager, AHL and of key personnel, and within our firm-wide risk appetite framework.
GLG, the methods of implementation of these iii minimisation of reputational risk We regularly report on the status of these risks principles within each function will vary, but with to senior management and the Board via a well a consistent underpinning.
Balance sheet management established governance structure.
Following the acquisition of GLG, we have 2 For Man Group risks i. e. those that considered our alternatives around the Risk appetite affect shareholders directly, the Risk management of our capital and liquidity base, Following the acquisition of GLG, we have taken Appetite Statements cover both Quantitative given the changed profile of the balance sheet.
the opportunity to refresh and update our Risk and Qualitative risks as they affect the firms As summarised in the Chairmans section of this Appetite Statements in the first quarter of 2011. risk profile.
report, we have used a risk based approach These are set by the Board, as highlighted in in considering the possibilities for capital the Chairmans statement in this report, and Statements relating to Quantitative measures of deployment into organic growth opportunities cover risks as they apply to both the Investment risk include: and selective proprietary positions in support of Management functions, and Man Group itself.
Man Group plc 49 Annual Report 2011 We have also reviewed the potential for use In mitigation of this risk, we maintain a high In terms of oversight, the GLG Risk Committee, of Mans liquidity resources in the future in a quality, diversified range of investment styles whose membership comprises the Chief Risk possible stressed environment, and used this as and products, principally across quantitative Officer and Chief Operating Officer for Man, the input into planning our Treasury funding needs AHL, discretionary GLG and funds of funds head of GLG investment risk and senior GLG for the combined group.
This diversity traders, meets bi-weekly to review investment gives us protection against concentrated underperformance and risks as well as strategies The consequences of this analysis and performance from any one sector.
We develop and topical issues in the light of current market framework is that we will be able to make efficient our products for both private and institutional conditions.
These processes provide risk control decisions around the use of both capital and investors with an eye to a diversified mix of and oversight to the activity of the GLG trading liquidity resources over the coming years, taking investments, with significant resource devoted to desks, as well as providing transparency to into account the new risk profile of the group portfolio selection, and operational due diligence Company wide management.
balance sheet following the acquisition of GLG.
4 Operational risk The current position of the firm with respect to With respect to our guaranteed product range, During the course of the year, we have capital and liquidity management is shown in the we test the portfolio of underlying investments continued to further develop our existing Financial Review Notes 17, 21 and 22. against a wide range of market conditions, so operational risk framework and processes.
A that the products remain robust through market failure in this area could adversely affect the Man principal risks cycles, and thereby ensure that the investor can business and the prospects for Man Group, In the course of 2010, and looking ahead to 2011, remain invested for the long term in the face of and we consequently look to identify, control there are a number of specific principal risks that short term market volatility.
and mitigate these risks across a broad range we have sought to manage these are explained of scenarios, and covering the integrated below, together with mitigating actions that we Our largest exposure to this risk remains with business.
Following the GLG acquisition, their have established.
respect to the managed futures style and the existing operational risk function as well as their AHL family of funds, given that this forms a operations and technology functions have been 1 Integration risk significant part of our revenue base.
In general, integrated into the broader Company.
Through the integration of the Man businesses AHL will tend to benefit in markets with strong with GLG, we have been conscious of the underlying trends.
From March 2011, Man Group has outsourced need to assess and manage a range of risks certain fund related activities, primarily across human resources, operational controls, 3 Discretionary trading risk shareholder servicing for retail clients this technology and compliance, as the relevant A key area of risk management in 2010 has decision was taken after a careful operational functions have been combined.
been the integration of the GLG investment risk risk assessment and the implementation of a management function into the combined firm.
We believe These risks included: Given Mans primary investment activities have that in aggregate, this change will result in in the past focused around AHLs quantitative lower operational risk for the Company and our i Risk of loss of staff strategies and the Man Multi-Manager fund of fund investors, as well as a superior and cost ii Risk of control weaknesses from changes in funds businesses, the controlled investment risk efficient service.
organisational structure management of discretionary trading is a new iii Risk of technology failure as systems were activity from Mans perspective.
We continue to reassess our exposures to integrated operational risk, and hold appropriate capital iv Risk of governance processes being There is a well established team of risk managers as assessed using a broad range of scenarios, incorrectly structured for the combined firm within GLG who monitor positions against trading which are reviewed regularly via the Risk limits across a range of metrics including Value Assurance Committee.
These scenarios span An integration committee, with senior at Risk, position concentrations, stress events, both losses from potential failures in operations management membership, was established scenario analysis and liquidity measures.
Using and technology, and those from possible in mid 2010, and reported regularly to the Risk internally developed risk management software, litigation risks.
Assurance Committee on the progress in the team are capable of monitoring risk attributes identifying and mitigating a wide range of specific both preand post trade throughout the day.
A 5 Regulatory risk risks a process that is now largely complete.
structured approach to limit setting, on top of This is discussed by Stephen Ross, our Group Going forward, the integration risks will be the risk transparency made available through General Counsel.
addressed within ongoing functional risk the software, allows the Investment Manager to management.
be conscious of the portfolio risk dynamics and 6 Reputation risk most importantly be comfortable with the risk Successful investment management is highly 2 Fund underperformance risk exposures within each portfolio throughout the dependent on building and preserving a A principal risk to Man shareholders is the risk of day.
This team has an independent reporting line successful corporate reputation.
For Man, key the underperformance of the funds.
Persistent separate from the trading function, and is able to aspects of reputation management include the underperformance would likely result in reduced provide control and challenge on risk issues at a culture and values of the Company, and the levels of funds under management FUM and detailed level and across the varied investment way these drive behaviour: branding, corporate consequent lower management fees, as well as strategies offered by GLG.
sponsorship engagement with the communities reduced performance fees.
in which we operate: our strong relationships 50 Man Group plc Annual Report 2011 Risk management continued with regulatory authorities globally: as well as the Regulatory risk Following Mans acquisition of GLG, Man has entirety of our risk management and corporate integrated the Man and GLG Compliance governance frameworks.
functions into one unit, comprising individuals with experience across the entire range of To this end we seek to ensure that integrity compliance topics that affect our enlarged is respected as a core value across Mans business.
The teams activities span such employee base and business functions, activities as licensing, advisory, monitoring, through specific focus within our performance approvals, policy, training and projects on areas management process, adherence to compliance such as corporate, distribution, marketing, and risk management across the firm, and investment management and trading, investment through the leadership of senior management to advice and anti-money laundering measures.
ensure that all conflicts and issues are managed The Compliance team also manage the Groups appropriately.
Our focus on integrity delivers a Stephen Ross relationships with regulators, including the variety of business benefits, from securing large Group General Counsel Groups lead regulator, the UK Financial Services institutional mandates such as BVK to winning Authority FSA.
39 entities with the Group are PwCs Building Public Trust Award for our 2010 The global regulatory agenda is evolving.
currently licensed by 22 financial regulators Annual Report.
Proactive management and assessment of and self-regulatory organisations SROs.
The these regulatory changes is key to Mans ongoing activities of the Compliance function Following the acquisition of GLG, we have continued ability to meet the expectations form part of the Risk Assurance Committee created a brand hierarchy which recognises the of investors and regulators around the agenda, ensuring senior management familiarity strength of the overarching Man brand, but also world, whilst allowing us to maximise any with current issues.
of the AHL and GLG investment management opportunities that may arise.
We continue to sponsor the Man Booker Risk management is an essential component literary prize, and have a global programme of In the wake of the financial crisis and particularly of maintaining a high quality, sustainable community engagement.
PG 52 the banking crisis, regulators globally continue business for our stakeholders.
Mans Legal to reassess and search for solutions to create a department has an integrated role in managing Regulatory expertise, risk management and more stable long term framework for the worlds legal and regulatory risk through its involvement corporate governance are key areas of focus for financial system.
This process as described by in all material aspects of the business cycle.
PG 80 Manny Roman on page 29 has led to proposals This integrated role enables Man to navigate which impact the hedge fund industry.
Within through the increasingly complex global legal 7 Key person risk Europe there has in particular been continued and regulatory framework in a thorough and We recognise that we employ a talented array of progress on implementation of the Alternative responsive manner.
individuals across our businesses, and view both Investment Fund Manager Directive AIFMD, their retention and the continued recruitment and we continue to take an active role in shaping of additional professionals as a key priority for the outcome.
the future success of the Company.
We aim to utilise our leading position in the hedge fund Regulators across the globe are developing industry, together with a consistent performance architecture around areas including product management process and experienced senior selling and advice, central clearing, position management and leadership, to achieve this.
We limits, bringing products on exchange constantly aim to attract the best talent within the and remuneration.
We are supportive of industry, and the historical strength of both the proportionate and considered regulation Man and GLG brands is a key factor in helping and given that we operate regulated entities us to achieve this.
in many jurisdictions around the world, we are encouraged by the increased We operate a large distribution network and co-ordination of authorities to find global investment management capability, as well as solutions where appropriate.
a wide range of products, and thereby have resilience to the loss of particular key individuals.
We also have a well established succession planning process in place.
Man Group plc 51 Annual Report 2011 The 2010 shortlist Mans literary sponsorships Bi Feiyu Howard Jacobson The Man Booker Prize aims to promote In May it was announced that the winner of the Since 2002, Man has excellence in fiction by recognising the fourth Man Booker International Prize was Philip been proud to sponsor best novel published by a citizen of the Roth, the US author of numerous controversial Commonwealth or Republic of Ireland.
The and compelling novels including Portnoys the annual Man Booker winning novel is selected by a panel of judges, Complaint, American Pastoral, I Married a Prize, the worlds most including a literary critic, an academic, a literary Communist and The Human Stain.
The prize, editor, a novelist and a major public figure.
The worth 60,000, has previously been awarded to important literary award, prize is worth 50,000 to the winning author.
Ismail Kadar in 2005, Chinua Achebe in 2007 as well as the biannual and Alice Munro in 2009.
Recent winners have included Howard Man International Prize, Jacobson for The Finkler Question 2010, In addition to the Man Booker Prize, Man also awarded to a living Hilary Mantel for Wolf Hall 2009, Aravind sponsors the Man Asian Literary Prize, an Adiga for White Tiger 2008, Anne Enright for annual literary award given to the best novel writer for a lifetimes The Gathering 2007 and Kiran Desai for The by an Asian writer, either written in English or achievement in literature Inheritance of Loss 2006. translated into English, and published in the previous calendar year.
The winning author on the world stage.
In 2011 the Man Booker Foundation awarded is awarded $30,000 and the translator if any a special prize created for the late Beryl $5,000.
The 2010 prize was awarded to Bi Bainbridge the Man Booker Best of Beryl.
Bainbridge was shortlisted five times for the prize more than any other author but never won.
The winner, selected by a public vote, was her 1998 novel Master Georgie.
52 Man Group plc Annual Report 2011 Community engagement Key to business sustainability Demonstrating integrity to all stakeholders in our communities Supporting employees actions on issues they care about Performance indicators Value of charitable donations % of employees involved It has been an extremely challenging 12 months for the voluntary sector, with the difficult economic environment placing a huge burden on charities and the people they are trying to help.
Cuts in central and local statutory funding combined with a decline in other traditional sources of funding such as corporate donations will further exacerbate the situation.
Lesley King-Lewis Director, Man Charitable Trust At Man we are determined to maintain our presence in our local communities, by supporting charities and expanding our volunteering programme in order to maximise our impact through donations, time and expertise.
Total Charitable Expenditure % We are responding to the funding crisis by creating an emergency appeal fund for charities 1 8 that we currently support.
Many are enduring 7 real financial hardship especially those that rely heavily on government local authority funding.
6 2 $7m 3 We continue to support charities working with the most disadvantaged in our society 4 5 including programmes for young people at risk of exclusion from education: literacy and 2011 2010 numeracy programmes for both children 1.
Disadvantaged youth 21 23 and adults: education and work skills for 2.
Literacy & numeracy 5 17 homeless people and support to the long 3.
Vulnerable populations 12 17 term unemployed to start up in business.
We support programmes which raise aspirations 4.
Disaster relief 17 7 and allow people to gain the skills they need to 5. International 22 13 effect a real positive change in their lives.
Employee related 6 6 Following the devastating earthquake and 8.
Other donations 11 9 tsunami in Japan the Trust made an immediate $1 million donation to disaster relief efforts.
In conjunction with our Tokyo office we focused our support on children impacted by the crisis.
We pledged $900,000 to Save the Childrens Japan Emergency Appeal and $100,000 to local childrens charities.
Save the Childrens Japan office has a strong Trustees of the Man Charitable Trust the Trust local presence and has therefore been able to respond quickly to the needs of up to 100,000 Peter Clarke Chairman, Jon Aisbitt, John Angell resigned January 2011, children who have been displaced, suffered Mark Chambers, David Kingsley appointed March 2011, Triona OKeeffe trauma or lost parents as a result of the disaster.
Our donation will help these vulnerable children rebuild their lives.
Man Group plc 53 Annual Report 2011 Our long established and close relationship with Community highlights Japan, means that we are naturally very anxious to play our part in joining with local and international efforts to alleviate the huge suffering that has been Skill Force caused.
The Trust supported Skill Force, an educational charity which delivers an alternative curriculum to young people across London who are in Peter Clarke danger of exclusion in mainstream education.
Chairman, Man Charitable Trust Their instructors are mainly ex-Services personnel who having served their country Man paid $3.8 million to the Trust and charitable are now serving their local communities by committees of our overseas offices and $7 providing young people with knowledge, million was spent on charitable donations in skills and most importantly, the self-belief to FY 2011.
The Trust built up its reserves in 2009 aspire and achieve.
in order to ensure we were able to maintain a consistent level of giving during a time of The Connection at St Martin-in-the-Fields economic uncertainty.
The Connection at St Martins is the UKs busiest centre for homeless people, offering Our overseas charitable committees in practical and emotional support to over 5,500 Switzerland, USA, Canada and Australia individuals a year.
The Trust made a three continue to support their local communities year commitment to Workspace, the charitys and educational charities including Teach for employment, training and education service, America and Canadian Safe Schools.
helping homeless people in London to move towards independence.
The Annual Charity chosen by our UK employees was The Prostate Cancer Charity.
East London Small Business Centre With an initial donation of $160,000 from the The Trust supported ELSBC, a not for profit Trust, UK employees raised an additional support agency, committed to helping create $200,000 over the course of the partnership.
jobs and increasing social wealth and mobility Our people were inspired to raise money and through the support of small businesses awareness for the charity through a range of across a deprived part of East London.
The activities including taking part in Movember, the area suffers from a high number of long-term moustache growing charity event held each year unemployed and high levels of existing to raise funds and awareness for mens health.
Our new Annual Charity for 2011 will be The Teach For America Place2Be, a school-based counselling service, Like many large US cities, Chicagos lowdedicated to improving the emotional wellbeing income inner city schools have struggled to of children, their families and the whole school improve student performance and to bridge community.
We very much look forward to the achievement gap between low-income working with them.
TFA recruits outstanding recent college graduates from We know that community and philanthropy Americas top universities to teach in high-need are key issues for our employees and that our schools.
Mans US charitable committee made volunteer programmes can bring significant a donation of $50,000 in support of its Math & benefits to both the individuals involved, who Science Seminars Series for one year.
have the opportunity to give something back to their local community, and the charities for Children of Sikkim Foundation which they volunteer.
Swiss employees selected the Children of Sikkim Foundation COSF as their Annual We encourage our people to take their skills Charity.
COSF supports orphaned and and use them in a way that is different to needy children from the poorest families of their every day role at Man and are delighted the Himalayan state of Sikkim with childrens that 21% of our employees have taken part homes, schools, vocational training and in our programmes, including running CV medical supplies.
The $50,000 donation was and interview workshops for the homeless, used to improve the local drinking water system facilitating inspiring enterprise days for 12-14 for the village, the school and the orphanage.
year olds and helping primary school children Employees raised a further $65,000 for the with their reading skills on a weekly basis.
charity from their annual charity swim in Lake Zurich.
We would like to thank all of our employees who have volunteered their time, enthusiasm and skills over the year and to those who have donated via their Give as You Earn accounts and the Trusts sponsorship matching scheme.
During the year the Company did not make donations to any political party or other political organisation and did not incur any political expenditure within the meaning of Lesley King-Lewis Sections 362 to 379 of the Companies Act 2006.
Director, Man Charitable Trust 54 Man Group plc Annual Report 2011 The Financial Review contains information and explanations that give you an understanding of the results of our business strategy, financial performance, capital and liquidity.
This information, together with the Additional Financial Information, comprises the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
Financial Review Man Group plc 55 Annual Report 2011 Audited information section page ref Navigating the financial 58 Man Group plc Man Group plc 59 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 Group Income Statement FR 59 Financial Review cont inued Group Statement of Comprehensive Income FR 59 statements: Group Cash Flow Statement FR AFI 4 63, 115 2.
Funds under management FUM unaudited Group Income Statement For the year ended 31 March The growth in FUM is a key indicator of our performance as an investment manager and our ability to remain competitive and build a sustainable Group Statement of Financial Position FR 64 business.
Average FUM multiplied by our fee margin equates to our revenue earning capacity.
Our objective is therefore to grow funds under $m Note 2011 2010 management while maintaining our fee margin.
Revenue: Funds under management are shown by product groupings that have similar margin and investor characteristics.
The GLG FUM and FUM movements Gross management and other fees 3 1,452 1,293 are included from the acquisition date 14 October 2010.
FUM, fund flows and margins are discussed further in Section 4 and AFI 3.
Performance fees 3 203 52 Group Statement of Changes in Equity FR 74 1,655 1,345 Open-ended Institutional GLG 58 Gains M loans Gseroups p lc on investments and other financial instruments Man Group p lc 25 3959 $bn Guaranteed alternative FoF and other long only Total Annual Report 2011Annual Report 2011 Distribution costs 4 318 325 FUM at 31 March 2010 14.0 12.8 12.6 39.4 Asset services 5 16 Acquired 14 October 2010 11.5 0.7 13.2 25.4 Financial Review continued Parent company financial information 126 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 1 3.3 28 Sales 0.6 5.9 1.8 3.4 11.7 Compensation 6 566 349 Redemptions 2.4 4.4 3.2 3.7 1 3.
7 Other costs 7 307 266 Net inflows outflows 1.8 1.5 1.4 0.3 2.0 Share of after tax profit of associates and joint ventures 1 8 65 70 2.
Funds under management FUM unaudited Group Income Statement Investment movement 0.4 0.9 0.4 1.1 2.8 Gain on disposal of BlueCrest For the year ended 31 Mar ch 9,18 257 The growth in FUM is a key indicator of our performance as an investment manager and our ability to remain competitive and build a sustainable FX 0.5 0.6 0.8 0.1 2.0 business.
Our objective is therefore to grow funds under Impairment of Man Multi-Manager and Ore Hill 9, 13.2, 18 397 management while maintaining our fee margin.
Other 2.0 0.4 0.1 1.5 Revenue: Gain arising from residual interest in brokerage assets 9,15 34 Funds under management are shown by product groupings that have similar margin and investor characteristics.
Performance fees 3 203 52 FUM at 31 March 2011 15.1 27.3 12.7 14.0 69.1 Finance expense 8 86 36 1,655 1,345 Finance income Gains losses on inv estments and other financ ial instruments 8 40 25 239 9 Significant accounting policies schedule AFI 2 113 Distribution costs 4 318 325 FUM at 31 March 2010 14.0 12.8 12.6 39.4 Guaranteed product FUM increased by 8% during the year mainly driven by FX and the re-gearing of the funds following strong AHL performance in Acquired 14 October 2010 Pr ofit be fore ta x co ntinui n g o1p 1.5 e ratio 0. n 7 s 13.2 25.4 Asset services 324 5 16 541 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 13.3 28 Sales 0.6 5.9 1.8 3.4 11.7 Compensation 6 566 349 CY2010, which offset redemptions.
Redemptions Ta xation 2.4 4.4 3.2 3.7 13.7 10, AFI 6 51 96 Other costs 7 307 266 Net inflows outflows 1.8 1.5 1.4 0.3 2.0 Share of after tax profit of associates and joint ventures 18 65 70 Investment movement 0.4 0.9 0.4 1.1 2.8 Profit for the year continuing operations Gain on disposal of B lueCrest 297, 13 8 257 445 FX 0.5 0.6 0.8 0.1 2.0 Impairment of Man Multi-Manager and Ore Hill 9, 13.2, 18 397 Open ended alternative FUM increased by 113% during the year due to the acquisition of GLG and net inflows following strong demand for alternative Other 2.0 0.4 0.1 1.5 Discontinued operations brokerage Gain arising from res idual interest in brokerage assets AFI 5 96, 12 5 3 4 Basis of preparation FR1 57 FUM at 31 March 2011 15.1 27.3 12.7 14.0 69.1 Finance expense 8 86 36 formats and positive fund performance in both AHL and GLG.
The FUM of $27.3 billion at the year-end comprised $13.7 billion from AHL open-ended Statutory profit for the year attributable to owners of the parentF inance income 211 8 40 4425 9 products and $13.6 billion from GLG alternatives.
Guaranteed product FUM increased by 8% during the year mainly driven by FX and the re-gearing of the funds following strong AHL performance in Profit before tax continuing operations 324 541 CY2010, which offset redemptions.
Taxation 10, AFI 6 51 96 Profit for the year continuing operations 273 445 Open ended alternative FUM increased by 113% during the year due to the acquisition of GLG and net inflows following strong demand for alternative Institutional FUM remained broadly flat during the year with net outflows being offset by positive FX movements related to the strengthening of the Discontinued operations brokerage AFI 5 62 formats and positive fund performancE e ina bo rtn h AiHL n g and s G p LGe.
3f br illo ionm at th c e yo earnen tdi n cou mpr in iseg d $ 1o 3.7p be illior n a frot mi o AHL n os pe :ne nded Statutory profit fo r the year attributable t o owners of the parent 1 1, AFI 8 211 445 products and $13.6 billion from GLG alternatives.
63% of Institutional FUM is denominated in non USD currencies.
Basic cents 14.2 25.1 Revenue and operating margins FR3 60 Institutional FUM remained broadly flat during the year with net outflows being offset by positive FX movements related to the strengthening of the Earnings per share from continuing operations: 11, AFI 8 Diluted cents 14.0 24.8 Euro.
Basic cents 14.2 25.1 Diluted cents 14.0 24.8 GLG long only FUM increased by 6% post acquisition driven by strong fund performance.
GLG long only FUM increased by 6% E posa t ar cn quii sn itiog n ds riv ep n b e y r st ro s ng h fua ndr p e er fo frr mo anc m e. continuing and discontinued operations: 11, AFI 8 Earnings per share from continuing and discontinued operations: 11, AFI 8 Basic cents 10.7 25.1 Margins Basic cents 10.7 25.1 Diluted cents 10.5 24.8 Margins The management fee margin is calculated as revenue divided by average FUM.
Previously the share of management fees from associates, primarily from BlueCrest, were included in the g rD ossi lm u at ne agd em ec nt e feen m ts argi n. The sale of the interest in BlueCrest in March 2011 will result in lower assoc iate 10.5 24.8 Adjusted profit before tax - continuing operations 9 599 560 Distribution costs FR4 60 The management fee margin is calculated as revenue divided by average FUM.
Previously the share of management fees from associates, primarily income in future periods, therefore in the analysis of management fee margins in the table below we have excluded income from associates for all periods.
Gross management fee margins by product channel are shown in the table below.
from BlueCrest, were included in the gross management fee margin.
The sale of the interest in BlueCrest in March 2011 will result in lower associate Adjusted profit before tax - continuing operations 9 599 560 income in future periods, therefore in the analysis of management fee margins in the table below we have excluded income from associates for all Average FUM Total 52.4 1,452 277 42.6 1,293 304 periods.
Group Statement of Comprehensive Income Guaranteed 470 463 AHL open ended 360 356 For the year ended 31 March Asset services FR5 60 GLG alternatives 156 155 FY 2011 FY FY 2010 FY Institutional 115 93 Statutory profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 211 445 Average FUM revenue Margin Average FUM revenue Margin Long only 75 83 $bn $m bp $bn $m bp Other comprehensive expense income: The guaranteed products gross management and other fees margin was 470 bp 2010: 463 bp.
The small increase is primarily the result of higher Available for sale investments: Average FUM Total 52.4 1,452 277 42.6 1,293 304 redemption fee income received, mainly in the first half of the year.
Margins on recent guaranteed products are consistent with historical levels.
Valuation losses gains taken to equity 5 62 The AHL gross management and othe G r fees r mo argin u on p openS endet d a produ t c e ts w m as 360 e bp, n brot adl yo the f sa mC e as io n 20m 10. prehensive Inco T m ransfee rs from to statement of comprehensive income upon sale or impairment 10 66 Foreign currency translation of subsidiaries 64 100 Guaranteed 470 463 Compensation FR6 60 The GLG alternatives gross management and other fees margin was 156 bp, compared to 155 bp for 2010 based on GLG average margins for the Tax credited 2 5 For the year ended 31 March AHL open ended 360 356 period from 1 October 2009 to 31 March 2010.
An increase in the net flows and investment performance of higher yielding funds being broadly offset Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to the owners of the parent 282 546 by inflows and investment performance into lower yielding managed accounts.
GLG alternatives 156 155 Institutional gross management and o$ thm er f ees margin was 115 bp, compared to 93 bp for 2010.
The primary reason fo r the increase relates to 2011 2010 Institutional 115 93 additional management fees earned following the achievement of net asset thresholds in certain Pemba funds.
Margins on institutional products are expected to reduce as a result of a mix shift towards managed account mandates which have an average margin of 50 bp.
Long only 75 83 Statutory profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 211 445 Other costs FR7 61 Long only gross management and other fees margin was 75 bp, compared to 83 bp for 2010.
The primary reason for the decrease is due to material inflows of lower yielding institutional mandates.
Other comprehensive expense income: The guaranteed products gross management and other fees margin was 470 bp 2010: 463 bp.
The small increase is primarily the result of higher Available for sale investments: redemption fee income received, mainly in the first half of the year.
Valuation losses gains taken to equity 5 62 Transfers from to statement of comprehensive income upon sale or impairment 10 66 Finance expense and finance income FR8 61 The AHL gross management and other fees margin on open-ended products was 360 bp, broadly the same as in 2010.
Foreign currency translation of subsidiaries 64 100 Tax credited 2 5 The GLG alternatives gross management and other fees margin was 156 bp, compared to 155 bp for 2010 based on GLG average margins for the Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to the owners of the parent 282 546 period from 1 October 2009 to 31 March 2010.
An increase in the net flows and investment performance of higher yielding funds being broadly offset The primary statements are contained within by inflows and investment performance into lower yielding managed accounts.
Adjusted profit before tax continuing operations FR9 62 Institutional gross management and other fees margin was 115 bp, compared to 93 bp for 2010.
The primary reason for the increase relates to additional management fees earned following the achievement of net asset thresholds in certain Pemba funds.
Margins on institutional products are the Financial Review FR together with narrative expected to reduce as a result of a mix shift towards managed account mandates which have an average margin of 50 bp.
Taxation FR10 AFI 6 62, 116 Long only gross management and other fees margin was 75 bp, compared to 83 bp for 2010.
The primary reason for the decrease is due to material content.
inflows of lower yielding institutional mandates.
Discontinued operations AFI 5 116 If any information is detailed in the Additional Earnings per ordinary share FR11 AFI 8 62, 117 Financial Information AFI, this will be indicated in Segmental analysis FR12 62 the notes as AFI 00.
Franchise value and other intangible assets FR13 65 Investment in fund products and other investments FR14 68 A detailed index is provided opposite.
Fee and other receivables FR15 69 Audited information has been indicated in Trade and other payables FR16 69 the Financial Review and Additional Financial Cash, liquidity and borrowings FR17 69 Information by grey background shading.
Investments in associates and joint ventures FR18 71 Leasehold improvements and equipment AFI 12 119 Deferred compensation arrangements FR19 AFI 14 72, 121 Pension benefits FR20 AFI 15 73, 122 Capital management FR21 AFI 13 75, 119 Dividends AFI 7 116 Foreign currency AFI 10 118 Fair value hierarchy of financial assets AFI 11 118 Related party transactions AFI 17 124 Financial guarantees and commitments AFI 18 124 Principal group investments AFI 19 125 Independent Auditors Report FR AFI 76, 130 Unaudited information Statement of directors responsibilities unaudited AFI 1 113 Funds under management unaudited FR2 AFI 3 58, 114 Regulatory capital unaudited FR22 75
