Man Group plc Report and accounts 140 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 Shareholder information In this section we have provided some key information to assist you in managing your shareholding in Man.
If you have a question that is not answered below, you can always contact us by email: shareholder@man.
com References are made within this section to Mans corporate website www.
com and Equinitis Shareview website www.
co. uk shareholders Dividends Final dividend for the nine month period ended www.
com 31 December 2011 Final dividend 4.38 pence per share The directors have recommended a final dividend of 4.38 pence per share in respect of the nine month period from 1 April to 31 December 2011.
Payment of this dividend is subject to approval at the 2012 Annual General Meeting AGM.
Key dates relating to this dividend are given below: Ex-dividend date Wednesday 25 April 2012 Record date Friday 27 April 2012 DRIP election date Friday 27 April 2012 AGM to approve the final dividend Tuesday 1 May 2012 Payment date Thursday 17 May 2012 DRIP certificates received CREST accounts credited Wednesday 23 May 2012 Given Mans change of year end, it is anticipated that all future final dividends will be paid in May and all future interim dividends will be paid in September.
Information on Mans future distribution policy can be found on page 4. Dividend history To help shareholders with their tax affairs, details of dividends paid in the 2011 12 tax year are detailed at the top of page 141.
For details of historical payments, please refer to the dividend section of our corporate website, which can be found under the Shareholder Information pages of the Investor Relations section.
Please note that the dividend amounts are declared in US dollars but paid in Sterling.
For ease of reference the Sterling dividend amounts have been detailed in the table.
Man Group plc Report and accounts 141 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 Amount per DRIP share DRIP Dividend share Ex-dividend Record price purchase Payment date and dividend No.
p date date p date 13 December 2011 interim for the nine months ended 31 December 2011 O 9 5.95 23 11 11 25 11 11 133.58 13 12 11 19 July 2011 final for the year ended 31 March 2011 O 8 7.68 29 06 11 01 07 11 236.90 19 07 11 Dividend payment methods Communications You can choose to receive your dividend in a number of ways.
Dividends will automatically be paid to you by cheque and sent to your registered address unless you have chosen one of the Annual and interim reports options below: Man publishes an annual and interim report every year.
The annual report is sent to shareholders in March through the post 1.
Direct payment to your bank: We recommend that you as a printed document unless the shareholder has chosen to apply for cash dividends to be paid directly into your UK receive e-communications see below.
The interim report is bank or building society account.
This is more convenient published on Mans corporate website in July and a printed and helps reduce the risk of cheques becoming lost or copy is available from the Company Secretary on request.
The associated tax voucher will still be sent direct to your registered address.
To switch to this method of payment you can download a dividend mandate @ form from the Dividends section of our corporate website, E-communications under Shareholder Information in the Investor Relations The Company offers shareholders the opportunity to access section, or from our Registrars Equiniti Shareview website.
shareholder documents, such as annual reports and notices of 1 Alternatively, you can contact Equiniti on 0871 384 2112, AGMs, via e-communications rather than receiving printed who will be able to assist with any questions you may have.
To sign up for e-communications, please register on Equinitis website.
In order to do this, you will 2.
Overseas payment service: If you live overseas, need your shareholder reference number which can be found Equiniti offers an Overseas Payment Service which is on your share certificate or on your dividend tax voucher.
Once available in certain countries.
This may make it possible registered, you will need to change your mailing preference to to receive dividends direct into your bank account in your e-communications and provide your email address.
Further information can be found on then be able to notify you by email as soon as shareholder the Shareview website or via the Equiniti helpline documents are available on Mans corporate website.
3. Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP : The Company offers a DRIP which gives shareholders the opportunity to Corporate website use their dividend to purchase further Man shares.
Instead Shareholders are encouraged to visit Mans corporate website, of receiving cash, shareholders receive as many whole which contains a wealth of information about Man.
The website shares as can be bought with their dividend, taking into includes information about the industry in which we operate, account related purchase costs.
Any residual cash will be our strategy and business performance, recent news from Man carried forward and added to their next dividend.
The Investor Relations section is a key tool for shareholders with information on the If you wish to join the DRIP, you can download copies of the share price, our financial results, shareholder meetings and DRIP terms and conditions and the DRIP mandate form from dividends, as well as a Frequently asked questions section.
the Investor Relations pages of the Man website under the You can also download current and past annual and interim Dividends section of Shareholder Information.
complete the DRIP mandate form and return it to Equiniti.
Should you have any questions on the DRIP or would like a 1 Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, each business day.
Calls to this paper mandate form to be sent to you, please contact Equiniti number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Please note that if you wish to join the DRIP provider costs may vary.
2 Please note that a payment charge would be deducted from each in time for the payment of the forthcoming final dividend for the individual payment before conversion into your local currency.
nine month period ended 31 December 2011, our Registrars, Equiniti, must have received the instruction by 27 April 2012.
Instructions received by Equiniti after this date will be applied to the next dividend.
Man Group plc Report and accounts 142 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 Shareholder information continued Shareholder registration and enquiries Registered office Man Groups register of shareholders is maintained by Man Group plc Equiniti as the Companys Registrar.
Many aspects of Riverbank House managing your shareholding, such as updating your personal 2 Swan Lane details and checking your shareholding and dividend London payments, can be done by logging on to Equinitis website.
To EC4R 3AD do this, you will need your shareholder reference number which Telephone: 020 7144 1000 can be found on your share certificate or dividend tax voucher.
Fax: 020 7144 1923 For enquiries about your shareholding, you can also contact Registered in England and Wales with registered no: 2921462 Equiniti in writing at Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA, or by telephone on 0871 Company contacts 1 1 384 2112 or Text tel 0871 384 2255, quoting Ref No 874.
com Callers from outside the UK should telephone 44 121 415 Head of Investor Relations and Financial 7592.
Alternatively, you can address your question directly Communications - Miriam McKay to the Man team by emailing shareholder@man.
com Share dealing service Company Secretary - Rachel Rowson You can buy shares through any authorised stockbroker or bank that offers a share dealing service in the UK, or in your Company advisors country of residence if outside the UK.
Equiniti provides a share Auditors dealing service which is available to purchase or sell Man  LLP Group plc shares in the UK.
The service is provided by Equiniti Financial Services Limited and can be accessed via the dealing Corporate Brokers section of the Shareview website www.
co. uk Bank of America Merrill Lynch dealing.
For telephone dealing please call 08456 037 037 Credit Suisse between 8.00am and 4.30pm Monday to Friday.
Goldman Sachs Shareholder alerts Public relations Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
The Maitland Consultancy Limited Share or investment scams are often run from boiler rooms where fraudsters cold-call investors offering them worthless, overpriced or even non-existent shares, or offer to buy their shares in a company at a higher price than the market value.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount, or offers of free reports about the Company.
Even seasoned investors have been caught out and it is estimated that 200 million is lost in the UK each year.
The FSA have some very helpful information about such scams on their website, including 10 top tips to protect your savings.
Man encourages shareholders to read the information on the site which can be accessed by going to http: www.
uk consumerinformation and clicking on Scams and Swindles.
1 Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, each business day.
Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Other telephony provider costs may vary.
Man Group plc Report and accounts 143 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 Notes Man Group plc Report and accounts 144 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 Notes Mans literary sponsorships Man sponsors three major literary prizes The Man Booker Prize for Fiction, the Man Booker International Prize and the Man Asian Literary Prize.
Man first took on the sponsorship of the Man Booker Prize for Fiction in 2002.
The aim of the prize, which receives worldwide press attention, is to promote excellence in fiction by recognising the best full-length novel published by a citizen of the Commonwealth, or the Republic of Ireland, in the year of the prize.
The novel must be an original, non-self published, work in English.
Winning the Man Booker Prize is considered the ultimate accolade by many writers.
As former prize-winner Graham Swift commented: Prizes dont make writers and writers dont The Man Booker Prize for Fiction 2011 was won by Julian Barnes for write to win prizes, but in the near-glut of literary awards now The Sense of an Ending on offer its the one which, if were completely honest, we most covet.
Recent winners have included Julian Barnes for The Sense of an Ending 2011, Howard Jacobson for The Finkler Question 2010 and Hilary Mantel for Wolf Hall 2009.
Dame Stella Rimington, Chair of the 2011 judges, made the announcement that Julian Barnes was the latest recipient on 18 October 2011 at a televised awards dinner hosted at the Guildhall.
Man Chairman Jon Aisbitt announced on the same night that Man had just signed a new 10-year sponsorship agreement with the Booker foundation.
The Man Booker International Prize went in 2011 to US author Philip Roth.
The prize is awarded every two years to a living author who has published fiction either originally in English or Hermione Lee collects Philip Roths Man Booker International prize whose work is generally available in translation in English.
It is significantly different from the annual Man Booker Prize in that it highlights one writers overall contribution to fiction, rather than a single work.
In addition to the Man Booker Prizes, Man also sponsors the increasingly widely recognised Man Asian Literary Prize.
This is an annual award given to the best novel by an Asian writer, either written in English, or translated into English.
If the work has been translated, there is also an award to recognise the skill of the translator.
The Man Asian Literary Prize 2010 was won by Bi Feiyu for Three Sisters Printed by Royle Print Limited, a carbon neutral printing company.
Man Group plc Riverbank House 2 Swan Lane London EC4R 3AD Tel 44 0 20 7144 1000
