party 100 Governance Annual report & accounts 2011 2012 Annual General Meeting allthe other Directors to see re-appointment.
However, in accordance 2012 Annual General Meeting with the recommendation of the Code, all the Directors are standing for The Annual General Meeting will be held on Thursday 7 June 2012 re-appointment at the 2012 AGM.
The biographies for each Director are at12.30p.
m. at The Caleta Hotel, Catalan Bay, Gibraltar.
The AGM notice set out on pages 68 to 69. isset out on pages 158 to 161 of this document.
The following is a The Nominations Committee has reviewed these re-appointments summary ofresolutions to be considered: andon the basis of experience, performance, skills and commitment Resolution 1: To receive and consider the Companys Annual report demonstrated, has recommended to the Board that each Director andaccounts together with the Reports of the Directors and Auditor bere-appointed.
The Board has considered and agrees with this for the year ended 31 December 2011. recommendation and is therefore advising shareholders to support The Directors present to the meeting bwin.
partys audited annual there-appointments of all the Directors.
accounts for the year ended 31 December 2011 together with the Resolution 6 to re-appoint Per Afrell Directors Report and Auditors Report.
Resolution 7 to re-appoint Joachim Baca Resolution 2: To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31December 2011.
Resolution 8 to re-appoint Manfred Bodner The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 80 to 96 of this Resolution 9 to re-appoint Tim Bristow.
The vote will have an advisory status only and will be in respect of the remuneration policy and overall remuneration packages Resolution 10 to re-appoint Simon Duffy generally and will not be specific to individual levels of remuneration.
Resolution 11 to re-appoint Helmut Kern Resolution 3: To re-appoint BDO LLP and BDO Limited as auditors oftheCompany with BDO Limited acting as auditor for the purposes Resolution 12 to re-appoint Lewis Moonie ofsection 10 of the Gibraltar Companies Accounts Act 1999.
Resolution 13 to re-appoint Rod Perry In accordance with section 180 of the Companies Act 1930 as amended the Company at each annual general meeting has to appoint an auditor Resolution 14 to re-appoint Georg Riedl to hold office until the next annual general meeting and BDO LLP and Resolution 15 to re-appoint Jim Ryan BDO Limited have expressed their willingness to be re-appointed as auditors.
The Audit Committee recommends and the Board agrees with Resolution 16 to re-appoint NorbertTeufelberger the re-appointment of BDO LLP and BDO Limited as auditors.
Resolution 17 to re-appoint Martin Weigold Resolution 4: To authorise the Directors to set the auditors Resolution 18 to re-appoint Geoff Baldwin remuneration The resolution authorises the Directors to set the remuneration payable Resolution 19: Share allotment authority to the auditors, in accordance with best practice.
The Audit Committee istasked with reviewing the auditors remuneration and making a The Board is proposing to update the Companys authority to issue recommendation to the Board.
newshare capital in accordance with UK corporate governance guidelines, specifically those of the Association of British Insurers.
Resolution 5: To declare a final dividend TheCompany is seeking authority to issue new shares up to an amount The Board is proposing a final dividend in respect of the year ended equal to one-third of the existing issued share capital.
If these shares 31December 2011 of 1.56 pence per ordinary share.
This is in line areissued and paid-up wholly or partly otherwise than for cash for withbwin.
partys distribution policy announced on 30 June 2011, example, in connection with an acquisition by the Company using its underwhich the Board proposed a progressive dividend policy.
If shares for consideration, then pursuant to the provisions of the Articles, approved by shareholders this final dividend will be payable on 12 June no pre-emption rights will apply to such an issue of shares.
2012 to those shareholders on the register of members on 11May 2012.
In addition, the Company is seeking authority to issue further new Resolutions 6 to 18: Director re-appointments shares in an amount up to a further one-third of the existing issued The Companys articles of association require any Director appointed by share capital.
This further additional authority will only be used for the Board to seek re-appointment at the following AGM.
Geoff Baldwin afull-pre-emptive rights issue.
was appointed a Director on 15 July 2011 and is therefore standing for re-appointment at the 2012 AGM.
The articles also require one-third of This authority if granted will expire at the 2013 AGM or, if earlier, 7September 2013. bwin.
party 101 Overview 02 Annual report & accounts 2011 Strategy 20 Review of 2011 32 Markets and risks 47 Responsibility and relationships 58 Governance 70 Financial statements 103 Resolution 20: Disapplication of pre-emptionrights The Articles require any new shares to normally be offered to the current shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings to prevent their shareholdings being significantly diluted by the Company acting unilaterally.
To give the Company a degree of flexibility in managing its share capital and raising new funds, the Board is seeking shareholder authority to issue up to 5% of the Companys issued share capital for cash without pre-emption rights applying to such an allotment.
It is normal practice for UK-listed companies to have this limited authority, which accords with UK corporate governance best practice guidelines.
In accordance with the latter, the Board confirms its intention that no more than 7.5% of the issued share capital will be issued for cash on a non pre-emptive basis during any rolling three-year period.
Resolution 20 is subject to resolution 19 beingpassed.
Resolution 21: Share buyback authority In certain circumstances, it may be advantageous for the Company to purchase its own shares and Resolution 21 seeks authority from the shareholders to do so.
The resolution specifies the maximum number ofshares that may be acquired 10% of the Companys issued shares andthe maximum and minimum prices at which they may be bought.
Any shares purchased in this way will be cancelled and the number ofshares in issue will be reduced accordingly.
The Directors will only purchase such shares after taking into account the effects on earnings per share and the benefit for shareholders.
party announced on 30 June 2011, as part of its distribution policy that for the following 12 months the Company would acquire up to 75million of its shares and so the current purchase authority has been utilised.
The current authority will lapse at the 2012 AGM.
The proposed new authority will expire at the conclusion of the 2013 annual general meeting or, if earlier, 7 September 2013.
Directors report Together with the Overview, Strategy and Review of 2011 sections of the Annual report, this governance section constitutes the Directors report for theyear ended 31 December 2011.
By order of the Board Robert Hoskin Company Secretary 29 March 2012
