party 158 Notice of 2012 Annual report & accounts 2011 Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the 2012 Annual General Meeting of bwin.
party digital entertainment plc the Company will be held at The Caleta Hotel, Catalan Bay, Gibraltar on Thursday, 7 June 2012 at 12.30 p. m. to consider the following business with the exception of Resolutions 20 and 21 which arespecial resolutions, all resolutions are proposed as ordinary resolutions, and all resolutions will be decided on a poll.
To receive the Companys Annual report and accounts together with the Reports of the Directors and Auditor for the year ended 31December2011.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2011.
To re-appoint BDO LLP and BDO Limited as auditors of the Company with BDO Limited acting as auditor for the purposes of section 10 oftheGibraltar Companies Accounts Act 1999.
To authorise the Directors to set the auditors remuneration.
To declare a final dividend of 1.56 pence per ordinary share payable on 12 June 2012 to those shareholders on the register of members on11May2012.
To re-appoint Per Afrell as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint Joachim Baca as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint Manfred Bodner as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint Tim Bristow as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint Simon Duffy as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint Helmut Kern as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint Lewis Moonie as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint Rod Perry as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint Georg Riedl as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint Jim Ryan as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint Norbert Teufelberger as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint Martin Weigold as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint Geoff Baldwin as a Director of the Company.
That in place of any existing authority: i the Board of Directors be and it is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of section 66 of the Companies Act 1930 as amended to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot Relevant Securities as defined in article 6 of the Companys Articles ofAssociation the Articles up to an aggregate nominal amount of 41,094 and further, ii the Board of Directors be and it is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of section 66 of the Companies Act 1930 as amended to exercise all powers of the Company to allot Relevant Securities comprising Equity Securities as defined by article 20 of the Articles up to a nominal amount of 82,188 including within such limit any Relevant Securities allotted under sub-paragraph i above in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue: A to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as practicable to their existing holdings: and B to people who are holders of other Equity Securities if this is required by the rights of those securities or, if the Board of Directors considers it necessary, as permitted by the rights of those securities, and so that the Board may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which it considers necessary or appropriate todeal with fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any othermatter, provided that these authorities shall expire at the end of the Companys Annual General Meeting in the year 2013 or, if earlier, at close ofbusiness on 7 September 2013, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or enter into an agreement which would ormight require Relevant Securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Board of Directors may allot Relevant Securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authorities conferred hereby had not expired.
party 159 Overview 02 Annual report & accounts 2011 Strategy 20 Review of 2011 32 Markets and risks 47 Responsibility and relationships 58 Governance 70 Financial statements 103 20.
That subject to the passing of the previous resolution and in place of the existing authority, the Board of Directors be and it is hereby empowered pursuant to Articles 22 to 25 of the Articles to allot Equity Securities as defined by article 20 of the Articles for cash pursuant totheauthority conferred by the previous resolution as though Articles 14 to 21 of the Articles did not apply to any such allotment provided thatthis power shall be limited: i To the allotment of Equity Securities in connection with an offer of Equity Securities but in the case of the authority granted under Resolution 19 ii by way of a rights issue only : A to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as practicable to their existing holdings: and B to people who are holders of other Equity Securities if this is required by the rights of those securities or, if the Board of Directors considers it necessary, as permitted by the rights of those securities, and so that the Board may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which it considers necessary or appropriate to deal with fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter: and ii In the case of the authority granted under Resolution 19 i, to the allotment otherwise than under sub-paragraph i above of Equity Securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 6,164, and shall expire at the end of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2013 or, if earlier, at close of business on 7 September 2013, save that theCompany may before such an expiry make an offer or enter into an agreement which would or might require Equity Securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Board of Directors may allot Equity Securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
That the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of section 79 of the Gibraltar Companies Act 1930 as amended of ordinary shares of 0.00015 each of the Company Shares provided that: i The maximum number of Shares hereby authorised to be acquired is 82,188,269: ii The minimum price that may be paid for any Share is 0.00015, being the nominal value of a Share: iii The maximum price that may be paid for any Share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for a share as derived from the Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Share is contracted to be purchased: and iv The authority hereby conferred shall expire on the date of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in the year 2013 or, if earlier, atcloseof business on 7 September 2013: but a contract for purchase may be made before such expiry, that will or may be completed wholly or partly thereafter, and a purchase of shares may be made in pursuance of any such contract.
By order of the Board of Directors Robert Hoskin Company Secretary bwin.
party digital entertainment plc 711 Europort Gibraltar 20 April 2012 bwin.
party 160 Notice of 2012 Annual report & accounts 2011 Annual General Meeting General Notes Notes: 1.
General The Notice of AGM is an important document.
If there is anything you do not understand then you should consult with the appropriate professional adviser.
If you have any questions regarding how to attend and or vote at the AGM then please contact Capita Registrars.
Capita provides registrar, UK transfer agent services and depositary services to the Company.
Capitas contact information appears below: Registrar UK Transfer Agent Depositary Capita Registrars Jersey Limited Capita Registrars Capita IRG Trustees Limited 12 Castle Street The Registry The Registry St. Helier 34 Beckenham Road 34 Beckenham Road Jersey JE2 3RT Beckenham Beckenham Channel Islands Kent BR3 4TU Kent BR3 4TU United Kingdom Email: ssd@capitaregistrars.
com Telephone: 44 0 1534 847000 Email: ssd@capitaregistrars.
If you have recently sold all of your bwin.
party shares and or depositary interests then please send this document and the enclosed forms totheperson who sold the shares depositary interests for you.
They can then send them to the new owner of the shares depositary Interests.
References to times in the AGM notice are to the time in Gibraltar Central European Time, which is one hour ahead of British Summer Time BST.
The business of the meeting is set out in the Notice of AGM and a summary of and rationale for each resolution is set out on pages 100 to 101.
Biographies of the Directors recommended for re-appointment are set out on pages 68 and 69.
Right of attendance 2.1 Shareholders To have the right to come and vote at the AGM, you must be a shareholder of bwin.
party digital entertainment plc, holding shares entered ontheCompanys register of members by 6.00 p. m. 5.00 p. m. BST on 5 June 2012.
2.2 Depositary interest holders To have the right to come and vote at the AGM, you must be entered on bwin.
party digital entertainment plcs register of depositary interests by6.00p.
m. 5.00 p. m. BST on 5 June 2012 and bring to the AGM a letter of corporate representation validly executed on behalf of the Depositary theletter of corporate representation can be obtained from the Depositary.
Voting 3.1 Shareholders Shareholders may attend the AGM in person and vote on a show of hands or on a poll.
A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the AGM may also appoint a proxy to attend and, on a poll, vote in his her place.
A proxy need not be a shareholder.
A proxy may demand or join in demanding a poll andhas the right to speak at the meeting.
A proxy form may be submitted in hard copy form by post or courier or electronically via the www.
Hard copy proxy forms must be completed by or on behalf of the Shareholder.
If the Shareholder is a corporation then the proxy form must be executed by a duly authorised person or under its common seal or in a manner authorised by its constitution.
A proxy form is enclosed with this Notice of AGM.
To be valid, completed proxy forms must be returned to Capita Registrars, PXS, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU tobereceived no later than 12.30 p. m. 11.30 a. m. BST on 5 June 2012.
Shareholders wishing to submit proxy forms electronically should visit the www.
com website and select the Annual General Meeting tab on the left hand side of the page.
To be valid, electronic proxy instructions must be received by the Registrar no later than 12.30 p. m. 11.30 a. m. BST on 5 June 2012.
A corporation which is a shareholder may, by resolution of its directors or other relevant governing body, authorise a person or persons to act as itsrepresentative or representatives at the AGM.
The representative or representatives should produce to the registrar and or bwin.
partys Company Secretary a certified copy of the resolution of authorisation when attending the AGM.
party 161 Overview 02 Annual report & accounts 2011 Strategy 20 Review of 2011 32 Markets and risks 47 Responsibility and relationships 58 Governance 70 Financial statements 103 3.2 Depositary interest holders Depositary interest holders may attend in person and vote on a show of hands or on a poll if the Depositary has appointed them a corporate representative see section 2.2 above.
Depositary interest holders not wishing to attend the AGM but wishing to vote in respect of the resolutions tobe considered at the AGM can do so by instructing the Depositary.
This may be done in one of two ways: i Depositary interest holders who are CREST members may give such an instruction utilising the CREST electronic voting service in accordance with the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal depositary interest holders or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider, who will be able totake the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for an instruction made by CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST proxy instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos requirements and must contain information required for such instructions, as described in theCREST Manual.
The message, in order to be valid, must be transmitted so as to be received by the Depositarys agent, ID RA10 by 12.30 p. m. 11.30a.
The time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by theCREST applications host from which the Depositarys agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed byCREST.
TheDepositary may treat as invalid a CREST voting instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers, should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input ofCREST proxy instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or to procure that his or her CREST sponsor or votingservice provider takes such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by anyparticular time.
Please refer to the CREST Manual for further guidance.
ii Depositary interest holders who cannot give voting instructions via CREST should complete the enclosed form of direction and submit it to the depositary.
If the depositary interest holder is a corporation then the form of direction must be executed by a duly authorised person or under its common seal or in a manner authorised by its constitution.
To be valid, forms of direction must be received by the Depositary no later than 12.30 p. m. 11.30 a. m. BST on 4 June 2012. iii Depositary interest holders who cannot give voting instructions via CREST can also submit a form of direction electronically by visiting www.
com website and selecting the Annual General Meeting tab on the left hand side of the page.
To be valid, the electronicformof direction must be received by the Depositary no later than 12.30 p. m. 11.30 a. m. BST on 4 June 2011.
party employees who have exercised their bwin.
party share awards and have retained all some of the resultant bwin.
party Shares and hold these Shares through the bwin.
party nominee account service, Capita IRG Trustees Nominees Limited and wish to attend the AGM, should request Capita IRG Trustees Nominees Limited to appoint them as a corporate representative.
This is done by completing the nominee account instruction form enclosed with this AGM notice.
Irrespective of whether an eligible employee wishes to attend the AGM or not, they are recommended to complete thenominee account instruction form and send it to Capita Registrars, PXS, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU, UnitedKingdom, to be received no later than 12.30 p. m. 11.30 a. m. BST on 4 June 2012.
Documents for inspection Copies of the following documents are available for inspection during normal business hours at the Companys registered office at 711 Europort, Gibraltar.
These documents will also be available for inspection at the The Caleta Hotel, Catalan Bay, Gibraltar on the day of the meeting from 12.00noon until the conclusion of the AGM: Memorandum and Articles of Association: Executive Directors Service Agreements: Non-Executive Directors Letters of Appointment: The Companys signed Annual report for the year ended 31 December 2011: Register of Members: and Register of Depositary Interest Holders.
