party 162 Glossary and definitions Annual report & accounts 2011 AAMS LAmministrazione autonoma dei monopoli di Stato, the Italian gaming regulator Active player days aggregate number of days in the given period in which active players have contributed to rake and or placed a wager.
This can be calculated by multiplying average active players by the number of days in the period active player in relation to the Groups products, a player who has contributed to rake and or placed a wager Annual report the Companys financial statements and accompanying reports for the year ended 31 December 2011 ARJEL LAutorit fide rgulation des jeux en ligne, the French gaming regulator average active players the daily average number of players who contributed to rake and or placed a wager in the given period.
 This can be calculated by dividing active player days in the given period, by the number of days in that period B2B business-to-business B2C business-to-consumer betoto www.
com, one of the Groups sports betting websites Board or Directors the Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Directors of the Company bwin bwin Interactive Entertainment AG, its subsidiaries and its associated companies and or bwin.
com, one of the Groups principal sports betting websites, as the context requires bwin.
party digital entertainment plc, the name of the Group formed by the Merger of PartyGaming Plc and bwin Interactive Entertainment AG Cashcade Cashcade Limited and its subsidiaries Clean EBITDA and Clean EPS EBITDA EPS before the provision for costs associated with the Groups Non-Prosecution Agreement, amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles, reorganisation expenses, merger and acquisition expenses, exchange differences, andbefore non-cash charges relating to share-based payments Company or PartyGaming PartyGaming Plc prior to completion of the Merger and bwin.
party digital entertainment plc bwin.
party after the Merger or bwin.
party Depositary Capita IRG Trustees Limited Discontinued operations Ongames B2B business as well as operations located physically outside of the US but which relate to customers in the US and were terminated following the enactment of the UIGEA on 13 October 2006 EBITDA earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation Employee Trust the PartyGaming Plc Shares Trust, a discretionary share ownership trust established by the Company in which the potential beneficiaries include all of the current and former employees and self-employed consultants of the Group Executive Directors the Executive Directors of the Company listed in the Board of Directors section of the Annual report Foxy Bingo www.
com, one of Europes largest active bingo sites that was acquired as part of the purchase of Cashcade FTSE4Good Index Series a benchmark of tradeable indices for responsible investors.
The index is derived from the globally recognised FTSE Global Equity Index Series Gamebookers www.
com, one of the Groups sports betting websites Gioco Digitale www.
it, one of the Groups principal bingo websites gross win margin gross win as a percentage of the amount wagered gross win customer stakes less customer winnings Group or bwin.
party Group the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries and subsidiary undertakings IAS International Accounting Standards IASB International Accounting Standards Board IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards InterTrader Our financial markets service, formerly known as PartyMarkets.
com KPIs Key Performance Indicators such as active player days and yield per active player day bwin.
party 163 Overview 02 Annual report & accounts 2011 Strategy 20 Review of 2011 32 Markets and risks 47 Responsibility and relationships 58 Governance 70 Financial statements 103 Merger the merger of bwin Interactive Entertainment AG and PartyGaming Plc that was completed on 31 March 2011, accounted forunder IFRS 3 as an acquisition of bwin new player sign-ups new players who register on the Groups real money sites Non-Executive Directors the Non-Executive Directors of the Company listed in the Board of Directors section of the Annual report NPA the Non-Prosecution Agreement entered into by the Group and the US Attorneys Office for the Southern District of New York the USAO on 6 April 2009.
Under the terms of the agreement, the USAO will not prosecute the Group for providing internet gambling services to customers in the US prior to the enactment of the UIGEA PartyBets www.
com, one of the Groups sports betting websites PartyCasino www.
com, the Groups principal casino website PartyGammon www.
com, the Groups backgammon website PartyPoker www.
com, the Groups principal poker website player or unique active player Customers who placed a wager in the period rake the money charged by PartyGaming for each qualifying poker hand played on its websites in accordance with the prevailing and applicable rake structure Registrar Capita Registrars Jersey Limited, the registrars of the Company Regulatory Process Agreement The Regulatory Process Agreement dated 29 July 2010, as amended, the primary purpose of which is to facilitate the exploitation of certain new business opportunities for bwin.
party sports betting placing bets on sporting events UIGEA the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act that was enacted in the US on 13 October 2006 USAO United States Attorneys Office for the Southern District of New York wager a bet on a game or sporting event WPT the business and substantially all of the assets of The World Poker Tour acquired by the Group on 9 November 2009 yield per active player day net revenue in the period divided by the number of active player days in that period Design and production by Radley Yeldar www.
com Photography by Michael Harvey Printed by Boss Print 02 Overview 66 Board of Directors Inside 03 Pro forma financial highlights 70 Governance this report 04 Our product verticals 75 Audit Committee report 06 Our business environment 77 Ethics Committee report 08 Chairmans statement 78 Integration Committee report 10 Co-CEOs review 79 Nominations Committee report 18 Our business model 80 Directors Remuneration report 20 Strategy 97 Other governance and statutorydisclosures 22 Regulated and to-be- 100 Annual General Meeting regulatedmarkets 102 Statement of Directors 24 Invest in our core assets responsibilities 26 Strategic alliances 28 New areas of digital entertainment 103 Financial statements 30 Act responsibly 104 Auditors report 32 Review of 2011 105 Consolidated statement ofcomprehensive income 47 Markets and risks 106 Consolidated statement 48 Sports betting offinancialposition 50 Casino & games 107 Consolidated statement 52 Poker ofchangesin equity 54 Bingo 108 Consolidated statement 55 Key risks ofcashflows 110 Notes to the consolidated 58 Responsibility and relationships financialstatements 59 Corporate responsibility 150 Company statement 61 Customers and responsible gaming offinancialposition 63 Employees 151 Company statement 64 Suppliers ofchangesinequity 64 Shareholders and other providers 152 Company statement of capital ofcashflows 65 Environment and community 153 Share information 158 Notice of Annual General Meeting 162 Glossary and definitions See our online report at www.
com Annual report & accounts 2011 Annual report For more information & accounts visit us online at let the world 2011 www.
