JPM Mercantile pp52 56 JPM Mercantile pp52 56 31 03 2011 07:51 Page 55 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 55 Glossary of Terms and Definitions Return on Net Assets Actual Gearing Factor Total return on net asset value NAV per share, Investments expressed as a percentage of on a bid value to bid value basis, assuming that all shareholders funds.
This shows the effect of gearing dividends paid out by the Company were reinvested on the net asset value if the market value of the in the shares of the Company at the NAV per share portfolio were to increase by 100%.
at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Share Price Discount Premium to Net Asset Value In accordance with industry practice, dividends If the share price of an investment trust is lower than payable which have been declared but which are the net asset value NAV per share, the shares are unpaid at the balance sheet date are deducted from said to be trading at a discount.
The discount is the NAV when calculating the total return on net shown as a percentage of the NAV.
It is more common for an investment trusts shares to trade at a discount than Return to Shareholders at a premium.
Total return to the investor, on a mid-market price to mid-market price basis, assuming that all dividends Performance Attribution received were reinvested, without transaction costs, Analysis of how the Company achieved its recorded in the shares of the Company at the time the shares performance relative to its benchmark.
Performance Attribution Definitions: Benchmark Return Allocation Effect Total return on the benchmark, on a mid-market Measures the impact of allocating assets differently value to mid-market value basis, assuming that all to those in the benchmark, via the portfolios dividends received were reinvested, without weighting in different countries, sectors or asset transaction costs, in the shares of the underlying types.
companies at time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Selection Effect Measures the effect of investing in securities to a The benchmark is a recognised index of stocks which greater or lesser extent than their weighting in the should not be taken as wholly representative of the benchmark, or of investing in securities which are Companys investment universe.
The Companys not included in the benchmark.
investment strategy does not follow or track this index and consequently, there may be some Gearing Cash Effect divergence between the Companys performance and Measures the impact on returns of borrowings or that of the benchmark.
cash balances on the Companys relative performance.
Total Expense Ratio TER Management fees and all other operating expenses Fees Expenses excluding interest, expressed as a percentage of the The payment of fees and expenses reduces the level average of the month end net assets during the year.
of total assets, and therefore has a negative effect on The method of calculating the TER has changed this relative performance.
year and the prior year figure restated.
In previous years the TER represented management fees and Share Buybacks all other operating expenses excluding interest, Measures the effect on relative performance of calculated as above expressed as a percentage of repurchasing and cancelling the Companys own the average of the opening and closing net assets.
shares at a price which is less than the net asset The new methodology more accurately reflects the value per share.
way the management fee is calculated, which is based on the Companys month end market capitalisation.
