The Merchants Trust PLC Investor Information & Contact Details The Manager RCM UK Limited, which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority, is part of Allianz Global Investors, one of the largest fund managers in the world.
As at 31 December 2010, Allianz Global Investors had combined assets under management of1,499 billion.
RCM UK, through its predecessors, has a heritage of investment trust management expertise in the UK stretching back to the nineteenth century and at 31 March 2011 it had 1.07 billion assets under management in a range of investment trusts.
co. uk Registered Number 28276 Results Half-year Report posted to shareholders in September Annual Financial Report posted to shareholders in April Annual General Meeting held in May Ordinary Dividends First quarterly paid in August Second quarterly paid in November Third quarterly paid in February Final usually paid in May Ordinary dividends paid by the Company carry a tax credit at a rate of 10%.
The credit discharges the tax liability of shareholders subject to income tax at less than the higher rate.
Shareholders liable to pay tax at the higher rate will have further tax to pay.
Preference Dividends Payable half-yearly on 1 August and 1 February Market and Portfolio Information The Companys Ordinary Shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The market price, price range, gross yield and net asset value are shown daily in The Financial Times and The Daily Telegraph.
The net asset value of the Ordinary Shares is calculated daily and published through the London Stock Exchange Regulatory News Service.
The geographical spread of investments and ten largest holdings are also published monthly by the London Stock Exchange Regulatory News Service.
They are also available from the Investment Managers Investors Helpline on 0800 389 4696 or via the Managers website: www.
Share Price The share price for 31 January 2011 was 406.9p.
Website Further information about the The Merchants Trust PLC, including monthly fact sheets, daily share prices and performance, is available on the Managers website: www.
com, which can also be reached via www.
Association of Investment Companies AIC The Company is a member of the AIC, the trade body of the investment trust industry, which provides a range of literature including fact sheets and a monthly statistical service.
Copies of these publications can be obtained from the AIC, 9th Floor, 24 Chiswell Street, London EC1Y 4YY, or at www.
AIC Category: UK Growth and Income.
50 The Merchants Trust PLC Investor Information & Contact Details How to invest Alliance Trust Savings Limited ATS is one of a number of providers offering a range of products and services, including Share Plans, ISAs and pension products.
ATS also maintains services including online and telephone-based dealing facilities and online valuations.
More information is available from Allianz Global Investors either via Investor Services on 0800 389 4696 or on the Managers website: www.
com investmenttrusts, or from Alliance Trust Savings Customer Services Department on 01382 573737 or by e-mail: contact@alliancetrust.
co. uk A list of other providers can be found on the RCM Investment Trusts website: www.
com investmenttrusts Registrars The Companys Registrars, Capita Registrars, can be contacted at The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
Payment of Dividends Direct to Bank Accounts Cash dividends will be sent by cheque to first-named shareholders at their registered address together with a tax voucher.
Dividends may be paid directly into shareholders bank accounts.
Details of how this may be arranged can be obtained from the Registrars, Capita Registrars.
Dividends mandated in this way are paid via BACS Bankers Automated Clearing Service.
Tax vouchers will then be sent directly to shareholders at their registered address unless other instructions have been given.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan for Ordinary Shareholders A Dividend Reinvestment Plan is operated by the Companys Registrars, Capita Registrars.
The Plan offers Ordinary Shareholders the opportunity to use their cash dividend to buy further shares in the Company under a low-cost dealing arrangement.
Capita enclose a copy of the Terms and Conditions and a personalised application form with each dividend payment.
Share Dealing Services and Share Portal Capita Registrars, the Companys Registrars, operate an on-line and telephone dealing facility for UK resident shareholders with share certificates.
Stamp duty may also be payable on purchases.
For further information on these services please contact: www.
com for on-line dealing or 0871 664 0454 for telephone dealing.
Lines are open 8.00 a. m. to 4.30 p. m. Monday to Friday.
Calls to the 0871 664 0454 number are charged at 10 pence per minute plus any of your service providers network extras.
Different charges may apply to calls made from mobile telephones and calls may be recorded and monitored randomly for security and training purposes.
Capita Registrars offer shareholders a free on-line service called The Share Portal, enabling shareholders to access a comprehensive range of shareholder related information.
Through The Share Portal, shareholders can: view their current and historical shareholding details: obtain an indicative share price and valuation: register for e-comms, amend address details: view details of dividend payments: and apply for dividends to be paid directly to a bank or to change existing bank details.
Shareholders can access these services at www.
com and selecting Share Portal Shareholders from the drop down menu, or alternatively via the Portals: Quick Links, and selecting Share Portal.
Shareholders will need to register for a Share Portal Account by completing an on-screen registration form.
An email address is required.
Shareholders Enquiries Capita Registrars are the Companys registrars and maintain the share register.
In the event of queries regarding their holdings of shares, lost certificates, dividend cheques, registered details, etc.
shareholders should contact the registrars on 0871 664 0300 or 44 20 8639 3399 if calling from overseas.
Lines are open 8.30 a. m. to 5.30 p. m. London time Monday to Friday.
Calls to the 0871 664 0300 number are charged at 10 pence per minute plus any of your service providers network extras.
Calls to the helpline number from outside the UK are charged at applicable international rates.
Capita Registrars can also be contacted at ssd.
Changes of name and address must be notified to the registrars in writing.
Any general enquiries about the Company should be directed to the Company Secretary, The Merchants Trust PLC, 155 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 3AD.
CREST Proxy Voting Shares held in uncertificated form i. e. in CREST may be voted through the CREST Proxy Voting Service in accordance with the procedures set out in the CREST manual.
Warning to Shareholders We are aware that some shareholders may have received unsolicited telephone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based organisations who target UK shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
They can be extremely persistent and extremely persuasive.
Shareholders are therefore advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice or offers to buy shares at a discount.
Please note that it is most unlikely that either the Company or the Companys Registrar, Capita Registrars, would make unsolicited telephone calls to shareholders.
Any such calls would only ever relate to official documentation already circulated to shareholders and never in respect of investment advice.
If you are in any doubt about the veracity of an unsolicited telephone call, please call either the Company Secretary or the Registrar at the numbers provided on pages 16 and 51 of this Report.
