Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 1 General information Cable & Wireless Communications Plc the Company or the Parent Company and its subsidiaries together Cable & Wireless Communications Group or the Group is an international telecommunications company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
It operates through four business units being the Caribbean, Panama, Macau and Monaco & Islands.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies 2.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of the Cable & Wireless Communications Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted by the European Union EU as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2011.
These consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars US$ and rounded to the nearest million.
They have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for certain financial instruments held at fair value.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held-for-sale are stated at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The Directors have prepared the accounts on a going concern basis see page 41 of the Directors report for further detail.
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
These estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are considered to be reasonable under the circumstances.
They form the basis of judgements about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on a continuing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
Critical judgements and areas where the use of estimates is significant are discussed in note 3.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently by Group entities.
Group reorganisation and demerger in the year ended 31 March 2010 On 19 March 2010, the Cable & Wireless Group effected a Group reorganisation whereby Cable & Wireless Communications Plc was inserted as a new holding company for the Cable & Wireless Group via a Scheme of Arrangement.
Cable & Wireless Communications Plc therefore replaced Cable and Wireless plc now Cable & Wireless Limited as the Parent Company of the Cable & Wireless Group as at this date.
On the same date, shareholders were given one ordinary share and one B share of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc for every share of Cable and Wireless plc held on that date.
At this time, the Cable & Wireless Group was renamed the Cable & Wireless Communications Group.
Shares in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc were admitted to the Official List of the Financial Services Authority and to trading on the London Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities on 22 March 2010.
Cable & Wireless Communications 69 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 2.1 Basis of preparation continued The Scheme of Arrangement was accounted for using the principles of reverse acquisition accounting contained within IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
In the consolidated financial statements, the transaction to interpose the new holding company, Cable & Wireless Communications Plc, was presented as though the Cable & Wireless Group acquired Cable & Wireless Communications Plc.
This resulted in the legal acquiror, Cable & Wireless Communications Plc, being treated for accounting purposes as having been acquired by its legal subsidiary, Cable & Wireless Limited.
In these financial statements, this resulted in a continuation of the consolidated financial statements of the Cable & Wireless Group renamed the Cable & Wireless Communications Group.
On 26 March 2010, the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business was demerged from the Cable & Wireless Communications Group.
The demerger was effected by a three-part transaction which involved the following: The B shares and associated share premium in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc were cancelled to enable the Company to repay capital to shareholders: The entire share capital of Cable & Wireless UK Holdings Limited, the parent entity of the Worldwide Group of companies and the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Brand, were transferred to Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc, an unrelated company: and In return for the share capital of Cable & Wireless UK Holdings Limited and the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Brand, Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc issued one ordinary share in itself to the holder of each Cable & Wireless Communications Plc B share prior to their cancellation as part of this transaction.
These transactions resulted in the demerger of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business from the Cable & Wireless Communications Group and the holders of shares in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc at 26 March 2010 received one share in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and one share in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc for every share in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc held at that date.
The results of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business were shown as discontinued operations in the financial statements.
See note 15 for further information on other significant aspects and transactions of the demerger.
Change of functional currency Following the demerger of the Worldwide business, the functional currency of the Parent Company and the majority of holding and financing companies of the Group that previously had a sterling functional currency were changed to US dollars.
The Directors consider the US dollar to most faithfully represent the economic effects of the underlying transactions, events and conditions for these companies within the Cable & Wireless Communications Group.
The principal exchange rates used in preparing the Group financial statements are set out in note 4.
70 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Financial statements 2.2 Application of recently issued International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS The Group considered the implications, if any, of the following amendments to IFRS during the year ended 31 March 2011.
New and amended Standards and Interpretations endorsed by the European Union EU and effective for the Group at dates from 1 April 2010 adopted by the Group in 2010 11 Title EU effective date Description Impact on the Group Amendments to Annual periods IFRS 2 amended to clarify scope and accounting These amendments did not have a material IFRS 2 beginning for Group cash-settled share-based payment SBP impact on the Group.
Group Cash-settled on or after transactions in the separate financial statements of the Share-based Payment 1 January 2010. entity receiving the goods or services when that entity Transactions has no obligation to settle the SBP transaction.
Revised IFRS 3 Annual periods The revised standard continues to apply the acquisition These changes have been effective for business Business Combinations beginning method to business combinations.
However, all payments combinations since 31 March 2010 and have including 2010 on or after to purchase a business are to be recorded at fair value at been applied on a prospective basis.
amendments 1 July 2009. the acquisition date, some contingent payments are subsequently re-measured at fair value through profit IFRS 3 Revised contains provisions relating to or loss, goodwill may be calculated based on the parents contingent consideration which would have share of net assets or it may include goodwill related resulted in all of the movements in the fair to the minority interest, and all transaction costs value of the Monaco Telecom put option are expensed.
note 29 being recorded through profit or loss.
However, subsequent amendments contained in Improvements to IFRS 2010 have clarified that as the put option relates to a business combination effected under the 2004 version of IFRS 3 then movements in the fair value should continue to be recorded against goodwill.
Revised IAS 27 Annual periods The revisions specify that changes in a parents These revisions did not have a material impact Consolidated beginning ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result on the Group.
and Separate on or after in the loss of control must be accounted for as Financial Statements 1 July 2009. equity transactions.
Amendments Annual periods The amendment requires that rights, options or warrants This amendment did not have a material impact beginning to acquire a fixed number of the entitys own equity on the Group.
to IAS 32 Classification of on or after instruments for a fixed amount of any currency are 1 February equity instruments if the entity offers the rights, options Rights Issues 2010. or warrants pro rata to all of its existing owners of the same class of its own non-derivative equity instruments.
Amendments Annual periods The amendment clarifies how existing hedge accounting This amendment did not have a material impact to IAS 39 beginning principles should be applied to the designation of a on the Group.
Financial Instruments: on or after one-sided risk in a hedged item and to inflation in a Recognition and 1 July 2009. hedged item.
Measurement: Eligible Hedged Items IFRIC 17 Annual periods This interpretation applies to non-cash dividends This interpretation did not have a material Distribution of beginning excluding those controlled by the same party before impact on the Group.
Non-cash Assets on or after and after the transaction.
It clarifies the recognition to Owners 1 July 2009. and measurement of non-cash dividends payable and is applied to transactions on a prospective basis.
IFRIC 18 Annual periods The IFRIC clarifies how existing IFRS are applied to This interpretation did not have a material Transfers of Assets beginning agreements in which an entity receives an asset from impact on the Group.
from Customers on or after a customer which it then uses to connect the customer 1 November to a network or provide ongoing access to goods 2009. or services.
Improvements Various dates, The Improvements to IFRS contains miscellaneous These improvements did not have a material to IFRS 2009 earliest is necessary but non-urgent amendments to IFRS.
annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
Cable & Wireless Communications 71 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 2.2 Application of recently issued International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS continued New and amended Standards and Interpretations endorsed by the European Union EU but not yet effective and not adopted by the Group Title EU effective date Description Expected adoption date and impact on the Group Revised IAS 24 Annual periods The revisions provide an exemption from disclosure The Group will adopt for 2011 12.
These Related Party beginning on requirements for transactions between state-controlled revisions are not expected to have a material Disclosures or after entities and removes some inconsistencies.
Amendments Annual periods The amendments permit entities to treat an early The Group will adopt for 2011 12.
These to IFRIC 14 beginning on payment of a contribution to cover minimum funding amendments are consistent with current Prepayments of a or after requirements as an asset.
Requirement IFRIC 19 Annual periods This IFRIC provides guidance on accounting for debt to The Group will adopt for 2011 12.
This Extinguishing Financial beginning on equity swaps where a debtor extinguishes the liability interpretation is not expected to have a Liabilities with or after fully or partially by issuing equity instruments to material impact on the Group.
Equity Instruments 1 July 2010. the creditor.
Improvements Various dates, The Improvements to IFRS contains miscellaneous The Group will adopt for 2011 12.
These to IFRS 2010 earliest is necessary but non-urgent amendments to IFRS.
improvements are not expected to have a annual periods material impact on the Group.
beginning on or after 1 January 2011.
2.3 Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise a consolidation of the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries and include the Groups share of the results and net assets of its joint ventures.
The accounts of the Groups main trading subsidiaries and joint ventures have been prepared to align with the Groups reporting date.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by and forming part of the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity in order to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, the existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable are considered.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which the Group effectively takes control until the date that control ceases.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries are aligned with the policies adopted by the Group to ensure consistency.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Joint ventures Joint ventures are entities over which the Group exercises joint control.
Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups investment in joint ventures includes goodwill net of any accumulated impairment loss identified on acquisition.
Accounting policies of joint ventures have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
The Groups share of its joint ventures post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in profit or loss.
Its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in equity.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of losses in a joint venture exceeds its investment including any other unsecured long-term receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the investee.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups investment in the joint ventures.
72 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Financial statements 2.4 Segmental reporting Cable & Wireless Communications Group is an international telecommunications service provider.
It operates integrated telecommunications companies offering mobile, broadband, TV and fixed line services to residential and business customers.
It has four principal operations which have been identified as the Groups reportable segments, being the Caribbean, Panama, Macau and Monaco & Islands.
The Board the chief operating decision maker of the Group considers the performance of each of these operations in assessing the performance of the Group and making decisions about the allocation of resources.
Accordingly, these are the operating segments disclosed.
There are no other operating segments identified by the Board.
The operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Board.
The Group also has a London corporate centre that does not meet the definition of an operating segment.
This function primarily acts as a portfolio manager and operational support provider for the reportable segments.
This function is not considered to be an operating segment as it does not earn revenue from its activities.
This non-operating central function is also disclosed in order to reconcile the reportable segment results to the Group results.
2.5 Foreign currencies a Functional currency Amounts included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
b Foreign currency translation Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in profit or loss.
c Foreign operations The results and financial position of all the Cable & Wireless Communications Group entities that have a functional currency different from the Cable & Wireless Communications Groups presentation currency of US dollars are translated as follows: i Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the reporting date: ii Income and expenses are translated at rates closely approximating the rate at the date of the transactions: and iii Resulting exchange differences are recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
On disposal of a foreign entity, accumulated exchange differences are recognised in profit or loss in the same period in which the gain or loss on disposal is recognised.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities are taken to shareholders equity.
Where investments are matched in whole or in part by foreign currency loans, the exchange differences arising on the retranslation of such loans are also recorded as movements in the Groups translation reserves and any excess taken to profit or loss.
There are no Group entities operating in a hyperinflationary economy.
Cable & Wireless Communications 73 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 2.6 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
The cost of property, plant and equipment includes labour and overhead costs arising directly from the construction or acquisition of an item of property, plant and equipment.
The estimated costs of dismantling and removing assets and restoring sites on which they are located are included in the cost of property, plant and equipment.
The corresponding obligation is recognised as a provision in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that the future economic benefits will flow to the Group and the cost can be measured reliably.
All other subsequent costs primarily repairs and maintenance are charged to profit or loss as incurred.
Finance costs relating to borrowings made to finance separately identifiable major capital projects those that take six months or more to complete are capitalised as part of the cost of assets when it is probable that they will result in future economic benefits to the entity and the costs can be measured reliably.
The finance costs included are only those that are incurred up to the time that those projects are ready for service.
Depreciation is not recognised on freehold land or assets under construction.
Depreciation is provided to write-off the cost of property, plant and equipment, less estimated residual value, on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows: Lives Cables up to 20 years Network equipment 3 to 25 years Ducting 40 years Freehold buildings 40 years Leasehold buildings up to 40 years or term of lease if less Asset residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each reporting date.
An assets carrying amount is written down to its recoverable amount if the carrying amount is greater than its recoverable amount through sale or use.
Engineering spares held for use by the Group over a period exceeding one year are included in assets under construction.
They are stated at cost and include an appropriate allocation of labour and overheads.
The cost is determined on a weighted average basis.
Allowance is made for deterioration and obsolescence.
2.7 Intangible assets a Goodwill Goodwill represents the future economic benefits that arise from acquired assets that are not capable of being individually identified and separately recognised.
The goodwill recorded in the Groups statement of financial position is calculated using two different methods, depending on the acquisition date, as a result of changes in accounting standards.
All business combinations that occurred since 31 March 2010 are accounted for using the acquisition method.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired.
All transaction costs are expensed as incurred.
All other business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations 2004.
Costs attributable to these combinations are included in the cost of acquisition.
Goodwill is not amortised and is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill on acquisitions of joint ventures is included in the carrying value of those investments.
74 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Financial statements b Other intangible assets Costs that are directly associated with the purchase and implementation of identifiable and unique software products by the Group are recognised as intangible assets.
Expenditures that enhance and extend the benefits of computer software programmes beyond their original specifications and lives are recognised as a capital improvement and added to the original cost of the software.
Expenditure is only capitalised if costs can be measured reliably, the product is technically and commercially feasible, future economic benefits are probable and the Group has sufficient resources to complete development and to use the asset.
Intangible assets relating to licences and customer contracts obtained as part of the Groups business combinations are recorded initially at their fair values.
Other intangible assets that do not have indefinite useful lives are amortised over their respective lives which are usually based on contractual terms including renewal periods if there is evidence to support renewal by the Group without significant cost.
Other intangible assets are stated at cost less amortisation.
Other intangible assets, other than those with indefinite useful lives, are amortised on a straight-line basis over the following periods: Lives Software 3 to 5 years Licences 25 years or less if the licence term is shorter Customer contracts 4 to 15 years Other 3 to 5 years 2.8 Financial instruments Financial assets The Group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: cash and cash equivalents: trade and other receivables: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: available-for-sale financial assets: and held-to-maturity investments.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the assets are held.
The Group does not currently classify any assets as held-to-maturity investments.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date for financial assets other than those held at fair value through profit or loss.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and at bank, short-term deposits, money market funds and Government securities.
They are highly liquid monetary investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents in the statement of financial position is considered to approximate fair value.
Bank overdrafts are included within loans and borrowings and classified in current liabilities on the statement of financial position.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They arise when the Group provides money, goods or services directly to a third party with no intention of trading the receivable.
The assets classified in this category by the Group comprise trade and other receivables and are presented in current assets in the statement of financial position, except for those with maturities greater than one year after the reporting date where they are classified as non-current assets.
Receivables are recognised initially at the value of the invoice sent to the customer and subsequently at the amounts considered recoverable amortised cost.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets that are either held for trading or those designated upon initial recognition.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short-term or if so designated by management.
Included in this category are shares held by the Group in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc which were retained on demerger together with derivative financial instruments.
These financial assets are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequent changes in fair value are recognised in profit or loss.
Assets classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are presented as current assets in the statement of financial position if they are either held for trading or are expected to be realised within one year of the reporting date.
Cable & Wireless Communications 75 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 2.8 Financial instruments continued Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated in this category upon initial recognition or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within one year of the reporting date and such assets recognised in this category by the Group include UK Government gilts and cash held as collateral.
Purchases and disposals of available-for-sale financial assets are recognised at fair value.
Subsequent changes in fair value, other than impairment losses and foreign currency differences, are recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the fair value reserve within Capital and Other reserves in equity.
When an asset is derecognised the gain or loss accumulated in equity is reclassified to profit or loss.
Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value at each reporting date.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Gains and losses on derivative instruments that are not designated as hedge instruments are recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The Group only hedges net investments in foreign operations.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values of cash flows of hedged items.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges by recognising any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Financial liabilities The Group classifies its financial liabilities into the following categories: trade and other payables: loans and borrowings: and financial liabilities at fair value.
Management determines the classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date for financial liabilities other than those held at fair value.
Loans and borrowings Loans and borrowings are recognised initially at fair value net of directly attributable transaction costs incurred and are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds received net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in profit or loss over the period of the loans using the effective interest method.
The financial liabilities recognised in this category include secured and unsecured bonds and facilities and other loans held by the Group and are presented in loans and borrowings in current liabilities in the statement of financial position unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least one year after the reporting date where they are then classified as non-current liabilities.
Convertible bonds bonds that can be converted into share capital at the option of the holder issued by the Group are initially recognised at fair value.
The bonds are separated into liability and equity components.
The liability component is initially recognised at the fair value of a similar liability without an equity conversion option.
The equity component represents the fair value of the bond less the liability component.
Any directly attributable transaction costs are allocated to the liability and equity components in proportion to their initial carrying amounts.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the liability component of the bond is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
The equity component is not remeasured subsequent to initial recognition.
Financial liabilities at fair value This category includes puttable instruments on non-controlling interests relating to the acquisition of Monaco Telecom, derivative financial instruments and the Groups obligation to transfer Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc shares.
These financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequent changes in fair value are recognised in profit or loss except for changes in the fair value of the Monaco Telecom put option.
The fair value of the Monaco Telecom put option is based on the present value of the redemption amount as if the puttable instrument had been exercised at the reporting date.
Movements in the fair value of the liability, together with dividends paid to non-controlling interests, are recognised as adjustments to goodwill in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations 2004, with the unwind of the discount on the fair value calculation being recognised in profit or loss in finance expenses.
76 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Financial statements 2.9 Impairment of assets Financial assets The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset not carried at fair value through profit or loss or a group of those financial assets is impaired.
An impairment allowance is established for trade receivables when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the allowance is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate and is recognised in profit or loss in operating costs.
Non-financial assets Assets that have indefinite useful lives are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
All other non-current assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
The Group determines any impairment by comparing the carrying values of each of the Groups assets or cash-generating units to which it belongs to their recoverable amounts, which is the higher of the assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Fair value represents market value in an active market.
Value in use is determined by discounting future cash flows arising from the asset.
Future cash flows are determined with reference to the Groups own projections using pre-tax discount rates.
The approach, assumptions and results of the impairment test are set out in note 18.
Impairment reviews involve management making assumptions and estimates, which are highly judgemental and susceptible to change.
2.10 Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is the price paid less any rebates, trade discounts or subsidies.
It also includes delivery charges and import duties, but does not include value added taxes or advertising and administration costs.
Cost is based on the first-in, first-out FIFO principle.
For inventories held for resale, net realisable value is determined as the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less costs to sell.
For materials and consumables, provision is made for obsolete and slow-moving inventories as required.
2.11 Share capital Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares, stand-alone options or the repurchase of shares are recognised in equity.
2.12 Leases Leases of property, plant and equipment in which the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset or the present value of minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the underlying liability and finance charges in order to achieve a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in loans and borrowings in the statement of financial position.
These payments are split between capital and interest elements using the annuity method.
The property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the lease term.
All other leases are operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases, net of lease incentives or premiums received, are charged to profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Leases comprising a lease of land and a lease of buildings within a single contract are split into the two component parts.
The component parts are then tested to determine whether the lease is a finance or operating lease and treated accordingly.
Cable & Wireless Communications 77 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 2.13 Employee benefits Defined contribution pensions A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions to a third party.
The Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as operating costs as they are incurred through profit or loss.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
Defined benefit obligations A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
These schemes are generally funded through payments to insurance companies or Trustee-administered funds, determined by periodic actuarial calculations.
The asset or liability recognised in the statement of financial position in respect of each defined benefit pension plan represents the fair value of plan assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligations at the reporting date.
Assets are only recognised to the extent that the present value of the economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan exceed the fair value of the plan assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligations.
Defined benefit obligations for each scheme are calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of these obligations is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid.
The corporate bonds used have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability.
The Group recognises actuarial gains and losses, arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions, in the period in which they occur in the statement of comprehensive income.
Past service costs are recognised immediately through profit or loss unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employee remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In these cases, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Current service costs and any past service costs, together with the unwinding of the discount on plan liabilities less the expected return on plan assets, are included within operating costs through profit or loss.
The IAS 19 Employee Benefits surplus or deficit of defined benefit funds is adjusted to reflect the future economic benefits available in the form of a cash refund or a reduction in future contributions, allowing for minimum funding contributions in accordance with IFRIC 14 The limits on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
Any adjustment to the surplus is recorded directly in equity.
Other post-employment obligations Some Group companies provide post-retirement healthcare benefits to their retirees.
The entitlement to these benefits is usually conditional on the employee remaining in service up to retirement age and the completion of a minimum service period.
The expected costs of these benefits are accrued over the period of employment using an accounting methodology similar to that for defined benefit pension plans.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments, and changes in actuarial assumptions, are dealt with in the same way as for defined benefit pension schemes.
Independent qualified actuaries value these obligations annually.
Current service costs are charged to operating costs through profit or loss.
Share-based compensation The Group operates various equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of options over shares in the Company is recognised as an operating cost through profit or loss over the vesting period.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, which excludes the impact of any non-market vesting conditions for example, service, profitability and sales growth targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in estimates about the number of options that are expected to vest.
At each reporting date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original non-market estimates, if any, in profit or loss, and a corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital and share premium when the options are exercised.
Termination benefits Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated before the normal retirement date or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The Group recognises termination benefits within other provisions when it is demonstrably committed to the action leading to the employees termination.
Termination benefits falling due more than a year after the reporting date are discounted to present value.
78 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Financial statements Bonus plans The Group recognises a liability in the statement of financial position in relation to bonuses payable to employees where contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.
Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP The plan rewards Executive Directors of the Group and certain senior employees in the Cable & Wireless Communications Group.
The plan is accounted for as an other long-term employee benefit in accordance with IAS 19.
The amount recognised as a liability represents the estimated present value of the obligation at the reporting date.
The LTIP creates a reward pool over a five-year period from 1 April 2006 or until a vesting event, if earlier depending on the extent to which the business has grown in value from its base valuation at the start of the period this period was changed from four to five years in July 2009.
Base valuations are adjusted over the performance period: i To reflect additional capital notionally treated as borrowed by the business: ii To reflect capital notionally treated as returned by the business: and iii Increased by the notional weighted average cost of capital of the business which will be at least 8% per annum compounded.
If the business value is lower than its adjusted base valuation at the end of the performance period, there will be no reward pool.
To the extent that the business value exceeds its adjusted base valuation at the end of the performance period, 10% of the excess growth in value goes into the reward pool.
Part of the reward pool was paid to participants up to the end of year three 31 March 2009, with a portion payable less payments made at the end of year three to participants at the end of year four 31 March 2010 and the balance in full at the end of year five 31 March 2011.
Measurement of the size of the reward pool is carried out every six months to correspond with the Groups accounting reporting periods.
However, apart from awards held by participants who ceased employment as good leavers, no awards vested until the end of year three.
In the event of a potential payment to an individual in excess of 20 million US$32 million, the deferral period would be extended until 31 March 2012 or for a period of up to one year following a vesting event, if earlier.
2.14 Tax Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of prior years.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements, except where the difference arises from: The initial recognition of goodwill: or The initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination, affecting neither accounting nor taxable profit.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the temporary differences reverse, based on rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Cable & Wireless Communications 79 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 2.15 Provisions Provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount.
They are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are presented in the statement of financial position at the present value of the estimated future outflows expected to be required to settle the obligation.
The discount rate is the pre-tax rate reflecting the assessment of the settlement date.
Provision charges and reversals are recognised in profit or loss.
Discount unwinding is recognised as a finance expense.
Provisions are recognised for unavoidable lease payments in onerous contracts as the difference between the rentals due and any income expected to be derived from the vacant properties being sublet.
Redundancy provisions, relating to both continuing and discontinued operations, comprise employee termination payments.
Legal provisions comprise legal fees and, where appropriate, expected settlement costs.
2.16 Revenue recognition Group revenue, which excludes discounts, value added tax and similar sales taxes, represents the amount receivable in respect of services provided to customers.
It includes sales to joint ventures but does not include sales by joint ventures or sales between Group companies.
Revenue is recognised only when payment is probable.
Revenue from services is recognised as the services are provided.
In respect of services invoiced in advance, amounts are deferred until provision of the service.
Amounts payable by and to other telecommunications operators are recognised as the services are provided.
Charges are negotiated separately and are subject to continual review.
Revenue generated through the provision of these services is accounted for gross of any amounts payable to other telecommunications operators for interconnect fees.
Revenue from mobile, broadband, TV and fixed line products comprises amounts charged to customers in respect of monthly access charges, airtime usage, messaging, and the provision of other telecommunications services.
This includes data services and information provision and revenue from the sale of equipment, including handsets.
Monthly access charges from mobile, broadband, TV and fixed line products are invoiced and recorded as part of a periodic billing cycle.
Airtime, either from contract customers as part of the invoiced amount or from prepaid customers through the sale of prepaid cards, is recorded in the period in which the customer uses the service.
Unbilled revenue resulting from services provided to contract customers from the billing cycle date to the end of each period is accrued.
Unearned monthly access charges relating to periods after each accounting period are deferred.
Contributions from a customer of property, plant and equipment or cash to acquire such assets are recognised in revenue immediately, except where such contributions are consideration for a future service, in which case they are recognised initially as deferred income in the statement of financial position with revenue subsequently recognised over the period in which the service is provided.
The Group earns revenue from the transmission of content and traffic on its network originated by third-party providers.
The Group assesses whether revenue should be recorded gross as principal or net as agent, based on the features of such arrangements including the following factors: Whether the Group holds itself out as an agent: Whether the Group has latitude for establishing the price, either directly or indirectly, for example by providing additional services: Provision of customer remedies: Whether the Group has the primary responsibility for providing the services to the customer or for fulfilling the order: and Assumption of credit risk.
Revenue from sales of telecommunications equipment is recognised upon delivery to the customer.
The total consideration on arrangements with multiple revenue generating activities generally the sale of telecom equipment and ongoing service is allocated to those components that are capable of operating independently, based on the estimated fair value of the components.
The fair value of each component is determined by amounts charged when sold separately and by reference to sales of equivalent products and services by third parties.
Revenue arising from the provision of other services, including maintenance contracts, is recognised over the periods in which the service is provided.
Customer acquisition costs including dealer commissions and similar payments are expensed immediately.
80 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Financial statements 2.17 Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Dividend income is included within finance income.
2.18 Interest income Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable.
2.19 Exceptional items Exceptional items are material items within profit or loss that derive from individual events that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group that are identified as exceptional items by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
Further detail on exceptional items is set out in note 7 and in the relevant note for each item.
2.20 Transactions with holders of non-controlling interests Transactions to acquire or dispose of ownership interests in the Groups subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions.
In these cases, the carrying amounts of the controlling and non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in the Groups relative interest in the subsidiary.
Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity attributable to the owners of the Parent Company.
2.21 Non-cash distributions to owners Non-cash distributions to owners made prior to 1 April 2010 are accounted for at cost being the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the distribution.
Subsequent non-cash distributions are recognised at fair value in accordance with the requirements of IFRIC 17 Distribution of non-cash assets to owners.
3 Critical accounting estimates and judgements In the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, a number of estimates and assumptions have been made relating to the reporting of results of operations and the financial condition of the Group.
Results may differ significantly from those estimates under different assumptions and conditions.
The Directors consider that the following discussion addresses the Groups most critical accounting estimates, which are those that are most important to the presentation of its consolidated financial condition and results.
These particular policies require subjective and complex assessments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are uncertain.
3.1 Valuation of assets for purchase accounting Where the Group undertakes business combinations, the cost of acquisition is allocated to identifiable net assets and contingent liabilities acquired and assumed by reference to their estimated fair values at the time of acquisition.
The remaining amount is recorded as goodwill.
Any value assigned to the identifiable assets is determined by reference to an active market, independent appraisal or estimate by management based on cash flow projections.
The latter situation includes estimates regarding expectations of the economic useful lives of the products and technology acquired.
3.2 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment The Group assigns useful lives and residual values to property, plant and equipment based on periodic studies of actual asset lives and the intended use for those assets.
Changes in circumstances such as technological advances, prospective economic utilisation and physical condition of the assets concerned could result in the actual useful lives or residual values differing from initial estimates.
Where the Group determines that the useful life of property, plant and equipment should be shortened or residual value reduced, it depreciates the net book value in excess of the residual value over the revised remaining useful life, thereby increasing depreciation expense.
Any change in an assets life or residual value is reflected in the Groups financial statements when the change in estimate is determined.
Cable & Wireless Communications 81 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 3.3 Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets The Directors assess property, plant and equipment and intangible assets excluding goodwill for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value is less than its recoverable amount.
Factors that are considered important and that could trigger an impairment review include the following: Obsolescence or physical damage: Significant changes in technology and regulatory environments: Significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results: Significant changes in the use of the assets or the strategy of the overall business: Significant negative industry or economic trends: and Significant decline in the market capitalisation relative to net book value for a sustained period.
In addition, the Directors test goodwill at least annually for impairment.
The identification of impairment indicators, the estimation of future cash flows and the determination of the recoverable amount for assets or cash-generating units requires significant consideration.
Note 18 sets out the assumptions and estimates used during these assessments.
3.4 Receivables allowance The impairment allowance for trade receivables reflects the Groups estimates of losses arising from the failure or inability of the Groups customers to make required payments.
The allowance is based on the ageing of customer accounts, customer credit worthiness and the Groups historical write-off experience.
Changes to the allowance may be required if the financial condition of the Groups customers improves or deteriorates.
An improvement in financial condition may result in lower actual write-offs.
Historically, changes to the estimate of losses have not been material to the Groups financial position and results.
3.5 Customer and supplier commitments The nature of the telecommunications industry is such that estimates are often required to be made in relation to customer or supplier commitments, including where the Group interconnects with other telecommunications operators.
The Group uses estimates of price or usage to determine the revenue and expense recognised in the period based on historical experience.
The prices at which these services are charged are sometimes regulated and may be subject to retrospective adjustment.
These estimates are periodically adjusted to reflect actual pricing or usage as such information becomes available or is agreed.
As issues arise or are resolved, accruals are created or released as appropriate.
The net impact of this is included in operating profit within the relevant line item.
3.6 Tax The calculation of the Groups total tax charge involves a degree of estimation in respect of certain items where the tax treatment cannot be finally determined until a resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority or, if necessary, through a formal legal process.
The final resolution of some of these items may give rise to material income statement and or cash flow variances.
The resolution of issues is not always within the control of the Group and is often dependent on the efficiency of the administrative and legal processes in the relevant tax jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Issues can, and often do, take many years to resolve.
Payments in respect of tax liabilities for an accounting period result from payments on account and on the final resolution of open items.
As a result, there can be substantial differences between the tax charge in profit or loss and tax payments made.
3.7 Recognition of deferred tax assets The recognition of deferred tax assets is dependent on whether it is probable that sufficient suitable taxable profits will be available in the future, against which the reversal of the underlying temporary differences can be deducted.
Recognition therefore involves estimates regarding the future financial performance of the particular legal entity or tax group in which the deferred tax asset has been recognised.
3.8 Provisions Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash outflows by a rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
These provisions are estimates for which the amount and timing of actual cash flows are dependent on future events.
82 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Financial statements 3.9 Pensions The Group provides several defined benefit pension schemes for its employees.
The asset or liability recognised in the statement of financial position in respect of defined benefit pension plans represents the fair value of plan assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligations at the reporting date.
The expected cost of providing these defined benefit pensions will depend on an assessment of such factors as: The life expectancy of the members: The length of service: The rate of salary progression: The rate of return earned on assets in the future: The rate used to discount future pension liabilities: and Future inflation rates.
The assumptions used by the Group are set out in note 33 and are estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which may not necessarily be borne out in practice but have been comparable to the median estimates in this regard used by FTSE 100 companies.
Changes to these assumptions could materially affect the size of the defined benefit schemes liabilities and assets disclosed in note 33.
3.10 Fair value estimation The fair value of non-derivative financial instruments traded in active markets such as publicly traded derivatives or trading and availablefor-sale securities is based on quoted market prices at the reporting date.
The quoted market price used for traded financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price.
The appropriate quoted market price for traded financial liabilities is the current offer price.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the reporting date.
The fair value of non-derivative financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques.
The Group uses a variety of methods which include the use of recent arms length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis and option pricing models which reflect the specific instrument.
The nominal value of receivables less estimated impairments and payables are assumed to approximate to their fair values.
The fair value of financial liabilities measured at amortised cost is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
Discounted cash flows are used to determine the fair value for the majority of remaining financial instruments.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments such as forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the reporting date.
3.11 Revenue recognition Judgement is required in assessing the application of revenue recognition principles and the specific guidance in respect of Group revenue.
This includes the presentation of revenue as principal or as agent in respect of income received from transmission of content provided by third parties.
4 Exchange rates The principal exchange rates used in the preparation of these accounts are as follows: 2010 11 2009 10 : US$ Average 1.5465 1.5904 Year end 1.6012 1.4884 : US$ Average 1.3177 1.4131 Year end 1.4106 1.3343 Cable & Wireless Communications 83 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 5 Revenue 2010 11 2009 10 US$m US$m Continuing operations Sales of telecommunication services and related operations 2,289 2,216 Sales of telecom equipment and accessories 151 130 Total revenue 2,440 2,346 6 Segment information Cable & Wireless Communications Group is an international telecommunications service provider.
The Group also has a London corporate centre London that does not meet the definition of an operating segment as it does not earn revenue from its activities.
The operating segment results from continuing operations for the two years ended 31 March 2011 are presented below.
The non-operating London corporate centre is also disclosed within Other and eliminations in order to reconcile the reportable segment results to the Group results.
The central operating costs of Cable and Wireless plc prior to demerger have also been incorporated into this category in the comparative table.
During the year, the Group considered the allocation of joint ventures to the different segments.
Telecommunications Services of Trinidad and Tobago Limited and our South Pacific joint ventures Fiji International Telecommunications Limited, Solomon Telekom Company Limited and Telecom Vanuatu Limited are hereby allocated to other as these are managed through the London corporate centre.
Telecom Development Company Afghanistan Ltd remains allocated to Monaco & Islands.
This revised allocation reflects management reporting to the Board.
Monaco & Other and 1 Caribbean Panama Macau Islands eliminations Total Year ended 31 March 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenue 850 623 377 605 15 2,440 Cost of sales 236 202 171 180 7 782 Gross margin 614 421 206 425 8 1,658 Pre-exceptional operating costs 385 145 53 218 15 786 2 EBITDA 229 276 153 207 7 872 LTIP charge 24 24 Depreciation and amortisation 125 78 33 78 7 321 Net other operating income 3 - 1 26 28 Exceptional operating costs 5 2 13 6 Group operating profit loss 96 198 120 128 37 505 Share of profit after tax of joint ventures 3 28 31 Total operating profit loss 96 198 120 131 9 536 Net other non-operating income 34 Net finance expense 108 Profit before income tax 462 Income tax 118 Profit for the year from continuing operations 344 1 Other and eliminations includes London expenses and eliminations for inter-segment transactions.
In the prior financial year, it also includes the Central operating costs of Cable and Wireless plc prior to demerger.
2 EBITDA is used in management reporting as it is considered by management to be a key financial metric.
It is defined as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, LTIP credit charge, net other operating and non-operating income expense and exceptional items note 44.
84 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Financial statements Monaco & Other and 1 Caribbean Panama Macau Islands eliminations Total Year ended 31 March 2010 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenue 873 621 316 552 16 2,346 Cost of sales 227 188 125 200 11 729 Gross margin 646 433 191 352 5 1,617 Pre-exceptional operating costs 376 150 49 178 2 751 EBITDA 270 283 142 174 3 866 LTIP charge 1 1 Depreciation and amortisation 155 75 35 76 7 348 Net other operating income 1 1 1 3 Exceptional operating costs 31 4 47 82 Group operating profit loss 85 209 107 95 58 438 Share of profit after tax of joint ventures 10 20 30 Total operating profit loss 85 209 107 105 38 468 Net other non-operating expense 1 Net finance expense 96 Non-operating exceptional items 12 Profit before income tax 383 Income tax 120 Profit for the year from continuing operations 263 1 Other and eliminations includes London expenses and eliminations for inter-segment transactions.
It also includes the Central operating costs of Cable and Wireless plc prior to demerger.
2 EBITDA is used in management reporting as it is considered to be a key financial metric.
There are no differences in the measurement of the reportable segments results and the Groups results.
There is no significant trading between the segments.
Transactions between the segments are on commercial terms similar to those offered to external customers.
There are no differences in the measurement of the reportable segments assets and liabilities and the Groups assets and liabilities.
Furthermore, there are no asymmetrical allocations to reportable segments.
Entity-wide disclosures for continuing operations The revenue for continuing operations from external customers are analysed by product below.
The allocations reflect the Groups latest product segments used in management accounts reported to the Board.
Accordingly, comparative numbers have been represented to reflect this: 2010 11 2009 10 US$m US$m Mobile 1,027 931 Broadband and TV 262 228 Fixed voice 600 647 Enterprise, data and other 551 540 Total 2,440 2,346 Cable & Wireless Communications 85 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 6 Segment information continued Revenue for continuing operations from external customers can be classified by country as follows: 2010 11 2009 10 US$m US$m United Kingdom country of domicile Panama 623 621 Jamaica 239 248 Macau 377 316 Monaco 236 257 All other countries and eliminations 965 904 Total 2,440 2,346 Revenue has been allocated to a country based on the location in which the telecommunications services were provided.
The Cable & Wireless Communications Group does not have any customers from which revenue exceeds 10% of Group revenue.
Non-current assets in continuing operations other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets and defined benefit pension assets are classified by country as follows: At 31 March At 31 March 2011 2010 US$m US$m United Kingdom country of domicile 15 17 Panama 483 455 Jamaica 306 264 Macau 103 111 Monaco 374 346 1 All other countries and eliminations 1,200 1,219 Total 2,481 2,412 1 Other countries and eliminations includes non-operating assets and liabilities.
86 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Financial statements 7 Operating costs An analysis of the operating costs from continuing operations incurred by the Group is presented below, classified by the nature of the cost: 2010 11 2009 10 PreExceptional PreExceptional exceptional items Total exceptional items Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Outpayments and direct costs 782 782 729 729 Employee and other staff expenses 365 5 370 344 16 360 Operating lease rentals: Networks 31 31 27 27 Property 14 14 27 27 Plant and equipment 1 1 Other administrative expenses 202 11 191 171 33 204 Network costs 116 116 116 116 Property and utility costs 82 82 66 66 Operating costs before depreciation and amortisation 1,592 6 1,586 1,481 49 1,530 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 271 271 295 295 Amortisation of intangible assets 50 50 53 53 Operating costs 1,913 6 1,907 1,829 49 1,878 Operating costs are stated net of credits or charges arising from the release or establishment of accruals.
Exceptional items Exceptional items mainly relate to the One Caribbean programme including redundancy, vacant property and onerous network costs and the continuing programme to restructure the Groups operations following the demerger of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business.
Exceptional items within operating costs are disclosed below while further information on other operating and non-operating exceptional items can be found in notes 9 and 13.
2010 11 2009 10 Note US$m US$m Exceptional items within operating costs Staff costs i 5 16 Other income costs ii 11 33 Total exceptional operating income costs 6 49 i In 2010 11, exceptional staff costs were US$5 million arising from the restructuring of the Groups Caribbean operations.
In 2009 10, exceptional staff costs included US$10 million arising from the restructuring of the Groups operations, principally in the Caribbean, and US$6 million relating to the closure of the Central division of Cable and Wireless plc.
ii In 2010 11, exceptional other costs included US$4 million professional fees as a result of the demerger, and US$2 million relating to the restructuring of our African operations within Monaco & Islands.
In addition, US$17 million of exceptional income arose after successfully defending claims brought by a Caribbean competitor.
In 2009 10, exceptional other costs included US$24 million relating to the One Caribbean transformation programme and US$9 million relating to costs of defending claims brought by a Caribbean competitor.
The One Caribbean costs primarily consisted of US$20 million related to consulting and contractor fees and US$4 million related to rebranding and other costs incurred on the reorganisation programme.
Cable & Wireless Communications 87 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 7 Operating costs continued Auditors remuneration 2010 11 2009 10 US$m US$m Audit services: Statutory audit services in respect of the Groups accounts 2.2 2.0 Audit of the Groups annual accounts 2.2 2.0 Amounts receivable by auditors and their associates: Statutory audit services in respect of other statutory accounts 1.2 1.2 Audit related regulatory reporting 0.4 0.5 3.8 3.7 Tax services 0.3 0.6 Services related to corporate finance activities 0.7 3.2 Other services 0.7 0.8 5.5 8.3 Auditors remuneration for audit and other services in respect of discontinued operations in 2009 10 was US$8 million.
This amount is not included in the table above.
Fees paid to KPMG for audit and other services to the Company are included in the table above and are not disclosed in its individual accounts as the Group accounts are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
8 Other operating income In 2010 11 and 2009 10, other operating income primarily related to gains on disposal of property, plant and equipment.
9 Other operating expense In 2010 11, other operating expenses of US$33 million related to US$17 million of foreign exchange translation movements on our UK defined benefit pension schemes, US$5 million of costs incurred following Hurricane Tomas in the Caribbean and US$11 million of transaction costs incurred relating to acquisition and other corporate finance activity.
In 2009 10, other operating expenses of US$1 million related to losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment.
In 2009 10, exceptional other operating costs of US$33 million related to the Scheme of Arrangement and demerger.
These costs primarily related to professional advisors fees.
88 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Financial statements 10 Employee and other staff expenses The pre-exceptional employee and other staff expenses for continuing operations are set out below: 2010 11 2009 10 US$m US$m Wages and salaries 327 317 Social security costs 7 12 Share-based payments 9 19 Long-Term Incentive Plan 24 1 Pension costs: defined benefit plans 8 defined contribution plans 7 8 Temporary labour and recruitment 18 17 400 374 Less: Staff costs capitalised 35 30 Staff costs 365 344 Exceptional employee and other staff expenses note 7 5 16 Total staff costs 370 360 The average number of persons, including Executive Directors, employed by the Group in continuing operations during the year was: 2010 11 2009 10 London 153 199 Caribbean 2,855 2,831 Panama 1,737 1,765 Macau 844 862 Monaco & Islands 1,624 1,400 Total 7,213 7,057 There were 6,575 employees in discontinued operations during 2009 10.
Key managements remuneration Key management are Directors and senior employees that have regular access to inside information and have the power to make managerial decisions affecting the future development and business prospects of the Cable & Wireless Communications Group.
Included in employee costs is key management remuneration relating to continuing operations as follows: 2010 11 2009 10 US$m US$m Salaries and other short-term employment benefits 5 6 Post-employment benefits 1 Share-based payments 2 4 Long-Term Incentive Plan 6 Total 14 10 Included in the table above are aggregate Directors emoluments of US$11 million 2009 10 US$8 million.
Please refer to the Directors remuneration report on pages 48 to 60 for further information.
Excluded from the table above are key management expenses of US$15 million relating to key management of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc included within discontinued operations in 2009 10.
Cable & Wireless Communications 89 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 11 Gains on sale of businesses During the year ended 31 March 2011 the Group disposed of Cable & Wireless Bermuda Holdings and its subsidiaries, which were classified within the Monaco & Islands reportable segment.
The disposal took place on 10 March 2011 to The Bragg Group for total consideration of US$70 million excluding transaction costs resulting in a gain on disposal of US$36 million.
Cable & Wireless Bermuda Holdings does not constitute a discontinued operation in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations due to its size.
During the year ended 31 March 2010 there were no gains on the sale of businesses.
12 Gains and losses on termination of operations The pre-exceptional loss of US$2 million 2009 10 loss of US$1 million was the result of the run off activities of the Groups former insurance operation, Pender Insurance Limited.
13 Finance income and expense 2010 11 2009 10 PreExceptional Total exceptional items Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Finance income Interest on cash and deposits 6 10 10 Investment income 1 2 2 Foreign exchange gains on deposits 3 11 11 Gains on derivative foreign exchange contracts 22 19 19 Total finance income 32 23 19 42 Finance expense Interest on bank loans 42 36 36 Interest on bonds 86 60 60 Unwinding of discounts on provisions 2 5 5 Unwinding of discount on Monaco put option liability 13 21 21 Unwinding of discount on Monaco 6% put option liability 1 1 1 Capitalised finance transaction costs written off 7 7 144 123 7 130 Less: Interest capitalised 4 4 4 Total finance expense 140 119 7 126 Tax relief of US$1 million is available on interest capitalised in the year ended 31 March 2011 2009 10 US$1 million.
Interest has been capitalised within property, plant and equipment at a rate of 6% 2009 10 6% on qualifying capital expenditure.
In 2009 10, movements in the fair value of remaining open foreign exchange contracts relating to repatriation from the prior year, resulted in an exceptional finance gain of US$19 million.
90 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Financial statements 14 Income tax expense 2010 11 2009 10 US$m US$m Current tax charge continuing operations UK tax at 28% 6 16 Double tax relief 6 16 Overseas tax 117 113 Adjustments relating to prior years 8 23 Total current tax charge continuing operations 109 136 Deferred tax charge credit continuing operations Origination and reversal of temporary differences 30 18 Adjustments relating to prior years 21 2 Total deferred tax charge credit continuing operations 9 16 Total tax charge continuing operations 118 120 Income tax credit relating to discontinued operations note 15 97 Total income tax charge 118 23 In 2010 11, the charge of US$118 million 2009 10 US$120 million is net of a US$1 million credit in respect of exceptional operating costs 2009 10 US$6 million credit.
The Groups effective tax rate differs from the UK statutory tax rate as follows: 2010 11 2009 10 % % UK statutory tax rate 28.0 28.0 Effect of overseas tax rates 9.2 7.1 Effect of accounting for joint ventures 1.3 2.6 Effect of withholding tax and intra-Group dividends 5.9 4.2 Net effect of income not taxable 6.5 1.1 Effect of changes in unrecognised deferred tax assets 14.9 3.4 Adjustments relating to prior years 6.3 6.5 Effective tax rate on continuing operations 25.5 31.3 Effect of discontinued operations note 15 26.4 Effective tax rate on profit 25.5 4.9 For the analysis of the Groups deferred tax assets and liabilities at the reporting date, including factors affecting the future tax rates see note 31.
Cable & Wireless Communications 91 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 15 Discontinued operations There were no businesses classified as discontinued operations during 2010 11.
During 2009 10 the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group was classified as a discontinued operation by virtue of the demerger, which was effected on 26 March 2010.
The results for discontinued operations were as follows: 2009 10 US$m Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group profit for the year note 15 i a 195 Foreign currency translation reserve balance recycled through profit or loss on demerger 19 Profit of businesses disposed of in prior periods note 15 ii 4 Total profit from discontinued operations 180 i Year ended 31 March 2010 At a General Meeting on 25 February 2010, the shareholders of Cable and Wireless plc approved the demerger of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business.
On 26 March 2010 the demerger date, the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business was transferred to an unrelated company, Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc, in return for the entire share capital of that company.
The significant aspects of the demerger transaction were: Long-term intercompany debt owed to the Cable & Wireless Communications Group formerly the Cable & Wireless Group of US$1,386 million was capitalised prior to demerger without repayment being required: The convertible bond issued by Cable and Wireless plc and subsequently transferred to Cable & Wireless Communications Plc was transferred to Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc, along with the related cash of US$366 million note 28 : The Cable & Wireless Communications Group agreed to transfer cash of US$117 million to settle the Cable & Wireless Worldwide portion of the 2009 10 final dividend of the former Cable & Wireless Group on 1 April 2010: and Scheme assets and pension obligations of the Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund with a net IAS 19 Employee Benefits value of US$211 million were transferred to the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group note 33. a The results of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business before demerger were as follows: For the period from 1 April 2009 to 26 March 2010 Preexceptional Exceptional items items Total US$m US$m US$m Revenue 3,543 3,543 Operating costs before depreciation and amortisation 2,892 99 2,991 Depreciation 349 349 Amortisation 71 71 Other operating expense 1 1 Total operating profit loss 230 99 131 Losses on sale of non-current assets 2 2 Finance income 3 3 Finance expense 30 4 34 Profit loss before income tax 201 103 98 Income tax credit 97 97 Profit loss for the year from discontinued operations 298 103 195 92 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Financial statements b The financial position of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business at 26 March 2010 the date of demerger was as follows: 26 March 2010 US$m Non-current assets Intangible assets 1,387 Property, plant and equipment 1,455 Available-for-sale financial assets 2 Other receivables 34 Deferred tax asset 173 3,051 Current assets Trade and other receivables 1,140 Inventories 25 Cash and cash equivalents 288 1,453 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 1,582 Loans and borrowings 37 Provisions 58 Current tax liabilities 20 1,697 Non-current liabilities Trade and other payables 1 Loans and borrowings 319 Provisions 229 Financial liabilities at fair value 2 Retirement benefit obligations 35 586 Net assets 2,221 ii Businesses classified as discontinued operations in prior periods In 2009 10, the net profit of US$4 million related to cash received in respect of the Groups former US operations.
Cable & Wireless Communications 93 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 16 Earnings per share Basic earnings per ordinary share is based on the profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding.
2010 11 2009 10 US$m US$m Profit for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders of the Parent Company 197 304 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue millions 2,607 2,544 Dilutive effect of share options millions 22 24 Total weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue used to calculate diluted earnings per share millions 2,629 2,568 Basic earnings per share cents per share 7.6 11.9 Diluted earnings per share cents per share 7.5 11.8 Continuing operations Profit from continuing operations for the financial year attributable to shareholders 197 124 Basic earnings per share from continuing operations cents per share 7.6 4.9 Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations cents per share 7.5 4.8 Discontinued operations Profit from discontinued operations for the financial year attributable to shareholders 180 Basic earnings per share from discontinued operations cents per share 7.0 Diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations cents per share 7.0 As a result of the reorganisation of the Groups legal structure, Cable & Wireless Communications Plc became the new Parent Company of the Cable & Wireless Communications Group during the previous financial year.
Therefore, the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding in 2009 10 was calculated using the number of ordinary shares issued by Cable & Wireless Communications Plc at the date of the reorganisation 19 March 2010 and adjusted for: Movements in the number of ordinary shares of Cable and Wireless plc from the beginning of each period prior to the reorganisation date: and Movements in the number of ordinary shares outstanding from the reorganisation date to 31 March 2010 using the actual number of ordinary shares of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc outstanding during that period.
17 Dividends declared and paid 2010 11 2009 10 US$m US$m Final dividend in respect of the prior year 135 227 Interim dividend in respect of the current year 70 128 Total dividend paid 205 355 During the year ended 31 March 2011 the Group declared and paid a final dividend of 3.34 pence per share US4.97 cents per share in respect of the year ended 31 March 2010 2009 10 5.67 pence per share US9.02 cents per share in respect of the year ended 31 March 2009.
Beginning with the interim dividend in respect of 2010 11, the Group declares dividends in cents per share.
The Group declared and paid an interim dividend of US2.67 cents per share in respect of the year ended 31 March 2011 2009 10 3.16 pence per share US5.03 cents per share in respect of the year ended 31 March 2010.
In respect of the year ended 31 March 2011, the Directors have proposed a final dividend of US5.33 cents per share 2009 10 final dividend totalling 86 million US$135 million, for approval by shareholders at the AGM to be held on 22 July 2011.
These financial statements do not reflect the proposed dividend, which will be accounted for in shareholders equity as an appropriation of retained earnings in the year ended 31 March 2012.
94 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Financial statements The number of shareholders electing to take all or part of their dividends in shares varies from dividend to dividend.
13,443 shareholders 2009 10 12,015 shareholders owning 701 million shares 2009 10 496 million shares elected to take the 2009 10 final dividend 2009 10-2008 09 final dividend wholly or partly in shares.
Consequently, 41,039,703 total shares were issued with a value of US$37 million 2009 10 a value of US$87 million.
The Cable & Wireless Communications Share Ownership Trust formerly the Cable & Wireless Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust waived its right to dividends on the shares held in the Trust.
The Company will offer a dividend reinvestment plan for the final dividend and future dividends.
The scrip dividend scheme will no longer be offered.
18 Impairment review The Group reviews goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets for impairment annually.
The Group assesses the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets except goodwill for indications of impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable by sale or through use.
Factors that are considered important, which could trigger an impairment review, are set out in note 3.3.
Goodwill A review of the carrying value of goodwill has been performed as at 31 March 2011 and 31 March 2010.
In performing this review, the recoverable amount of goodwill has been determined by reference to the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and the value in use of the continuing operations of the related businesses.
The key assumptions used by the Group in the calculation of value in use for its goodwill balances are the discount rate discussed separately below, revenue growth, operating cost margin and the level of capital expenditure required to maintain the network at its current level.
The Groups significant goodwill balances are discussed below.
During the prior year the Groups goodwill allocated to certain cash-generating units CGUs were disposed of as part of the demerger of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide group.
Monaco Telecom Goodwill of US$172 million was allocated to the Monaco Telecom group of CGUs at 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$153 million.
Three relevant CGUs were identified for the purpose of assessing the carrying value of Monaco Telecom domestic including the cable television business, international business and other services.
Goodwill was allocated to this group of CGUs based on the fair value at the time of acquisition.
The value in use was determined for each CGU by discounting future cash flows based on the approved five year business plan extrapolated at long-term growth rates of between 0% and 2% 2009 10 0% and 4% at pre-tax discount rates of between 9% and 22% 2009 10 7% and 15% dependent on the risk-adjusted cost of capital of the different parts of the business.
The value in use was higher than the fair value less costs to sell and no impairment was required in either period.
Monaco Telecom operates under an exclusive operating agreement in Monaco and managements forecasts were based on historical experience for the business.
The group of CGUs value in use would not support the carrying value of the goodwill if revenue decreased or maintenance capital expenditure increased by more than US$17 million per year or the discount rate increased by more than 8 percentage points.
Dhiraagu Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun Private Ltd Goodwill of US$25 million was allocated to Dhiraagu at 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$25 million.
One relevant CGU has been identified for the purpose of assessing the carrying value of the Dhiraagu business.
The value in use was determined by discounting future cash flows based on the approved five year business plan extrapolated at long-term growth rates of 2.5% 2009 10 0.0% at a pre-tax discount rate of 14.3% 2009 10 12.5%.
The value in use was higher than the fair value less costs to sell and no impairment was required.
Afinis formerly Connecteo Goodwill of US$9 million was recognised in relation to Afinis at 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$8 million.
The goodwill initially recognised arose in 2007 08.
In 2009 10, this goodwill was impaired by US$11 million.
This was due to a decrease in its value in use, triggered by a change in the strategic direction of the operation.
Afinis has only one CGU that has been identified for the purpose of assessing the carrying value of the business.
The value in use was determined by discounting future cash flows based on the approved five year business plan extrapolated at a long-term growth rate of 1.5% 2009 10 5.0% at a pre-tax discount rate of 20% 2009 10 14%.
Property, plant and equipment and other intangibles Dhiraagu Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun Private Ltd Trade mark assets of US$18 million, with an indefinite useful life, were allocated to Dhiraagu at 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$18 million.
Cable & Wireless Communications 95 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 18 Impairment review continued Cable & Wireless Jamaica Ltd A review of the carrying value of the property, plant and equipment of Cable & Wireless Jamaica Ltd, a subsidiary of the Group, was conducted at year end in light of the trading performance during the year.
The value in use was determined by discounting future cash flows based on the approved five year business plan extrapolated at long-term growth rates of 2% 2009 10 2% and at a pre-tax discount rate of 11.1% 2009 10 12.9%.
The calculation is sensitive to changes in the discount rate, terminal growth rate and underlying trading.
Other There were no other events or changes in circumstances during the year to indicate that the carrying value of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets had been impaired.
19 Intangible assets Licences and Customer operating contracts and Goodwill Software agreements relationships Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2009 1,327 1,118 184 211 80 2,920 Business combinations 35 51 18 104 Additions 54 6 60 Disposals 45 45 Transfer between categories 30 30 Demerger of Cable & Wireless Worldwide business 1,192 1,049 10 216 2,467 Exchange differences 26 28 1 5 2 62 At 31 March 2010 196 151 145 51 91 634 Business combinations 11 11 Additions 36 6 42 Transfer between categories 1 29 28 Disposals 3 1 4 Exchange differences 11 4 8 3 26 At 31 March 2011 218 187 181 51 72 709 Amortisation and impairment At 1 April 2009 1,018 42 67 66 1,193 Charge for the year 11 59 14 33 7 124 Disposals 33 33 Demerger of Cable & Wireless Worldwide business 981 4 95 1,080 Exchange differences 1 18 4 3 16 At 31 March 2010 10 114 48 5 43 220 Charge for the year 23 11 7 9 50 Disposals 3 3 Transfer between categories 6 6 Exchange differences 2 3 3 2 3 9 At 31 March 2011 12 137 68 10 49 276 Net book value At 31 March 2011 206 50 113 41 23 433 At 31 March 2010 186 37 97 46 48 414 1 The charge for the year includes US$71 million relating to discontinued operations.
96 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Financial statements Goodwill balances are allocated to the following cash-generating units: Dhivehi Raajjeyge 2 Afinis Gulhun Monaco formerly Private Ltd 1 1 1 2 2 Energis THUS Apollo Telecom Connecteo Dhiraagu Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2009 625 495 18 170 19 1,327 Business combinations note 38 27 17 25 35 Impairment 11 11 Demerger of Cable & Wireless Worldwide business note 15 642 532 18 1,192 Exchange differences 17 10 27 At 31 March 2010 153 8 25 186 Business combinations note 38 11 11 Exchange differences 8 1 9 At 31 March 2011 172 9 25 206 1 Reporting segment: Discontinued.
20 Property, plant and equipment 2010 11 2009 10 Land and Plant and Assets under Land and Plant and Assets under buildings equipment construction Total buildings equipment construction Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 406 4,022 238 4,666 841 11,349 268 12,458 Business combinations 8 105 38 151 Additions 33 281 314 2 28 663 693 Movements in asset retirement obligations 2 2 6 1 5 Disposals 27 165 192 14 220 234 Transfers between categories 32 235 267 46 583 629 Demerger of Cable & Wireless Worldwide business note 15 479 8,002 103 8,584 Exchange differences 7 35 2 44 8 178 1 187 At 31 March 416 4,162 254 4,832 406 4,022 238 4,666 Depreciation At 1 April 177 2,764 2,941 545 8,937 9,482 Charge for the year 15 256 271 29 615 644 Disposals 18 146 164 8 199 207 Transfers between categories 4 4 2 2 Demerger of Cable & Wireless Worldwide business note 15 399 6,730 7,129 Exchange differences 2 25 27 8 143 151 At 31 March 180 2,895 3,075 177 2,764 2,941 Net book value at 31 March 236 1,267 254 1,757 229 1,258 238 1,725 1 The charge for the year ended 31 March 2010 includes US$349 million relating to discontinued operations.
Cable & Wireless Communications 97 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 20 Property, plant and equipment continued The Group held no assets under finance leases at 31 March 2011 or 31 March 2010.
Additions during the year include interest and own work capitalised during the construction of certain assets of US$4 million 2009 10 US$4 million and US$35 million 2009 10 US$130 million respectively.
Of the US$130 million of own work capitalised during the year ended 31 March 2010, US$100 million related to discontinued operations.
21 Investments in joint ventures 2010 11 2009 10 US$m US$m Gross carrying amount At 1 April Cost 78 89 Share of post-acquisition reserves 212 301 290 390 Share of profit after tax 31 30 Dividends paid to Group companies 9 52 Transfer to subsidiary undertaking 79 Demerger of Cable & Wireless Worldwide business 4 Loan from Group companies 1 3 Other movements 11 2 Exchange differences 4 At 31 March 302 290 Impairment allowance At 1 April 59 63 Demerger of Cable & Wireless Worldwide business 4 At 31 March 59 59 Net carrying amount at 31 March 243 231 The Groups total interest in its joint ventures is presented below: 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 US$m US$m Non-current assets 343 338 Current assets 125 182 Current liabilities 120 164 Non-current liabilities 105 125 Share of net assets 243 231 98 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Financial statements 2010 11 2009 10 US$m US$m Revenue 381 384 Operating costs 351 342 Operating profit 30 42 Net financing costs 4 Share of profit before tax 30 38 Income tax credit expense 1 8 Dividends paid to Group companies 9 52 Share of retained profit loss 22 22 Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
The carrying amount of the investments comprise the cost of the investment together with the Groups share of post-acquisition profit or loss less any impairment allowances.
There are no significant restrictions on joint ventures ability to transfer funds to the Group.
The joint ventures have no significant contingent liabilities to which the Group is exposed, nor has the Group any significant contingent liabilities in relation to its interests in joint ventures.
The Groups joint ventures have not discontinued any operations during the year ended 31 March 2011 2009 10 none.
On 21 October 2009, the Group purchased a further 7% of the share capital of Dhiraagu from the Maldives Government for cash consideration of US$40 million.
This transaction resulted in the Cable & Wireless Communications Group reclassifying its joint venture investment in this entity to a subsidiary investment.
For more details of this acquisition see note 38.
22 Available-for-sale financial assets 2010 11 2009 10 US$m US$m At 1 April 29 55 Fair value gain recorded in equity 2 2 Transferred on demerger of Cable & Wireless Worldwide business note 15 2 Released to cash and cash equivalents 2 30 Exchange differences 2 4 At 31 March 31 29 At 31 March 2011 available-for-sale financial assets consist of UK Government gilts 31 March 2010 UK Government gilts and cash held as collateral.
These assets were measured at fair value based on observable market data.
The maximum exposure to credit risk for availablefor-sale financial assets is equal to their carrying value.
During the year ended 31 March 2010 cash held as collateral of US$30 million was released by the beneficiaries as the collateral was no longer required.
This amount was included in cash and cash equivalents.
Cable & Wireless Communications 99 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 23 Trade and other receivables 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 US$m US$m Gross trade receivables 312 298 Impairment allowance 67 62 Net trade receivables 245 236 Other receivables 81 53 Prepayments and accrued income 263 189 Taxation and social security receivables 2 9 Amounts receivable from joint ventures 1 4 Other receivables current 592 491 Other receivables 41 42 Prepayments and accrued income 7 Other receivables non-current 48 42 Total trade and other receivables 640 533 The maximum exposure to credit risk for receivables is equal to their carrying value.
There is no material difference between the carrying value and fair value of trade and other receivables presented.
Concentrations of credit risks with respect to trade receivables are small as the Group customer base is large and unrelated.
Receivables predominantly relate to retail customers, Governments and corporate entities as well as other telecommunications operators.
Credit risk procedures vary depending on the size or type of customer.
These procedures include such activities as credit checks, payment history analysis and credit approval limits.
Based on these procedures, management assessed the credit quality of those receivables that are neither past due nor impaired as low risk.
There have been no significant changes to the composition of receivables counterparties within the Group that indicate this would change in the future.
During the periods presented there was an economic downturn in markets in which the Group operated.
This would indicate an increased credit risk on receivables that are neither past due nor impaired.
However, management assessed this risk and, after providing additional valuation allowance where necessary, continued to support the assessment of credit quality as low risk.
An ageing analysis of the current trade receivables and current other receivables that are not impaired is as follows excludes prepayments and accrued income, taxation and social security and amounts receivable from joint ventures : 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 US$m US$m Not yet due 165 124 Overdue 30 days or less 79 83 Overdue 31 to 60 days 30 29 Overdue 61 to 90 days 26 26 Overdue 91 days to 180 days 17 18 Overdue 181 days or more 9 9 Current trade receivables and current other receivables 326 289 100 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Financial statements Based on historic default rates, the Group believes that no impairment allowance is necessary in respect of trade and other receivables not past due or past due by up to 30 days.
Due to the nature of the telecommunications industry, balances relating to interconnection with other carriers often have lengthy settlement periods.
Generally, interconnection agreements with major carriers result in receivables and payables balances with the same counterparty.
Industry practice is that receivable and payable amounts relating to interconnection revenue and costs for a defined period are agreed between counterparties and settled on a net basis.
An analysis of movements in the trade receivables impairment allowance during the year is as follows: 2010 11 2009 10 US$m US$m At 1 April 62 100 Bad debts written off 20 51 Increase in allowance 24 56 Demerger of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business note 15 48 Exchange differences 1 5 At 31 March 67 62 There are no amounts held as collateral for trade and other receivables balances.
24 Inventories Inventories represent equipment, cable capacity, consumables and accessories held-for-sale.
Inventories of US$84 million 31 March 2010 US$49 million are presented net of an allowance of US$5 million 31 March 2010 US$4 million made against slow moving or obsolete items.
The cost of equipment, cable capacity, consumables and accessories held-for-sale that were expensed within operating costs in 2010 11 was US$214 million 2009 10 US$176 million.
In the year ended 31 March 2010 US$18 million of this expense related to discontinued operations.
Inventories of the Group are not pledged as security or collateral against any of the Groups borrowings.
25 Cash and cash equivalents 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 US$m US$m Cash at bank and in hand 230 140 Short-term bank deposits 149 433 Cash and cash equivalents 379 573 Cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank and in hand and short-term bank deposits.
Short-term bank deposits consist primarily of money market deposits, which can be readily converted to cash at short notice.
The effective interest rate on short-term bank deposits at 31 March 2011 was 0.91% 31 March 2010 0.34%.
At 31 March 2011, these deposits had an average maturity of 27 days 2009 10 one day.
The maximum exposure to credit risk for cash and cash equivalents is equal to the carrying value of those financial instruments.
Cable & Wireless Communications 101 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 26 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 2010 11 2009 10 Derivative Derivative financial financial CWW shares instruments Total CWW shares instruments Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Total at 1 April 64 1 65 Reclassification of shares in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc retained on demerger 64 64 Delivery of shares to Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc 30 30 Delivery of shares to employees 2 2 Fair value movement 15 15 Exchange differences 3 3 Movement in derivative financial assets 12 12 1 1 Total at 31 March 20 13 33 64 1 65 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss current 20 7 27 64 1 65 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss non-current 6 6 On demerger, shares in the Cable & Wireless Communications Share Ownership Trust formerly the Cable and Wireless Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust, the Trust were converted from 43 million Cable and Wireless plc shares to 43 million Cable & Wireless Communications Plc shares and 43 million Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc shares.
The Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc shares held by the Trust have been classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss as they represent shares in an unrelated listed company.
During the year, 22 million Cable & Wireless Worldwide shares with a market value of US$30 million were delivered to Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc as part of the demerger agreement.
The remaining shares are held for use in satisfying employee share-based arrangements note 35.
Derivative financial instruments At 31 March 2011, the Group had foreign exchange swap contracts to sell US$260 million 31 March 2010 US$40 million in hedging future sterling obligations regarding the coupon and redemption of the 2012 and 2019 bonds and the repayment of other loan finance maturing in 2012.
The Group did not apply hedge accounting to these contracts and as such they were revalued to fair value in profit or loss.
At 31 March 2011, the fair value of these contracts was an asset of US$13 million 31 March 2010 asset of US$1 million.
27 Trade and other payables 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 US$m US$m Trade payables 205 168 Other taxation and social security costs 21 29 Accruals 384 313 Deferred income 67 53 Other payables 76 206 Trade and other payables current 753 769 Accruals 4 3 Deferred income 16 Trade and other payables non-current 20 3 Total trade and other payables 773 772 There is no material difference between the carrying value and fair value of trade and other payables presented.
For liquidity risk exposure analysis purposes, the carrying amount of trade and other payables is the same as the contractual cash flows, with the contractual maturities of these financial liabilities all due in less than one year.
102 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Financial statements 28 Loans and borrowings 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 US$m US$m Loans Sterling secured loans repayable in 2012 46 43 US$500 million secured bonds due 2017 490 489 Sterling unsecured bonds repayable in 2012 and 2019 552 509 US dollar and currencies linked to the US dollar loans repayable at various dates up to 2038 285 196 1,373 1,237 Loans current 116 58 Loans non-current 1,257 1,179 The agreements for the facilities entered into during the year contain financial and other covenants which are standard to these type of arrangements.
For liquidity risk exposure analysis purposes, the following are the contractual maturities of loans including the expected interest payable at rates prevailing at the reporting date : 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 US$m US$m Loans Due in less than one year 220 157 Due in more than one year but not more than two years 497 181 Due in more than two years but not more than five years 304 574 Due in more than five years 874 885 Total loans 1,895 1,797 Less future finance charges on loans 522 560 Total loans 1,373 1,237 It is not expected that the cash flows included in the maturity analysis above could occur significantly earlier or at significantly different amounts.
Sterling secured loan repayable in 2012 The Group has a US$46 million 29 million loan secured on the 2019 bonds that is repayable in February 2012.
The carrying amount of this loan approximates to fair value.
US dollar secured bonds due 2017 During the year ended 31 March 2010, the Group arranged US$500 million of Senior Secured Notes the Bonds with a coupon of 7.75% due in 2017.
These bonds had a fair value of US$527 million at 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$520 million.
This value was determined by reference to market values obtained from third parties.
The bonds are secured on share pledges over the Group assets.
Sterling unsecured bonds due 2012 and 2019 The Group has US$320 million 200 million listed bonds due in 2012 with a balance outstanding at 31 March 2011, net of costs, of US$317 million 31 March 2010 US$290 million.
Interest is payable at 8.75% per annum.
The Group also has US$320 million 200 million listed bonds due in 2019 with a balance outstanding at 31 March 2011, net of bonds repurchased, of US$235 million 31 March 2010 US$219 million.
Interest is payable at 8.625% per annum.
The sterling unsecured bonds had a fair value of US$582 million at 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$547 million.
US dollar and US dollar linked loans Various US dollar and US dollar linked loans of US$285 million 31 March 2010 US$196 million are held by subsidiaries across the Group, with the majority in Panama.
Interest on these loans ranges between 0.0% and 12.8%.
The loans are repayable over a period up to 2038.
The carrying amount of the US dollar and currencies linked to the US dollar loans approximates to fair value.
Cable & Wireless Communications 103 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 28 Loans and borrowings continued US dollar revolving credit facility and term loan During the year ended 31 March 2010, the Group entered into a US$500 million revolving credit facility with a maturity date of 2013 secured on share pledges over Group assets.
Further, the Group arranged a US$100 million term loan facility.
This was secured on share pledges over the Group assets.
This facility and the term loan were undrawn as at 31 March 2011 and 31 March 2010.
Convertible bonds demerged during the year ended 31 March 2010 On 24 November 2009, convertible bonds due in 2014 of 230 million were issued by Cable and Wireless plc.
These bonds were subsequently transferred to Cable & Wireless Communications Plc on 19 March 2010 before being transferred to Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc on 26 March 2010 as part of the demerger.
An amount of US$2 million in relation to accrued interest was transferred post demerger.
The bonds were separated into their loan and equity components on inception, being US$329 million of loan and US$37 million of equity on initial recognition.
Interest rates The weighted average interest rates at the reporting date were as follows: 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 Interest Interest rate Rate Type Currency % Currency % US$500 million secured bonds due 2017 Fixed USD 7.8 USD 7.8 US dollar and currencies linked to the US dollar loans and facilities repayable Fixed and at various dates up to 2038 floating USD 5.4 USD 6.4 Fixed and Sterling unsecured bonds repayable in 2012 and 2019 and sterling secured floating GBP 8.5 GBP 8.6 loans repayable in 2012 Interest was payable on loans and borrowings falling due after more than five years at rates of between 0.0% and 8.6%.
In 2009 10 the rates were 0.0% and 8.6% respectively.
29 Financial liabilities at fair value At 31 March At 31 March 2011 2010 Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Put option relating to Monaco Telecom 96 120 216 189 189 Obligation to transfer Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc shares 30 30 Total financial liabilities at fair value 96 120 216 30 189 219 Monaco Telecom put option A put option is held by the non-controlling shareholder of Monaco Telecom, the Principality of Monaco the Principality.
This put option is measured at fair value using inputs that are not based on publicly observable market data.
The liability for the put option represents 45% of the market value of Monaco Telecom.
This market value has been determined by taking an average of published broker valuations for the Monaco & Islands business unit apportioned using key financial measures.
The brokers have valued the business unit using a combination of discounted cash flow analysis and EBITDA multiples factoring in the expected growth and risk of the business unit.
A US$10 million movement in the value of the put would have a US$1 million impact on profit or loss and a US$10 million impact on liabilities.
The balance within financial liabilities held at fair value represents the fair value of the put option held by the non-controlling shareholders of Monaco Telecom.
Although the Cable & Wireless Communications Group considers there to be only a remote likelihood of this put option being exercised, IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation requires the present value of the amount payable to be recognised as a liability regardless of the probability of exercise, as this is not within the Cable & Wireless Communications Groups control.
As this put option was issued as part of a business combination, accounted for in accordance with IFRS3 Business Combinations 2004, any change in remeasuring the derivative to fair value is recorded as an adjustment to goodwill note 38.
104 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Financial statements The put option held by the Principality is exercisable in two tranches.
The first tranche enables the Principality to put 20% of the shares of Monaco Telecom to the Cable & Wireless Communications Group from six months post 18 June 2011, 2014 and 2017.
The second tranche enables the Principality to put 25% of the shares of Monaco Telecom to the Cable & Wireless Communications Group three years after the first has been exercised.
A reconciliation of the movements in the value of the Monaco Telecom put option is as follows: 2010 11 2009 10 US$m US$m At 1 April 189 201 Changes in fair value recognised as an adjustment to goodwill 4 29 Increase in fair value of put option due to discount unwinding recognised as a finance expense 13 21 Foreign exchange movements recognised in the foreign currency reserve in equity 10 4 At 31 March 216 189 Obligation to transfer Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc shares Shares in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc were reclassified in 2009 10 from equity to financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
Under the terms of the demerger, 22 million of the 43 million shares in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc held by the Cable & Wireless Communications Share Ownership Trust formerly the Cable & Wireless Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust with a market value of US$30 million were transferred to a similar trust for the benefit of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group in June 2010 and this liability was extinguished.
30 Financial instruments at fair value The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value by valuation method.
The different levels are defined as follows: Level 1 Fair values measured using quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 Fair values measured using inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability either directly from prices or indirectly derived from prices.
Level 3 Fair values measured using inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data.
At 31 March 2011 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Note US$m US$m US$m US$m UK Government Gilts 22 31 31 Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc shares at fair value through profit or loss 26 20 20 Derivative instruments 26 13 13 Total financial assets at fair value 51 13 64 Financial liabilities measured at fair value: Put option relating to Monaco Telecom 29 216 216 Total financial liabilities at fair value 216 216 Cable & Wireless Communications 105 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 30 Financial instruments at fair value continued At 31 March 2010 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Note US$m US$m US$m US$m UK Government Gilts 22 27 27 Cash held as collateral 22 2 2 Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc shares at fair value through profit or loss 26 64 64 Derivative instruments 26 1 1 Total financial assets at fair value 93 1 94 Financial liabilities measured at fair value: Put option relating to Monaco Telecom 29 189 189 Obligation to transfer Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc shares 29 30 30 Total financial liabilities at fair value 30 189 219 31 Deferred tax The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year are as follows: Capital allowances on Financial non-current position assets Tax losses Pensions Other offset Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Deferred tax assets 91 49 6 7 60 93 Deferred tax liabilities 90 13 11 60 54 At 1 April 2009 1 49 7 4 39 Credit to profit or loss 101 18 1 4 114 Tax charged to equity 2 2 Demerger of Cable & Wireless Worldwide business note 15 169 4 173 Exchange differences 4 1 1 1 5 At 31 March 2010 71 62 5 9 23 Deferred tax assets 13 62 6 7 69 19 Deferred tax liabilities 84 11 16 69 42 At 1 April 2010 71 62 5 9 23 Charge to profit or loss 14 22 1 9 Tax charged to equity 3 3 Exchange differences 2 3 1 1 1 At 31 March 2011 59 43 10 8 34 Deferred tax assets 19 43 3 15 76 4 Deferred tax liabilities 78 13 23 76 38 At 31 March 2011 59 43 10 8 34 1 Comprises a US$98 million credit relating to discontinued operations and a US$16 million credit relating to continuing operations.
106 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Financial statements Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following temporary differences: Capital allowances available on non-current assets Tax losses Pensions Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m As at 31 March 2011 295 5,653 118 158 6,224 As at 31 March 2010 269 5,041 199 98 5,607 Tax losses recognised and unrecognised expire as follows: 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 US$m US$m Within 1 year 2 Within 3 years Within 5 years 1 Within 10 years 35 18 After more than 10 years 245 173 Other tax losses are not subject to expiry.
The US$5,653 million 31 March 2010 US$5,041 million tax losses include UK capital losses of US$5,264 million 31 March 2010 US$4,889 million.
Deferred tax is not provided on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and joint ventures where the Group controls the timing of remittance and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, branches and joint ventures for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised is US$316 million 31 March 2010 US$325 million.
These temporary differences relate to unremitted earnings.
Following the change in the UK tax treatment of dividends on 1 July 2009, no tax is expected to arise on distributions from Group entities and no temporary difference exists, except where withholding tax or other foreign tax could arise on the remittance.
The Budget on 23 March 2011 announced a change to the UK corporation tax rate to 26%.
This was substantively enacted on 29 March 2011 and is effective from 1 April 2011.
Further reductions to the UK corporation tax rate were announced in the March 2011 Budget.
The changes, which are expected to be enacted separately each year, will reduce the rate by 1% per annum, to 23% by 1 April 2014.
The changes had not been substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and therefore are not recognised in these financial statements.
Cable & Wireless Communications 107 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 32 Provisions Network and asset Legal Redundancy retirement and Property costs obligations Demerger other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2010 6 10 25 34 56 131 Additional provisions 5 1 4 7 17 Amounts used 9 38 1 48 Unused amounts reversed 8 8 Effect of discounting 2 2 Exchange differences 1 1 At 31 March 2011 7 6 28 53 94 Provisions current 7 6 4 45 62 Provisions non-current 24 8 32 Network and asset Legal Redundancy retirement and Property costs obligations Demerger other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2009 115 35 191 86 427 Additions from businesses acquired 11 11 Additional provisions 24 35 14 34 106 213 Amounts used 29 48 17 95 189 Unused amounts reversed 13 3 6 36 58 Effect of discounting 6 8 14 Demerger of Cable & Wireless Worldwide business note 15 110 9 164 4 287 Disposals 3 3 Exchange differences 2 2 1 3 At 31 March 2010 6 10 25 34 56 131 Provisions current 6 10 4 34 50 104 Provisions non-current 21 6 27 1 Unused amounts reversed include US$30 million relating to continuing operations and US$28 million relating to discontinued operations.
The net expense recognised in profit or loss from movements in provisions relating to discontinued operations for the year ended 31 March 2010 was US$95 million.
Property Provision has been made for the lower of the best estimate of the unavoidable lease payments or cost of exit in respect of vacant properties.
Unavoidable lease payments represent the difference between the rentals due and any income expected to be derived from the vacant properties being sublet.
The provision is expected to be used over the shorter of the period to exit and the lease contract life.
Redundancy Provision has been made for the total employee related costs of redundancies announced prior to the reporting date.
Amounts provided for and spent during the periods presented primarily relate to the restructuring programmes associated with the demerger and regional transformation activities.
The provision is expected to be used within one year.
108 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Financial statements Network and asset retirement obligations Provision has been made for the best estimate of the unavoidable costs associated with redundant leased network capacity.
Provision has also been made for the best estimate of the asset retirement obligation associated with office sites, technical sites, domestic and subsea cabling.
This provision is expected to be used at the end of the life of the related asset on which the obligation arises.
Amounts utilised relate predominantly to cash expenditure against unavoidable costs associated with redundant network capacity.
Demerger The provision comprised costs related to the demerger such as professional fees, redundancy costs and closure costs.
Legal and other Legal and other provisions include amounts relating to specific legal claims against the Group together with amounts in respect of certain employee benefits and sales taxes.
The release of unused amounts reflected the reassessment of risks relating to litigation and indirect tax during the year.
33 Retirement benefits obligations The Cable & Wireless Communications Group operates pension schemes for its current and former UK and overseas employees.
These schemes include both defined benefit schemes, where retirement benefits are based on employees remuneration and length of service, and defined contribution schemes, where retirement benefits reflect the accumulated value of agreed contributions paid by, and in respect of, employees.
Contributions to the defined benefit schemes are made in accordance with the recommendations of independent actuaries who value the schemes.
Defined contribution schemes The pension cost for the year for the defined contribution schemes of the Group was US$7 million 2009 10 US$8 million.
The pension cost of the defined contribution amounts in respect of the members of the Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund CWSF was US$2 million 2009 10 US$2 million related to Cable & Wireless Communications employees.
The defined contribution pension cost has been included in employee benefit expenses note 10.
Defined benefit schemes Cable & Wireless Communications operates the CWSF.
This plan provides defined benefit and defined contribution arrangements for current and former employees of the Cable & Wireless Communications Group.
These arrangements are provided on the same basis as when the plan was operated by the Cable & Wireless Group.
The CWSF has been closed to new defined benefit members since 1998.
Additionally the Group operates unfunded defined benefit arrangements in the UK.
These primarily relate to pension provisions for former directors and other senior employees in respect of their earnings in excess of the previous Inland Revenue salary cap.
The Group operates other defined benefit pension schemes in Macau, Jamaica, Barbados and Guernsey, with post-retirement medical benefits in Barbados.
Further, until the demerger of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business, the Group operated defined benefit arrangements in Hong Kong and Ireland, the THUS Group pension scheme, and other small defined benefit retirement plans in the UK.
Demerger As part of the demerger which took place on 26 March 2010, a portion of the scheme assets and pension obligations of the CWSF was transferred to the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Retirement Plan CWWRP, a new plan operated by the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group.
The pension obligations transferred to Cable & Wireless Worldwide were determined based on members last known employer.
The plan assets were determined by reference to the value of the obligations transferred.
Under IAS 19 Employee Benefits, this resulted in defined benefit plan assets of US$1.8 billion and defined benefit pension obligations of US$2.0 billion being transferred to the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group on 26 March 2010, and being derecognised from the Cable & Wireless Communications Group accounts.
Cable & Wireless Communications continues to operate the CWSF post demerger.
Cable & Wireless Communications 109 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 33 Retirement benefits obligations continued Funding valuation Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund The latest triennial actuarial valuation of the CWSF was carried out by independent actuaries Towers Watson Limited as at 31 March 2010.
An agreement was reached between the Trustee of the CWSF and Cable & Wireless Communications to remove the deficit calculated by this valuation by 2016.
The assumptions regarding current mortality rates in retirement were set having regard to the actual experience of the CWSFs pensioners and dependants over the three years ended 31 March 2010.
In addition, allowance was made for future mortality improvements in line with medium cohort projections of the 1992 mortality series tables published by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries, subject to a minimum annual rate of improvement of 1.5%.
These are the mortality rates used for calculating the statement of financial position for the year ended 31 March 2011.
The mortality rates used for the figure in the income statement for the year ended 31 March 2011 are the same as those which were used for calculating the statement of financial position for the year ended 31 March 2010.
Based on these assumptions, the life expectancies of pensioners aged 60 are as follows: On 31 On 31 On 31 March March March 2011 2021 2031 years years years Male pensioners and dependants 27.7 29.3 30.9 Female pensioners 26.4 27.9 29.4 Female dependants 32.3 33.9 35.5 The March 2010 actuarial valuation showed that based on long-term financial assumptions the contribution rate required to meet the future benefit accrual was 38.4% of pensionable earnings 33.4% employers and 5.0% employees.
This contribution rate will be reviewed when the next triennial valuation is carried out, as at 31 March 2013.
The terms of the CWSF Trust Deed also allow the Trustee or the Company to call for a valuation at any time.
The future service contribution rate includes an allowance of US$1.3 million per annum for administration expenses, excluding the Pension Protection Fund PPF levy.
The PPF levy for 2010 11 was US$0.4 million 2009 10 US$0.5 million of which US$0.4 million related to discontinued operations.
Cable & Wireless Communications paid a total contribution of US$157 million 98 million in 2010 11, comprising deficit funding of US$149 million and normal contributions of US$8 million, to the CWSF to meet the cost of future benefit accrual and expenses, to recover part of the deficit on the scheme funding basis, and to meet the cost of the agreed derisking of the CWSFs investment strategy.
A deficit recovery funding plan was also agreed with the Trustees during the year which includes additional payments from 2014 to 2016 totalling US$102 million 64 million.
These contributions are based on best estimated investment returns and are subject to the outcome of the next full valuation due in March 2013.
A US$160 million contingent funding agreement 2009 10 US$149 million was agreed with the CWSF Trustee, under which the Trustee can call for a letter of credit or cash escrow in certain circumstances, such as material deterioration in the financial performance of the business.
Minimum pension indexation Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund and UK unfunded defined benefit arrangements In July 2010, the Government announced its intention that future statutory minimum pension indexation would be measured by the Consumer Prices Index, rather than the Retail Prices Index.
The Group is currently taking external advice in respect of the Governments announcement on the determination of liabilities in the CWSF.
Dependent upon the outcome, this may lead to a reduction in scheme liabilities, however it is presently too soon to determine the likelihood or value of the impact.
110 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Financial statements IAS 19 valuation Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund and other schemes The IAS 19 valuations of the major defined benefit pension schemes and medical plans operated by Cable & Wireless Communications have been updated to 31 March 2011 by qualified independent actuaries.
Lane, Clark & Peacock LLP prepared the valuation for the CWSF and the UK unfunded arrangements.
Towers Watson Limited reviewed the IAS 19 valuations prepared for all remaining schemes.
The main financial assumptions applied in the valuations and an analysis of schemes assets are as follows: 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 Other Other CWSF schemes CWSF schemes Assets Assumption Assets Assumption Assets Assumption Assets Assumption US$m % US$m % US$m % US$m % RPI inflation assumption 3.4 4.3 3.6 4.6 Salary increases 3.9 4.9 4.1 5.1 Pension increases 2.2-3.3 3.1 2.3-3.5 3.2 Discount rate 5.6 7.4 5.5 7.4 Medical cost trends for post-retirement medical plans 5.0 5.0 Long-term expected rate of return on plan assets Annuity policies 1,093 5.6 74 8.0 1,000 5.5 73 8.0 Equities 251 8.1 96 8.2 163 8.3 89 8.3 Bonds and gilts 85 4.2 87 6.1 37 5.4 78 6.7 Property 6 6.7 43 8.9 22 6.8 40 9.8 Cash and swaps 163 4.3 28 5.7 90 3.9 27 6.0 1,598 328 1,312 307 Assumptions used are best estimates from a range of possible actuarial assumptions, which may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
The assumptions shown above for Other schemes represent a weighted average of the assumptions used for the individual schemes.
A one year increase in the life expectancy assumptions would have increased the CWSF liabilities by approximately US$34 million as at 31 March 2011.
The corresponding increase in the value of assets due to the change in the estimated value of the annuity policy would be US$24 million.
A 0.25% pa decrease in the discount rate used to value the scheme liabilities would have increased the liabilities by around US$60 million.
The corresponding increase in the value of assets due to the change in the estimated value of the annuity policy would be US$32 million.
A 0.25% pa change in the assumed rate of salary increases would have changed the liabilities by a negligible amount.
Excluding the annuities, which are measured at the value of the obligation to which they relate, the overall expected rate of return for each pension scheme is a weighted average of the expected asset return for each asset class.
The expected asset return for each asset class has been set as a best estimate of the long-term return that will be achieved for the particular asset class in the country in question having regard to investment yields on the measurement date.
Using the projected unit method for the valuation of liabilities, the current service cost is expected to increase when expressed as a percentage of pensionable payroll as the members of the scheme approach retirement.
Cable & Wireless Communications 111 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 33 Retirement benefits obligations continued The assets and liabilities of the defined benefit pension schemes and post-retirement medical plans operated by the Group were as follows: 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 Other Other CWSF schemes Total CWSF schemes Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Total fair value of plan assets 1,598 328 1,926 1,312 307 1,619 Present value of funded obligations 1,619 281 1,900 1,477 275 1,752 Excess of liabilities assets of funded obligations 21 47 26 165 32 133 Present value of unfunded obligations 41 41 42 42 Impact of the minimum funding requirement 57 57 Effect of asset ceiling 14 14 17 17 Exchange differences 3 1 4 Net deficit 81 9 90 165 27 192 Liabilities Defined benefit pension plans in deficit 81 49 130 165 54 219 Unfunded post-retirement medical plans 3 3 8 8 Total 81 52 133 165 62 227 Assets Defined benefit pension plans in surplus 43 43 35 35 Net of amounts attributable to the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business.
Included within these liabilities is an amount of US$26 million 2009 10 US$24 million to cover the cost of former Directors pension entitlements.
The deficit recovery funding plan agreed with the Trustees of the CWSF during the year constitutes a minimal funding requirement.
An adjustment to the deficit in the CWSF to account for the minimum funding requirement has been calculated in accordance with IFRIC 14 The limits on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
The adjustment to the deficit, which is recorded directly in equity, was US$57 million as at 31 March 2011 2009 10 US$nil.
When defined benefit funds have an IAS 19 surplus, they are recorded at the lower of that surplus and the future economic benefits available in the form of a cash refund or a reduction in future contributions.
The effect of these adjustments, described as asset ceiling adjustments, were US$14 million as at 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 US$17 million.
The amounts recognised in the income statement were as follows: 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 Other Other CWSF schemes Total CWSF schemes Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Continuing operations Current service cost 2 6 8 1 5 6 Interest cost 82 20 102 35 18 53 Expected return on plan assets 78 22 100 37 22 59 Gains on curtailment or settlement 2 2 4 4 Total net charge credit continuing operations 6 2 8 1 3 4 Charge related to discontinued operations 5 5 10 Total net charge 6 2 8 4 2 6 112 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Financial statements The pre-exceptional defined benefit charge for continuing operations has been included in employee benefit expenses note 10.
The exceptional defined benefit credit of US$nil 2009 10 US$4 million was recognised in exceptional staff costs note 7.
The actual return on plan assets was a gain of US$120 million 2009 10 gain of US$803 million.
The total amount recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in the current financial year and cumulatively to 31 March 2011 is a loss of US$36 million 2009 10 loss of US$463 million and a loss of US$595 million 2009 10 loss of US$559 million respectively.
In 2010 11, net actuarial gains amounting to US$16 million 2009 10 losses of US$460 million have been recognised directly in equity.
Further gains were recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in respect of US$2 million contributions from Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc 2009 10 US$nil and US$3 million due to changes in asset ceilings 2009 10 loss of US$4 million.
A loss of US$57 million was recognised in respect of minimum funding requirements 2009 10 US$nil.
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit pension and post-retirement medical plan obligations are as follows: 2010 11 2009 10 Other Other CWSF schemes Total CWSF schemes Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Obligations at 1 April 1,477 317 1,794 2,453 428 2,881 Current service cost 2 6 8 12 12 24 Interest cost 82 20 102 177 33 210 Actuarial losses gains recognised in equity 23 18 5 941 104 1,045 Employee contributions 5 5 3 5 8 Obligations extinguished on demerger 1,983 239 2,222 Gains on curtailment or settlement 2 2 2 3 5 Benefits paid 78 17 95 127 20 147 Exchange differences 113 11 124 3 3 Obligations at 31 March 1,619 322 1,941 1,477 317 1,794 Changes in the fair value of defined benefit assets are as follows: 2010 11 2009 10 Other Other CWSF schemes Total CWSF schemes Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Fair value of assets as at 1 April 1,312 307 1,619 2,407 403 2,810 Expected return 78 22 100 182 36 218 Actuarial gains losses recognised in equity 28 7 21 521 64 585 Contributions by employer 157 7 164 75 20 95 Employee contributions 5 5 3 5 8 Assets divested including asset transfers upon demerger in 2009 10 1,772 197 1,969 Assets acquired 2 2 Benefits paid 78 17 95 127 20 147 Exchange differences 99 11 110 23 4 19 Fair value of assets as at 31 March 1,598 328 1,926 1,312 307 1,619 Cable & Wireless Communications 113 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 33 Retirement benefits obligations continued Experience gains on plan assets and liabilities at the end of the periods presented were as follows: 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 Other Other Other CWSF schemes CWSF schemes CWSF schemes US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Plan assets 1,598 328 1,312 307 2,407 403 Defined benefit and post-retirement medical plan obligations 1,619 322 1,477 317 2,453 428 Effect of minimum funding requirement 57 Exchange differences 3 Deficit surplus excluding the effects of the asset ceiling 81 6 165 10 46 25 Experience gains losses on plan assets 27 7 521 24 946 81 Experience losses gains on plan liabilities 23 5 27 4 35 2 31 March 2008 31 March 2007 Other Other CWSF schemes CWSF schemes US$m US$m US$m US$m Plan assets 4,229 454 4,081 412 Defined benefit and post-retirement medical plan obligations 3,479 422 3,997 396 Surplus excluding the effects of the asset ceiling 750 32 84 16 Experience losses gains on plan assets 126 2 60 9 Experience gains losses on plan liabilities 28 16 13 9 The best estimate of contributions to the defined benefit schemes for 2011 12 is: Other CWSF schemes Total US$m US$m US$m Employer contributions 2 8 10 Employee contributions 4 4 Based on an employer contribution rate of 33.4% of pensionable earnings plus contributions due under the agreed recovery plan and the estimated PPF levy payable in the year ended 31 March 2012.
The pension disclosures above include two post-retirement medical plans in Barbados.
An increase in the assumed medical cost trend of 1% pa would have no material effect on the aggregate of current service costs and interest costs and would increase the accumulated defined benefit obligation by US$3 million 1% decrease will reduce the accumulated defined benefit obligation by US$3 million.
34 Equity Share capital Number of shares 000 US$m Issued, called-up and fully paid shares of US5 cents each At 1 April 2009 2,571,466 129 Allotted under share options schemes 11,210 Allotted under scrip dividends 41,896 2 At 31 March 2010 2,624,572 131 Allotted under scrip dividends 41,040 2 At 31 March 2011 2,665,612 133 The aggregate nominal value of the shares allotted in the year was US$2 million 2009 10 US$2 million.
114 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Financial statements Included within the number of shares disclosed in the table above are treasury shares and shares held by the The Cable & Wireless Communications Share Ownership Trust formerly the Cable & Wireless Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust the Trust.
No treasury shares of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc were cancelled during the periods presented.
On 24 June 2009 and 10 March 2010, Cable & Wireless plc transferred 3,000,000 and 28,259,496 treasury shares respectively to the Trust.
On 21 July 2010, the Groups shareholders approved a resolution at the AGM for the Group to purchase up to 262 million ordinary shares.
This authority to buy-back these shares expires at the conclusion of the Companys AGM in 2011 or 30 September 2011, whichever is the earlier.
Under the resolution, during the year ended 31 March 2011, the Company purchased 42,762,000 ordinary shares at an average price of 49 pence per share US80 cents per share, with a nominal value of US$2 million, for consideration of US$34 million.
Consideration included stamp duty and commission of US$0.2 million.
At 31 March 2011 these are classified as treasury shares.
This represented 2% of called-up share capital at the beginning of the year.
The nominal value and market value of treasury shares held at 31 March 2011 excluding those held by the Trust was US$2 million 2009 10 US$nil and US$31 million 2009 10 US$nil respectively.
Disclosures in respect of the shares held by the Trust are included in note 35.
The Trust has waived its right to dividends.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, each share other than those held in treasury entitles the holder to one vote at General Meetings of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc.
The Companys shareholders can declare dividends by passing an ordinary resolution but the payment cannot exceed the amount recommended by the Directors.
There are no restrictions on the repayment of capital other than those imposed by law.
For further information refer to pages 38 to 41 of the Directors report.
Allotments of ordinary shares of US5 cents each were made during the period as follows: 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 Number of Gross Gross allotted consideration Number of consideration shares received allotted shares received 000 US$000 000 US$000 Savings Related Share Option Scheme 929 814 Global Savings Related Share Option Scheme 118 187 Share Option Plan Approved 131 213 Share Option Plan Unapproved 10,032 17,331 1 Scrip dividends 41,040 41,896 Total 41,040 53,106 18,545 1 Shares with a cash equivalent value of US$37 million 2009 10 US$87 million were issued during the year as payment for dividends by scrip.
Equity attributable to the owners of the Parent Company As discussed in note 2.1, in the prior period Cable & Wireless Communications Plc was interposed as the new Parent Company of the Cable & Wireless Group subsequently the Cable & Wireless Communications Group.
This transaction was accounted for using the principles of reverse acquisitions.
The main principles used in the presentation of equity for the Cable & Wireless Communications Group were as follows: The retained earnings and other equity balances of the Cable & Wireless Group now Cable & Wireless Communications Group were carried forward as the retained earnings and other equity balances of the Cable & Wireless Communications Group at the date of the Scheme of Arrangement, 19 March 2010: The equity instruments of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc were initially recognised at their fair value on the date of the Scheme of Arrangement: The movements in share capital prior to 19 March 2010 reflected the movements in the share capital of Cable and Wireless plc now Cable & Wireless Limited.
However, share capital for these prior year share issues was restated using the nominal value of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc shares at US5 cents each in order to present the movements as though Cable & Wireless Communications Group had been in existence in its current form since 1 April 2008.
The difference arising on this restatement was included in the share premium: and Any difference between the fair value of these instruments on the date of the Scheme of Arrangement and the historical cost of the instruments on issue in Cable and Wireless plc now Cable & Wireless Limited were recorded in retained earnings.
See note 9 of the Parent Company accounts for information on the shares issued by Cable & Wireless Communications Plc.
Cable & Wireless Communications 115 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 34 Equity continued Capital management The Group defines capital as equity, loans and borrowings note 28 and cash and cash equivalents note 25.
The Group does not have any externally imposed requirements for managing capital, other than those imposed by Company Law.
The Boards objective is to maintain a capital structure that supports the Groups strategic objectives, including but not limited to reshaping the portfolio through mergers and acquisitions.
In doing so the Board seeks to: Manage funding and liquidity risk: Optimise shareholder return: and Maintain credit ratings.
This strategy is unchanged from the prior year.
The Group has taken initial steps to reshape the portfolio by the disposal of Cable & Wireless Bermuda Holdings and its subsidiaries during the period note 11 and the acquisition of the Bahamas Telecommunications Company completed after the reporting period, on 6 April 2011 note 45.
Funding and liquidity risk are reviewed regularly by the Board and managed in accordance with the policies described in note 43.
The Articles of Association of the Company permit borrowing up to the lower of three times the adjusted capital and reserves of the Group or US$3 billion.
The Group ensures that sufficient funds and distributable reserves are held to allow payments of projected dividends to shareholders and it intends to pursue a policy of dividend growth that reflects the underlying earnings and cash flow for the business.
This process is managed through the Groups budget and longer-term forecasting process.
During the period the Group has maintained its credit rating on the US$500 million secured bonds due in 2017 with a Moodys credit rating of Ba2 and Standard and Poors of BB.
The sterling unsecured bonds repayable in 2012 and 2019 maintained a rating with Standard and Poors of B.
Foreign currency translation and hedging reserve The foreign currency translation and hedging reserve contains exchange differences on the translation of subsidiaries with a functional currency different to the presentation currency of the Group.
It also includes cumulative exchange differences arising on the translation of hedging instruments.
Capital and Other reserves In 2010 11, other reserves included a capital redemption reserve of US$152 million 2009 10 US$152 million, a revaluation reserve of US$30 million 2009 10 US$30 million, a fair value reserve of US$11 million 2009 10 US$9 million, a special reserve of US$2,137 million 2009 10 US$2,137 million and a capital reserve of US$1,187 million 2009 10 US$1,931 million, less a reserve relating to transactions with non-controlling interests of US$1 million 2009 10 US$4 million.
The special reserve relates to the cancellation of the share premium account of Cable & Wireless Limited formerly Cable and Wireless plc in February 2004.
It will reduce from time to time by the amount of any increase in the paid-up share capital and share premium account of Cable & Wireless Limited after 20 February 2004 resulting from the issue of new shares for cash or other new consideration or upon a capitalisation of distributable reserves.
On 26 March 2010, a court-approved capital reduction became effective which had the effect of creating a capital reserve of US$1,931 million which may be released, in whole or in part, to distributable reserves of the Company at the discretion and upon the resolution of the Board of Directors or a duly constituted committee of the Board of Directors.
In 2010 11 the Board approved the release of US$742 million from the capital reserve to distributable reserves.
116 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Financial statements 35 Share-based payments Subsequent to the Scheme of Arrangement and demerger, the majority of Cable & Wireless Communications participants outstanding Cable and Wireless plc share and option awards rolled over into Cable & Wireless Communications Plc equivalent awards.
A limited number of participants retained their Cable and Wireless plc awards and had entitlement to one Cable & Wireless Communications Plc share and one Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc share in lieu of each Cable and Wireless plc share.
The quantity of shares under award were converted in accordance with plan rules to adjust for the demerger of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business.
Options, share prices and outstanding share awards of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc are shown in pence reflecting the currency in which the ordinary shares are quoted.
Options and share awards granted in the prior year relating to Cable and Wireless plc are shown in pence being the currency in which the ordinary shares are quoted.
Share option schemes The Group does not currently have any outstanding share option awards over its own shares 2009 10 nil.
There are 13,705,773 outstanding share option awards relating to options granted by Cable and Wireless plc to senior employees 2009 10 14,130,773 outstanding options.
These options were originally granted over Cable and Wireless plc shares at exercise prices between 100 to 149 pence 12,364,356 options and 150 to 199 pence 1,341,417 options.
All options have vested in full.
Subsequent to the Scheme of Arrangement and demerger, these options have been redesignated as an option over a stapled unit of one share in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and one share in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc an unrelated company.
The share prices of the two companies at 31 March 2011 were such that the obligation for these stapled unit options was US$nil at 31 March 2010 US$18 million, classified as an Other payable.
During the year, 575,000 options were exercised at an average share price of 104 pence 2009 10 13,982,000 options at an average share price of 101 pence.
425,000 of these were exercised by senior employees of the Group.
The remainder were exercised by senior employees of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc.
Other equity instrument awards Performance shares Executive Directors and other senior executives can receive awards of performance shares at nil cost.
The vesting of outstanding performance shares is subject to Cable & Wireless Communications Plc absolute TSR performance conditions see performance conditions for share-based award on pages 51 to 53.
A dividend award supplement operates on these awards.
Dividends that would have been paid on the performance shares which vest will be regarded as having been reinvested in additional shares at the notional date of distribution.
Prior to the Scheme of Arrangement and demerger, performance share awards made by Cable and Wireless plc were subject either to relative or to absolute TSR performance of Cable and Wireless plc or the Cable & Wireless Communications business.
Subsequent to the Scheme of Arrangement and demerger, some individuals awards were adjusted into an award over shares in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and some individuals retained their right to an award over one Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and one Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc share for every Cable and Wireless plc share they previously held.
Restricted Share Plan Restricted shares are awarded to senior management and selected other employees, primarily as a retention or a recruitment tool.
Generally, restricted shares vest over periods of one to three years from grant date.
Prior to the Scheme of Arrangement and demerger, restricted share awards made to Cable & Wireless Communications employees were made in respect of shares in Cable and Wireless plc.
Subsequent to the Scheme of Arrangement and demerger, these awards have been adjusted to be an award over Cable & Wireless Communications Plc ordinary shares of an equivalent value.
Stock appreciation rights Stock appreciation rights are used to replicate exactly the types of awards described above, but rewards are delivered as a cash equivalent.
It is used in exceptional cases for countries in which tax or legal issues preclude the use of real shares or share options.
Cable & Wireless Communications 117 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 35 Share-based payments continued Cable & Wireless Communications Share Purchase Plan The Company also offers its employees, who are chargeable to income tax under Section 15 Income Tax Earnings and Pensions Act 2003, the opportunity to participate in the Cable & Wireless Communications Share Purchase Plan which is a HMRC-approved share incentive plan.
Under the Share Purchase Plan, employees can contribute up to 1,500 or 10% of salary each tax year whichever is the lower, to buy partnership shares in the Company, and the Company will offer a matching award of one share for each partnership share purchased.
The Cable & Wireless Communications Share Ownership Trust formerly the Cable and Wireless Employee Share Ownership Trust The Cable & Wireless Communications Share Ownership Trust the Trust is a discretionary trust, which was funded by loans from Cable and Wireless plc now Cable & Wireless Limited to acquire shares in Cable and Wireless plc.
Subsequent to the Scheme of Arrangement and demerger, the shares held by the Trust were converted into one share in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and one share in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc for every share in Cable and Wireless plc held.
At 31 March 2011 the Trust held 40,054,310 shares in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and 19,798,744 shares in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc 2009 10 43,010,495 shares in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc, and 43,010,495 shares in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc with a market value of US$46 million 2009 10 US$94 million.
Share awards The equity instruments granted during the period can be summarised as follows: Awards granted during 2010 11 and 2009 10 Awards of Awards of Cable and Wireless plc Cable & Wireless Communications Plc shares granted between shares granted during 2010 11 1 April 2009 and 19 March 2010 Weighted Weighted average Features average Features fair value incorporated fair value incorporated Award Shares pence share in schemes Shares pence share in schemes Restricted shares 577,621 45 717,236 130 Stock appreciation rights 589,039 142 Share purchase plan scheme matching shares 147,264 57 1,801,989 140 TSR TSR 7,645,106 30 conditions 17,596,285 71 conditions Performance shares There were no Cable & Wireless Communications Plc share awards made between 19 March 2010 and 31 March 2010.
Only the performance share grants made during 2010 11 and 2009 10 have performance criteria attached.
A fair value exercise was completed at 31 March 2011 for grants made during 2010 11 using the Monte Carlo method.
The remaining awards had no performance conditions attached.
The Monte Carlo pricing model assumptions used in the pricing of the performance share grants in 2010 11 and 2009 10 were: 2010 11 2009 10 Weighted average share price pence per share 62.85 140.00 Dividend yield 6.0% 6.2% Expected volatility 36.0% 33.2% Risk-free interest rates 1.35% 1.80% Expected life in years 3.0 years 2.9 years The total expense for continuing and discontinued operations relating to share-based payments which are equity settled transactions was US$3 million 2009 10 US$27 million.
118 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Financial statements A summary of the outstanding share awards at 31 March 2011 and 31 March 2010 are as follows: 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 Weighted Weighted average average Number of remaining life Number of remaining life shares rounded to shares rounded to Award outstanding nearest year outstanding nearest year Restricted shares 1,964,956 1 4,696,130 1 Restricted shares TSR 5,500,000 5,500,000 1 Share purchase plan scheme matching shares 3,432,034 1 3,749,609 2 Performance shares 18,032,481 2 10,387,375 2 36 Reconciliation of net funds Funds are defined as cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits.
Debt is defined as loans and bonds.
A reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net funds is as follows: 2010 11 2009 10 US$m US$m Decrease increase in cash during the year 196 41 Increase in debt financing 89 268 Cash outflow in net funds 285 227 Finance leases entered into during the year 27 Bond amortisation net borrowing costs capitalised 5 8 Net debt of businesses acquired 2 Demerger of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business note 15 68 Exchange differences 40 62 Movement in net funds in the year 330 118 Net debt at 1 April 664 546 Net funds at 31 March 994 664 Analysis of changes in net funds: At 1 April Bond Exchange At 31 March 2010 Cash flow amortisation Transfers differences 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cash at bank and in hand 141 87 2 230 Short-term deposits 432 283 149 Total net funds debt 573 196 2 379 Debt due within one year 58 37 95 116 Debt due after more than one year 1,179 126 5 95 42 1,257 Total debt 1,237 89 5 42 1,373 Total net debt 664 285 5 40 994 Cable & Wireless Communications 119 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 37 Commitments, guarantees and contingent liabilities Commitments The Group had capital commitments at the end of the financial year relating to the purchase of plant and equipment of US$64 million 2009 10 US$34 million.
No provision has been made for these commitments.
US$12 million 31 March 2010 US$30 million of these commitments relate to the Groups share of the capital commitments of its joint ventures.
In addition, the Group has a number of operating commitments arising in the ordinary course of the Groups business.
The most significant of these relate to network operating and maintenance costs.
In the event of default of another party, the Group may be liable to additional contributions under the terms of the agreements.
The Group leases land and buildings and networks under various lease agreements.
The leases have varying terms, escalations, clauses and renewal rights.
The operating lease expenditure related to the year ended 31 March 2011 is disclosed in note 7.
The aggregate future minimum lease payments under operating leases are: 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 US$m US$m No later than one year 41 39 Later than one year but not later than five years 88 98 Later than five years 37 45 Total minimum operating lease payments 166 182 Guarantees and contingent liabilities Guarantees at the end of the financial year for which no provision has been made in the financial statements are as follows: 31 March 31 March 2011 2010 US$m US$m Trading guarantees 38 10 Other guarantees 286 606 Total guarantees 324 616 Trading guarantees principally comprise performance bonds for contracts concluded in the normal course of business, guaranteeing that the Group will meet its obligations to complete projects in accordance with the contractual terms and conditions.
The nature of contracts includes projects, service level agreements, installation of equipment, surveys, purchase of equipment and transportation of materials.
The guarantees contain a clause that they will be terminated on final acceptance of work to be done under the contract.
Other guarantees include guarantees for financial obligations principally in respect of borrowings, property and other leases and letters of credit, and include guarantees in respect of the demerged business of Cable & Wireless Worldwide.
Total guarantees at 31 March 2011 include US$17 million of other guarantees 2009 10 US$563 million relating to discontinued operations.
The Cable & Wireless Communications Group has provided guarantees to third parties in respect of trading contracts between third parties and the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group.
The Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group has agreed a fee schedule with Cable & Wireless Communications Group for the benefit of these guarantees.
To date, the Cable & Wireless Communications Group has not been required to make any payments in respect of its obligations under these trading guarantees.
Under the Separation Agreement, Cable & Wireless Communications and Cable & Wireless Worldwide agree to provide each other with certain customary indemnities on a reciprocal basis in respect of liabilities which the Cable & Wireless Communications Group may incur but which relate exclusively to the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group and vice versa and in respect of an agreed proportion of liabilities which do not relate exclusively to one Group or the other.
120 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Financial statements Whilst Pender, the Groups former insurance operation, ceased to underwrite new business from April 2003, it has in the past written policies in favour of the Group and third parties.
Potentially significant insurance claims have been made against Pender under certain of these third party policies, which have also given rise to uncertainties and potential disputes with reinsurers.
Significant progress has been made in resolving these claims.
Details of these insurance claims and potential claims are not disclosed as such disclosure may be prejudicial to the outcome of such claims.
In addition the Group, as is considered standard practice in such agreements, has given guarantees and indemnities in relation to a number of disposals of subsidiary undertakings in prior years.
Generally, liability has been capped at no more than the value of the sales proceeds, although some uncapped indemnities have been given.
The Group also gives warranties and indemnities in relation to certain agreements including facility sharing agreements.
Some of these agreements do not contain liability caps.
Whilst the Group has ceased participation in the Merchant Navy Officers Pension Fund, it may be liable for future contributions to fund a portion of any future funding deficits.
Currently, the amount of these potential liabilities cannot be quantified.
38 Business combinations and acquisitions of non-controlling interests Continuing operations Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun Private Ltd Dhiraagu On 21 October 2009, the Group purchased a further 7% of the share capital of Dhiraagu from the Maldives Government for cash consideration of US$40 million.
The goodwill recognised on acquisition was US$25 million and the net cash inflow on acquisition was US$36 million.
The Directors have made an assessment of the fair values of the assets and liabilities at the acquisition date.
The fair values were as follows: Final fair value at Fair value 30 September Book value adjustments 2010 US$m US$m US$m Property, plant and equipment 151 3 148 Customer contracts and relationships 51 51 Trademarks and other intangibles 18 18 Trade and other receivables 19 19 Inventories 3 1 2 Cash and cash equivalents 76 76 Trade and other payables 91 91 Total 158 65 223 The Directors made a provisional assessment of the fair values of the assets and liabilities at 31 March 2010.
This assessment was updated at 30 September 2010 to adjust for new information regarding the previously assessed balances.
This resulted in a decrease to the fair value of property, plant and equipment of US$3 million and a decrease to the fair value of inventories of US$1 million.
In 2009 10, from the date of its acquisition on 21 October 2009, Dhiraagu contributed US$69 million to Group revenue and US$28 million to Group profit.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 April 2009, the contribution to Group revenue for 2009 10 would have been US$148 million and the contribution to Group profit for 2009 10 would have been US$61 million.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of Dhiraagu included the value of expected synergies resulting from the integration into the existing business, and the value of the workforce and other intangible assets that did not meet the recognition criteria set out in IAS 38 Intangible Assets as they were unable to be separately identified.
Monaco Telecom Goodwill in connection with the Groups investment in Monaco Telecom SAM increased by US$19 million during the year 2009 10 US$17 million decrease.
The goodwill balance increased as a result of the payment of dividends to the Principality of Monaco, exchange movements and changes in the fair value of the put option.
Cable & Wireless Communications 121 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 38 Business combinations and acquisitions of non-controlling interests continued As part of the acquisition of Monaco Telecom a put option was issued note 29.
Changes in the fair value of this put option are treated as contingent consideration and adjusted against goodwill.
Cash dividends paid to the Principality of Monaco reflected an increase in the Cable & Wireless Communications Groups investment in Monaco Telecom and therefore an increase to goodwill.
2010 11 2009 10 US$m US$m At 1 April 153 170 Increase decrease as a result of changes in the fair value of Monaco put option 4 29 Dividends paid to the Principality 7 12 Increase due to exchange differences 8 At 31 March 172 153 Connecteo During 2010 11, the Group increased its effective interest in Connecteo Holding SA by 35% to 100% for cash consideration of US$1 million.
Connecteo was subsequently rebranded as Afinis Communications.
39 Related party transactions Transactions with joint ventures All trade transactions with joint ventures arise in the normal course of business and primarily relate to fees for use of the Groups products and services, network and access charges.
There were no material trade transactions with joint ventures during the year.
The Group received dividends of US$9 million from joint ventures 2009 10 US$52 million which included dividends from Dhiraagu before it became a subsidiary on 21 October 2010.
At 31 March 2011, joint ventures owed US$1 million 31 March 2010 US$4 million in respect of trading balances.
Transactions with key management personnel Two Directors of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc own unsecured bonds issued by Cable & Wireless Limited formerly Cable and Wireless plc and Cable & Wireless International Finance BV.
The interest earned on these bonds during 2010 11 was US$354,033 of which US$154,103 remained unpaid at 31 March 2011 2009 10 US$364,082 of which US$143,247 remained unpaid at 31 March 2010.
Two Directors spouses hold bonds issued by Cable & Wireless Limited formerly Cable and Wireless plc and Cable & Wireless International Finance BV.
The interest earned on those bonds during 2010 11 was US$65,378 of which US$2,000 remained unpaid at 31 March 2011 2009 10 US$66,888 of which US$1,859 remained unpaid at 31 March 2010.
Transactions with other related parties There are no controlling shareholders of the Group.
There have been no material transactions with the shareholders of the Group.
Pensions contributions to Group schemes are disclosed in note 33.
Other than the parties disclosed above, the Group has no other material related parties.
122 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Financial statements 40 Licences and operating agreements In all countries in which it operates, the Group holds licences to operate or operating agreements.
These licences and operating agreements take a variety of forms and their terms, rights and obligations vary significantly.
The Group assumes that it will renew these licences and operating agreements as they expire.
Previous history indicates this is the most likely outcome.
No licences or operating agreements were renewed during 2010 11.
During 2009 10, the Seychelles licence was renewed until 2024.
No material changes were made to the terms of the licence, though it remains subject to review once amendments to the local broadcasting and telecommunications legislation are finalised.
Whilst the operating agreements between Monaco Telecom and the Principality of Monaco are not due to expire until 2023 they are currently undergoing consolidation into a single operating agreement.
It is anticipated that this consolidation will be completed in the near future and that the consolidated licence terms will take effect from 1 April 2011.
The Group does not anticipate that the consolidation will materially affect the terms under which Monaco Telecom operates its business.
The Group does not have any concession agreements with Governments that fall within the scope of IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements.
On demerger of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business, the Cable & Wireless brand was transferred to a joint venture entity owned by, and for the continuing use of, the Cable & Wireless Communications and Cable & Wireless Worldwide Groups.
As part of this transfer, Cable & Wireless Communications received a royalty-free licence, granting rights to use the Cable & Wireless brand in all of the Groups jurisdictions with the exception of Macau and North and West Africa which are branded differently.
Further, the Group retains a licence to use the Cable & Wireless logo globally.
There were no other significant changes to the terms of the licences held by the Groups subsidiaries or operating agreements with Governments during the periods presented.
41 Legal proceedings In the ordinary course of business, the Group is involved in litigation proceedings, regulatory claims, investigations and reviews.
The facts and circumstances relating to particular cases are evaluated in determining whether it is more likely than not that there will be a future outflow of funds and, once established, whether a provision relating to a specific case is necessary or sufficient.
Accordingly, significant management judgement relating to provisions and contingent liabilities is required since the outcome of litigation is difficult to predict.
The Group does not expect the ultimate resolution of the actions to which it is a party to have a significant adverse impact on the financial position of the Group.
Cable & Wireless Communications 123 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 42 Subsidiaries and joint ventures The Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to include all of them in this list.
The list therefore only includes those companies whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affect the financial statements.
Issued share capital Ownership Class of Country of Area of million % shares incorporation operation Nature of business Continuing operations Subsidiaries Cable & Wireless Jamaica Ltd 16,817 82 Ordinary Jamaica Jamaica Telecommunications 1 Cable & Wireless Panama, SA 316 49 Ordinary Panama Panama Telecommunications 2 Companhia fide Telecomunicacoes fide Macau, SARL 150 51 Ordinary Macau Macau Telecommunications and China Cable & Wireless Barbados Ltd 72 81 Ordinary Barbados Barbados Telecommunications Cable and Wireless West Indies Ltd 5 100 Ordinary England Caribbean Holding Company 3 Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun Private Ltd 190 52 Ordinary Maldives Maldives Telecommunications 5 Monaco Telecom SAM 2 49 Ordinary Monaco Monaco Telecommunications 6 Cable & Wireless Limited 656 100 Ordinary England England Holding Company Sable International Finance Limited 100 Ordinary Cayman England Finance Company Cable & Wireless International Finance BV 1 100 Ordinary Netherlands England Finance Company Joint ventures Cable & Wireless Trademark Management Ltd 50 Ordinary England N A Owner of the Cable & Wireless brand 4 Telecommunications Services of Trinidad and Tobago Ltd 283 49 Ordinary Trinidad Trinidad Telecommunications and Tobago and Tobago 1 The Cable & Wireless Communications Group regards this company as a subsidiary because it controls the majority of the Board of Directors through a shareholders agreement.
2 This company has a financial year end of 31 December due to the requirements of the shareholders agreement.
3 This company is referred to as Dhiraagu.
From October 2009, this entity is a subsidiary formerly a joint venture.
4 This company is audited by a firm other than KPMG and its international member firms.
5 The Cable & Wireless Communications Group holds an economic interest of 55% in Monaco Telecom SAM via a contractual arrangement.
See below for further discussion.
6 Formerly Cable and Wireless plc.
On 18 June 2004 the Group acquired 55% of Monaco Telecom, a Monaco-based telecommunications service provider, from Vivendi Universal.
Simultaneously with the acquisition, Cable & Wireless Communications transferred legal ownership of 6% of the shares of Monaco Telecom to an unrelated third party.
The Group contractually retained voting and economic rights in the shares as part of the arrangement.
In addition, the 6% interest is subject to certain put and call options that, together with the retained voting and economic rights, provide full management control of Monaco Telecom to the Group.
The Group has also entered into a shareholders agreement with the Principality of Monaco Principality that contains, among other provisions, a prohibition on either the Group or the Principality subject to certain limited exceptions selling their shares in Monaco Telecom for five years, mutual pre-emption rights on transfer of shares and certain other limited rights in favour of the Principality.
The Principality has a put option entitling it to put its 45% shareholding in Monaco Telecom to the Group at certain times after 1 January 2008.
The exercise price under the put option is fair market value, taking into account the nature of the minority stake in Monaco Telecom note 29.
Full details of all subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and trade investments will be attached to the Companys next Annual Return, to be filed with the Registrar of Companies in England and Wales.
124 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Financial statements 43 Financial risk management Treasury policy The Cable & Wireless Communications Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including currency risk and interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall risk management programme seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
Day to day management of treasury activities is delegated to the Groups treasury function Treasury, within specified financial limits for each type of transaction and counterparty.
To the extent that subsidiaries undertake treasury transactions, these are governed by Group policies and delegated authorities.
Material subsidiary positions are monitored by Treasury.
Where appropriate, transactions are reported to the Board.
All subsidiaries are required to report details of their cash and debt positions to Treasury on a monthly basis.
The key responsibilities of Treasury include funding, investment of surplus cash and the management of interest rate and foreign currency risk.
The majority of the Groups cash resources including facilities and borrowings are managed centrally by Treasury.
The Cable & Wireless Communications Group may use derivatives including forward foreign exchange contracts, interest rate swaps, crosscurrency swaps and options, where appropriate, in the management of its foreign currency and interest rate exposures.
The use of these instruments is in accordance with strategies agreed from time to time by Treasury and subject to policies approved by the Board.
Derivatives are not used for trading or speculative purposes and derivative transactions and positions are monitored and reported by Treasury on a regular basis and are subject to policies adopted by the Board.
Exchange rate risk From the date of demerger on 26 March 2010, the Groups presentational currency became US dollars, as this is the predominant transaction currency of the Cable & Wireless Communications Group.
The Group trades in many countries and a proportion of its revenue is generated in currencies other than US dollars, notably in euros, sterling and Jamaican dollars.
The Group is exposed to movements in exchange rates in relation to non-US dollar currency payments including external dividends, the London corporate centre costs, pension and share buy-back costs, dividend income from foreign currency denominated subsidiaries, reported profits of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries and the net asset carrying value of non-US dollar investments.
Exchange risk is managed centrally by the London corporate centre on a matching cash flow basis including forecast foreign currency cash repatriation inflows from subsidiaries and forecast foreign currency payments.
See note 4 for key exchange rates used.
Where appropriate, the Cable & Wireless Communications Group manages its exposure to movements in exchange rates on a net basis and uses forward foreign exchange contracts and other derivative and financial instruments to reduce the exposures created where currencies do not naturally offset in the short term.
The Group will undertake hedges to minimise the exposure to individual transactions that create significant foreign exchange exposures for the Group where appropriate.
Where cost-effective and possible, foreign subsidiaries are financed in their domestic currency to minimise the impact of translation of foreign currency denominated borrowings.
As part of the overall policy of managing the exposure arising from foreign exchange movements relating to the net carrying value of overseas investments, the Group may, from time to time, elect to match certain foreign currency liabilities against the carrying value of foreign investments.
Cable & Wireless Communications 125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 43 Financial risk management continued The reported profits of the Group are translated at average rates of exchange prevailing during the year.
Overseas earnings are predominately in US dollars or currencies linked to the US dollar.
However the Group also has overseas earnings in other currencies of which sterling and euros are the most significant.
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk in relation to financial instruments which are not in the functional currency of the entity that holds them.
In broad terms, based on financial assets and liabilities as at 31 March 2011 the impact of a unilateral 10% weakening of the US dollar would have been to decrease profit by approximately US$23 million.
Interest rate risk The Cable & Wireless Communications Group is exposed to movements in interest rates on its surplus cash balances and variable rate loans although there is a degree of offset between the two.
Treasury may seek to reduce volatility by fixing a proportion of this interest rate exposure whilst taking account of prevailing market conditions as appropriate.
There were no interest rate derivatives in place as at 31 March 2011.
At 31 March 2011, 81% 31 March 2010 86% of the Groups loans were at a fixed rate.
A reduction in interest rates would have an unfavourable impact upon the fair value of the Groups fixed rate loans.
However, no debt is held for trading purposes and it is intended that it will be kept in place until maturity.
As a result, there is no exposure to fair value loss on fixed rate borrowings and, as such, its effect has not been modelled.
A one percentage point increase in interest rates will have a US$3 million impact on the income received from the surplus cash balances of the Group and a US$3 million impact on the floating rate loans of the Group.
The impact on equity is limited to the impact on profit or loss.
Credit risk Cash deposits and similar financial instruments give rise to credit risk, which represents the loss that would be recognised if a counterparty failed to perform as contracted.
The carrying amount of the financial assets of the Group represents the maximum credit exposure of the Group.
Management seeks to reduce this credit risk by ensuring the counterparties to all but a small proportion of the Groups financial instruments are the core relationship banks, which are rated A1 short-term and or AA long-term or better by Standard & Poors or equivalent by Moodys and or Fitch.
The credit rating of these counterparties is monitored on a continuing basis.
The types of instrument used for investment of funds are prescribed in Cable & Wireless Communications Group Treasury policies approved by the Board.
These policies contain limits on exposure for the Group as a whole to any one counterparty of approximately US$100 million.
Credit risk on receivables is discussed in note 23.
126 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Financial statements Liquidity risk The Group ensures that the operating units manage their own operational liquidity supported by the London corporate centre, which manages its own liquidity to meet its financial obligations of servicing and repaying external debt, external dividends, London costs and strategic initiatives.
The principal source of liquidity for the London corporate centre is repatriation cash inflows from the operating units supported by bank finance, bond issuances and asset disposals.
At 31 March 2011, the Cable & Wireless Communications Group had cash and cash equivalents of US$379 million.
These amounts are highly liquid and are a significant component of the Groups overall liquidity and capital resources, which also includes the undrawn revolving credit facility of US$500 million and an undrawn term loan facility of US$100 million.
Of the undrawn facilities, an amount of US$160 million 2009 10 US$149 million is restricted as part of the contingent funding agreement in relation to the Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund note 33.
After the reporting period, the Group utilised US$180 million of funding on the revolving credit facility to partly finance The Bahamas Telecommunications Company acquisition note 45.
Liquidity forecasts are produced on a regular basis to ensure the utilisation of current facilities is optimised, to ensure covenant compliance and that medium-term liquidity is maintained and for the purpose of identifying long-term strategic funding requirements.
The Directors also regularly assess the balance of capital and debt funding of the Group.
Approximately 61% of the Groups cash is invested in short-term bank deposits and money market funds 2009 10 76%.
Certain foreign subsidiaries operate in jurisdictions which may restrict the ability to repatriate cash to the Group from time to time.
Where restrictions are severe, local cash balances are excluded from cash and cash equivalents.
44 Reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP items 2010 11 2009 10 US$m US$m Total operating profit 536 468 Depreciation and amortisation 321 348 LTIP charge 24 1 Net other operating expense income 28 3 Share of profit after tax of joint ventures 31 30 Exceptional items 6 82 EBITDA 872 866 The Group uses EBITDA as a key performance measure as it reflects the underlying operational performance of the businesses.
EBITDA is not a measure defined under IFRS.
It is calculated as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, LTIP charge, net other operating and non-operating income and expense and exceptional items.
Cable & Wireless Communications 127 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 45 Events after the reporting period Business combinations Bahamas Telecommunications Company On 6 April 2011, the Group acquired 51% of the share capital of the Bahamas Telecommunications Company BTC from the Government of the Commonwealth of The Bahamas for cash consideration of US$210 million.
BTC is the exclusive mobile operator in The Bahamas as well as a leading provider of fixed-line and broadband services.
It is complementary to the Groups Caribbean business, LIME, which is the leading full-service telecommunications provider in the region.
The goodwill recognised of US$71 million on acquisition was based on a provisional assessment of the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
The net cash outflow on acquisition was US$151 million.
To partly finance the acquisition, the Group drew US$180 million of the US$500 million revolving credit facility note 28.
The Directors have made a provisional assessment of the fair values of the assets and liabilities as at the acquisition date.
The fair values were as follows: Fair value Fair value at 6 April Book value adjustments 2011 US$m US$m US$m Property, plant and equipment 384 125 259 Customer contracts and relationships 31 31 Trademarks 1 1 Available-for-sale assets 20 20 Trade and other receivables 57 10 47 Inventories 13 5 8 Cash and cash equivalents 59 59 Trade and other payables 96 10 106 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 2 2 Provisions 10 10 Loans and borrowings 34 34 Total 401 128 273 Goodwill arising on the acquisition of BTC included the value of expected synergies resulting from the integration into the existing business and other intangible assets that did not meet the recognition criteria set out in IAS 38 Intangible Assets as they were unable to be separately identified.
Acquisition-related costs of US$7 million were recorded in these financial statements as other operating expenses.
Further acquisition-related costs are expected to be recorded in 2011 12 following completion.
A non-controlling interest of US$134 million will be recognised in the 2011 12 accounts as at acquisition date measured at cost.
No revenue or profit related to BTC is included in these financial statements.
For the statutory year ended 31 December 2010, BTC had total unaudited revenue of US$343 million and EBITDA of US$79 million.
Maldives currency partial flotation On 11 April 2011, the Government of the Maldives announced a partial flotation of the Maldivian rufiyaa MRF within a range of 20% in either direction around the previously fixed rate of MRF 12.85 for USD 1.00.
The impact of the partial flotation is not reflected in these financial statements.
However, a 20% devaluation of the Maldivian rufiyaa would have had the impact of reducing EBITDA by approximately US$14 million in 2010 11.
Accounts approval These accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 24 May 2011 and authorised for issue.
128 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Financial statements
