3.6 Receivables allowance The valuation allowance for trade receivables reflects the Groups estimates of losses arising from the failure or inability of the Groups customers to make required payments.
The allowance is based on the ageing of customer accounts, customer creditworthiness and theGroups historical write-off experience.
Changes to the allowance may be required if the financial condition of the Groups customers improves or deteriorates.
An improvement in financial condition may result in lower actual write-offs.
Historically, changes to the estimate of losses have not been material to the Groups financial position and results.
3.7 Recognition of deferred tax assets The recognition of deferred tax assets is based upon whether it is probable that sufficient and suitable taxable profits will be available in the future, against which the reversal of temporary differences can be deducted.
Recognition therefore involves judgement regarding the future financial performance of the particular legal entity or tax group in which the deferred tax asset has been recognised.
3.8 Provisions A provision is recognised when there is a present legal or constructive obligation in respect of a past event as explained in the accounting policy in note 2.18.
Judgement is required to quantify such amounts.
3.9 Pensions The Group provides several defined benefit pension schemes for its employees.
The asset or liability recognised in the statement of financial position in respect of defined benefit pension plans represents the fair value of plan assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligations at the reporting date.
The expected cost of providing these defined benefit pensions will depend on an assessment of such factors as: the life expectancy of the members: the length of service: the rate of salary progression: the rate of return earned on assets in the future: the rate used to discount future pension liabilities: and future inflation rates.
The assumptions used by the Group are set out in note 30 and are estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which may not necessarily be borne out in practice, but have been comparable to the median estimates in this regard used by FTSE 100 companies.
Changes to these assumptions could materially affect the size of the defined benefit schemes liabilities and assets disclosed in note 30.
4 Demerger At a General Meeting on 25 February 2010, the shareholders of Cable and Wireless plc approved the demerger of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group.
On 26 March 2010 the demerger date, the Cable&Wireless Worldwide businesses were transferred to an unrelated company, Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc, in return for the entire share capital of that company.
As a result of the demerger, Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc became the ultimate parent company of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide subsidiaries.
Trading of shares in Cable &Wireless Worldwide plc on the London Stock Exchange commenced on 26 March 2010.
The significant aspects of the demerger transaction were: long-term intercompany debt owed to the Cable & Wireless Group now the Cable & Wireless Communications Group of 931 million was capitalised prior to demerger: the convertible bond issued by Cable and Wireless plc and subsequently transferred to Cable & Wireless Communications Plc was transferred to Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc, along with proceeds of 230 million: the Cable & Wireless Communications Group agreed to transfer cash of 79 million primarily to settle the Cable&Wireless Worldwide portion of the 2009 10 final dividend of the Cable & Wireless Group now Cable & Wireless Communications Group on 1 April 2010.
This was classified in other receivables at 31 March 2010: and plan assets and pension obligations of the Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund relating to Worldwide employees with a net IAS 19 value of 141 million were transferred to the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide 2010 11 Annual Report 73
