UK public sector During the year we secured a number of significant andstrategically important contract 2010 11 2009 10 Change wins.
In September 2010 we agreed a key m m % framework contract to provide ahighly resilient Revenue 285 285 global network and a suite of advanced Internet Cost of sales 115 117 1.7 Protocol services to 160 countries worldwide.
Gross margin 170 168 1.2 The Foreign and Commonwealth Office became Gross margin % 60% 59% the first Government department to purchase services under this agreement in an 82 million, Source: Management information five and a half year partnership.
Following this theDepartment for International Development Through our UK public sector channel we deliver contracted for connectivity to their 44 global sites for 10 million over five and a halfyears.
solutions to central and local government organisations in the UK and globally.
As part of the UK Governments ICT strategy review it identified the need to become more Revenue in 2010 11 was in line with the prior year at 285 million.
Total gross margin increased by consistent and efficient in the procurement ofgoods and services and change the way it 2 million to 170 million following new contract wins and continued growth across our strategic engages with suppliers to focus on business outcomes and benefits rather than products product set.
Thegross margin percentage improvement delivered through these activities andtechnology.
In October we signed a Memorandum of Understanding MOU which offset much of the decline experienced in non-contracted project work and legacy voice.
fully supports this agenda and identified ways in which our current contract base could provide Following the UK General Election in May and the savings for the Government.
Additionally, the subsequent Government Emergency Budget in MOU opens up the opportunity for increased June the channel experienced a significant engagement and collaboration between reduction in non-contracted public sector Cable&Wireless Worldwide and the various spending as new limits on procurement were Government departments that are looking to introduced and austerity measures began to be drive down costs and improve efficiencies.
As a result the performance of the Wesubsequently signed a Deed of Undertakings channel was impacted, particularly during the in April 2011 that enables us to access first half of the year.
While project activity did opportunities within the new Public Sector improve in the second half it remained below Network PSN framework that is currently previous levels.
We have formed seven new strategic proposition areas to align our hosting and telecom services to the new administrations policy initiatives.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide 2010 11 Annual Review 13
