2.20 Interest income Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable.
2.21 Exceptional items Exceptional items are material items which derive from individual events that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group that are identified as exceptional items by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
Further detail on exceptional items is set out in note 6 and intherelevant note for each item.
3 Critical accounting estimates and judgements In the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, a number of estimates and assumptions have been made relating to the reporting of results of operations and the financial position of the Group.
Results may differ significantly from those estimates under different assumptions and conditions.
The Directors consider that the following discussion addresses the Groups most critical accounting estimates and judgements, which are those that are most important to the presentation of its consolidated financial position and results.
These particular policies require subjective and complex judgements, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are uncertain.
3.1 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment The Group assigns useful lives and residual values to property, plant and equipment based on periodic studies of actual asset lives and the intended use for those assets.
Changes in circumstances such as technological advances, prospective economic utilisation and physical condition of the assets concerned could result in the actual useful lives or residual values differing from initial estimates.
Where the Group determines that the useful life of property, plant and equipment should be shortened or residual value reduced, it depreciates the net book value in excess of the residual value over the revised remaining useful life, thereby increasing depreciation expense.
Any change in an assets life or residual value is reflected in the Groups financial statements when the change in estimate is determined.
3.2 Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets The Directors assess the impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets excluding goodwill whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable or otherwise as required by accounting standards.
Factors that are considered important and which could trigger an impairment review include the following: obsolescence or physical damage: significant changes in technology and regulatory environments: significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results: significant changes in the use of its assets or the strategy of the overall business: significant negative industry or economic trends: and significant decline in the market capitalisation relative to net book value for a sustained period.
In addition, the Directors test goodwill at least annually for impairment.
The identification of impairment indicators, the estimation of future cash flows and the determination of the recoverable amount forassetsor cash generating units requires significant judgement.
Note 15 sets out the assumptions and judgements used during theseassessments.
3.3 Revenue recognition Judgement is required in assessing the application of revenue recognition principles and the specific guidance in respect of Group revenue.
This includes the presentation of revenue as principal or as agent in respect of income received from transmission of content provided by third parties.
3.4 Customer and supplier commitments The nature of the telecommunications industry is such that estimates are often required to be made in relation to customer or supplier commitments, the final outcome of which may not be known for some time.
The Group uses estimates of price or usage to determine therevenue and expense recognised in any period.
These estimates are periodically adjusted to reflect actual pricing or usage as such information becomes available or is agreed.
As issues arise or are resolved, accruals are created or released as appropriate the net impact of this is included in operating profit within the relevant line item.
3.5 Interconnection with other operators As part of the normal course of business, the Group interconnects with other telecommunications operators.
In certain instances it uses estimates to determine the amount of revenue receivable from or expense payable to these other operators.
The prices at which these services are charged are sometimes regulated and may be subject to retrospective adjustment.
Estimates are used in assessing the likely impact of these adjustments.
Adjustments to interconnect estimates are taken to operating profit in the period in which the adjustments are made.
72 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011
