Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 1 General information Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc the Company and its subsidiaries together the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group or the Group form an international telecommunications group providing critical communications infrastructure and services for large users of telecommunications worldwide.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies 2.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted by the European Union EU as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2011.
Group reorganisation and demerger The Cable&Wireless Worldwide business was demerged from the Cable & Wireless Communications Group formerly the Cable & Wireless Group, with effect from 26 March 2010.
As a result of the demerger, the Cable&Wireless Worldwide business was transferred toa new ultimate parent company, Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc.
The acquisition by Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc was accounted for in accordance with the principles of reverse acquisition as set out in IFRS 3 Business Combinations and hence the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended 31 March 2010 were prepared as if the continuing operations of the Group were in existence for the whole of the period from 1April 2009 to 31 March 2010.
Basis of preparation These consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling as this is the most representative currency of the Groups operations, and rounded to the nearest million.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis except for certain financial instruments held at fair value.
The Directors have prepared the accounts on a going concern basis.
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
These estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are considered to be reasonable under the circumstances.
They form the basis of judgements about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on a continuing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
Critical judgements and areas where the use of estimates is significant are discussed in note 3.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently by Group entities.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the business review on pages 22 to 25.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows and net debt are described in the business review on pages 28 to 35 and its liquidity management in note 38 to these financial statements.
The Directors believe that the Groups wide geographic spread, varying contract lengths and its monitoring and forecasting processes place it well to manage its business risks.
The Groups forecasts and projections, taking into account reasonably possible changes in trading performance, indicate that the Group is able to operate within the level of its current available facilities.
A formal process for monitoring compliance with debt covenants is also in place.
Further information on debt can be found in notes 25 and 33.
After reviewing budgets and other longer-term plans and making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide 2010 11 Annual Report 65 2.2 Application of recently issued International Financial Reporting Standards The Group considered the implications, if any, of the following amendments to IFRS during the year ended 31 March 2011.
New and amended Standards and Interpretations endorsed by the European Union and adopted by the Group in 2010 11 The following amendments to existing standards and interpretations were also effective for the current period, but the adoption of theseamendments to existing standards and interpretations did not have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group: Revised IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements: Amendments to IAS 32 Classification of Rights Issues: Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement: Eligible Hedged Items: Amendments to IFRS 2 Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment Transactions: Revised IFRS 3 Business Combinations: IFRIC 17 Distribution of Non-cash Assets to Owners: IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers: and Improvements to IFRS 2009.
New and amended Standards and Interpretations not adopted early by the Group The Directors anticipate that the adoption of the following standards, interpretations and amendments to existing standards and interpretations in future periods, which were also in issue at the date of authorisation of these financial statements, will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group: Improvements to IFRS 2010, effective for various dates, the earliest being annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011: Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures on derecognition, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011, subject to EU endorsement: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013, subject to EU endorsement: Revised IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011: Amendments to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1January 2011: IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010: and Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012, subject to EU endorsement.
2.3 Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise a consolidation of the accounts of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
Thefinancial statements of the Groups main trading subsidiaries and joint ventures have been prepared to align with the Groups reporting date.
a Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by and forming part of the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, the existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable are considered.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which the Group effectively takes control until the date that control ceases.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries are aligned with the policies adopted by the Group to ensure consistency.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued at the date of exchange plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets and contingent liabilities acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised in the income statement.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
b Non-controlling interest From 1 April 2010, the total comprehensive income of non-wholly owned subsidiaries is attributed to owners of the parent and to the non-controlling interests in proportion to their relative ownership interests.
Before this date, unfunded losses in such subsidiaries were attributed entirely to the Group.
In accordance with the transitional requirements of IAS 27 revised, the carrying value of non-controlling interests at the effective date of the amendment has not been restated.
2.4 Segmental reporting IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires disclosures in respect of the operating segments of the Group according to the management approach.
This approach reflects the type and extent of information presented to the chief operating decision-maker of the Group the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group Board.
The Board considers the results of the business as a whole when assessing the performance of the Group and making decisions about the allocation of resources.
Accordingly, the Group discloses a single reportable operating segment.
The results of this operating segment are reported in note 5 in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Board.
66 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 2.5 Foreign currency translation a Functional currency Amounts included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
b Foreign currency translation Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
c Foreign operations The results and financial position of all the Group entities that have a functional currency different from the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Groups presentation currency of sterling are translated as follows: i assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the reporting date: ii income and expenses are translated at rates closely approximating the rate at the date of the transactions: and iii resulting exchange differences are recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
On disposal of a foreign entity, accumulated exchange differences are recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the gain or loss on disposal is recognised.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities are taken to equity.
Where investments are matched in whole or in part by foreign currency loans, the exchange differences arising on the retranslation of such loans are also recorded as movements in the Groups translation reserve and any excess taken to the income statement.
There are no Group entities operating in a hyperinflationary economy.
2.6 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
The cost of property, plant and equipment includes labour and overhead costs arising directly from the construction or acquisition of an item of property, plantand equipment.
The estimated costs of dismantling and removing assets and restoring sites on which they are located are included in the cost of property, plant and equipment.
The corresponding obligation is recognised as a provision in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that the future economic benefits will flow to the Group and the cost can be measured reliably.
All other subsequent costs primarily repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Interest costs relating to borrowings for major capital projects are capitalised as part of the cost of assets when it is probable that they will result in future economic benefits to the entity and the costs can be measured reliably.
The interest costs included are only those that are incurred up to the time that those projects are ready for service.
Depreciation is not recognised on freehold land or assets under construction.
On other property, plant and equipment, depreciation is recognised on the difference between the cost of an item and its estimated residual value, on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows: Lives Cables up to 20 years Network equipment 3 to 25 years Ducting 40 years Freehold buildings 40 years Leasehold buildings up to 40 years or term of lease if less Asset residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each reporting date.
An assets carrying amount iswritten down to its recoverable amount if the carrying amount is greater than its recoverable amount through sale or use.
Gains and losses on the sale of property, plant and equipment are determined by reference to the proceeds and net book values.
Thesegains and losses are recognised in the income statement.
Engineering spares held for use by the Group over a period exceeding one year are included in plant and equipment.
They are stated atcost and include an appropriate allocation of labour and overheads.
The cost is determined on a weighted average basis.
2.7 Intangible assets a Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets and contingent liabilities of the acquired subsidiary or joint venture.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included inintangible assets.
Goodwill on acquisitions of joint ventures is included in the carrying value of those investments.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide 2010 11 Annual Report 67 2.7 Intangible assets continued b Other intangible assets Costs that are directly associated with the purchase and implementation of identifiable software products by the Group are recognised as intangible assets.
Expenditures that enhance and extend the benefits of computer software programs beyond their original specifications and lives are recognised as a capital improvement and added to the original cost of the software.
Expenditure is only capitalised if costs can be measured reliably, the product is technically and commercially feasible, future economic benefits are probable and the Group has sufficient resources to complete development and to use the asset.
Intangible assets relating to licences and customer contracts obtained as part of the Groups business combinations are recorded initially at their fair values.
Other intangible assets are stated at cost less amortisation on a straight-line basis over the following periods: Lives Software 3 to 5 years Licences 25 years or less if the licence term is shorter Customer contracts 4 to 15 years Other 3 to 5 years 2.8 Financial instruments Financial assets The Group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: financial assets at fair value through the income statement, receivables, held-to-maturity investments and available-for-sale financial assets.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the assets are held.
The Group does not currently classify any assets as fair value through the income statement or held-to-maturity investments.
The basis determining fair values is set out in note 2.9.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date for financial assets other than those held at fair value through the income statement.
Financial assets at fair value through the income statement This category has two sub-categories: financial assets held for trading and those designated at fair value through the income statement at inception.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short-term or if so designated by management.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading.
Assets classified as financial assets at fair value through the income statement are presented as current assets if they are either held for trading or are expected to be realised within one year of the reporting date.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated in this category at inception or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the reporting date.
Purchases and sales of assets are recognised on the trade date the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Receivables Receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They arise when the Group provides money, goods or services directly to a third party with no intention of trading the receivable.
Receivables are included in current assets, except for those with maturities greater than one year after the reporting date where they are classified as non-current assets.
Receivables are included in trade and other receivables in the statement of financial position.
Receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Amortised cost is determined using the effective interest method less valuation allowance if necessary.
A valuation allowance for receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the allowance is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate.
Financial assets recognition and measurement Financial assets at fair value through the income statement are recognised and subsequently carried at fair value.
Available-for-sale financial assets are recognised and subsequently carried at fair value.
Receivables and held-to-maturity investments are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the assets have expired or have been transferred and theGroup has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Gains and losses both realised and unrealised arising from changes in the value of financial assets held at fair value through the income statement are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of non-monetary securities classified as available-for-sale are recognised in equity.
When securities classified as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments are included in the income statement.
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
In the case of equity securities classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered in determining whether it is impaired.
If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets the cumulative loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
This loss is measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised on these instruments are not reversed through the income statement if the fair value of the security increases in a later period.
68 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce exposure to foreign exchange risks.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value at each reporting date.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Gains and losses on derivative instruments that are not designated as hedge instruments are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains and losses on derivative instruments designated as hedge instruments are recognised in other comprehensive income when the hedge is deemed effective.
The Group does not hedge net investments in foreign operations.
Financial liabilities Loans Loans are recognised initially at fair value net of directly attributable transaction costs incurred.
Loans are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the loans using the effective interest method.
Convertible bonds bonds that can be converted into share capital at the option of the holder issued by the Group are initially recognised at fair value.
The bonds are separated into liability and equity components on initial recognition.
The liability component is initially recognised at the fair value of a similar liability without an equity conversion option.
The equity component represents the fair value ofthebond less the liability component.
Any directly attributable transaction costs are allocated to the liability and equity components inproportion to their initial carrying amounts.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the liability component of the bond is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
The equity component is not remeasured subsequent to initial recognition.
Loans are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12months after the reporting date where they are classified as non-current liabilities.
Puttable instruments Puttable instruments on non-controlling interests issued as part of a business combination are accounted for by the Group as a financial liability at fair value.
The liability is based on the present value of the redemption amount as if the puttable instrument had been exercised at the reporting date.
Movements in the value of the liability, dividends paid to non-controlling interests and the unwind of the discount on the fair value calculation are recognised in the income statement.
2.9 Fair value estimation for financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets such as publicly traded derivatives or trading and available-for-sale securities is based on quoted market prices at the reporting date.
The quoted market price used for traded financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price.
The appropriate quoted market price for traded financial liabilities is the current offer price.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques.
The Group uses a variety of methods which include the use of recent arms-length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis and option pricing models which reflect the specific instrument.
The nominal value of receivables less any valuation allowance and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values.
The fair value of financial liabilities measured at amortised cost is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
Discounted cash flows are used to determine the fair value for the majority of remaining financial instruments.
2.10 Impairment of assets excluding financial instruments Assets that have indefinite useful lives are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
All other non-current assetsare reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash generating units.
The Group determines any impairment by comparing the carrying values of each of the Groups assets or cash generating units to which it belongs to their recoverable amounts which is the higher of the assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Fair value represents market value in an active market.
Value in use is determined by discounting future cash flows arising from the asset.
Future cash flows are determined with reference to the Groups own projections using pre-tax discount rates which represent the estimated weighted average cost of capital for the business.
The approach, assumptions and results of the impairment test are set out in note 15.
Impairment reviews involve management making assumptions and estimates, which are highly judgemental and susceptible to change.
2.11 Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is the price paid less any rebates, trade discounts or subsidies.
Italso includes delivery charges and import duties, but does not include value added taxes or advertising and administration costs.
Cost is based on the first-in, first-out FIFO principle.
For inventories held for resale, net realisable value is determined as the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less costs to sell.
For materials and consumables, an allowance is made for obsolete and slow moving inventories as required.
2.12 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and at bank, short-term deposits, money market funds and government securities.
They are highly liquid monetary investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the statement of financial position at fair value.
Bank overdrafts are included within loans in current liabilities on the statement of financial position.
2.13 Share capital Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or standalone options are recognised in equity as a deduction from the issue proceeds.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide 2010 11 Annual Report 69 2.14 Leases Leases of property, plant and equipment in which the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset or the present value of minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the underlying liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in payables.
Theproperty, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases is depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the leaseterm.
Leases comprising a lease of land and a lease of buildings within a single contract are split into the two component parts.
The component parts for both land and buildings are then tested to determine whether each lease component is a finance or operating lease and treated accordingly.
All other leases are classified as operating leases and are not recognised in the statement of financial position.
Payments made under operating leases, net of lease incentives or premiums received, are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
2.15 Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale When the value of non-current assets is expected to be recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing usage, they areclassified as non-current assets held for sale.
With the exception of deferred tax assets, assets arising from employee benefits and financial instruments, these assets are classified as current and are stated at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Disposal groups are groups of assets and liabilities to be disposed of together as a group in a single transaction.
They are recognised as held for sale at the reporting date and are separately disclosed as current assets and liabilities on the statement of financial position.
Measurement differences arising between the carrying amount and fair value less cost of disposal are treated as impairment charges andseparately disclosed.
2.16 Employee benefits Defined contribution pensions A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions to a third party.
The Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense as they are incurred.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
Defined benefit obligations A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
These schemes are generally funded through payments to insurance companies or Trustee-administered funds, determined by periodic actuarial calculations.
The asset or liability recognised in the statement of financial position in respect of each defined benefit pension plan represents the fairvalue of plan assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligations at the reporting date.
Assets are only recognised to the extent that the present value of the economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan exceed the fair value of the plan assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligations.
Defined benefit obligations foreach scheme are calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of these obligations is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid.
The corporate bonds used have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability.
The Group recognises actuarial gains and losses, arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions, in the period in which they occur in the statement of comprehensive income.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in income, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employee remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
Inthese cases, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Current service costs and any past service costs, together with the unwinding of the discount on plan liabilities less the expected return on plan assets, are included within operating costs.
The IAS 19 surplus or deficit of defined benefit funds is adjusted to reflect the future economic benefits available in the form of a cash refund or a reduction in future contributions, allowing for minimum funding contributions in accordance with IFRIC 14.
Any adjustment tothe surplus is recorded in other comprehensive income.
Share-based compensation The Group operates various equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options or share awards is recognised as an expense over the vesting period.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options or share awards granted, which excludes the impact of any non-market vesting conditions for example, service, profitability and sales growth targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in estimates about the number of options or share awards that are expected to vest.
At each reporting date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options or share awards that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original non-market estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital and share premium when the options are exercised.
Termination benefits Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated before the normal retirement date or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The Group recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to the action leading to the employees termination.
70 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 Bonus plans The Group recognises a liability where contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The plan rewards Executive Directors and certain senior employees in the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group.
The plan is accounted for as an other long-term employee benefit in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
The amount recognised as a liability represents the estimated present value of the obligation at the reporting date.
2.17 Tax Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of prior years.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements, except where the difference arises from: the initial recognition of goodwill: or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination, affecting neither accounting nor taxableprofit.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the temporary differences reverse, based on rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
2.18 Provisions Provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount.
They are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are presented in the statement of financial position at the present value of the estimated future outflows expected to be required to settle the obligation.
The discount rate is the pre-tax rate reflecting the assessment of the settlement date.
Provision charges and reversals are recognised in the income statement.
Discount unwinding is recognised as a finance expense.
Provisions are recognised for unavoidable lease payments in onerous contracts as the difference between the rentals due and any income expected to be derived from the vacant properties being sublet.
Redundancy provisions, relating to both continuing and discontinued operations, comprise employee termination payments.
Legal provisions comprise legal fees and, where appropriate, expected settlement costs.
2.19 Revenue recognition Revenue, which excludes discounts, value added tax and similar sales taxes, represents the amount receivable in respect of services provided to customers.
It includes sales to joint ventures but does not include sales by joint ventures or sales between Group companies.
Revenue is recognised only when payment is probable.
Revenue from services is recognised as the services are provided.
In respect of services invoiced in advance, amounts are deferred until provision of the service.
Amounts payable to and due from other telecommunications operators are recognised as the services are provided.
Charges are negotiated separately and are subject to continual review.
Revenue generated through the provision of these services is accounted for gross of any amounts payable to other telecommunications operators for interconnect fees.
The Group earns revenue from the transmission of content and traffic on its network originated by third party providers.
The Group assesses whether revenue should be recorded gross as principal or net as agent, based on the features of such arrangements including the following factors: whether the Group holds itself out as an agent: whether the Group has latitude for establishing the price, directly or indirectly, for example by providing additional services: provision of customer remedies: whether the Group has the primary responsibility for providing the services to the customer or for fulfilling the order: and assumption of credit risk.
Revenue from sales of telecommunication equipment is recognised upon delivery to the customer.
The total consideration on arrangements with multiple revenue generating activities generally the sale of telecommunications equipment and continuingservices is allocated to those components that are capable of operating independently based on the estimated fair value of the components.
When the fair value of components cannot be assessed the revenue is spread over the term of the service.
Revenue arising from the provision of other services, including maintenance contracts, is recognised evenly over the periods in which theservice is provided.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide 2010 11 Annual Report 71
