Profit forecast for Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group for the year ended 31 March 2011 The following information is repeated here in accordance with Listing Rule 9.2.
On 20 July 2010, Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc issued its first quarter Interim Management Statement as follows: In the first quarter our major programmes and lines of business performed broadly in line with plan.
However, following the new Governments Emergency Budget in late June, non-contracted spending in the UK public sector has slowedvery significantly.
Given the nature of our public sector business, this reduction will adversely impact trading in the current year.
Nevertheless, we are supportive of the overall approach being adopted by Government and believe that our unique product set providesus with significant opportunity in this area over the medium term.
In light of the downturn in public sector activity, we have stepped up our cost reduction initiatives and now expect total operating expenditure to reduce year-on-year.
Overall, we expect somewhat slower growth in EBITDA for the full year, with our forecast now around the lower end of the range of expectations.
Our expectations for operating cash flow have moved in line with the change in EBITDA outlook.
At the time the announcement above was made, we observed an external outlook EBITDA range of 452 million to 484 million with aconsensus of 472 million.
On 16 November 2010 Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc announced its results for the six months ended 30 September 2010 which included the following statement in the Chief Executives Review: Outlook The broader trends show an industry in transition to technologies and services which play to our strengths.
This is encouraging andgives me confidence well beyond this year.
The convergence of mobile and fixed line communications, the growing demands for bandwidth and the increasingly global nature of large enterprises all lend themselves well to our business model and strategy.
In the UKpublic sector the signing of our Memorandum of Understanding MOU with the Government has also created a real opportunity to develop our presence in this market.
The strong finish to the first six months gives us good momentum moving into the second half of the year.
Sales wins from the second half of 2009 10 are now being delivered and generating margin, we have already contracted additional project work and identified further opportunities in the near term which we now need to deliver.
Overall we remain comfortable with full year expectations.
At the time the announcement above was made, we observed an external outlook EBITDA consensus of 446 million.
On 17 February 2011, Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc issued its third quarter Interim Management Statement as follows: Today Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc confirms that the business continues to trade in the current year in line with expectations.
The Company continued to make progress through the second half in delivering its objectives for the current year, with further contract wins in UK enterprise and UK public sector and the renewal of important contracts in the Global business.
The Company will release its full year results for the 2010 11 year on 24 May 2011.
At the time the announcement above was made, we observed an external outlook EBITDA consensus of 445 million.
On 24 March 2011 Cable & Wireless Worldwide PLC issued its pre-close statement which included the following statement: Today Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc confirms that the business continues to trade in the current year in line with expectations.
Actual outturn As set out on page 30, EBITDA of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc Group for the year ended 31 March 2011 was 442 million.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide 2010 11 Annual Report 103
