Notes to the Company financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 1 Statement of accounting policies 1.1 Basis of preparation The Companys financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards applicable under generally accepted accounting principles in the United Kingdom and the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
They have been prepared on a going concern basis and on the historical cost basis where appropriate.
These financial statements set out the position of the Company and not the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group the Group which it heads.
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Companys financial statements.
The Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group consolidated financial statements contain a consolidated statement of cash flows.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 1 Cash flow statements not to present its own cash flow.
Under FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, the Company is exempt from the requirement to provide its own financial instruments disclosures on the grounds that they are included in publicly available consolidated financial statements which include disclosures that comply with the IFRS equivalent standard.
1.2 Use of estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from these estimates.
FRS 18 Accounting Policies requires that a description of the impact of any change in estimation techniques should be provided where the change has a material impact on the reported results for the period.
1.3 Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are included in the balance sheet at historical cost less any impairments recognised.
Impairment reviews arecarried out whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the subsidiary may not be fully recoverable.
Impairments are determined by comparing the carrying value of the subsidiary to its recoverable amount, being the higher ofthe subsidiarys fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Fair value represents market value in an active market.
Value in use isdetermined by discounting future cash flows arising from the subsidiary with reference to the Groups own projections using pre-tax discount rates which represent the estimated weighted average cost of capital for the Company.
Impairments are recognised in the profit and loss account.
1.4 Financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities The Company classifies its financial assets into the following categories: financial assets at fair value through the profit and loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments and available-for-sale financial assets.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the assets are held.
The Company currently does not classify any financial assets as held-to-maturity investments, available-forsale or fair value through the profit and loss.
The basis of determining fair values is set out in note 1.5.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition in accordance with FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date for financial assets other than those held at fair value through the profit and loss.
Debtors Debtors are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable receipts that are not quoted in an active market.
They arise whenthe Company provides money, goods or services directly to a third party with no intention of trading the debtor.
They are includedincurrent assets, except for those with maturities greater than one year after the balance sheet date these are classified asnon-current assets.
Debtors are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Amortised cost is determined using the effective interest method less allowance for impairment.
An allowance for impairment of receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Company will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the allowance is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate.
The amount of the allowance is recognised in the profit and loss account.
Recognition and measurement Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the assets have expired or have been transferred and the Company has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
The Company assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets isimpaired.
