Board governance structure Shareholders Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Disclosure Committee Effectiveness of internal control Independent Director.
At the meeting, a poll The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the isconducted on each resolution although internal control systems in operation during the shareholders also have the opportunity to Groupsfinancial year in accordance with the casttheir votes by proxy, either electronically revised Turnbull guidance.
necessary action has been or is being taken to Dividends remedy any failings and weaknesses identified The Board has recommended a final dividend as significant during this review.
forthe year ended 31 March 2011 of 3.0 pence Relations with shareholders per ordinary share.
Subject to approval by Shareholder engagement shareholders at this years AGM, the final The Board places a great deal of importance dividend will be payable on 11August 2011 onmaintaining a good relationship with its toordinary shareholders on the register at the shareholders and has a continuing active dialogue close of business on 10 June 2011.
If approved, with shareholders through a programme of this will equate to a total dividend of 4.5 pence investor meetings.
These meetings include per ordinary share for the year to 31 March 2011 formal presentations from the Chief Executive when added to the interim dividend of 1.5 pence Officer and the Chief Financial Officer of the per ordinary share paid on 27 January 2011.
Groups full and half-year results.
Going concern The AGM of the Company provides a good After making enquiries, the Directors have a opportunity for shareholder engagement and, reasonable expectation that the Company and inparticular, for the Chairman to explain how the the Group have adequate resources to continue Company has progressed during the year.
It also in operational existence for the foreseeable provides shareholders with the opportunity to future and, accordingly, they continue to adopt put questions to the Chairman of the Board, the the going concern basis in preparing the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and financialaccounts.
Nomination committees, and the Senior Cable&Wireless Worldwide 2010 11 Annual Review 21
