Loans Loans are recognised initially at fair value net of directly attributable transaction costs incurred.
Loans are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in profit and loss over the period of the loans using the effective interest method.
Loans are classified as current liabilities unless the Company has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12months after the reporting date.
Convertible bonds issued by the Company are initially recognised at fair value.
These bonds are separated into a liability and equity component.
The liability component is recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
The equity component represents the residual of the fair value of the bond less the liability component.
The liability component is subsequently measured onanamortised cost basis.
1.5 Fair value estimation The nominal value less estimated impairments of receivables and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values.
The fair value of financial liabilities is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Company for similar financial instruments.
Discounted cash flows are used to determine the fair value for the majority of remaining financial instruments.
1.6 Tax The charge for tax is based on the result for the period and takes into account tax deferred due to timing differences between the treatment of certain items for tax and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable.
Deferred tax assets are regarded as recoverable to the extent that on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Except where otherwise required by accounting standards, full provision without discounting is made for all timing differences that have arisen but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
1.7 Dividends Dividends are recognised through equity on the earlier of their approval by the Companys shareholders or their payment.
1.8 Share-based payments No charges are incurred by the Company for share-based payments.
Instead, options and share awards granted to employees of itsGroup undertakings represent capital contributions to those undertakings.
An addition to the Companys investments in Group undertakings is recognised with a corresponding increase in equity shareholders funds.
The capital contribution is determined based on the fair value of the options and share awards at the date of grant and is recognised overthe vesting period.
2 Companys profit and loss account The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and has not presented its ownprofit and loss account.
The Companys loss for the year ended 31 March 2011 was 432 million.
The Company was incorporated on24 September 2009.
The profit for the period from incorporation to 31 March 2010 amounted to nil.
3 Auditors remuneration Fees paid to KPMG for audit and other services to the Company are not disclosed in its individual accounts as the Group accounts are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
4 Demerger At a General Meeting on 25 February 2010, the shareholders of Cable and Wireless plc approved the demerger of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide business.
On 26 March 2010 the demerger date, the Cable&Wireless Worldwide business was transferred to an unrelated company, Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc, in exchange for the entire share capital of that company.
As a result of the demerger, Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc became the ultimate parent company of Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group subsidiaries.
Trading of shares in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc on the London Stock Exchange commenced on 26 March 2010.
Refer to note 4 of the consolidated financial statements for further information.
5 Staff costs The Executive Directors and the Chairman were the only employees of the Company during the current year and prior period.
Information covering Directors remuneration, interests in shares, share awards and pension benefits is set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 53 to 55.
All remuneration relates to services provided to the Companys principal subsidiaries.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide 2010 11 Annual Report 99
