37 Subsidiaries and joint ventures The Group comprises a large number of companies.
The list below therefore only includes those subsidiary companies whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affect the financial statements.
Voting rights and ownership Local percentage Class of Country of Nature of currency % shares incorporation business Subsidiaries Cable & Wireless U. K. GBP 100 Ordinary England Telecommunications Cable & Wireless UK Holdings Limited GBP 100 Ordinary England Holding company Cable & Wireless Europe Holdings Limited GBP 100 Ordinary England Holding company THUS Limited GBP 100 Ordinary England Telecommunications Cable & Wireless Global Network Limited GBP 100 Ordinary Ireland Telecommunications Joint venture Cable & Wireless Trade Mark Management Limited GBP 50 Ordinary England Brand management Full details of all subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and trade investments will be attached to the Companys Annual Return, to be filed with the Registrar of Companies in England and Wales.
38 Financial risk management Treasury policy The Cable&Wireless Worldwide Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including currency risk and interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall risk management programme seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
Day to day management of treasury activities is delegated to the Groups Treasury function Treasury, within specified financial limits for each type of transaction and counterparty.
To the extent that subsidiaries undertake treasury transactions, these are governed by Group policies and delegated authorities.
Material subsidiary positions are monitored by Treasury.
Where appropriate, transactions are reported to and, if necessary approved by, the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group Board.
The key responsibilities of Treasury include funding, investment of surplus cash and the management of interest rate and foreign currency risk.
The majority of the Groups cash resources and borrowings are managed centrally by Treasury.
The Group may, from time to time, use derivatives such as forward foreign exchange contracts in the management of its foreign currency and interest rate exposures.
The use of these instruments would be in accordance with strategies agreed by Treasury, subject to policies approved by the Board.
Derivatives are not used for trading or speculative purposes and all derivative transactions and positions are monitored and reported to the Board on a regular basis.
The Group may apply hedge accounting treatment on these derivative positions if appropriate, on a case by case basis.
Exchange rate risk The Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group trades in several countries, however, the majority of the Groups revenue is earned in sterling.
The Groups main foreign currency exposure relates to movements in exchange rates for foreign currency receipts and payments.
Exchange risk is measured on the basis of net current or future foreign currency payments.
Where appropriate the Group manages its exposure to movements in exchange rates on a net basis and uses forward foreign exchange contracts and other derivative instruments to reduce the exposures created where currencies do not naturally offset in the short-term.
The Group will undertake hedges to minimise the exposure to individual transactions that create significant foreign exchange exposures for the Group where appropriate.
The reported results of the Group are translated at average rates of exchange prevailing during the year.
The carrying amounts of the Groups cash and cash equivalents, available-for-sale financial assets and borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 Financial Financial assets Borrowings assets Borrowings m m m m Sterling 228 274 178 236 US dollar and currencies linked to the US dollar 24 1 31 7 Euro 9 10 Other currencies 5 8 3 266 275 227 246 94 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011
