Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 1 General information Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc the Company and its subsidiaries together the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group or the Group form an international telecommunications group providing critical communications infrastructure and services for large users of telecommunications worldwide.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies 2.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted by the European Union EU as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2011.
Group reorganisation and demerger The Cable&Wireless Worldwide business was demerged from the Cable & Wireless Communications Group formerly the Cable & Wireless Group, with effect from 26 March 2010.
As a result of the demerger, the Cable&Wireless Worldwide business was transferred toa new ultimate parent company, Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc.
The acquisition by Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc was accounted for in accordance with the principles of reverse acquisition as set out in IFRS 3 Business Combinations and hence the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended 31 March 2010 were prepared as if the continuing operations of the Group were in existence for the whole of the period from 1April 2009 to 31 March 2010.
Basis of preparation These consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling as this is the most representative currency of the Groups operations, and rounded to the nearest million.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis except for certain financial instruments held at fair value.
The Directors have prepared the accounts on a going concern basis.
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
These estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are considered to be reasonable under the circumstances.
They form the basis of judgements about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on a continuing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
Critical judgements and areas where the use of estimates is significant are discussed in note 3.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently by Group entities.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the business review on pages 22 to 25.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows and net debt are described in the business review on pages 28 to 35 and its liquidity management in note 38 to these financial statements.
The Directors believe that the Groups wide geographic spread, varying contract lengths and its monitoring and forecasting processes place it well to manage its business risks.
The Groups forecasts and projections, taking into account reasonably possible changes in trading performance, indicate that the Group is able to operate within the level of its current available facilities.
A formal process for monitoring compliance with debt covenants is also in place.
Further information on debt can be found in notes 25 and 33.
After reviewing budgets and other longer-term plans and making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide 2010 11 Annual Report 65
