12 Subsidiaries and joint ventures The Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to include all of them in this list.
The list of subsidiaries therefore only includes those companies whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affects the figures shown in the financial statements.
Ownership Local percentage Class of Country of Nature of currency % shares incorporation business Subsidiaries Cable & Wireless U. K. GBP 100 Ordinary England Telecommunications Cable & Wireless UK Holdings Limited GBP 100 Ordinary England Holding company Cable & Wireless Europe Holdings Limited GBP 100 Ordinary England Holding company THUS Limited GBP 100 Ordinary England Telecommunications Cable & Wireless Global Network Limited GBP 100 Ordinary Ireland Telecommunications Joint venture Cable & Wireless Trade Mark Management Limited GBP 50 Ordinary England Brand management Full details of all subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and trade investments will be attached to the Companys Annual Return, to be filed with the Registrar of Companies in England and Wales.
13 Dividends Details of the dividends declared and paid are set out in note 14 to the consolidated financial statements.
The transfer of 1,085 million from the capital reserve to distributable reserves during the year provided the Company with sufficient distributable reserves to allow the payment of the final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 March 2010 and the interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2011.
14 Commitments The Company had no capital commitments at 31 March 2011 and 31 March 2010.
15 Guarantees and contingent liabilities The Company had provided trading guarantees of 571 million at 31 March 2011 31 March 2010: 125 million and other guarantees of 28 million 31 March 2010: nil.
Trading guarantees principally comprise performance bonds for contracts concluded in the normal course of business, guaranteeing thatthe Group companies will meet their obligations to complete projects in accordance with the contractual terms and conditions.
Thenature of contracts includes projects, service level agreements, installation of equipment, surveys, purchase of equipment and transportation of materials.
The guarantees contain a clause that they will be terminated on final acceptance of work to be done under thecontract.
Other guarantees comprise guarantees in respect of Group borrowings.
In addition the Company has, as is considered standard practice in such agreements, given guarantees and indemnities in relation to a number of disposals of subsidiary undertakings in prior years.
Generally, liability has been capped at no more than the value of the sales proceeds, although some uncapped indemnities have been given.
The Company also gives warranties and indemnities in relation to certain agreements including facility sharing agreements and general commercial agreements.
Some of these agreements do not contain liability caps.
102 Notes to the Company financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011
