At 31 March 2011 the Groups balances in foreign currencies primarily comprise intercompany loans which are considered to be part of the net investment in its subsidiaries.
Any foreign exchange differences arising on such balances are recognised in reserves and recycled to the income statement on disposal of the net investment.
Other monetary foreign currency assets and liabilities largely eliminate and hence, the net exposure to foreign exchange differences is minimal.
No sensitivity analysis has therefore been prepared as the Groups results for the year would not have been materially impacted by a 10% change in foreign exchange rates.
Interest rate risk At 31 March 2011 100% 31 March 2010: 95% of the Groups borrowings were at a fixed rate.
A reduction in interest rates would have anunfavourable impact upon the fair value of the Groups fixed rate borrowings.
However, no debt is held for trading purposes and it is intended that it will be kept in place until maturity.
As a result, there is no exposure to fair value loss on fixed rate borrowings and, as such, it has not been modelled.
The Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group is exposed to movements in interest rates on its surplus cash balances.
A one percentage point increase in interest rates will have a 1.2 million impact on the income received from the average of the surplus cash balances of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group.
The impact on equity is limited to the impact on the income statement.
There were no interest rate derivatives in place at 31 March 2011 31 March 2010: none.
Credit risk Cash deposits and similar financial instruments give rise to credit risk, which represents the loss that would be recognised if a counterparty failed to perform as contracted.
The Group treasury policies, as approved by the Board, specify maximum exposure to one counterparty and the types of instruments that may be used for investment purposes.
Management seeks to reduce risk by ensuring the counterparties to all but a small proportion of the Groups financial instruments are entities rated A1 short-term and or AA or better long-term by Standard & Poors or equivalent by Moodys and or Fitch.
The credit rating of these counterparties are monitored on a continuing basis.
Credit risk on receivables is discussed in note 20.
Liquidity risk At 31 March 2011, the Group had cash and cash equivalents of 266 million.
These amounts are highly liquid and are a significant component of the Groups overall liquidity and capital resources.
An analysis of the maturity of Groups financial instruments is contained in notes 20, 22, 24 and 25.
Liquidity forecasts are produced on a regular basis to ensure the utilisation of current facilities is optimised, to ensure covenant compliance and that medium-term liquidity is maintained and for the purpose of identifying long-term strategic funding requirements.
TheDirectors also regularly assess the balance of capital and debt funding of the Group.
The majority of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Groups cash is held centrally and is predominantly invested in short-term bank deposits.
39 Reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP items 2010 11 2009 10 m m Total operating profit loss 153 59 Depreciation and amortisation 285 268 LTIP credit charge 9 14 Net other operating income expense 4 1 Exceptional items 17 207 EBITDA 442 431 Cable&Wireless Worldwide 2010 11 Annual Report 95
