Historically, Cable and Wireless plc provided guarantees to third parties in respect of trading contracts between these third parties and the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group.
At 31 March 2011, these guarantees amounted to 11 million 31 March 2010: 378 million and are included in the table above.
The Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group has agreed a fee schedule with the Cable & Wireless Communications Group for the benefit of these guarantees post-demerger.
Further, the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group has indemnified the Cable & Wireless Communications Group for these guarantees.
Other guarantees include guarantees for financial obligations principally in respect of borrowings, property and other leases and letters ofcredit.
35 Related party transactions Transactions with key management personnel There were no material transactions with key management personnel except for those relating to remuneration see notes 9 and 32, andshareholdings.
Transactions with the Cable & Wireless Communications Group prior to demerger Cable & Wireless Communications Group companies were related parties of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group and its subsidiaries asthey were wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Cable & Wireless Group prior to demerger on 26 March 2010.
The following sales and purchases and respective balances arose from transactions between the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group and Cable & Wireless Communications Group companies prior to demerger.
2009 10 m Sales to Cable & Wireless Communications Group companies 8 Purchases from Cable & Wireless Communications Group companies 6 Management charge for the Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund pension plan 4 Interest on funding balance with the Cable & Wireless Communications Group 14 31 March 2010 m Trade payables with Cable & Wireless Communications Group companies 3 Other receivables with Cable & Wireless Communications Group companies 79 Funding loan with the Cable & Wireless Communications Group Other receivables at 31 March 2010 related to an amount of 79 million that was received from the Cable & Wireless Communications Group on 1 April 2010 to settle the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Groups portion of the 2009 10 final dividend of the former Cable & Wireless Group.
On demerger, the Cable & Wireless brand was transferred to a joint venture entity owned by and for the continuing use of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group and the Cable & Wireless Communications Group.
See note 18 for further information.
The Group has also provided indemnities to the Cable & Wireless Communications Group for trading guarantees.
Transactions with other related parties There are no controlling shareholders of the Group.
Other than the parties disclosed above, the Group has no other material related parties.
36 Legal proceedings and agreements In the ordinary course of business, the Group is involved in litigation proceedings, regulatory claims, investigations and reviews.
The facts and circumstances relating to particular cases are evaluated in determining whether it is more likely than not that there will be a future outflow of funds and, once established, whether a provision relating to a specific case is necessary or sufficient.
Accordingly, significant management judgement relating to contingent liabilities is required since the outcome of litigation is difficult to predict.
The Group does not expect the ultimate resolution of the actions to which it is a party to have a significant adverse impact on the financial position of theGroup.
Under the Separation Agreement, Cable & Wireless Communications and Cable&Wireless Worldwide groups also agree to provide each other with certain customary indemnities on a reciprocal basis in respect of liabilities which the Cable & Wireless Communications Group may incur, but which relate exclusively to the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group and vice versa and in respect of an agreed proportion of liabilities which do not relate exclusively to one group or the other.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide 2010 11 Annual Report 93
