COMMUNICATING WITH SHAREHOLDERS Communicating with Shareholders Suggestions and Questions Any suggestions on how communications with shareholders can be improved are welcomed, so please contact the Baillie Gifford Client Relations Team and give them your suggestions.
They will also be very happy to answer questions that you may have, either about Monks or the plans described on page 52.
Literature in Alternative Formats It is possible to provide copies of the literature in alternative formats, A Monks web page at such as large print or on audio tape.
Please contact the Baillie www.
co. uk Gifford Client Relations Team for more information.
Client Relations Team Contact Details You can contact the Baillie Gifford Client Relations Team by Trust magazine telephone, email, fax or post: Client Relations Team Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited Calton Square Trust Magazine 1 Greenside Row Trust is the Baillie Gifford investment trust magazine which is EDINBURGH EH1 3AN published three times a year.
It provides an insight to our investment Tel: 0800 027 0133 approach by including interviews with our fund managers, as well We may record your call as containing investment trust news, investment features and articles about the trusts managed by Baillie Gifford, including Monks.
com plays an important role in helping to explain our products so that Website: www.
com readers can really understand them.
For a copy of Trust, please Fax: 0131 275 3955 contact the Baillie Gifford Client Relations Team.
Please note that Baillie Gifford is not permitted to give financial An online version of Trust can be found at www.
If you would like advice or if you have any questions All articles are available to read on screen and can also be about the suitability of these plans for you, please ask an downloaded in PDF format.
Guides to Investment Trusts Baillie Gifford has produced three educational guides on investment trusts.
These are designed to explain how investment trusts work and to explain the various ways you can invest in them.
If you would like copies of any of these guides, please contact the Baillie Gifford Client Relations Team.
Monks on the Web Up-to-date information about Monks can be found on the Companys page of the Managers website at www.
In the Investment Trust section you will find full monthly details on Monks, including a monthly commentary, recent portfolio information and performance targets.
You can also find a brief history of Monks, an explanation of the effects of gearing and a flexible performance reporting tool.
THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 53 Directors Registered Office Registrar Independent Auditors Chairman: Computershare Computershare  LLP JGD Ferguson Investor Services PLC Investor Services PLC Chartered Accountants and 2nd Floor The Pavilions Statutory Auditors CC Ferguson Vintners Place Bridgwater Road Erskine House EM Harley 68 Upper Thames Street Bristol BS99 6ZZ PO Box 90 DCP McDougall London EC4V 3BJ Tel: 0870 707 1170 6873 Queen Street Edinburgh EH2 4NH Company registration No.
236964 Managers and Secretaries Baillie Gifford & Co Calton Square 1 Greenside Row Edinburgh EH1 3AN Tel: 0131 275 2000 Website: www.
