C h a r i n g Whitehall C r Whitcomb St o s s Waterloo Pl Oxendon St Haymarket St Alban s St Regent St R d a o Northumberland Ave Cockspur Ct Cockspur St NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice of Annual General Meeting Piccadilly Circus Notice is hereby given that the eighty-second Annual General Meeting of The Monks Investment Trust PLC will be held at the Institute of Directors, 116 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5ED on Tuesday, Charing The National Cross 2 August 2011, at 11.00 am for the following purposes: Portrait Gallery The National Ordinary Business Gallery To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as Charing Institute Cross Trafalgar ordinary resolutions.
To receive and adopt the Financial Statements of the Company for the year to 30 April 2011 with the Reports of the Directors Institute of Contemporary and of the Independent Auditors thereon.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year to 30 April 2011.
To re-elect Mr JGD Ferguson as a Director.
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the Institute of Directors, 116 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5ED on Tuesday 2 August 5.
To re-elect Mr DCP McDougall as a Director.
To reappoint  LLP as Independent If you have any queries as to how to vote or how to attend the meeting, Auditors.
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the Baillie Gifford may record your call.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass resolution 8 as a special d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed by the resolution: Company in general meeting, the authority hereby conferred 8.
That, in substitution for any existing authority, but without shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to the date of the Company to be held in respect of the financial year hereof, the Company be authorised, in accordance with section ending 30 April 2012, save that the Company may, prior to 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, to make market such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase Shares under purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the Act such authority which will or might be completed or executed of ordinary shares of 5p each in the capital of the Company wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may Shares, provided that: make a purchase of Shares pursuant to any such contract.
a the maximum aggregate number of Shares hereby authorised to be purchased is being approximately 14.99% of the By order of the Board issued ordinary share capital on the date on which this BAILLIE GIFFORD & CO resolution is passed: Managers and Secretaries b the minimum price which may be paid for a Share shall be 28 June 2011 5p exclusive of expenses : c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a Share shall not be more than the higher of: i 5 per cent above the average closing price on the London Stock Exchange of an ordinary share over the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange: and THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 49 Duncannon St L e i c t S e e g n Charles II St Charles II St a r O Pall Mall Strand s t e r S q NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notes 7.
The return of a completed proxy form or other instrument of proxy will not prevent you attending the AGM and voting in person if you wish.
As a member you are entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to exercise all or any of your rights to attend, speak and vote at the 8.
Shareholders participating in the Baillie Gifford Investment Trust AGM.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company but must Share Plan, Childrens Savings Plan or the Baillie Gifford Investment attend the AGM to represent you.
You may appoint more than Trust ISA who wish to vote and or attend the meeting must complete one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights and return the enclosed reply-paid Form of Direction.
You can only appoint a proxy using 9.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations the procedure set out in these notes and the notes to the proxy form.
2001 and Section 311 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company You may not use any electronic address provided either in this notice specifies that to be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General or any related documents including the circular and proxy form to Meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company communicate with the Company for any purpose other than those of the votes they may cast, shareholders must be registered in expressly stated.
the Register of Members of the Company no later than 48 hours 2.
To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a proxy, excluding non-working days prior to the commencement of the AGM together with any power of attorney or other authority under which it is or any adjourned meeting.
Changes to the Register of Members after signed or a certified copy thereof, must be received by post or during the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of normal business hours only by hand at the Registrars of the Company any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
at Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater 10.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZY or www.
com no later under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information than 48 hours excluding non-working days before the time of the rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between meeting or any adjourned meeting.
him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, 3.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person the procedures described in the CREST Manual and or by logging has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise on to the website www.
CREST personal it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should 11.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will appointment of proxies in notes 1 and 2 above does not apply to be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
The rights described in those notes can only be 4.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST exercised by shareholders of the Company.
service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST 12.
The members of the Company may require the Company to publish, Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with on its website, without payment a statement which is also passed Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications, and must contain to the auditors setting out any matter relating to the audit of the the information required for such instruction, as described in the Companys accounts, including the auditors report and the conduct CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes of the audit.
The Company will be required to do so once it has the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction received such requests from either members representing at least 5% given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, of the total voting rights of the Company or at least 100 members be transmitted so as to be received by the Companys registrar ID who have a relevant right to vote and hold shares in the Company 3RA50 no later than 48 hours excluding non-working days before on which there has been paid up an average sum per member of at the time of the meeting or any adjournment.
For this purpose, the least 100.
Such requests must be made in writing and must state time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the your full name and address and be sent to the Company at Calton timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host Square, 1 Greenside Row, Edinburgh, EH1 3AN.
from which the Companys registrar is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
Information regarding the Annual General Meeting, including time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST information required by Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
is available from the Companys page of the Managers website at www.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland 14.
Members have the right to ask questions at the meeting in Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for accordance with Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006. any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, 15.
As at 9 June 2011 being the last practicable date prior to the therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
publication of this notice the Companys issued share capital It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, consisted of 260,764,859 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 9 June 2011 member, or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure were 260,764,859 votes.
that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted 16.
Any person holding 3% or more of the total voting rights of the by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this Company who appoints a person other than the Chairman of the connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST meeting as his proxy will need to ensure that both he and his proxy sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to complies with their respective disclosure obligations under the UK those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
of the CREST system and timings.
No Director has a contract of service with the Company.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
