COST-EFFECTIVE WAYS TO BUY AND HOLD SHARES IN MONKS Cost-effective Ways to Buy and Hold Shares in Monks Flexible investment options: lump sum from 100 or monthly saving from just 25 A withdrawal charge of just 22 Online Management Service You can also open and manage your Share Plan Childrens Savings Plan and or ISA online, through our secure Online Management Service OMS which can be accessed through the Baillie Gifford website www.
OMS enables you to apply for, open and administer a Baillie Gifford Investment Trust Share Plan or Investment Trust ISA online.
As well as being able to view the details of your plan online, the service also allows you to: get current valuations: make lump sum investments: The Share Plan and ISA brochure Press advertisement for Childrens available at Savings Plan available at switch between investment trusts except where there is more than www.
co. uk one holder : set up a direct debit to make regular investments: and Baillie Gifford & Co offers a number of plans that enable you to buy update certain personal details.
and hold shares in Monks cost-efficiently.
Purchases and sales are normally subject to a dealing price spread and Government stamp Please note that a bare trust cannot be opened via OMS.
A bare trust application form must be completed.
duty of 0.5% is payable on purchases.
The Baillie Gifford Investment Trust Share Plan Further information No initial charge If you would like more information on any of the plans described, please contact the Baillie Gifford Client Relations Team.
See contact No annual wrapper charge details on page 53.
Normally cheaper than dealing through a stockbroker Risks Invest a lump sum from 250 or monthly from just 30 Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
No maximum investment limits Monks is listed on the stock market.
As a result, the value of the shares, Stop and start saving at any time with no charge and any income from them, can fall as well as rise and you may not get back the amount you invested.
Twice weekly dealing usually Tuesday and Friday A withdrawal charge of just 22 As Monks invests in overseas securities, changes in the rates of exchange may also cause the value of your investment and any The Baillie Gifford Investment Trust ISA income it may pay to go down or up.
Tax-efficient investment Market values for securities which have become difficult to trade may No set-up charge not be readily available, and there can be no assurance that any value assigned to such securities will accurately reflect the price Flat rate annual management charge currently of 32.50 VAT Monks might receive upon their sale.
Lump sum investment from 2,000 currently up to a maximum of Monks invests in emerging markets which could encounter dealing, 10,680 each year settlement and custody difficulties more than the main international Save monthly from 100 markets.
A withdrawal charge of just 22 Monks has borrowed money to make further investments sometimes known as gearing.
The risk is that when this money is repaid by ISA Transfers the Company, the value of the investments may not be enough to Transfer existing ISAs from other plan managers into the Baillie cover the borrowing and interest costs, and the Company will make Gifford ISA a loss.
If the Companys investments fall in value, any borrowings Consolidate your plans into a managed global investment will increase the amount of this loss.
Monks can buy back and cancel its own shares.
The risks from borrowing are increased when Minimum transfer value 2,000 the Company buys back and cancels its shares.
The Baillie Gifford Childrens Savings Plan Monks use of derivatives may impact on its performance.
An excellent way for parents, grandparents or other adults to As the aim of Monks is to achieve capital growth you should not invest for a child expect a significant, or steady, annual income from the Company.
No initial charge The favourable tax treatment of ISAs may change.
No annual wrapper charge Details of other risks that apply to investment in these savings vehicles The option of a designated account or a bare trust in favour of the child are contained in the product brochures.
