Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the and the financial statements in accordance with applicable applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under loss of the Company: the law they have elected to prepare the financial the Chairmans Statement, Managers Review and Business statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
Review contained within the Report of the Directors The financial statements are required by law to give a true together constituting the Management Report include a and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of fair review of the development and performance of the the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
business and the position of the Company together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are faces: and required to: the financial statements and the Directors Report and select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Business Review include details on related party consistently: transactions.
make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: For and on behalf of the Board of Murray Income Trust PLC state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed Humphrey van der Klugt and explained in the financial statements: and Chairman of the Audit Committee prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 9 September 2011 unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report including a Business Review, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
