Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Directors Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also Report and the financial statements in accordance with responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors applicable law and regulations.
Remuneration Report and Statement of Corporate Governance that comply with that law and those regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the The financial statements are published on Directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in www.
co. uk which is a website maintained by the accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Companys Manager.
The Directors are responsible for the Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial and applicable law.
Under company law the Directors must information included on the Companys website.
Legislation not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of financial statements may differ from legislation in other the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for jurisdictions.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: Each of the Directors confirms that to the best of his or her knowledge: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the make judgments and accounting estimates that are applicable UK Accounting Standards, give a true and fair reasonable and prudent: and, view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have loss of the Company: and been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed the Directors Report includes a fair review of the and explained in the financial statements.
development and performance of the business and the position of the Company, together with a description of the The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate principal risks and uncertainties that the Company faces.
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company For Murray International Trust PLC and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and Kevin Carter detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Chairman 28 February 2012 36 Murray International Trust PLC
