GLOSSARY We have written this glossary to help readers understand certain Assumptions words and jargon used in our industry.
In line with our aim of Variables applied to data used to project expected outcomes.
writing this report in plain English, the definitions are not precise Inthe life insurance business, when the actuary calculates the or technical: they should not be used as the basis for making level of reserves required he she will make assumptions about investment or other decisions.
the future outcome of events.
These could include average life expectancy and policy surrender rates.
These assumptions are A technical glossary of the financial terms can be found on our then applied to the data compiled on life insurance business website at www.
com written to project expected outcomes.
Actuary Bancassurance Someone who uses mathematics in particular, probability to An arrangement whereby banks and building societies provide solutions to insurance-related problems, for example selllife, pension and savings products on behalf of other calculating the level of reserves that an insurance company financialproviders.
should hold to meet its obligations.
Actuarial techniques are used to design new insurance products and to assess the Boutique profitability of new and existing business.
A small investment firm specialising in offering specific services to a select number of individuals term interchangeable Adjusted net worth ANW withaffiliate.
Represents the market value of the shareholders net assets held in respect of the insurance business and forms part of the Capital adequacy requirement CAR embedded value of a life company.
The level of capital required by Old Mutual Life Assurance Company South Africa Limited to support its insurance Affiliate business.
It is mostly driven by the amount of capital required to An investment firm specialising in offering specific services absorb investment risk, i. e. a fall in the value of investments of toaselect number of individuals term is interchangeable the business and generally exceeds the level of capital required withboutique.
by the South African regulator called the Statutory Capital Adequacy Requirement.
Annual premium equivalent APE A standardised measure of the volume of new life insurance Carbon Disclosure Project business written.
It is calculated as the sum of annualised new The Carbon Disclosure Project CDP is an independent recurring premiums and 10% of the new single premiums written not-for-profit organisation holding the largest database of in an annual reporting period.
It gives a broadly comparable primary corporate climate change information in the world.
measure across companies to allow for differences between Thousands of organisations from across the worlds major regular and single premium business.
economies measure and disclose their greenhouse gas emissions, water use and climate-change strategies through Annuity CDP.
Corporations are rated and the information helps investors, A regular payment from an insurance company made for an corporations and regulators to make more informed decisions.
agreed period of time usually up to the death of the recipient in return for either a cash lump sum or a series of premiums which Certainty equivalent method the policyholder has paid to the insurance company during their This is a technique used to calculate embedded value which working lifetime.
involves risk-adjusting future earnings rather than allowing for risk separately using an appropriate risk discount rate.
The Asset management earnings from the assets in the business are calculated, before An investment management service provided by financial tax and investment management expenses.
All cash flows are institutions on behalf of their customers.
discounted using risk free reference rates, which are gross of tax and investment management expenses.
290 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financials statements Shareholder information Correlation Economic capital Correlation is a statistical measurement of the relationship Market value of assets minus fair value of liabilities.
Possible correlations range from 1 to -1.
Usedinpractice as a risk-adjusted capital measure: A zero correlation indicates that there is no relationship between specifically, theamount of capital required to meet an the variables.
A correlation of -1 indicates a perfect negative .
correlation, meaning that as one variable goes up, the other Embedded value EV goes down.
A correlation of 1 indicates a perfect positive correlation, meaning that both variables move in the same Life insurance contracts are usually long term and may involve direction together.
This means it is difficult to measure thevalue of a life insurance business or how much income it is Covered business likely to generate over time.
EV is a way of indicating what the A concept defined in the Market Consistent Embedded Value underlying business is worth, based on the total of the net assets MCEV principles and guidelines.
It refers to long-term business, already invested in the business and the profits expected to which includes traditional life insurance, long-term healthcare emerge in the future.
and accident insurances, savings, pensions and annuities.
Experience variance Deferred acquisition costs DAC In calculating embedded value of life business, it is necessary A method of accounting whereby the acquisition costs on tomake assumptions about items such as lapses or surrenders, insurance business with an extended contractual period are mortality experience, etc.
In any period the actual result for these recognised over the life of the contracts rather than up front at items will differ from the assumed experience: this is known as the time of sale.
An example of this would be sales commission the experience variance.
The costs are aggregated and Financial Groups Directive FGD capitalised on the balance sheet as an asset and amortised through the accounts over the contract life.
A financial regime applying to EU-based companies whose activities span both the banking and investment sectors and the Deferred annuity insurance sector.
It lays down requirements for the Companys An annuity due to be paid from a future date or when the capital position and is intended to improve the stability of the policyholder reaches a specified age.
A deferred annuity financial system, thereby protecting customers.
maybefunded by the policyholder by payment of a series  or by a capital sum.
FGD surplus This represents the amount of capital in the Company which is Deferred fee income surplus to the statutory solvency requirement for insurance A method of accounting whereby fee income is recognised over groups as laid down by the Financial Groups Directive.
the term of the contract with customers, rather than up front at Financial Services Authority FSA the time of sale.
The fees are aggregated and recorded on the balance sheet as a liability and amortised through the accounts The regulator of financial services in the United Kingdom.
over the term of the contract.
Financial Services Board FSB Earnings per share EPS The regulator of financial services in South Africa.
Earnings per Share EPS is calculated as post-tax adjusted operating profit divided by the adjusted weighted average Funds under management FUM number of shares WANS held by our investors.
EPS is an The total value at market prices of funds managed by a company indicator of our profitability that measures how much we on behalf of shareholders and customers.
Old Mutual plc 291 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GLOSSARY General insurance property and casualty insurance Liquidity headroom Short-term Insurance Unencumbered available free cash and committed facilities Non-life insurance mainly concerned with protecting the available to Old Mutual plc.
policyholder from loss or damage caused by specific risks.
Liquidity premium Examples include motor, contents and buildings insurance.
Property insurance covers loss or damage through, for example, A liquidity premium can be viewed as compensation for the fire or theft.
Casualty insurance covers losses arising from lower liquidity of corporate bonds compared to government debt accidents that cause injury to other people or damage to and for the risk that the market value of bonds will fall prior to theirproperty.
maturity due to increasing credit spreads.
In-force Long-term business An insurance policy is said to be in-force from its start date until A term used by the Group to describe its life, health and the date it is terminated.
pensions business and includes both insured and non-insured business.
The term is broadly used throughout the industry, for Independent financial adviser IFA example it is a UK regulatory expression broadly equivalent to life In the UK an IFA is a person or organisation authorised to insurance and pensions.
giveadvice on financial matters and to sell the products of all Long-term investment return LTIR financial services providers.
IFAs are regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
The long-term return that Old Mutual assumes can realistically be earned on its investible shareholder assets when calculating Insurance Adjusted Operating Profit.
Long-term investment return rates are A contract taken out with an insurer to give financial protection reviewed annually and reflect the returns expected on the against loss from a perceived risk.
The person taking out the chosen asset classes.
insurance is called the insured.
Payments for the policy are Loss data called premiums.
Data regarding direct losses experienced by the organisation as International financial reporting standards IFRS a result of events caused by a failure of people, process, Accounting regulations that all publicly listed companies in the systems and or external events.
They are designed to ensure companies Management action plan prepare their accounts in a similar way so that there is a common basis for comparison.
An action or actions developed by management that are usually triggered by one or more of the following: Key risk indicator KRI Q Risk exposure greater than risk appetite A metric that is indicative of the trend of risk exposures for a particular risk or group of risks.
Q Control breakdowns or weaknesses Q Key risk indicator threshold breaches Lapses withdrawals surrenders Q Loss events Q Audit findings The voluntary termination of a policy by a policyholder before the maturity date.
Market consistent embedded value MCEV Life insurance A standard of reporting for life insurance companies that we have An insurance contract which promises the payment of an agreed chosen to use.
It provides a common set of principles and guidelines for use in calculating embedded value.
MCEV attempts sum of money upon the death of the insured within a specified period of time.
Also known as life assurance.
to measure the value of business in-force based on a set of best estimate assumptions, allowing for the impact of uncertainty in future investment returns.
It is designed to provide an accurate reflection of the performance of long-term savings business and amethod of comparing companies on a consistent basis.
292 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financials statements Shareholder information Maturity Pension The date that an insurance policy or other financial contract A regular payment received by an individual during their finishes or matures and the benefit becomes payable.
A pension is usually bought through the payment of regular contributions during the individuals Minority interests working lifetime.
It may be a legal insurance contract but is not always the case.
These are the proportion of the Groups earnings on balance sheet net assets that are not owned by the Groups ordinary Platform equity shareholders, for example preference shareholders of the Group or the independent shareholders of Nedbank.
Online services used by intermediaries and consumers to view and administer their investment portfolios.
Platforms provide Mutual fund unit trust facilities for buying and selling investments including, in the UK, Fund of shares, bonds and other assets held by a manager for Individual Savings Accounts ISAs, Self-Invested Personal Pensions SIPPs and life insurance and for viewing an the benefit of investors who buy units in the fund, effectively pooling their money with that of other investors.
It enables individuals entire portfolio to assess asset allocation and risk exposure.
investors to achieve a more diversified portfolio than they might have done by making an individual investment.
Premium Net client cash flow NCCF The payment a policyholder makes in return for insurance cover.
The difference between money received from customers eg A single-premium contract involves a single lump sum payment premiums, deposits and investments and money given back to made at the start of the contract.
Under a regular-premium customers eg claims, surrenders, maturities during the period.
contract the policyholder agrees at the start to make regular payments throughout the term of the contract.
Net risk also known as Residual Risk Probability distribution A net risk is defined as the result of an assessment of the potential impact and likelihood of a risk, after taking account of A mathematical description of a range of possible values for acertain variable, identifying the likelihood of each possible the design adequacy and operating effectiveness of the controls put in place to manage the risk.
Non-profit policy Real world economic assumptions Insurance cover guaranteeing certain benefits, but where the The expected return is based on a projection from beginning of policyholder bears no investment risk and does not gain or lose if period to end of period for investment return.
This requires returns differ from expectations.
Pure risk business such as annuities assumptions regarding the investment returns expected to be and health insurance is normally written on a non-profit basis.
The investment return assumptions forthis purpose only are based on the real world returns in Open-architecture excess of the risk free reference rate.
The use of real world Where a company offers investment products from a range of investment assumptions gives a more realistic basis for the expected return calculation and allows for returns commensurate other companies in addition to its own products.
This gives customers a wider choice of funds to invest in and access to a with the risk underlying each asset class.
Any under or over performance of actual investment returns over the real world larger pool of money management professionals.
economic assumption will be reported through economic Operational risk scenarios variance.
These have no bearing on the calculated MCEV Foreseeable, hypothetical events relating to failure of people, otherthan the calculation of the expected existing business contribution in the analysis of MCEV earnings.
processes, systems and or external events that potentially could have a significant impact on an organisations risk profile or capital.
Old Mutual plc 293 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GLOSSARY Return on equity RoE Risk identification A measure calculated by dividing profit after tax by the average The qualitative determination of risks that are material, i. e. those amount of equity in the business.
Equity indicates how much that potentially can impact the organisations achievement of its capital provided or belonging to shareholders is tied up in financial and or strategic objectives.
Risk management framework Reverse stress testing A set of components that provide the foundations and Reverse stress-tests are stress tests see definition of stress and organisational arrangements for designing, implementing, scenario testing below that require a firm to assessscenarios monitoring, reviewing and continually improving risk and circumstances that would render its business model management processes throughout the organisation.
unviable, thereby identifying potential business vulnerabilities.
Risk policies Reverse stress-testing starts from an outcome ofbusiness failure and identifies circumstances where this mightoccur.
Policies that set out the minimum, mandatory requirements that businesses must follow to mitigate key Group risks.
Risk Risk profile The threat of an event that will limit the organisations ability to achieve its business objectives.
Risk is often expressed in terms The entire portfolio of risks organised by risk category that are of a combination of the consequences of an event or a change in found within a particular organisation.
circumstances and the associated likelihood of occurrence.
Scenario Risk adjusted performance measures A predicted sequence of events.
A metric that measures returns based on the quantum of risk Scenario analysis taken to generate those returns.
We use it to assess the attractiveness of different business units in allocating our capital.
Scenario analysis is a process of analysing possible future events by considering possible outcomes or scenarios.
Risk appetite The level of risk an organisation is willing to take in the pursuit Solvency II ofprofit.
Solvency II is a fundamental review of the capital adequacy regime for the European insurance industry.
It aims to Risk assessment establisharevised set of EU-wide capital requirements and This is a forward-looking and subjective process whereby risks riskmanagement standards that will replace the current are identified and exposure to risk is assessed or measured in solvency requirements.
the context of the business objectives.
There are typically two aspects to the assessment of risk, one being the likelihood of Solvency Capital Requirement SCR risk occurring and the second being the impact of the risk.
The SCR is the capital required to ensure that the re insurance company will be able to meet its obligations over the next 12 Risk-based capital months with a probability of at least 99.5%.
Risk-based capital is the minimum amount of capital that an Standard formula organisation needs to support its overall business operations.
Risk-based capital is used to set capital requirements A non-entity-specific risk-based mathematical formula used by considering the nature, scale and complexity of the organisation.
insurers to calculate their Solvency Capital Requirement under Solvency II, if the company is not using an internal model.
Risk categorisation A process for classifying risks possessing common qualities or quantities.
Risk categorisation is used to collate information in aconcise profile.
Risk exposure Means the capital required to meet the businesss current exposure to risk.
Risk free reference rate The rate at which actual assets held earn income and the rate atwhich earnings are discounted in the MCEV calculation.
294 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financials statements Shareholder information Statistical distribution Value of new business VNB An arrangement of values of a variable showing their observed The discounted value of the future profits expected to arise or theoretical frequency of occurrence, eg frequency distribution fromall new business sold during a reporting period.
VNB is a distribution of observed frequencies of occurrence of the calculated by using actuarial assumptions.
With-profit Stress and scenario testing A type of investment policy in which extra amounts bonuses Stress and scenario tests test the firms resilience in the face may be added to the sum assured to reflect profits earned ofadverse conditions.
For example, to test adverse market during the course of the contract.
Regular bonuses are usually conditions, a set of economic stresses are defined, such as a added each year and, once declared, are usually guaranteed.
rise in interest rates or drop in markets, and the firm must then Afinal or terminal bonus may be added when the policy calculate if it has sufficient capital to withstand these stresses.
Sum assured Wrap platform The lump sum benefit payable under an insurance policy or An investment platform which enables investment funds, contract in circumstances which are defined within the policy: pensions, direct equity holdings and some life insurance egthe amount payable on the death of the policyholder.
contracts to be held in the same administrative account ratherthan as separate holdings.
Technical provisions Amounts set aside on the basis of actuarial calculations to meet forecast future obligations to policyholders.
Underwriting profit general insurance A generally accepted non-life insurance term, also referred to asunderwriting result, representing earned premiums minus thecost of claims and operating expenses.
It indicates whether premiums cover claims and expenses or not.
Unit-linked policy A type of long-term savings plan where premiums are used to buy units in an investment fund, such as a unit trust, and the benefits will be linked to the value of the underlying units rather than being fixed or guaranteed at the start of the plan.
Value of in-force business VIF Part of the embedded value of a life insurance company.
It represents the discounted value of the profits expected to arise from the in-force business.
VIF is calculated using a set of actuarial, economic and operational assumptions.
Old Mutual plc 295 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES 296 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Forward-looking statements Acknowledgements This Report contains certain forward-looking statements with Designed and produced by MerchantCantos respect to Old Mutual plcs and its subsidiaries plans and www.
com expectations relating to their financial condition, performance Printed by The Colourhouse and results.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future This report is printed on Amadeus 100 Silk and Amadeus events and circumstances that are beyond Old Mutual plcs 75Matt, produced from 100% and 75% recycled fide-inked control, including, among other things, UK domestic and post-consumer waste respectively.
They are ECF meaning no general economic and business conditions, market-related chemical bleaching has been used in their manufacture, and risks such as uctuations in interest rates and exchange FSC assured so that the bre is sourced from renewable and rates, policies and actions of regulatory authorities, the responsibly managed forests with a traceable chain of impact of competition, ination, deation, the timing and custody throughout the process.
impact of other uncertainties or of future acquisitions or combinations within relevant industries, as well as the impact This Report is printed by an FSC, ISO 14001, and carbon of tax and other legislation and regulations in territories where neutral certied printer using vegetable oil based inks.
All Old Mutual plc or its subsidiaries operate.
processes in the production of this Report are on one site.
As a result, Old Mutual plcs or its subsidiaries actual future financial condition, performance and results may differ materially from the plans and expectations set forth in such forward-looking statements.
Old Mutual plc undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this Report or any other forward-looking statements that it may make.
Old Mutual plc Registered in England and Wales No.
3591559 and as an external company in each of South Africa No.
E1 99 Registered Ofce: 5th Floor Old Mutual Place 2 Lambeth Hill London EC4V 4GG www.
com Old Mutual plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 Old Mutual plc Registered in England and Wales No.
E1 99 Registered Office: 5th Floor Old Mutual Place 2 Lambeth Hill London EC4V 4GG www.
com connecting with customers annual review and summary financial statements 2011 Old Mutual is an international long-term savings, protection and investment group overview governance 2 Our business at a glance 58 Board of directors 4 Key successes 62 Summary of the Corporate Governance Report 6 Delivering on our strategy 68 Summary of the Remuneration 8 Business model Report 10 Key performance indicators 12 Strategy in action financial 18 Chairmans statement 20 Group Chief Executives statement 80 Independent auditors reportto the 24 Group Chief Executives Q&A members ofOldMutual plc 81 Consolidated income statement business review 82 Reconciliation of adjusted operating profit to profit after tax 26 Long-Term Savings 83 Consolidated statement 32 Banking of financial position 36 Short-Term Insurance 84 Notes to the consolidated 40 US Asset Management financial statements 45 Non-core business operations 89 Adjusted Group MCEV by line 46 Group Finance Directors of business Statement 90 Adjusted operating Group MCEV statementofearnings Forward-looking statements Acknowledgements risk and 91 Components of Group MCEV and This Report contains certain forward-looking Designed and produced by MerchantCantos Adjusted Group MCEV responsibility statements with respect to Old Mutual plcs and its www.
com subsidiaries plans and expectations relating to their 51 Risk and capital management financial condition, performance and results.
By their The paper used for this document is produced in an shareholder nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and ISO14001 environmentally accredited South African 55 Responsible business information uncertainty because they relate to future events and mill using fibre mostly from sugar cane production circumstances that are beyond Old Mutual plcs with the balance from Forest Stewardship Council control, including, among other things, UK domestic certified wood.
The pulp undergoes Elemental 92 Shareholder information and general economic and business conditions, Chlorine Free bleaching and processing by-products market-related risks such as fluctuations in interest are cleaned or recovered before reuse.
rates and exchange rates, policies and actions of whats online regulatory authorities, the impact of competition, Please recycle your Old Mutual Summary inflation, deflation, the timing and impact of other Financial Statements.
Annual Report uncertainties or of future acquisitions or combinations www.
com ar2011 within relevant industries, as well as the impact of tax and other legislation and regulations in territories Corporate website where Old Mutual plc or its subsidiaries operate.
com Reporting centre As a result, Old Mutual plcs or its subsidiaries actual www.
com reportingcentre future financial condition, performance and results may differ materially from the plans and expectations If each shareholder elected to read set forth in such forward-looking statements.
the Annual Report online, athousandth Old Mutual plc undertakes no obligation to update ofa tonne of paper would have been any forward-looking statements contained in this saved per shareholder.
Sign up for Report or any other forward-looking statements electronic communication at that it may make.
com ecomms Cover picture: Tavaziva Madzinga, Old Mutual Kenya.
overvieW Welcome Our strategy is to build a long-term savings, protection and investment group by leveraging the strength of our people and capabilities in South Africa and around the world.
We will focus, drive and optimise our businesses to enhance value for shareholders and customers.
Our vision is to be our customers most trusted partner passionate about helping them achieve their lifetime financial goals.
our values: integrity respect accountability 4 pushing beyond boundaries For more information on how we are embedding our values across the business, see pages 55 to 57 Old Mutual plc 1 Summary Financial Statements 2011 overvieW our business at a glance Below is a high-level summary of the Group and our four principal business units.
group Adjusted operating profit Primary locations Old Mutual is an international AOP 2011 LTS Southern Africa, Europe, Colombia, long-term savings, protection Mexico, India and China and investmentGroup.
US Asset Management US 1,515m Banking Southern Africa 2010: 1,371m Short-term insurance Southern Africa Funds under management FUM 2011 Operational highlights AOP per share up 10% to 15.7p 267.2bn 4 Full dividend for the year increased 25% 2010: 295.2bn to 5.0p 1 Financial Groups Directive FGD surplus Number employed 2011 of 2.0 billion Well on track to deliver 2012 57,430 financialtargets 2010: 55,730 long-term savings lts Adjusted operating profit Operational highlights We provide innovative life AOP 2011 Net client cash inflows of 3.2 billion, despite assurance-based solutions worsening European sentiment inH2 which address both Non-covered sales, up 14%, on a constant 793m protection and retirement currency basis, to 12,836 million 2010: 787m savings needs.
Life sales annual premium equivalent Funds under management APE basis decreased by 6% to 1,207 FUM 2011 million, with reduced Legacy sales in Our brands Wealth Management 4 APE margins increased to 15%, with 108.5bn improved margins in Wealth Management 2010: 117.9bn and Emerging Markets Number employed 2011 1 Includes Group Head Office, Bermuda, Contribution to Group Nordic and USLife.
2 3 AOP FUM 2 % of total operating business unit AOP 22,851 after tax andnon-controlling interests.
2010: 21,729 3 % of FUM in Group Core operations.
4 60% 40.6% Excluding operating results from affiliates held for saleordisposed of at 31 December 2011 and adding back $12 million of restructuring costs.
2 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 banKing Adjusted operating profit Operational highlights We have a majority AOP 2011 Strong headline earnings growth of 26% shareholding in Nedbank, on a constant currency basis one of South Africas leading Non-interest revenues up 17% and net 755m banks, which also has interest income up 9%, on a constant 2010: 601m currency basis banking interests in other Core tier 1 ratio Credit loss ratio improved to 1.14% from countries in southern Africa.
1.36% in 2010 4 11.0% Core tier 1 ratio 11.0% up from 10.1% Our brand in2010 2010: 10.1% Number employed 2011 Contribution to Group 2 3 AOP FUM 28,494 2010: 27,525 28% 3.6% short-term insurance Adjusted operating profit Operational highlights We provide short-term AOP 2011 Underwriting result reduced to 30 million, insurance solutions in reflecting softening rates and the expected southern Africa through normalisation in claims patterns 89m Mutual & Federal.
Gross premiums increased by 5% 2010: 103m iWyze progressed well and continued to Underwriting margin Our brands meet premium growth targets M&F remains well capitalised, with a 66% 4 international solvency margin 5.0% 2010: 7.6% Contribution to Group Number employed 2011 2 3 AOP FUM 2,390 6% 0.1% 2010: 2,222 us asset management Adjusted operating profit Operational highlights We aim to grow our AOP 2011 Investment performance continued customers savings and toimprove wealth, whether through The new USAM management team are 67m active and direct asset intheprocess of divesting several affiliate 2010: 72m firmsto improve USAMs longer term management or the selection Funds under management financial performance of funds and managers for FUM 2011 AOP was up 16% constant currency to 4 customers to invest in.
82million in USAMs continuing operations 4 Net client cash outflows in USAMs 148.8bn 4 Some of our brands continuing operations reduced to 2010: 166.4m 4.2billion from 7.9 billion on a Number employed 2011 constantcurrency basis Contribution to Group 2 3 1,564 AOP FUM 2010: 1,537 6% 55.7% See full list of affiliates on page 42 Old Mutual plc 3 Summary Financial Statements 2011 overvieW Key successes Below are some of the key successes achieved by our businesses that support the delivery of our vision to our customers.
Skandia International Old Mutual South Africa Sunday Times Top Brands Long-Term Insurance Winner Business to Best International Life Group Consumer by the Professional International Adviser Fund and Product Awards Skandia Investment GroupAward Germany Skandia European Best Ideas Fund A rating 2.
Banking Growth in Group value of new business Winner 11% Nedbank awarded by the Ombudsman for Banking Group Return on Equity services Best bank for service resolution 14.6% Growth in Ordinary Dividend Find out more online: www.
com reportingcentre 4 25% 4 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 Winner Old Mutual South Africa won the award for the best customer service in the ASK Afrika Orange Service Excellence Awards for the fourth year in a row 4.
Skandia UK Awarded Company of the Year by FT Adviser.
com Online Service Awards Growth in APE sales of Mass Foundation Market South Africa 28% Group Funds under Management core operation 267.2bn 5.
Sarah Guehring German Team and Marian Dudler-Petoors Austrian Team 2.
Busi Ntsokota Branch Manager, Old Mutual Finance and Lwanda David Monareng customer 3.
Marko Campher Nedbank 3. Business Banking 4.
Rose Keanly Managing Director Old Mutual Service, Technology and Administration 5.
Ralph Mupita Chief Executive Officer Old Mutual Emerging Markets Old Mutual plc 5 Summary Financial Statements 2011 overvieW delivering on our strategy Old Mutuals vision is to become our customers most trusted partner passionate about helping them achieve their lifetime financial goals.
Our five strategic priorities Progress during 2011 Good progress on expanding and improving the product 1.
Develop the customer proposition proposition across the Group, with a number of new and experience product launches Since 2009, we have made a concerted The dedicated customer team has made progress towards effort across the Group to put the customer improving thecustomer proposition and experience across first in everything we do.
We will continue to the Long-Term Savings LTS business deepen our understanding of our customers Improvement in reporting of customer information needs and accordingly improve the product offering, the customer experience and the channels through which they are served.
Deliver high performance in all 2011 business plan exceeded and RoE targets delivered Circa 600m of debt repaid by January 2012 business units Good progress in transformation of Nedbank Retail To ensure that we provide value to shareholders andNordic and customers, we will continue to drive high iCRaFT delivered to time, quality and budget performance in our businesses by delivering profitable growth and operational efficiency, and by optimising risk and return.
Improvement in our international mobility 3.
Share skills and experience Significant strengthening of functional communities across across the Group the Group We will continue to drive revenue and cost Launch of a Group Intranet improvements across the Group, by leveraging Improved knowledge-sharing across LTS businesses, and sharing our capabilities in South Africa supported by dual reporting in new functions and around the world.
Commenced implementation of LTS IT plan South African Greenlight product launched in Mexico and plans to launch in other markets Significant progress in building a strong management team 4.
Build a culture of excellence Consistent and improved executive performance management We will continue to embed our ACT NOW!
processesimplemented Leadership behaviours across the Group Application of pool-based approach to reward implemented in and measure our progress through the LTS, Head Office and Mutual & Federal M&F BarrettCulture Survey.
Culture Survey implemented successfully and strong focus onactions to address survey results Sale of US Life completed 5.
Simplify our structure to unlock value Sale of Nordic business agreed Sale of Skandia Finland agreed To deliver the full value of the Group to Preparation of US Asset Management USAM for Initial Public shareholders we will continue to optimise Offering IPO our structure.
Continued progress of the run-off process at Bermuda 6 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 LTS Net Client Cash Flow NCCF % Our strategy is to build a long-term savings, protection and 1 NCCF Opening FUM in5vestment group by leveraging the strength of our people 4 4.6% and capabilities in South Africa and around the world.
3 2 2.7% 1.7% 1 LTS Net Client Cash Flow NCCF % 2011 Trend Priorities for 2012 0 1 NCCF Opening FUM 2009 2010 2011 LTS Net Client Cash Flow NCCF % Be customer-focused in everything we do 5 1 NCCF Opening FUM LTS Net Client Cash Flow NCCF % Ensure a positive customer experience across the Group 4 4.6% 1 NC 5 CF Opening FUM Improve customer insight and segmentation to serve 3 Adjusted Operating profit AOP Earnings 4 5 4.6% customer needs better 1 2 2.7% Per Share EPS and RoE performance 4 3 4.6% p % Improve Skandia UK and Skandia Internationals product 1.7% 1 3 2 2.7% 20 20 offering and platform functionality 0 15.7p 14.3p 1.7% 2.7% 15 2 2009 2010 2011 15 1 Develop our investment management capability to support 10.2p 14.2% 14.6% 10 1.7% 10 1 0 key customer segments and attract platform flows 2009 10.4% 2010 2011 5 0 5 2009 2010 2011 0 Adjusted Operating profit AOP Earnings 0 2009 2010 2011 1 Per Share EPS and RoE performance AOP EPS pence RoE% Adjusted Operating profit AOP Earnings p % 1 Per Share EPS and RoE performance A20 djusted Operating profit AOP Earnings 20 Deliver or exceed the 2012 business plan 15.7p 14.3p % p 1 Per Share EPS and RoE performance 15 15 Improve USAM business flows and margin 10.2p 20 p 14.6% 20 % 14.2% 10 10 15.7p 14.3p Deliver M&F step change targets 20 15 10.4% 15 20 5 5 15.7p 10.2p 14.3p 14.6% 14.2% Continue Nedbank Retail repositioning and focus on 10 15 10 15 0 0 10.2p 10.4% 5 14.2% 14.6% growing Non-Interest Revenue NIR 10 2009 2010 2011 5 10 Cost savings m run-rate achieved and 0 10.4% 5 AOP EPS pence RoE% Invest to improve LTS businesses in UK, International and 1 0 5 2012 target 2009 2010 2011 0 South Africa 0 AOP EPS pence RoE% 1002009 2010 2011 Develop Luxembourg hub for European affluent business 80 AOP EPS pence RoE% 90 89 Leverage iCRaFT to drive a risk-adjusted approach 60 40 56 toprofitability 20 Cost savings 0 m run-rate achieved and Collaboratively explore and pursue African growth 2010 2011 2012 Target 1 opportunities Nedbank, M&F and Old Mutual Emerging 2012 target Cost savings m run-rate achieved and Markets OMEM 100 1 Cost savings 2012 target m run-rate achieved and Develop our Global Distribution capability to attract 80 90 1 89 2012 target 100 60 incremental asset flows 80 40 56 100 90 Encourage and support mobility between businesses 89 60 20 80 90 89 Leverage core capabilities across Group eg in the areas 56 Cultural entropy and engagement 40 0 60 2010 2011 2012 Target ofIT, back-office processing and product knowhow 20 40 56 0 20 80 2010 2011 2012 Target 0 602010 2011 2012 Target Embed ACT NOW!
behaviours across the Group and Cultural entropy and engagement 40 measure progress through the annual Culture Survey 11 20%-27% 42%-66% Develop the leadership pipeline and invest in the next T Cultural entropy and engagement he r 0 ange of Cultural Entropy The range of Employment generation of leaders Cultural Entropy 2011Employee Engagement 2011 scores across the Group Engagement scores across Improve diversity of senior teams b Cultural entropy and engagement usinesses.
This is a new the Group businesses.
This 80 measure from the Culture revised metric gauges Cultural entropy and engagement 60 Survey: the lower the score, employee commitment and 80 the healthier theculture.
40 80 60 20 Financial Groups Directive FGD surplus bn Take actions to meet 1.7bn enhanced debt reduction target 60 40 0 40 Complete the sale of the Nordic and Finnish businesses and 20 Cultural Entropy 2011Employee Engagement 2011 2.5 return capital to shareholders 20 0 2.0 Cultural Entropy 2011Employee Engagement 2011 2.1 2.0 Continue to explore options for an IPO of USAM 0 1.5 Cultural Entropy 2011Employee Engagement 2011 1.5 Actively manage Bermuda to mitigate risks 1.0 0.5 Optimise Group balance sheet and capital structure Financial Groups Directive FGD surplus bn 0 Ensure corporate functions are fit for purpose and 2009 2010 2011 cost-effective Financial Groups Directive FGD surplus bn 2.5 1.
Numbers restated for discontinued operations 1.
Numbers restated for discontinued operations overvieW business model We bring a range of resources, expertise, people and processes together across our businesses in order to develop the customer proposition and experience, thereby driving value for shareholders, employees and bond holders.
Skills and resources What we do Financial outcome People Product Net Client Customer development Cash Flow 11.4 bn Sales Payments and Values IT & Savings Protection Investments Funds under administration management 1 267.2bn Funds under management 2 Profit 1,515m Capital Distribution Free Surplus allocation generated 986m Profits & cash Ordinary Risk Knowledge dividends management and per share 5.0p & governance experience Return on framework equity 14.6% Shareholders, employees, Government, bond holders Debt costs 128m 1.
AOP before tax and non-controlling operations Our five strategic priorities 1 Develop the customer proposition and experience 2 Deliver high performance in all business units 3 Share skills and experience across the Group 4 Build a culture of excellence 5 Simplify our structure to unlock value 8 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 Our business model is simple driving value for shareholders by harnessing the resources and skills we have across the Group into Savings, Protection and Investments.
Meeting customer needs Investment dynamics In our long-term savings, protection and investment We invest customers funds, and their value rises or falls business we look after and grow our customers money, with the underlying markets.
offering financial security against single or multiple events.
We earn fees on the funds we manage.
This, combined For example, we provide for them in retirement through with tight expense management, generates profits and pensions and annuities and help them to save for their cash.
Cash generated is used both to invest in future childrens education.
growth and to reward our shareholders.
We provide them with appropriate and tax-efficient Long-term need for our products investment products, and protection products offering Our markets are characterised by resilience and stability.
life assurance and disability benefits.
In emerging Whatever happens in the world economy or the equity markets we also provide products to help them save and currency markets, the basic need of consumers for their own and their familys funerals these have around the world to save for critical life events and for particular cultural importance in many of the countries retirement, against a background of declining state and we serve.
corporate support, does not change.
Multiple customer interactions Customers buy our products either directly or through an intermediary such as an independent financial adviser.
This generates inflows of cash.
At the same time we also make payments to our customers returning their money in line with our promise.
This generates outflows of cash.
Our aim is that, in any period, our net flow ie inflows less outflows should be positive.
This increases our overall funds under management.
Old Mutual plc 9 Summary Financial Statements 2011 overvieW Key performance indicators Kpis Set out below are the KPIs that we use to monitor our performance of the business.
Financial KPI definition Relevance 1 Return on equity RoE Return on Equity RoE % % A relative measure expressed as a Return on Equity is an indicator percentage, calculated by dividing ofour profitability and efficiency, 2011 14.6 2 IFRS Adjusted Operating Profit demonstrating how much profit has 2010 14.2 AOP post-tax and minority been generated from the resources 2009 9.1 interests by the average capital provided by our shareholders.
2008 11.3 tiedup in the business, where capital is defined as shareholders 2007 13.2 equity excluding hybrid capital.
NCCF Opening Funds Net Client Cash Flow 1,3 under Management NCCF Opening Funds % under Management % 2011 -3.9 This measure indicates the extent to NCCF Opening Funds Under which client funds are either retained 2010 -2.5 Management FUM measures our or lost during the year.
Inflows are success in attracting new business 2009 -0.7 driven by premiums, deposits and and retaining existing customers, 2008 -0.4 investments, whereas outflows are and provides a good indication of 2007 9.9 driven by claims, surrenders, investor confidence in our ability to withdrawals, benefits and maturities.
1 Group Value Creation LTS only Group Value Creation % % Long-Term Savings only Calculated as the Market Consistent Group Value Creation for the 2011 5.2 Embedded Value MCEV value Long-Term Savings covered 2010 3.9 ofnew business plusMCEV business measures the contribution 2009 1.3 experience variances divided by to Return on Embedded Value from 2008 2.6 theopening MCEV balance, management actions of writing expressed as a percentage.
2007 4.0 profitable new business, and managing expense, persistency, risk and other experience compared with that which wasassumed.
10 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 Financial KPI definition Relevance 1 IFRS Operating Profit Margin IFRS Operating profit basis points margin basis points IFRS Operating Profit Margin 2011 46.0 Calculated as pre-tax adjusted operating profit divided by the measures the profit margin we have 2010 42.0 average funds under management earned on the funds we manage.
2009 38.7 for the period, expressed in An improved basis point margin is 2008 33.4 basispoints.
an indicator of the success a 2007 55.2 company is having in growing its revenue ata greater rate than itsexpenses.
Adjusted Operating Earnings Adjusted Operating 1 per Share pence Earnings per Share pence Adjusted Operating Earnings per 2011 15.7 Calculated as post-tax adjusted operating profit divided by the Share EPS is an indicator of our 2010 14.3 adjusted weighted average profitability that measures how 2009 11.6 numberof shares WANS, much we earn for each share held.
The trend in the movement ofEPS 2007 16.9 demonstrates our rate of growth.
Non-financial KPI definition Relevance 4 Customer numbers Customer numbers millions Measured by the total number The size of the customer base is ofcustomers of the Long-Term anindication of the scale of the 2011 7.0 Savingsdivision.
Growth in the number of customers indicates that we have an attractive proposition for new customers and aresatisfying the needs of our existingcustomers.
1 Numbers are as reported and historical figures have not been restated to make consistent with 2011 2010.
2 IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards.
3 The core continuing business excluding Dwight, Lincluden and OMCAP, which were held for sale at 31 December 2011 showed an improvement from -1.1% in 2010 to -0.1% in 2011.
4 Customer numbers are reported for the first time in 2011.
Customer numbers prior to 2011 are not available.
Old Mutual plc 11 Summary Financial Statements 2011 overvieW strategy in action Helping customers make the most of their lives is something we have been doing for over 165 years.
The following three case studies highlight how we offer financial solutions, as well as being there for our customers when it really matters.
Willem Esau believes that the full Within a month of lodging his claim recovery he has made from his with Old Mutual, Willem received heart attack is not only down to his payout which he has invested, good medical care, but also to the once again following Christofs years of sound financial advice advice.
This has enabled Willem received from his Personal toconcentrate on making a full Financial Adviser, Christof Spies.
recovery without the stress of worrying about money.
Willem fell ill while travelling, so Christof arranged for him to be Tens of thousands of people taken to the specialist heart unit of survive heart attacks each year, a nearby hospital.
But they may not plan covered almost all of his be able to work for some time, hospital costs, while Greenlight, and that can be really worrying.
Old Mutuals leading risk cover Knowing youre financially solution, provided for loss of prepared is good for your peace earnings while he recuperated.
And I should know: I havethe same cover as Willem.
Above: Willem Esau Old Mutual customer Right: Christof Spies Old Mutual Personal Financial Adviser and Willem Esau 12 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 Our offering for customers not only focuses onchoosing the best possible solutions, butalso onpersonal service, when it reallymatters.
Christof Spies on the left with Willem Esau Personal Financial Adviser Old Mutual plc 13 Summary Financial Statements 2011 overvieW strategy in action We are here to help and guide through difficult times when we can.
Early in 2011, a Skandia customer potential inheritance tax on her own transferred no fewer than 18 estate for her heirs.
separate UK pension schemes Together with the customers to Aurora Quantum our marketIndependent Financial Adviser, leading overseas pension scheme we have been able to help our based in Guernsey.
customer at a traumatic time, Following our customers untimely and to structure her affairs securely death, his widow needed detailed and efficiently, using a number financial planning and taxation of separate trusts and solutions advice which we were able to help from Skandia International and provide.
As a result, she has been Royal Skandia.
able to minimise UK inheritance tax In fact, she was so satisfied with on the fund, achieve flexible and our service that she subsequently tax-efficient income in the future as used us for a substantial additional a UK resident and structure her investment.
investments so as to manage Above and right: Bill Davey, Independent Financial Adviser and his assistant, Rebecca Ward 14 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 Making the right decisions about your finances involves more than just choosing a good product.
We are here for our clients to guide them through every stage of their life.
Bill Davey Independent Financial Adviser O Olld M d Mu ut tu ua al p l pllc c 15 15 S Summa ummar ry F y Fiin na an nci cia al S l St ta at te eme men nt ts s 2 20 01 11 1 overvieW strategy in action We are dedicated to going that little bit further for our customers.
One long-standing customer is He had to cross a river which a 91-year old grandmother, who had no bridge and he was glad has no telephone and lives in a of an offer from local people to remote part of KwaZulu-Natal push his car if it got stuck.
The customer was surprised When an issue arose with her tosee him.
Normally, she said, pension, she couldnt come to see insurance people would only us, so we had to go to see her.
come when they were looking tosell something!
Old Mutual prides itself on going the extra mile for customers, and However, the reason for Bonganis Bongani Ncanana certainly did trip was just the opposite.
He drove more than 200 had not submitted a certificate kilometres in a 4x4 along some of existence to Old Mutual for of the roughest back roads, almost 20 years, and was entitled to get to where she lives.
This was made to her in full just a few dayslater.
Above and right: Bongani Ncanana, Old Mutual Corporate Consultant 16 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 We are always willing to go the extramilefor our customers.
Bongani Ncanana Old Mutual Corporate Consultant Old Mutual plc 17 Summary Financial Statements 2011 overvieW chairmans statement It is very satisfying to report to you that, having committed ourselves to a significant re-shaping of our Group and improved financial performance, 2011 marks a milestone in the achievement of those goals.
Our asset disposal programme not only allows thedelivery of shareholder value.
I am pleased to ustorestructure and substantially strengthen our notethat the value created will also benefit the many balance sheet, but also to deliver real shareholder participants around theGroup in our various employee value through the proposed special dividend to be share schemes.
paid once the sale of our Nordic business has Board beencompleted.
Reflecting the progress that has We have continued the process of refreshing the Board, been made, particularly during the last year, your with the retirements of Rudi Bogni and Nigel Andrews at company was, as the year began, the best last years AGM and the recruitment, announced today, performing insurance stock in the FTSE 100 Index of Nku Nyembezi-Heita.
We believe that her experience interms of total shareholder return over the past of the South African business world will be directly three years.
relevant to our strategy to grow our emerging markets During 2011, we completed the sale of our US Life businesses and I welcome her to the Board.
Her operation and the closure of our Swiss business, in line appointment, along with thatof Eva Castillo which I with the commitments to simplify the Group that we gave reported last year, has helped usalready to achieve our to shareholders and our wider stakeholder interest group 2013 year-end target for gender diversity on the Board.
We are on track to complete the disposal of our Dividends and share consolidation Nordic businesses later this month.
We have recently announced the sale of our business in Finland and of As well as the 18p per share special dividend that is to be paid followingthe completion of the Nordic sale, we have Dwight, one of our US Asset Management affiliates.
We have also repaid 0.6 billion of debt to date as we move announced a significantly increased final dividend for the yearof 3.5p per existing share, equivalent to 4.0p per new tocomplete our 1.5 billion debt repayment programme bythe end of the current year.
ordinary share once our shares have been consolidated.
The final dividend will be paid on 7 June 2012 at the same While AOP IFRS earnings per share grew to 15.7p from time as the special dividend and I would draw to your 14.3p after taking account of our Nordic operations attention the full timetable for the final and special being treated as discontinued, our net result after tax dividends and the share consolidation, which is set out in and minorities recorded a profit of 667 million following the Shareholder Information section of this document.
With the benefit of the anticipate further progression inour ordinary dividends forthcoming receipt of the proceeds of sale from our over the coming years.
In light of thecomplexity involved in Nordic operations, we have indicated our intention to our share consolidation, we have decided not to offer a increase our overall debt repayment target by a further scrip dividend alternative for this years final dividend and 200 million beyond the previously-targeted figure of the Board will decide later this year whether to offer such 1.5 billion in due course.
an alternative for the 2012 interim dividend.
The Companys recovery and progress during the Annual General Meeting pastthree years are reflected in the remuneration of Our AGM will be held in London on 10 May 2012 and will seniormanagement, as described in more detail in again be webcast.
There will also be an opportunity for theRemuneration Report, showing that we have shareholders to submit questions to be dealt with at the successfully aligned management incentives with 18 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 As we complete our three-year turnaround plan this year, we look to the future with confidence that we will continue to grow value for shareholders, while meeting our obligations to all our stakeholders.
The shareholder circular relating to the AGM I would like to express my and the Boards appreciation includes further details of these matters.
for the exceptional work that employees of the Group have done during the year.
Our recovery and current Shareholder communications strength are due to the continuing efforts of all of our We are seeking to improve the efficiency with which staffaround the world.
wecommunicate with shareholders and to reduce our Future environmental footprint.
To this end, we will be moving, laterin 2012, towards using electronic communications The Group enjoys a much stronger balance sheet and toagreater extent than currently.
Over 50,000 of our greater strategic focus as a result of the achievements of shareholders already use electronic communications the past year.
The strength of our businesses in South andwe anticipate that significant savings can be Africa encourages the Group to explore new African achievedthrough a more general migration to electronic markets selectively, while we are also aiming to improve communications as the default option.
Further details of our wealth management businesses so that they will what is involved including an option to continue to succeed in the ever more demanding developed markets receivephysical documents will be sent to driven by regulatory changes.
As we complete our shareholderslater this year.
three-year turnaround plan thisyear, we look to the future with confidence that we will continue to grow value for Other matters shareholders, while meeting our obligations to all I am conscious of the role that companies like ours ourstakeholders.
needto play in the wider communities in which we Patrick OSullivan operate.
I am therefore particularly pleased to see the Chairman success of our Infrastructure, Housing and Agricultural 9 March 2012 funds in Africa and the real difference these are makingto local people.
Old Mutual plc 19 Summary Financial Statements 2011 overvieW group chief executives statement Introduction Streamlining and simplifying the business A year of delivery In 2011, we made significant progress in delivering our This has been a year of both operational and strategy: to build a long-term savings, protection and investment group by leveraging the strength of our strategic delivery for Old Mutual, including the imminent sale ofour Nordic operations, which people and capabilities in South Africa and the rest of the world, which will enhance value for both our customers aretherefore not included in the Groups adjusted operating results for 2011.
Our IFRS basis adjusted and shareholders, and enhance our overall RoE.
operating profit IFRS AOP or AOP was up 14% When we announced this strategy in March 2010, we dueto improved trading andthe operational undertook to create value for both shareholders and improvements implemented by management over policyholders.
In 2011, we have made significant progress thelast few years.
Group return onequity RoE in this regard.
We continued to streamline and simplify wasup 40 basis points at 14.6%.
ourbusiness: This excellent performance was delivered against a backdrop of testing macro-economic conditions and Concluded the sale of US Life for $350 million continued economic uncertainty in a number of our Closed Switzerland to new business markets.
We have continued to focus on delivering Agreed the sale of our Nordic business to Skandia Liv ourstrategy and remain on track to meet, and in for 2.1 billion somecases exceed, our 2012 targets.
Announced the sale of our Finnish business to The Group is in a strong financial position.
At 31 OP-Pohjola Group December 2011, our FGD surplus was 2.0 billion Decided to consolidate our other European andwe had total liquidity headroom of 1.5 billion.
businesses under one management team.
On21March 2012 we expect to receive 2.1 billion incash from the disposal of the Nordic business.
20 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 We continue to explore a partial IPO of our US Asset territories this year, following its successful launch into Management USAM business in line with our stated Mexico in 2011.
Our tied agency force in Mexico has strategy, but we remain focused on building margins, benefited from the expertise we have in South Africa.
improving investment performance and driving growth Welaunched a new product into Colombia, with South inthe business.
Africa providing the back office servicing, information technology IT and product support.
While we have already taken considerable steps in restructuring the Group, we will continue to evaluate the We will continue our restructuring programme with optimum shape of the business and will consider all USAM, working to achieve the required operating margin optionsin the pursuit of creating value for shareholders and net client cash flow NCCF targets and we will invest andpolicyholders alike.
We will continue to be guided by in Mutual & Federal M&F tostrengthen its franchise.
our strict criteria for keeping businesses within the Group.
Meeting our targets In March 2010, we set ourselves challenging targets: two thirds of the way through our three-year strategy, we 1,515m have either met, exceeded or are well on track to achieve these goals.
We set ourselves a target of reducing 100 Adjusted Operating Profit million ofcosts across the Group and at the 2011 year end had delivered 111 million in run-rate savings.
Our Long-Term Savings LTS business was tasked with We have further strengthened our operational improving its RoE to between 16% and 18%: in 2011, it management team across the Group.
Ian Gladman, achieved an RoE of 20% 18% including Nordic.
We said previously Co-Head of Financial Institutions, EMEA for we would reduce our Group net debt by 1.5 billion by UBS Investment Bank, was appointed Group Strategy the end of 2012 and, with the proposed disposal of the Director and a member of the Group Executive Nordic business, we will achieve this target and now Committee GEC.
As part of the strategy portfolio intend to repay debt of 1.7 billion, having achieved a handover, Don Hope has now stepped down from the 0.6 billion reduction so far.
GEC and will retire at the end of 2012.
Sue Kean was appointed Group Risk Officer and has joined the GEC: Focusing the business Ralph Mupita has been appointed Chief Executive of Our strategic imperative is to become more customerLTSs Emerging Markets business: Paul Feeney, formerly focused and to leverage our strengths across our head of distribution of BNY Mellon, has been appointed businesses.
We have refocused our LTS businesses to Chief Executive of LTSs Asset Management business: ensure that they are aligned with customer needs and and Peter Todd has been appointed Managing Director haveidentified four key customer segments which we of M&F.
will serve: the Retail Mass market in Emerging Markets: the Retail Affluent market, primarily in Europe and Looking forward South Africa: the International Affluent: and the We now have an attractive and resilient business Institutional market.
We have three excellent businesses in South Africa: the life and savings business of Old Mutual: We are rolling out a measure of customer advocacy, Nedbank: and M&F.
We have significant presence in theNetPromoter Score, across our Group to monitor selected emerging markets which have sizeable howsatisfied our customers are with our service.
Our populations, under-penetrated financial services markets businesses in South Africa, the UK, Sweden and the and strong gross domestic product GDP growth.
We Skandia International business all won various awards in also have specialist, low-risk businesses in European 2011 for superior customer service.
Nedbank markets, which include the leading platform in the UK.
successfully launched mobile banking in South Africa, The new management team at USAM is addressing the with 652,000 customers already signed up.
issues of margin, investment performance and growth.
We have continued to seek ways of leveraging our While there has been a significant amount of change strengths across our businesses.
We are looking to over the past two years, we remain committed to rollout our Greenlight protection product into more Old Mutual plc 21 Summary Financial Statements 2011 overvieW group chief executives statement CONTINUED building a long-term savings, protection and investment independent regional banking group in Africa, with Group and to drive and support Nedbank to become operations in 32 countries across the continent.
We Africas most admired bank.
We will continue to put the havesigned a 10-year agreement with ETI in Nigeria to customer at the centre of the business and provide them distribute our products through their branch network.
with innovative, transparent and flexible products.
We will We already have a management team in Nigeria and maintain tight control on costs: a disciplined approach to Nigeriawill act as a hub for our expansion into West risk management, governance and allocation of capital: Africa.
Similarly we plan to expand into East Africa from we will seek to ensure that everything we do improves our established base in Kenya and into other African the businesses we own and will provide value to our countries where we see value-creating opportunities.
This expansion will be via our business in a box model Our vision, strategy and strategic priorities remain which uses common products, IT, systems and unchanged.
We will continue to deliver shareholder processes that can bereplicated across markets, after valueby putting the customer first in everything we do, allowing for local marketrequirements, with limited building high performance businesses, sharing our customisation.
We areon track to meet our target of the corecompetencies across the Group, embedding our Rest of Africa recording profits equal to 10% ofSouth culture of excellence and simplifying the Groups Africas profits bythe end of 2012 and 15% by theend structureto unlock shareholder value.
Review of Operations Wealth Management Long-Term Savings Wealth Management performed well, building on 2010smomentum, despite the effects of the eurozone Our LTS division delivered strong results for the year withoperating profits of 793 million, up 3% on a crisis.
IntheUK, we saw a continuation of the trend of Independent Financial Advisers IFAs transferring their constant currency basis.
This was driven by strong profit growth in our Emerging Markets business.
We have business to platforms.
We now have around 9,000 IFAs using our platform, with our assets increasing by 13% strengthened the capabilities of these businesses and are seeing cohesion in the management of business toapproximately 19 billion and NCCF of a pleasing 3.3billion.
We see a number of areas of growth for our platform Emerging Markets whichwe are actively addressing, including increasing This has been another good year for Emerging Markets, decumulation options, alternative investment options with the business continuing its growth momentum and andpassive investments.
It is apparent that our platform showing an increasing breadth across its geographic customers would like to have more online access to their and customer footprints.
Local currency sales were up investments on our platform, and we are working with and NCCF showed a particularly good uplift from the IFAs to determine the level of demand for them to be able prior year.
to authorise wider access to the platform for their In 2011 South Africa delivered another good customers.
We are excited about the opportunities we performance, with AOP growing by 5%.
The Mass believe that the Retail Distribution Review RDR will Foundation Cluster had another excellent year and we present to our business and we are confident that we are expect this strong growth to continue.
In Retail Affluent, well placed to succeed through: our size, as the platform we saw double-digit profit growth and we believe that it with the most funds undermanagement FUM : our will continue to show goodgrowth potential for us.
financial strength and stability: and our effective technology.
Skandia International is also developing a Our South African Corporate business had an excellent market-leading end-to-end wealth management service second half.
Additionally, the Group created more than called Wealth Interactive, which willalso be RDR- 1,500 jobs in 2011. compliant for UK clients.
We see exciting growth opportunities for Old Mutual We are combining our Wealth Management Continental across sub-Saharan Africa and we are actively exploring Europe business, which comprises France and Italy, means fororganic and inorganic growth on the withSkandia Retail Europe to create Wealth continent.
As part of this growth plan, and as we Management Europe.
This new business unit will announced in February 2012, our non-binding offer has increasingly focus on the RetailAffluent market, which been accepted by Ecobank Transnational Incorporated encompasses 30 million households, holding 2.3 trillion ETI for the purchase of Oceanic Life, a Nigerian life of assets, growing at 5%per annum and is a market we assurance company acquired by ETI when it bought the believe is currently underserved.
The new business unit Oceanic Group in November 2011.
Oceanic Life has a bringstogether 736,000 customers, over 11 billion of Net Asset Value of $16 million and approximately 2% of FUMand 800employees.
The integration will continue the Nigerian life assurance market.
ETI, with whom throughout 2012 and we will be implementing further Nedbank has a strategic alliance, is the leading 22 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 plansto improveour product offering and customer to the very favourable trading conditions and benign service.
WealthManagement Europe will be reported claims environment in 2010.
Management is focused on aspart ofWealth Management in future.
managing its expense base and on driving premium growth through alternative distribution channels Asset Management including: direct through iWyze: underwriting We have appointed Paul Feeney as Chief Executive of management agencies: and niche businesses.
iWyze theLTS Asset Management business, which primarily continues to meet its targets for growth in premiums and comprises Old Mutual Investment Group South Africa is performing in line with our expectations.
OMIGSA and Skandia Investment Group SIG.
In line As part of the Groups ongoing capital management withour client-centric business philosophy, OMIGSA is programme, M&F restructured its capital base and paid splitting its central research team to align the research nearly R1 billion in ordinary and special dividends in 2011. analysts better with specific equity boutiques and their unique philosophies.
US Asset Management The new management team at USAM are focused on During the period, OMIGSA raised R9.3 billion for its building the multi-boutique business around long-term, Housing Impact fund, which aims to provide 120,000 , active asset management to new low-cost houses, and a further R1.2 billion for a generate alpha for our clients.
This focus has led to the schools and education fund in South Africa.
In total announcement of the disposal of the Dwight, Old Mutual across Old Mutual, we had 2.8 billion of FUM in social, Capital OMCAP and Lincluden affiliates.
Building our environmental and  investments, global distribution capability is key for USAMs future including OMIGSAs Housing Impact fund, the South African Schools and Education fund, Futuregrowths Agri growth and we have appointed Julian Ide, who was previously Head of Institutional Business at BBVA Asset fund in South Africa and the African Infrastructure Investment Managers fund.
Management, to lead OMAM UK and the global distribution effort.
In USAMs continuing operations we are seeing We will continue to deliver improving margins and an improvement in investment performance at the affiliates.
For the year ended 31 shareholder value by putting December 2011, 62% of assets outperformed benchmarks, compared to 57% at 31 December 2010. the customer first in Over the threeand five-year periods to 31 December 2011, 68% and 67% of assets outperformed everything we do.
benchmarks, compared to 49% and 65% at 31 December 2010.
The increase was driven by improving performance in International Equity and Global Fixed Nedbank Income.
There are early signs of an improvement in Nedbank performed well for the year, reflecting the NCCF and we believe thatthis trend will continue, benefits of disciplined execution of its business plans and providing we maintain good investment performance.
excellent progress with key strategic initiatives.
Headline South African Empowerment earnings grew strongly, by 26.2%, to R6,184 million for the In South Africa in 2011, OMSA and Nedbank maintained year 2010: R4,900 million, driven primarily by 16.6% growth in non-interest revenue NIR, net interest margin aLevel 2 rating status and M&F a Level 3 rating status as Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment expansion and continued improvement in Nedbank Retails credit loss ratio.
These results were underpinned by continued delivery on Outlook ourkey strategic focus areas of repositioning Nedbank While we remain cautious over the timing of any end to Retail, growing NIR and implementing the portfolio tilt thecurrent uncertain and volatile economic climate, we strategy.
In the Rest of Africa we deepened our strategic areconfident that our unique mix of businesses, and our alliance with ETIby providing a facility in support of ETIs financial strength and flexibility, will allow us to continue corporate development programmes, including its todeliver value to our shareholders.
transformational banking acquisition in Nigeria, and as a Julian Roberts result secured rights to acquire up to 20% of ETI within Group Chief Executive two to three years.
9 March 2012 Mutual & Federal M&F delivered a sound underwriting result in 2011, withresults reflecting a more normalised year compared Old Mutual plc 23 Summary Financial Statements 2011 OVERVIEW gROup chIEf ExEcutIVEs q&a Julian Roberts answers questions on OldMutuals achievements in 2011 andwhatlies ahead for the Group.
Now you have sold the Companys key achievements Nordic business, what is over the course of 2011?
This has been a year of significant delivery both Our vision and strategy remain unchanged.
We are operationally and strategically for Old Mutual.
We have focused on building a long-term savings, protection and seengood growth across the Group and a particularly investment business group.
pleasing performance from our Emerging Markets We will continue to put our customers first.
We believe business, and I am delighted the Board was able to that for us to be successful, understanding what our declare a total dividend for the year of 5p per share, customers want, and providing it in a transparent and 25% up on 2010 and in line with our progressive dividend flexible manner will be key to our future growth.
This is in addition tothe planned special dividend of 18p per share following the sale ofourNordic operation.
In 2012, we must ensure that we keep building value in the Long-Term Savings businesses.
We have remained focused on delivering the strategy that we announced in March 2010 and on creating Our Emerging Markets business has grown very well sustainable, long-term shareholder value.
overthe past two years, and we will aim to maintain this levelof growth.
In the UK, this is a vital year asthe Retail We said we would streamline and simplify the Group and Distribution Review will be implemented from 1January have taken significant steps towards doing this.
While we have the largest market share ofassets sold our Nordicbusiness for a cash consideration of 2.1 under management amongst UK platforms, akey focus billion subject to shareholder approval: we have agreed will be to broaden customer choice by offering more of the sale of our Finnish business: we have closed our own products that customers can elect to include on Switzerland tonew business: and we have completed the the platform and therefore capture more margin.
Furthermore, we are consolidating our Asset Management, the volatile markets in 2011 made it mainland European businesses Retail Europe and the achallenging year for our asset managers, but we have Italian and French businesses under a new entity to be seen our investment performance continue to improve.
managed within theWealth Management unit.
Itiscritical that we maintain this improvement in 2012 as In March 2010, we set out a number of targets to achieve better investment performance should lead to improved by the end of 2012 and, two years into this three-year netinflows.
programme, we are well on the way to meeting our aims.
While we did not actively try to sell the Nordic business, Excluding Nordic, we have delivered 89 million of we have always said that we will look to create run-rate savings versus our target of 90 million a year, shareholder value where we can.
In our view this deal the target having been adjusted for the Nordic sale.
creates value for both Old Mutual shareholders and For our Long-Term Savings business, we set a return Skandia policyholders.
on equity target of 16% to18%, and in 2011 it achieved an RoE of 20%.
We are making good progress in achieving our 1.5 billion debt-reduction target for the end of 2012, with 600 million already repaid by March 2012.
Following the sale of our Nordic business, we have decided to look to repay an additional 200 million of debt in due course.
24 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 3.
How are you leveraging the theGroups footprint in both strengths of your operations developed and emerging in different regions across markets?
In emerging markets, our focus is very much on This is one of the cornerstones of our strategy and I am sub-Saharan Africa, where we are already the largest pleased to say that we are making significant progress, life insurance and asset management company and although we still have more to achieve.
where we plan to become a dominant financial Our greatest asset is the deep and broad experience servicescompany.
of our people and to this end we have substantially These are markets that are demonstrating very attractive improved international mobility and opportunities.
I am growth levels and have a rapidly growing population that very pleased with how this has gone and provided role is increasing its wealth, has limited Government provision models for others.
of welfare and is currently underserved by financial We have used our expertise of running a tied agency in services companies.
South Africa to help improve the productivity of our Mexican We have more than 165 years of experience of operating agency force.
We believe this agency expertise will be vital in Africa.
We will look to build on our existing capabilities when it comes to building our franchise in sub-Saharan and technical expertise in South Africa to drive our Africa where we see using agents to distribute our products growth.
We know how to design and distribute products as key to growth.
We are experienced in running tied In terms of product-sharing, we have launched the South agency forces which we believe are key to distribution in African Greenlight product into Mexico and have already Africa, but we are also harnessing new distribution sold 1,534 policies.
We see further opportunities to roll channels such as cell phones.
We can use a world-class out Greenlight into other markets we operate in, for and low-cost administrative base in South Africa.
The joint venture between Old Mutual We have stated our objective that Africas profit South Africa and Mutual & Federal to provide a direct contribution to the Group will be 15% of South Africas offering, iWyze, is meeting our internal targets and Old by 2015.
We will look to expand our footprint in the Mutual Finance is interacting with our Mass Foundation Rest of Africa through infill acquisitions and or new customers in a way that they value and that leads to business investment.
better service and lower costs.
In developed markets, financial services are evolving We are able to benefit from leveraging our strength as a rapidly, driven by regulatory developments, changing Group in our deployment of Information Technology and customer demand and reduced state support for we have already taken some significant steps to achieve peoplein retirement.
The business models that will cost synergies in this area.
These include outsourcing succeed in these markets are capital-efficient and offer of voice and data infrastructure network services for our transparency, choice and flexibility to consumers.
We three South African businesses to Dimension Data and have the business model to thrive in this environment.
a seven-year deal with T-Systems for IT support services for Old Mutual South Africa and Mutual & Federal.
We have set ambitious targets for further IT savings as we apply best practice techniques, remove duplication and redundancy, and improve delivery standards and customer service.
Old Mutual plc 25 Summary Financial Statements 2011 busInEss REVIEW lOng-tERm saVIngs Key financial highlights Return on equity RoE APE sales % m 2011 20 2011 1,207 2010 20 2010 1,290 Adjusted operating profit NCCF MCEV covered business pre-tax bn m 3.2 5,713 2011 2011 793m 2010 4.3 2010 5,913 2010: 787m Non-covered sales Value creation VNB experience Funds under management m variance MCEV % 108.5bn 2011 12,836 2011 5.2 4 2010: 117.9bn 2010 11,492 2010 3.9 Number of employees Our brands 22,851 2010: 21,729 Long-Term Savings CEO and new members of the LTS Executive Committee 1 Paul Hanratty CEO Long-Term Savings and Chairman, Old Mutual South Africa 2 Ralph Mupita Chief Executive Officer, 1 2 3 Emerging Markets, LTS 3 Rose Keanly Director LTS Customer Services andAdministration 4 Paul Feeney Chief Executive Officer, 5 5 4 5 6 Asset Management, LTS 5.
Carlton Hood LTS Strategic Marketing Director 6.
Bryce Johns LTS Products & Proposition Director 26 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 To help us put the customer at the heart of everything The Long-Term Savings LTS wedo we are structuring the business around these customer segments.
In future annual reports we will also division offers life assurance, review the LTS results using these customer segments.
pensions and investment Our current customer segments are split across the products and operates in business units for which we disclose results in this report: Emerging Markets, Nordic, Retail Europe and southern Africa, Europe, Wealth Management.
But following the corporate actions in Nordicand in Retail Europe referred to in the Group Asiaand Latin America.
Chief Executives review for 2011, we will operate LTS Overview intwo main business units in future, serving their own In each of our LTS markets, our vision is to be our distinct territories: customers most trusted partner, passionate about helpingthem achieve their lifetime financial goals.
We Emerging Markets will serve South Africa, subcontinue to develop LTS-wide management roles to Saharan Africa and new emerging markets ensure we exploit synergies and establish centres of Wealth Management will serve the UK, International excellence.
These roles covering IT, product, LEAN and Continental Europe.
methodology, asset management and strategic These are described in more detail below: marketing are helping usto gain competitive advantage by delivering appropriate products and services Emerging Markets: Old Mutual South Africa OMSA is efficiently.
During 2011 we made continued progress in oneof the largest and longest-established financial implementing this strategy, creating a centralised LTS servicesproviders in South Africa providing individuals, Asset Management team and an LTS Strategic businesses, corporates and institutions with long-term Marketing team.
savings, protection and investment solutions.
Because we are now leveraging the business into other The customer at the heart of everything we do high-growth economies, we have combined it with our Successful financial services businesses are those Latin American, Asian and African businesses.
In Latin thatunderstand their customers and put them at the America we operate in Mexico and Colombia.
In very heart of the business.
We aim to help them sub-Saharan Africa we operate across a broad range of achievetheir lifetime financial goals by providing these countries including Swaziland, Namibia, Zimbabwe, services through our life assurance, pensions and Malawi, Kenya and Nigeria.
In Asia weoperate joint investment products: ventures with Kotak Mahindra in India andGuodian Corporation in China.
Advice financial planning and investment Wealth Management: Operating mainly under the Savings solutions for shorter-term goals Skandiabrand we serve customers in the UK, across Investments for long-term goals including retirement ouroffshore International bases and in selected Decumulation post-retirement European markets.
Our offer is based on open and guided architecture accessed through unit-linked life Protection life assurance and personal lines.
insurance, pensions and mutual funds.
Find further details of the operational results of the business within the Financial Disclosure Supplements on: 4 www.
com ir Old Mutual plc 27 Summary Financial Statements 2011 busInEss REVIEW lOng-tERm saVIngs CONTINUED LTS provides high returns combined with high growth High RoE and cash generation: High revenue growth potential: Opportunities to grow: South Africa Retail Affluent Wealth Management Rest of Africa South Africa Corporate South Africa Mass Foundation Asia Namibia Mexico Colombia Slower growth Lower profit generation relative to Require funding, at least until enterprise value break-even Large market share Higher cost bases Rapid sales growth Generate high cash returns that fund new business, allow for acquisitions Potential for rapid profit growth on New business tends to be and support Group dividend restructuring efficiency gains capital-intensive New business and growth largely Potential to grow embedded self-funded enterprise value rapidly New business tends to be cash Cash generation in the medium term intensive where we pay for distribution During 2011 we made continued progress in streamlining Strategy our structure announcing the sale of our US Life, Our strategy aims to: Nordic and Finnish business units and the closure to new business of Skandia Switzerland.
In the results disclosed Complement our strong, highly profitable and mature in this report, Nordic has been treated as a discontinued South African business by leveraging its capabilities business.
In early 2012, we announced that we would be to grow and develop our businesses in selected consolidating our Retail Europe business with Skandia African, Latin American and Asian markets France and Skandia Italy into Wealth Management Operate capital-efficient, fast-growth businesses in Europe, within ourWealth Management business and selected UK and European markets alongside the UK and International businesses.
This will Exploit capital, cost and revenue synergies between allow us to serve our customer segments better in these the various businesses.
countries, while giving shareholders an improved RoE.
It is underpinned by building a culture of customer focus and value creation internationally.
For the next three years we have five strategic priorities: Build stronger relationships with our end customers across LTS Invest to build leading businesses in each of our chosen geographical areas Invest in core competencies to strengthen businessperformance Standardise and industrialise core systems andprocesses Build a single LTS organisation and culture.
28 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 Review of 2011 results On a reported basis the Emerging Markets business accounts for: 72% of the LTS IFRS AOP earnings, 46% of LTS FUM, 43% of LTS APE sales: 63% of LTS operating MCEV earnings covered business, post-tax : and 55% of LTS MCEV per share covered business.
The analysis below is presented on a constant currencybasis.
Continued operational delivery despite difficult markets Key performance statistics: m Emerging Wealth Retail 2011 Markets Management Europe Total AOP IFRS basis, pre-tax 570 179 44 793 NCCF bn 0.4 2.5 0.3 3.2 FUM bn 49.9 54.4 4.2 108.5 Life assurance sales APE 524 611 72 1,207 1 PVNBP 3,295 5,269 549 9,113 2 Non-covered sales 8,147 4,669 20 12,836 1 Value of new business 99 70 8 177 Operating MCEV earnings covered business, post-tax 349 184 19 552 Adjusted MCEV per share covered business 56.9p 35.2p 10.6p 102.7p 4 1 Return on embedded value 11.9% 9.3% 3.0% 9.3% 4 1 VNB experience variance MCEV covered business 6.8% 5.0% 1.1% 5.2% m Emerging Wealth Retail 3 2010 constant currency Markets Management Europe Total AOP IFRS basis, pre-tax 524 197 51 772 NCCF bn 3.9 0.4 4.3 FUM bn 46.6 55.9 4.8 107.3 Life assurance sales APE 473 734 70 1,277 1 PVNBP 3,175 6,380 519 10,074 2 Non-covered sales 6,762 4,507 23 11,292 1 Value of new business 83 66 7 156 Operating MCEV earnings covered business, post-tax 333 112 67 512 1 Adjusted MCEV per share covered business 49.7p 36.2p 11.1p 97.0p 4 1 Return on embedded value 13.2% 6.1% 12.8% 10.8% 4 1 VNB experience variance MCEV covered business 4.7% 3.1% 2.2% 3.9% m Emerging Wealth Retail 3 2010 as reported Markets Management Europe Total AOP IFRS basis, pre-tax 539 197 51 787 NCCF bn 3.9 0.4 4.3 FUM bn 57.0 55.9 5.0 117.9 Life assurance sales APE 487 734 69 1,290 1 PVNBP 3,269 6,380 513 10,162 2 Non-covered sales 6,962 4,507 23 11,492 1 Value of new business 86 66 7 159 Operating MCEV earnings covered business, post-tax 344 112 66 522 1 Adjusted MCEV per share covered business 60.7p 36.2p 11.4p 108.3p 4 1 Return on embedded value 13.2% 6.1% 12.8% 10.8% 4 1 VNB experience variance MCEV covered business 4.7% 3.1% 2.2% 3.9% 1.
PVNBP and value of new business excluded Zimbabwe, Kenya, Malawi and Swaziland the other African countries in 2011 and 2010.
The other African countries were excluded from Adjusted MCEV per share in 2010.
Return on embedded value and VNB experience variance MCEV metrics for 2011 and 2010 excluded the other African countries from opening MCEV when calculated.
Includes unit trust mutual fund sales.
The year ended 31 December 2010 has been restated to reflect Nordic as discontinued.
Return on embedded value and VNB experience variance MCEV covered business were calculated in local currency, except for LTS where they were calculated on a reporting currency basis.
Old Mutual plc 29 Summary Financial Statements 2011 busInEss REVIEW lOng-tERm saVIngs CONTINUED These five core competencies will be key to our success Achieving our targets as an integrated division: To create shareholder value by rationing capital in an appropriate and sustainable way, we focus on four main Advice-led distribution areas.
Each has associated measures to track performance, with targets clearly linked to Insurance and investment solutions managementincentives: Superior investment returns Customer insight Driving revenue growth Digital connectivity.
Reducing cost In South Africa we already have scale and exceptional Synergies levelsof quality, straight-through processing and low Capital efficiency.
We are experienced in developing products Customer services and administration forsophisticated markets as well as simple products Each LTS regional organisation currently has its own forlow-income markets, and we have experience in administration and IT structure, but these share many pricing diverse risks.
We run multiple distribution channels common products, processes, IT platforms and and have a comprehensive understanding of different customer intermediary interfaces.
In line with our aim types ofdistribution.
We already have experience in of putting the customer at the heart of everything we do, leveraging these capabilities into high-growth markets we have decided to operate customer service and such as India bysharing product experience, people administration across LTS in a more integrated manner andprofessional skills, systems and processes, and in future.
In December 2011 weannounced that Rose distribution knowledge.
Keanly had been appointed Director LTS Customer Our Skandia businesses have built excellent market Services and Administration, with responsibility for positions as capital-efficient businesses in the UK and customer service and administration in South Africa offshore providers in many other international markets.
and all other LTS businesses.
Theyhave a history of innovation, and the customer Her immediate priorities are: value that they deliver presents opportunities to take market share from more traditional, less customerImproving customers service experience across the orientated competitors.
As our customers move online, lifetime of their relationships with LTS we are investing in the ability to provide world-class IT tailored for local markets while achieving international Driving down unit costs economies of scale.
We aim to grow revenues while Reducing operational risks constraining costs and ultimately driving up operating Enabling faster entry into new markets, and launch performance through LEAN methodology.
of new products into existing markets, by maximising As we leverage our capabilities in South Africa into re-use emerging markets and improve the operational Leveraging our South African capability and other performance of our European businesses, we see areas of expertise more actively across the whole opportunities to achieve synergies between them.
Ourbusinesses connect at a capital level and are well placed tobenefit from the implementation of Solvency II expected in 2013.
There are opportunities for both cost and revenue synergies.
The costsynergies lie primarily in IT and in outsourcing some work to South Africa.
The revenue opportunities lie in sharingproduct knowledge and ideas as well as what weknow about building distribution channels.
30 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 Our distribution capacity and use of technology to increase customer reach and reduce costs will We are structuring the accelerate in 2012.
In particular we expect continued growth in our tied agency operations, with growth business around customer in the number of advisers and productivity.
new business standards will be the additional drivers of expected premium growth and the quality of new business.
Outlook The European government debt crisis diminished In January 2012, we announced that we planned to investor confidence, particularly in Q4 of 2011, reducing bring together Wealth Managements Continental Europe European investment market demand in the short-term.
business France, Italy and Retail Europe Germany, There was a particularly strong impact in the weaker Austria, Poland, Switzerland to form one new business: European economies such as Italy.
However, we expect Wealth Management Europe.
The combined business steady progress for 2012 as a whole.
brings together 736,000 customers across Europe and Our early and decisive management action in the UK over 11 billion of FUM.
Wealth Management Europe will bereported under the Wealth Management business positioned us well to deal with the impending changes to the industry brought about by the Retail Distribution unitinfuture.
With the potential ban on cash rebates We will proceed with the integration of the Retail Europe and the development in operating margins for legacy business during 2012.
The product portfolio and businesses webelieve our plan for a fully unbundled customer service offering will be improved and charging structure, under which we will pass on rebates organisational structures amended accordingly.
to customers, will give us an advantage over our peers.
We are actively developing new protection and asset Job creation in South Africa, particularly in the public sector, is likely to see good growth in the medium term, management products in anticipation of the new market structures.
We are also testing new forms of interaction underpinned by the Governments planned .
with customers that help their advisers provide services more efficiently.
In South Africa we anticipate that the full potential Total gross sales on the UK Platform were 4.9 billion impacts of the FAIS regulatory exams will only emerge 2010:4.9 billion, reflecting challenging markets in2012 and 2013.
We have implemented extensive especially in Q4.
However, we believe our share of the training plans and other measures to help our Platform market continued to grow over the period.
representatives pass the exams ahead of the Taxation uncertainty and regulatory delays may impede revised30June 2012 deadline.
our ability to act as swiftly as we wish, but we are Together with other companies in the Group, Emerging confident that reform will be implemented in line with our Markets will continue actively to explore means for expectations.
UK sales growth may be constrained in organic and inorganic growth in Africa.
We are well 2012 by the lead-up to the RDR announcement and positioned to grow into the rest of Africa by leveraging resulting investor uncertainty.
our established business bases in South Africa, Namibia We anticipate the completion of the sale of our Finnish and Zimbabwe.
Using our expertise in these businesses we are able to design and export relevant products and business in mid-2012.
Post-tax profits for the business were approximately 12 million and were included in low-cost IT infrastructure into new markets.
Old Mutual plc 31 Summary Financial Statements 2011 busInEss REVIEW banKIng Key financial highlights Return on equity excl.
goodwill Net interest margin % % 2011 15.3 2011 3.46 2010 13.4 2010 3.35 Adjusted operating profit Net interest income Credit loss ratio pre-tax and minorities m % 2011 1,549 2011 1.14 755m 2010 1,468 2010 1.36 2010: 601m Total Assets Non-interest revenue Core tier 1 ratio m % 51.4bn 2011 1,324 2011 11.0 4 2010: 58.9bn 2010 1,168 2010 10.1 Number of employees Our brand 28,494 2010: 27,525 Banking Nedbank is one of the fourlargest banking groups inSouth Africa measured byassets, with a strong deposit and wholesale banking franchise.
Mike Brown Chief Executive, Nedbank 32 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 Overview Nedbank is focused on entrenching and integrating economic, environmental, social and cultural Nedbank is listed on the JSE Limited in South Africa as sustainability across its businesses.
Well acknowledged well as on the Namibian Stock Exchange, with a market for its sustainability leadership as South Africas green capitalisation of 5.9 billion at the end of 2011.
Old bank, Nedbank is the first and only carbon-neutral Mutual has a majority shareholding and owned 51.6% financial services organisation in Africa and continues of Nedbank at 31 December 2011. to play a leadership role in environmental issues through Nedbank is positioned as a bank for all and provides a participation in Conference of the Parties 17 COP17, wide range of wholesale and retail banking services and maintaining carbon neutrality, leading in water a growing insurance, asset management and wealth stewardship and being asignatory to the CEO Water management offering through five main business Mandate of the United Nations Global Compact.
clusters: Nedbank Capital, Nedbank Corporate, Nedbank is headquartered in Sandton, Johannesburg, Nedbank Business Banking, Nedbank Retail and with large operational centres in Durban and Cape Town, Nedbank Wealth.
a regional branch network throughout South Africa and Focused on southern Africa, Nedbanks vision is to facilities in other southern African countries.
These buildAfricas most admired bank by its staff, clients, facilitiesare operated through Nedbanks eight affiliated shareholders, regulators and communities.
Nedbanks banks and subsidiaries, as well as through branches keystrategic areas for growth include the repositioning andrepresentative offices in certain key global financial of Nedbank Retail, growing non-interest revenue and centres that meet the international banking requirements implementing the portfolio tilt strategy.
In the rest of ofNedbanks South African multinational clients.
Africa Nedbank has recently deepened its strategic alliance withEcobank by providing finance for a transformational banking acquisition in Nigeria and, in so doing, secured rights to acquire up to 20% of Ecobank Transnational Inc. withintwo to three years.
Percentage of 2011 Headline Earnings from operating units Nedbank Capital 19% Nedbank Corporate 26% Nedbank Business Banking 13% Nedbank Retail 32% Nedbank Wealth 10% Find further details of the operational results of the business within the Financial Disclosure Supplements on: 4 www.
com ir Old Mutual plc 33 Summary Financial Statements 2011 busInEss REVIEW banKIng CONTINUED Well positioned to build on the momentum from 2011 Rm Highlights 2011 2010 % change AOP IFRS basis, pre-tax 8,791 6,799 29% AOP IFRS basis, pre-tax m 755 601 26% Headline earnings 6,184 4,900 26% Net interest income 18,034 16,608 9% Non-interest revenue 15,412 13,215 17% Net interest margin 3.46% 3.35% Credit loss ratio 1.14% 1.36% Cost to income ratio 56.6% 55.7% Return on equity 13.6% 11.8% Return on equity excluding goodwill 15.3% 13.4% Core tier 1 ratio 11.0% 10.1% As reported by Nedbank in its report to shareholders for the year ended 31 December 2011.
The full text of Nedbanks results for the year ended During 2011 Nedbank continued to deliver on its 31December 2011, released on 29 February 2012, can visionof building Africas most admired bank and its be accessed on our website http: www.
com commitments to all stakeholders.
Highlights for the mediacentre pressReleases viewPressRelease.
key stakeholders include: jsp?pressItem id 16311.
The following is an edited extract: For staff: creating 969 additional job opportunities, Review of 2011 results investing R303 million in leadership development Nedbank performed well for the year ended programmes and continuing the positive shift in 31December2011, reflecting the benefits of corporate culture disciplinedexecution of its business plans and For clients: paying out R116 billion in new loans: excellentprogress withkey strategic initiatives.
expanding the range of distinctive client-centred Nedbank recorded strong headline earnings growth offerings: launching various new product innovations: of 26.2% to R6,184 million for the year 2010: R4,900 keeping fee increases at or below inflation, with million, driven primarily by 16.6% growth in NIR, net average retail banking fees remaining at levels similar interest margin NIM expansion and continued to those in 2005: increasing footprint by 121 new improvement in the Nedbank Retail credit loss ratio.
staffed outlets and 389 ATMs: further extending banking hours in 59 branches and Sunday banking in Diluted headline earnings per share increased 25.4% 49 branches and, through restructures, having kept to 1,340 cents 2010: 1,069 cents and diluted earnings 13,900 families in theirhomes since 2009 per share 27.7% to 1,341 cents 2010: 1,050 cents in line with Nedbanks trading statement issued on For shareholders: generating a 15.3% total 6 February 2012. shareholder return, delivering R924 million EP, declaring a total dividend up 26.0% as well as winning Return on average ordinary shareholders equity RoE, numerous reporting awards and the Financial Times excluding goodwill, increased to 15.3% 2010: 13.4% and Banker magazines Bank of the Year in South and RoE to 13.6% 2010: 11.8%, with the benefit of Africa for 2011 returnon assets RoA improving to 0.99% 2010: 0.82%, For regulators: increasing capital levels and remaining partially offset by a reduction in gearing.
Nedbank generated economic profit EP of R924 million 2010: well positioned for Basel III and the Solvency Assessment and Management regime: being one economic loss of R289 million.
of the first South African banks to receive South Nedbank is well capitalised, with the core tier 1 capital African Reserve Bank SARB approval for using the ratio at 11.0% 2010: 10.1%.
Funding and liquidity levels advanced approaches for all three applicable risk remain sound.
Liquidity buffers increased R18.0 billion types, and making cash contributions of R5.1 billion to R24.0billion and the long-term funding ratio increased relating to direct, indirect and other taxation to Nedbanks target level of 25.0%.
Net asset value per share continued to increase, growing by 9.4% to 10,753 cents at 31 December 2011 2010: 9,831cents.
34 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 In the context of Nedbanks 2012 forecast for GDP For communities: making banking more accessible growth, inflation and interest rates in South Africa, for the entry-level market and remote rural Nedbanks guidance for 2012 is as follows: communities with initiatives such as Vodacom m-pesa: extending R1.8 billion in loans to black small to medium Advances to grow at mid single digits enterprises with a turnover of up to R35 million: NIM to remain at levels similar to those in 2011 and assistingover 934 entrepreneurs under skills development programmes, including the emerging to benefit from interest rate increases agriculture sector: contributing R78 million to social The credit loss ratio to continue improving into the development: remaining a Department of Trade and upper end of Nedbanks through-the-cycle target Industry DTI level 2 contributor and increasing the DTI range score to 95.2 from 89.5: spending R6.6 billion NIR excluding fair value adjustments to grow at low on local procurement and playing a leadership role in double digits, maintaining Nedbanks ongoing environmental sustainability through participation in improvement in the NIR-to-expenses ratio COP17, maintaining our carbon neutrality, leading in water stewardship and being a signatory to the CEO Expenses, including investing for growth, to increase by mid to upper single digits Water Mandate of the United Nations Global Compact.
Nedbank to maintain strong capital ratios and Prospects continue to strengthen funding and liquidity in Nedbank is well set for continued growth in 2012, preparation for Basel III.
building on the earnings momentum created in 2011 andthe focus and success of the delivery on Nedbanksstrategic initiatives.
There is potential for further uplift from any acceleration of the economic cycle, as Nedbank NIM should benefit from the positive effect of increased interest rates on endowment income, improved levels of advances growth and the prospect of lower credit loss ratios.
These drivers, along with Nedbanks operational and financial gearing, are likely to enable continued improvement in Nedbanks RoA and RoE.
Nedbanks mediumto long-term targets remain unchanged and are included in the table below, with an outlook for performance against these targets for 2012: Metric 2011 performance Mediumto long-term targets 2012 outlook RoE excluding goodwill 15.3% 5% above average cost of Improving, remaining below ordinary shareholders equity target.
Growth in diluted headline 25.4% consumer price index earnings per share GDP growth 5% Above the target level.
Credit loss ratio 1.14% Between 0.6% and 1.0% of Improving into upper end average banking advances of target.
NIR-to-expenses ratio 81.5% Improving, remaining below 85% target.
Efficiency ratio 56.6% Improving, remaining above 50.0% target.
Core tier 1 capital adequacy 11.0% Strengthening, remaining ratio Basel II 7.5% to 9.0% above target.
Economic capital Capitalised to 99.93% confidence interval on economic capital basis target debt rating A, including 10% buffer Dividend cover policy 2.26 times 2.25 to 2.75 times 2.25 to 2.75 times.
Old Mutual plc 35 Summary Financial Statements 2011 busInEss REVIEW shORt-tERm InsuRancE Key financial highlights Adjusted operating profit Underwriting result Return on equity pre-tax m % 2011 30 2011 14.9 89m 2010 46 2010 19.0 2010: 103m Combined ratio Underwriting margin Gross premiums % m 95.0% 2011 5.0 2011 761 4 2010: 92.4% 2010 7.6 2010 746 Number of employees Some of our brands 2,390 2010: 2,222 Short-Term Insurance Mutual & Federal M&F is our short-term insurer in South Africa, with operations in Namibia, Botswana and Zimbabwe.
Peter Todd Managing Director 36 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 Overview and strategy Our five strategic drivers are to: M&F provides a full range of short-term insurance 1 Embed profitable and sound underwriting processes products to commercial and domestic customers in five 2 Develop compelling and innovative offerings principal portfolios: Commercial, Corporate, Personal, for targeted customer and broker segments Risk Finance and Credit.
3 Grow our customer base by servicing customers Our strategy is to deliver strong underwriting profit and through their channel of choice revenue growth by building a profitable multi-channel 4 Deliver value through efficient and customerbusiness through which we can deliver competitive centric processes customer value propositions.
Our vision is to become the short-term insurer of choice.
5 Transform our business to benefit our people and other stakeholders.
Over the coming years, M&F will continue focusing on delivering operational efficiencies and driving growth through the core broker business as well as alternative channels including direct through iWyze, underwriting management agencies and niche businesses.
Percentage of 2011 gross premiums Commercial 44% Corporate 9% Personal 30% Risk Finance 9% Credit 8% Find further details of the operational results of the business within the Financial Disclosure Supplements on: 4 www.
com ir Old Mutual plc 37 Summary Financial Statements 2011 busInEss REVIEW shORt-tERm InsuRancE CONTINUED Business profile Commercial The Commercial portfolio is the largest, with a broad spectrum of customers ranging from small to medium businesses.
It covers primarily property, liability, motor, engineering, marine and crop insurance risks.
Corporate The Corporate portfolio focuses on corporate clients, from mid-size companies to large multinationals.
Corporate offerings include protection, fire policies, accident policies and motor fleet insurance.
The portfolio is staffed by specialists in corporate insurance, who support the major brokers in this sphere with expertise in mining, engineering, chemical production, motor manufacture and other major sectors.
Personal The Personal portfolio provides household, motor and all-risk short-term insurance products to domestic customers of all ages and various financial groups.
Our comprehensive personalised branded product, Allsure, continues to enjoy significant market support from the broker community.
The portfolio also offers various white-labelled intermediary-branded products.
It includes iWyze, the direct channel valuables insurance product, as well as a hospital cash plan, personal accident policies and low-cost products covering livestock and informal dwellings.
Risk Finance The Risk Finance portfolio, comprising alternative risk transfer products, is provided by a wellregarded team which is recognised in the industry as one of South Africas largest suppliers of risk financing solutions, primarily to medium-sized commercial customers.
Credit The Credit portfolio is underwritten by a subsidiary of M&F with a market-leading position in credit insurance.
Review of 2011 results As part of its ongoing capital management programme with the rest of the Group, M&F restructured its capital M&F delivered a sound underwriting result in 2011, with base and paid almost R1.0 billion of dividends in 2011. results reflecting a more normalised year compared to The company remains well capitalised, with a 66% thevery favourable trading conditions and benign claims international solvency ratio the ratio of net assets to environment in 2010. net premiums at 31December 2011.
Working closely We increased our focus on achieving premium growth with the FSB and Group, M&F continues to make good through alternative distribution channels, including direct progress in its preparation for Solvency II and its South through iWyze, underwriting management agencies and African equivalent, Solvency Assessment and niche business.
iWyze, M&Fs direct insurance joint venture with the Emerging Markets Mass Foundation distribution team, is progressing well and continues to meet premium growth targets.
While there was continued investment in this start-up phase, including an increased headcount from 52 in 2010 to 206 in 2011, we are on track to deliver underwriting profitability in accordance withexpectations.
38 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 Solid performance while building a strong foundation for growth Rm Highlights 2011 2010 % change Underwriting margin 5.0% 7.6% Underwriting result 354 519 32% Long-term investment return LTIR 625 639 2% AOP IFRS basis, pre-tax 1,039 1,162 11% Gross premiums 8,865 8,442 5% Earned premiums 7,039 6,859 3% Claims ratio 65.2% 63.8% Combined ratio 95.0% 92.4% International solvency ratio 66% 73% Return on equity 14.9% 19.0% Underwriting and IFRS AOP results Outlook AOP was 11% down on 2010, due to a decrease in the We anticipate real top-line growth in 2012, with increased underwriting result and a marginal decrease in the LTIR contributions from alternative channels including direct dueto the lower prescribed rate applied in 2011. through iWyze and underwriting management agencies.
RoE reduced from 19.0% to 14.9%, reflecting reduced Our further investment in change management initiatives after-tax profits compared to 2010. over the next two years will directly improve the claims ratio while reducing the expense base over the Premiums increased modestly as softening rates offset medium-term.
We expect this to lead to an underwriting unit growth.
The commercial portfolio performed well in margin that is sustainable throughout the underwriting terms of client retention and underwriting profit.
iWyze cycle in the long-term and in line with the 2011 margin.
achieved outstanding premium growth in its first full year of operation and has already become a meaningful We continue to partner Old Mutual Emerging Markets in competitor in the direct market for personal insurance.
the rest of Africa to identify opportunities and exploit synergies.
The underwriting result was 32% down on 2010, impacted by softening rates and the expected normalisation in claims patterns which saw the claims ratio increase from 63.8% in2010 to 65.2%.
The 2010 iWyze achieved outstanding claims ratio benefited from unusually benign claims premium growth in its first conditions in H2 2010, with abnormally low levels of commercial losses and very favourable climatic full year of operation and conditions.
has already become a Expenses increased, primarily due to investment in change management initiatives to improve client service meaningful competitor in and drive operating efficiencies, as well as development costs associated with iWyze.
the direct market for The Credit Guarantee operation performed particularly personal insurance.
well over the period, with other portfolios generating solid returns.
The businesses in Namibia and Botswana continued to deliver satisfactory contributions.
Old Mutual plc 39 Summary Financial Statements 2011 busInEss REVIEW us assEt managEmEnt Key financial highlights Operating margin before nonAdjusted operating profit pre-tax : controlling interests NCI : 2011 67m 2011 18% 2010 72m 2010 18% Adjusted operating profit pre-tax : Funds under management: Funds under management: 1,2 1 Results from Continuing Operations Results from Continuing Operations Reported results 2011 128.8bn 148.8bn 2011 82m 2010 133.5bn 2010 166.4bn 2010: 73m Operating margin before NCI : Net client cash outow: Net client cash outow: 1 1 Results from Continuing Operations Results from Continuing Operations Reported results 2011 4.2bn 2011 15.3bn 22% 4 2010 8.2bn 2010 12.0bn 2010: 20% Number of employees Some of our brands 1,564 2010: 1,537 1.
Excludes results of Old Mutual Capital, Lincluden, and Dwight Asset Management, as well as 7.5 million of restructuring costs in 2011.
Excludes gains losses on seed capital which have been captured at the Group level.
The comparative period has been restated accordingly.
US Asset Management Trading as Old Mutual Asset Management OMAM and based in Boston, US Asset Management USAM delivers , active investment management through its multi-boutique framework.
Peter Bain President and Chief Executive Officer 40 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 Overview The new management team at USAM has taken steps to refine strategy and refocus the business.
As part of that USAMs 17 boutique firms affiliates offer a diverse set of effort, several affiliate firms are being divested to improve products to a wide range of institutions around the globe.
USAM is USAM supports its affiliates from the centre by providing therefore presenting its results on two bases: reported selected product distribution, seed capital, risk results, and results from continuing operations.
Results management, technology, legal and internal audit from continuing operations exclude the operating capabilities.
With strong support from a global wealth results of the affiliates being divested and certain management organisation, affiliates can remain focused 1 restructuring costs.
on generating superior investment performance for Markets and strategy overview their clients.
US investors experienced highly volatile and unpredictable market conditions throughout 2011, with 2011 Funds under management mix relatively flat equitymarket performance for the year.
Globally, equities experienced declines in 2011, impacted FUM $bn by concerns over sovereign debt and the pace of the US Equities 65 global economic recovery.
Fixed income, alternative Global & Non-US Equities 48 strategies, and emerging market equities were favoured Fixed Income 61 by investors during 2011, while the other equity Alternatives 30 strategies, particularly US equities, continued Stable value 27 to experience outflows.
Over 140 investment strategies across a wide array of categories US Equities Global & Non-US Equities Fixed Income Alternatives Large, mid, small, all-cap Global, international, Long duration, Market neutral regional intermediate, short-term Growth, value, core Hedge fund seeding Emerging markets Core, core plus, high Hedge fund emerging yield managers TIPS Managed futures Global, international, Real estate public, emerging markets private, global Timber Find further details of the operational results of the business within the Financial Disclosure Supplements on: 4 www.
com ir Old Mutual plc 41 Summary Financial Statements 2011 busInEss REVIEW us assEt managEmEnt CONTINUED 1 USAM boutique investment managers Continuing Operations Funds under management 31 December 2011 Affiliate Established Investment style 1979 Fundamental US global & $59.7bn international value equity & US fixed income manager 1981 Fundamental global fixed $45.0bn income manager 1986 Quantitative US, global & $42.2bn international equity manager 1966 Public and private real estate, $19.2bn real estate debt manager 1969 Fundamental US international $6.8bn value equity & fixed income manager 1986 Fundamental & quantitative $6.2bn global and fixed income manager 1970 Quantitative equity & fixed $5.9bn income manager 1981 Timber investment $5.8bn management company 1973 Fundamental US growth $3.4bn manager 1972 Fundamental US value equity $1.9bn manager 2010 Fundamental international $1.5bn growth equitymanager 2005 Fundamental US small SMID $1.2bn growth & global equity manager 1999 Multi-strategy fund of hedge $0.9bn funds manager & hedge fund seeding specialist 1951 Fundamental US growth $0.4bn manager 2005 Quantitative commodity trading $0.2bn adviser of managed futures portfolios 1.
Excludes two affiliates held for sale: Old Mutual Capital and Dwight Asset Management.
42 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 Continuing operations achieve improved financial results and reduced net outflows despite challenging markets $m Highlights 2011 2010 change Reported results AOP IFRS basis, pre-tax 107 111 4 % Operating margin, before non-controlling interests 18% 18% Operating margin, after non-controlling interests 15% 15% Net client cash flows $bn 24.6 18.4 34 % Funds under management $bn 231.5 258.3 10 % Results from continuing operations AOP IFRS basis, pre-tax 131 113 16% Operating margin, before non-controlling interests 22% 20% Operating margin, after non-controlling interests 19% 17% Net client cash flows $bn 6.7 12.6 47% Funds under management $bn 200.3 207.4 3 % 2010 NCCF and FUM were restated to exclude some of Larch Lanes funds, which were also included in Emerging Markets NCCF and FUM.
Review of 2011 results Results from continuing operations We are presenting our results on two bases: reported Excluding operating results from affiliates held for sale or results, and results from continuing operations.
Results disposed of, and adding back $12 million of restructuring from continuing operations exclude the operating results costs, AOP was up 16% to $131 million 2010: $113 of the affiliates being divested and certain restructuring million.
This was largely due to higher management fees, 1 costs.
The key impact of these strategic actions, lower amortisation of deferred acquisition costs and reflected in the continuing operations, is a reduction in impairments during 2012, and lower central costs.
net cash outflows from $24.6billion to $6.7 billion and an Management fees were up $6 million or 1% due to higher increase in operating margin from 18% to 22%.
addition, fees on average assets under management increase from 28 basis points to 31 basis points on a AOP operating margin before non-controlling interests continuing basis.
Improving operating margin continues to be an area of focus.
AOP results and operating margin Reported results Investment Performance Results from continuing operations IFRS AOP was down 4% to $107 million 2010: $111 million.
These figures exclude gains losses on seed Investment performance continued to improve during the capital which have been captured at the Group level for period.
For the one-year period ended 31 December 2011 and comparative periods.
Seed capital investment 2011, 62% of assets outperformed benchmarks, returns on strategies managed by our affiliates were compared to 57% at 31 December 2010.
Over the threeand five-year periods to 31 December Overall revenue was down $3.6 million due to a 2% 2011, 68% and 67% of assets outperformed decrease in average FUM and lower performance benchmarks, compared to 49% and 65% at 31 fees, partially offset by higher transaction fees.
The increase was driven by improving performance in International Equity and Global Fixed Management fees decreased by $11.6 million or 2% and Income.
performance fees were down $2.7 million or 25%.
However, transaction fees were up $7.3 million or 103% to $14.4million for the period.
AOP operating margin before non-controlling interests was consistent with 2010 at 18%.
Excludes results of OMCAP, Lincluden, and Dwight Asset Management, as well as $12 million of restructuring costs in2011.
Old Mutual plc 43 Summary Financial Statements 2011 busInEss REVIEW us assEt managEmEnt CONTINUED $bn Flows from continuing Flows from disposed of operations or held for sale affiliates Total 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Opening FUM 207.4 198.8 50.9 61.9 258.3 260.7 Gross inflows 25.6 25.9 3.8 5.0 29.4 30.9 Gross outflows 32.3 38.5 21.7 10.8 54.0 49.3 Net outflows 6.7 12.6 17.9 5.8 24.6 18.4 Market and other 0.4 21.2 1.8 5.2 2.2 16.0 Closing FUM 200.3 207.4 31.2 50.9 231.5 258.3 Outlook We expect continued improvement in NCCF in 2012 The new management team as aresult of enhanced investment performance in a number of key products.
The improved investment at USAM has taken steps to performance over 2011 initially reduced outflows and refine strategy and refocus subsequently increased sales: we believe this trend could lead to positive flows in 2012. thebusiness.
As part ofthat In 2012 and beyond, we expect to make investments effort, several affiliate firms in our global distribution capabilities to further leverage Group capabilities and distribution platforms.
This will are being divested to enable USAM to better leverage the affiliates investment expertise for clients around the world.
improve USAMs longerWe remain committed to achieving our financial goals term financial performance.
of 25% to 30% operating margin and expect continued improvement in USAMs margin in 2012, particularly if equity markets remain strong throughout the year and NCCF turns positive.
However, we will continue to invest in the business by incurring current expenses which may partially inhibit margin growth in the short term but will achieve important financial and strategic objectives in future years.
44 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 busInEss REVIEW nOn-cORE busInEss OpERatIOns Non-core business Bermuda Future surrender behaviour will be influenced by the extent to which the underlying fund values of the Bermuda remains a non-core business.
Its results are policyholders are close to or above the level of the excluded from the Groups IFRS AOP, although the guarantee.
interest charged on internal loans from Bermuda to Group Head Office is charged to AOP.
Hedging Overview Over the period, the business continued to dynamically manage the underlying economics of the hedging The business continued to implement its run-off strategy programme to strike a balance between the potential ofrisk reduction while managing for value.
Ongoing changes in the income statement, liquidity and business service improvements, enhancements to transactional costs.
At 31 December 2011, hedge liability management and further fide-risking initiatives, coverage over equities was 54% 2010: 58% and 53% targeted specifically at contracts that have elected the over foreign exchange 2010: 39%, with interest rates Guaranteed Minimum Accumulation Benefits GMABs, remaining unhedged 2010: nil.
The exposures are are designed toaccelerate the run-off of the in-force primarily to Asian equities and currencies versus the book.
IFRS results At 31 December 2011, the total cost of fifth-anniversary The IFRS post-tax loss of $286 million 2010: $41 million top-up payments to policyholders in respect of the gain was driven by the guarantee performance arising GMAB liabilities over the next two years was estimated primarily from equity market declines in H2 and a at $689million.
The actual cash cost will be affected by reduction in US interest rates.
There was an IFRS any changes in policyholders account values until the post-tax profit of $76 million in H1.
The impact of the fifth-anniversary date of each policy, offset by hedge dynamic hedging programme over 2011 helped to gains or losses.
At29February 2012, rising equity reduce the losses on the variable annuity guarantees.
markets had reduced the cash cost of top-up payments Notwithstanding the hedging programme, given current required to meet fifth-anniversary guarantees to $426 equity market conditions the business expects volatility million and the GMAB reserve to $791 million.
in earnings in the short to medium term.
In March 2012, Bermuda enhanced its hedging strategy MCEV results by implementing an option-based hedging arrangement.
The 2011 operating MCEV earnings resulted in a gain This strategy will protect against downside risk from aftertax of $76 million 2010: $36 million loss.
Operating further equity market declines relating to meeting the earnings include positive persistency experience cash cost of the fifth-year anniversary of UGO contract variance and assumption changes in 2011 compared to top-up obligations, while maintaining the potential to one-time negative corrections from data migration and realise gains if equity markets move higher.
The existing modelling changes in 2010. futures-based dynamic hedging strategy will remain in Total MCEV earnings including economic variances and place for the variable annuity book exposure beyond five other non-operating variances were a loss of $343 years.
Also, the exposure to currency movements million, mainly due to significant underperformance of impacting the UGO top-ups will continue to be the variable annuity guarantee business.
We continue to engage with distributors, developing thecustomer proposition and experience through a strengthened adviser-focused strategy.
Bermuda is maintaining high levels of customer service through continued operational and service improvements.
The $1.2 billion of surrenders across the whole Bermuda book during the period amounted to some 22% of the total31December 2010 account value.
This was partially attributable to initiatives allowing UGO GMAB contract holders to surrender their contracts without penalty charges.
These initiatives increased the rate, value and number of guarantee contract surrenders: overall surrender activity across UGO GMAB was over two and a half times 2010 levels 2011: 2,175 policies: 2010: 796 policies.
Management continues to assess demand for similar offers to accelerate further the run-off of the UGO guaranteed book.
Old Mutual plc 45 Summary Financial Statements 2011 Business reVieW GrOuP FinAnCe DireCTOrs sTATeMenT Old Mutual showed strong growthin profits AOP earningsper share were up 1 10% to 15.7p RoE increased to14.6%from 14.2%.
Philip Broadley Group Finance Director Group net margin measured as profit before tax on Overview average assets increased by 4 basis points over the Following the proposed sale of the Nordic business, year from 42 basis points excluding Nordic to 46 Nordic has been classified as a discontinued operation basispoints.
The increase was driven by a strong and its profits have been excluded from AOP.
Seed improvement in the net margin at Nedbank.
In Wealth capital investment in strategies managed by USAM Management the net margin, excluding the previously affiliates and seed capital investment returns previously reported smoothing for policyholder tax, has improved recognised within USAM were recorded at Group level from 23 basis points to 27 basis points as a result of the for 2011.
business gaining operational leverage, with increased USAMs Dwight, Lincluden and OMCAP affiliates were UK Platform FUM and a more efficient expense base included in all reported results unless otherwise stated.
following the cost reduction programme: administrative Nordic, US Life and Bermuda results are included in the expenses are now 42 million below the prior year.
RoE increased to 14.6% from 14.2%, as a result of the During the year to 31 December 2011 2011 or the increased profits, particularly in Nedbank, offsetting an year Old Mutual showed strong growth in profits increase in the Groups equity base, which included the compared to the year to 31 December 2010 2010. net assets of Zimbabwe, Kenya, Malawi and Swaziland AOP earnings per share were up 10% to 15.7p for 2011 for the first time.
Pre-tax AOP was 1,515 million, an increase of 144 million on 2010.
On a constant currency While life assurance annual premium equivalent APE basis profits increased by 182 million, with notable sales were down 6% to 1,207 million, Emerging improvements in profitability in the Mass Foundation Markets APE sales increased, driven by continued Cluster MFC and Retail Affluent in our Emerging strong protection sales in MFC and Retail Affluent.
Markets business and increased non-interest revenue Wealth Management continued to grow its single income in our South African banking business.
Including premium Platform sales but APE sales were down Nordic, AOP earnings per share were up 9% to 17.5p overall, with lower UK Legacy sales reflecting the 2010: 16.0p.
reduction in the range of Legacy products being offeredin 2011 and weakened European sentiment.
Non-covered business sales, including unit trust and mutual fund sales, were up 13%, driven by pension sales in the Colombian business of Emerging Markets.
Strong sales continued in Wealth Management, up 4% 1.
46 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 FinAnCe DireCTOrs FrOM ArOunD THe GrOuP Iain Pearce Katie Murray Markus Deimel Mark Satchel Group Head Office Emerging Markets Retail Europe Wealth Management Raisibe Morathi Michael Sakoulas Dheven Dharmalingam Stephen Belgrad Nedbank Bermuda Mutual & Federal OMAM US Summarised Financial Information m 1 2011 2010 % change IFRS results Basic earnings per share 12.9p 6.5 p IFRS profit loss after tax attributable to equity holders of the parent 667 282 Sales statistics Life assurance sales APE basis 1,207 1,290 6 % Life assurance sales PVNBP basis 9,113 10,162 10 % Value of new business 177 159 11% 2 Non-covered sales 14,374 13,018 10% 3 MCEV results Adjusted Group MCEV bn 10.8 11.0 Adjusted Group MCEV per share 194.1p 202.2p AOP Group MCEV earnings post-tax and non-controlling interests 1,055 830 27% Adjusted operating Group MCEV earnings per share 19.4p 15.5p 25% Financial metrics 4 Return on equity 14.6% 14.2% 3 Return on Group MCEV 10.7% 10.9% Net client cash flows bn 11.4 6.7 70 % Funds under management bn 267.2 295.2 9 % Interim dividend 1.5p 1.1p 36% Final dividend 3.5p 2.9p 21% 5 Financial Groups Directive FGD surplus bn 2.0 2.1 5 % Net asset value per share 140p 151p 1.
Includes all unit trust and mutual fund sales.
Includes Nordic and US Life.
RoE is calculated as core business IFRS AOP post-tax divided by average shareholders equity excluding the perpetual preferred callable securities.
The Groups regulatory capital surplus, calculated under the EU Financial Groups Directive, was 2.0 billion at 31 December 2011.
The Group followed the FSAs requirements, and gave six months advance notice of its right in January 2012 to call the remaining 200 million of the 750 million Lower Tier 2 euro bond that was partially redeemed in July 2011.
As a result of that notice, the Lower Tier 2 instrument was excluded from the regulatory capital surplus calculations as at 31 December 2011.
Old Mutual plc 47 Summary Financial Statements 2011 Business reVieW GrOuP FinAnCe DireCTOrs sTATeMenT CONTINUED Overview of FY 2011 results m 2010 constant 2010 2011 currency % change as reported % change 1 Group highlights Adjusted operating profit IFRS basis, pre-tax 1,515 1,333 14% 1,371 11% Adjusted operating earnings per share IFRS basis 15.7 13.9p 13% 14.3p 10% 2 Group net margin 46bps 42bps 4bps 3 Return on equity 14.6% 14.2% 40bps Life assurance sales APE basis 1,207 1,277 6 % 1,290 6 % 4 Non-covered sales 14,374 12,766 13% 13,018 10% LTS net client cash flow bn 3.2 4.3 26 % 4.3 26 % 5 Net client cash flows bn 0.2 2.5 91% 2.8 92% Funds under management bn 267.2 282.3 5 % 295.2 9 % Full dividend for the year 5.0p 4.0p 25% Total profit loss after tax attributable to equity holders of the parent 667 282 1 The figures in the table are in respect of core continuing businesses only and the 2010 comparatives have been restated accordingly.
Nordic was classified as discontinued business in 2011 as it is subject to a sale agreement.
2 Ratio of AOP before tax to average assets under management in the period.
3 RoE is calculated as core business IFRS AOP post-tax divided by average shareholders equity excluding the perpetual preferred callable securities.
4 Includes unit trust mutual funds sales.
5 Total NCCF excludes NCCF from USAMs Dwight, Lincluden and OMCAP affiliates, which were sold or held for sale at 31December 2011.
All of our LTS businesses saw positive NCCF during approvalatthe Extraordinary General Meeting on theyear.
The Group had a small net client cash outflow 14March 2012, completion is expected on or around of 0.2billion 2010: 2.5 billion outflow, excluding 21March 2012.
The necessary competition authority 11.2billion of net outflows from USAMs affiliates which and regulatory approvals have been obtained.
were sold or held for sale at 31 December 2011.
The The total return on the Skandia Investment improvement was primarily due to improved NCCF Since purchasing the Skandia businesses in 2006, the inUSAMs continuing business, reflecting markedly Group has made a total return on investment from the improved investment performance on a number of acquisition of about 1.8 billion or 45%, giving an internal keystrategies.
bn On a constant currency basis closing FUM decreased by 5% driven by negative market movements in H2 and net Net cash flows from Skandia BUs 0.8 Proposed net sale proceeds 2.1 client cash outflows in USAM.
Over the year the FTSE Remaining business valued at MCEV 31 12 2011 2.9 and MSCI World indices fell by 6% and 8% respectively, the JSE All Share and S&P 500 indices were broadly flat Total proceeds from and remaining value of Skandia BUs 5.8 and the Dow Jones rose by 6%.
Purchase price 4.0 The rand weakened by 3% against sterling, on an Surplus 1.8 average rate, negatively impacting sterling earnings from Internal rate of return 8% our South African businesses.
The 31 December 2011 rand closing rate was down 22% against 31 December Net cash inflows, including proceeds from disposals, 2010, negatively impacting sterling FUM from our South from the Skandia businesses to the Group since African businesses.
The US dollar weakened by 4% on acquisition have amounted to 0.8 billion: the proposed an average rate, negatively impacting sterling earnings net sale proceeds for the Nordic elements of the from USAM, but was flat at closing rate.
Skandiabusinesses are 2.1billion and the MCEV of the remaining Skandia businesses within the Group which Proposed Nordic sale ignores the value of future new business is 2.9 billion.
On 15 December 2011 we announced the sale of our The bulk of the 4.0billion consideration for the Skandia Skandia Nordic business, which operates in Sweden, businesses was paid in February 2006, resulting in an Norway and Denmark, to Skandia Liv for net cash implied surplus for shareholders of 1.8 billion from proceedsof 2.1 billion.
48 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 Dividends and consolidation of shares Dividend policy The Board intends to pursue a progressive dividend Special dividend policy consistent with our strategy, having regard to Following the proposed Nordic sale, the Board intends to overall capital requirements, liquidity and profitability, return approximately 1.0 billion of net proceeds from the andtargeting dividend cover of at least 2.5 times IFRS disposal to ordinary shareholders by means of a special AOP earnings over time.
In future we expect to set dividend, equivalent to 18p per ordinary share or its interim dividends routinely at 30% of the prior years equivalent in other applicable currencies, which we fulldividend.
We are also proposing a consolidation of shares following the special dividend of Corporate disposals and acquisitions and 3 7 seven new shares of 11 p nominal per share for every related party transactions eight existing shares of 10p nominal.
Reported earnings During 2011 and the early part of 2012, we have per share for 2012 and 2011 will be restated accordingly.
continued to focus on streamlining the Old Mutual No scrip alternative to the 18p per ordinary share special business to focus on key competencies, competitive dividend will be offered.
In the 2011 interim results, we reported the completion of the sale of Final dividend for 2011 US Life, the closure to new business of our Retail Europe Given the continued progress in achieving our debt Swiss business and the proposed legal transfer of some repayment programme, the Board has considered the of our emerging markets businesses to accord with their position in respect of the final dividend for 2011 and is operational management.
recommending the payment of a final dividend for 2011 of 3.5p per ordinary share or its equivalent in other Since then we have taken further steps to simplify applicable currencies, amounting to about 195 million.
In addition to the proposed This is equivalent to 4.0p per new ordinary share once Nordic sale, we have also announced the sale of the existing shares are consolidated.
Based on this WealthManagements Finnish branch and a number recommendation, the full-year ordinary dividend would ofUSAM affiliates.
The sale of the Finnish branch was announced in A scrip dividend alternative is not being made available December 2011.
The transaction is subject to regulatory inrelation to this dividend in view of the complexities approvals and other customary conditions and is involved in the share consolidation, and the Board will expected to close by the end of H1 2012. consider later in 2012 whether to reinstate a scrip dividend alternative for the interim dividend for the current year.
Operating profit analysis m 2010 constant 2010 2011 currency % change as reported % change AOP analysis Long-Term Savings 793 772 3% 787 1% Nedbank 755 584 29% 601 26% Mutual & Federal 89 100 11 % 103 14 % US Asset Management 67 69 3 % 72 7 % 1,704 1,525 12% 1,563 9% Finance costs 128 128 128 LTIR on excess assets 37 31 19% 31 19% Net interest payable to non-core operations 23 39 41% 39 41% Corporate costs 57 60 5% 60 5% Other net expenses income 18 4 n a 4 n a AOP 1,515 1,333 14% 1,371 11% The year ended 31 December 2010 has been restated to reflect Nordic as discontinued.
Old Mutual plc 49 Summary Financial Statements 2011 Business reVieW GrOuP FinAnCe DireCTOrs sTATeMenT CONTINUED The new management team at USAM has taken steps andmoderate inflation.
The impact of the financial crisis torefine strategy and refocus the business.
As part of on these economies was generally less severe than that effort, several affiliate firms have been or are being inthe more developed countries.
However, the current divested to improve USAMs longer-term financial economic environment remains a threat with unstable performance and move towards the margin targets and volatile equity markets, currency risk and announced to the market in 2010. unemployment challenges particularly in South Africa.
Regulatory changes in the UK the Retail Distribution In September 2011, USAM announced the sale of Review RDR and Solvency II are likely to have Lincluden Management to its existing management significant effects on the industry as a whole.
The sale was completed in December 2011. has continued to provide opportunities for the UK In October 2011, USAM announced the sale of Platform to grow, but may accelerate the run-off of the OMCAP, its US Retail affiliate, to Touchstone more profitable legacy book.
UK Platforms are expecting Investments.
The sale is expected to close in H1 margins to be squeezed both in the lead-up to RDR 2012.
USAM will continue to act in a sub-advisory andafterwards.
The implementation of Solvency II capacity and retain a substantial portion of the assets requirements continues to occupy the industry and under management.
Through the transaction USAM thereis still uncertainty about both the implementation will dispose of its retail administration centre in Denver timetable and the details of the directive, particularly and the significant costs associated with it.
theissue of contract boundaries, which could materially affect our Solvency II position.
On 7 February 2012, we announced the sale of Dwight Asset Management to Goldman Sachs Asset We monitor the external factors and uncertainties, Management.
Subject to certain conditions, the sale is suchas market and regulatory developments that could expected to be completed in Q2 2012.
Dwight managed adversely affect our ability to create value and continue $30.7 billion of FUM at 31 December 2011, largely of meeting the capital requirements and day-to-day liquidity stable-value asset mandates.
needs of the Group and individual entities.
Overall risk trends are going down and Old Mutual is in a solid Subject to the approval of the relevant authorities position to withstand the threat of further economic inSouth Africa and Zimbabwe, the legal transfer of recession.
In this respect we compare favourably to theownership of the Zimbabwean business from ourpeers: this is reflected in our Solvency II capital OldMutual Zimbabwe Limited to Old Mutual Africa requirement, which we believe is less demanding than Holdings and to local Zimbabweans, including staff those faced by some of our peers.
The risks we face in andpensioners, as part of Old Mutuals response to our Bermuda business, although significant, are being Zimbabwean indigenisation legislation, is expected to effectively managed and closely monitored.
We continue to strengthen and embed our risk Risks and uncertainties management framework.
We attach increasing A number of potential risks and uncertainties could have importance to ensuring business decisions are within a material impact on Group performance and cause ourrisk appetite, and that risk exposures are monitored actual results to differ materially from expected and against appetite, allocated limits and budgets.
The Board of Directors believe that the Group has During 2011, global economic activity weakened adequate resources to continue in operational existence againstinitial expectations and became more uneven, for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue confidence fell sharply, and downside risks grew.
toadopt the going concern basis in preparing the Againsta backdrop of unresolved structural fragilities, financial statements.
anumber of shocks hit the international economy, including the devastating Japanese earthquake and Philip Broadley tsunami, unrest in some oil-producing countries and Group Finance Director themajor financial turbulence in the eurozone.
Two of 9 March 2012 theforces now shaping the global economy are high andrising commodity prices and the need for many economies to address large budget deficits.
Financial volatility has increased drastically at the year end, driven by concerns about developments in the eurozone and the strength of global activity.
Southern Africa and Emerging Markets generally havestrong GDP growth, increasing population sizes, agrowing middle class, stable unemployment levels 50 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 risk AnD resPOnsiBiliTy risk AnD CAPiTAl MAnAGeMenT There has been significant investment in risk andcapital management at Old Mutual over the past two years.
This has been sponsored from thetop of the organisation, at both Executive andBoard level, and driven through the new Group operating model and a Group-wide projectiCRaFT integrated Capital Risk and Finance Transformation.
The Groups Board RiskCommittee which was established in 2010has overseen these developments in risk management including setting the risk appetite limitsand monitoring the Groups risk profile.
We are now at a stage where the new operating model and risk management at Old Mutual is embedded in ourbusinesses, and iCRaFT is becoming We have clear risk appetite part of business as usual.
Risk frameworks, governance limits representing economic and the Groups internal capital model are designed and overseen centrally but implemented by our global capital, cash flow and earnings businesses locally.
This is reinforced through senior Group Executive representation in the local business at risk as well as operational unitboards coupled with a formalised dual reporting risk and the business forall key control functions.
performance is monitored In 2010 we set out the Groups risk strategy and stated risk preferences.
This has guided the business strategy against these limits.
and planning processes for the business units and the Group.
We have clear risk appetite limits representing Sue Kean economic capital, cash flow and earnings at risk as well Chief Risk Officer as operational risk and the business performance is monitored against these limits.
This is used by the Remuneration Committee as a factor in determining incentive payments.
We are well placed for the forthcoming regulatory changes under Solvency II and the South African equivalent Solvency Assessment and Management SAM.
We have an internal capital model which delivered the first results in June 2011, our risk, capital and liquidity policies and processes have been enhanced and we have much greater line of sight on the key risks in the businesses and how these interact.
In particular there isnow centralised sign-off of all new products which contain guarantees using risk-based capital metrics, and prior approval for any significant changes to the business unit risk profile.
The risks in the Bermuda business, in run-off, remain significant but these are well known andvery actively managed and monitored.
The remainder of this section of the report is intended to provide a more granular understanding of our target and actual risk profile, together with a description of each of the key risks.
The full description of risk and governance framework is provided on the website.
Given the modelling process involved, the data in this report is at Find out more online at: 30 June 2011. www.
com reportingcentre 4 Old Mutual plc 51 Summary Financial Statements 2011 risk AnD resPOnsiBiliTy risk AnD CAPiTAl MAnAGeMenT CONTINUED Risk profile current and target Groups Target Risk Prole % When we set out the Groups risk strategy and preferences in 2010 we distinguished between the risk and the return preferences.
The Groups risk preferences outline our position on different risk types, identifying the Market Policyholder 34 risks that we actively seek, avoid or view neutrally.
The Business 23 return preferences are driven by the probability and size Credit Other 12 of the returns.
This is intended to serve as a guide to Currency 4 steer the medium-term planning cycle and hence Liability 15 implementing these preferences will take time.
For more Market Shareholder 5 information on these, please visit the Risk section on the Operational 7 Group website.
This includes all business written in the Group at June 2011.
The current and target risk profile of the Group is shown The target prole in the 2010 Accounts did not include Nedbank.
A comparison of the actual profile in 2011 compared to the profile in 2010 is shown in the table underneath.
The introduction of our Solvency II model during 2011 means that the data for 2011 includes Current Risk Prole June 2011 % some modelling changes.
The current and target risk profiles are drawn on a standalone basis, allowing for no diversification of risks within or between business units Market Policyholder 27 or risk types for example, UK business risk is not Business 25 balanced against UK operational risk.
Credit Other 13 In 2011 the sale of US Life significantly reduced the Currency 5 proportion of credit risk in the Group.
The profile has not Liability 13 yet been adjusted to reflect the proposed sale of Nordic.
Market Shareholder 6 One of the priorities for 2012 will be to revisit the target Operational 11 risk profile and consequent risk strategy in the light of changes in the composition of the Group.
The business plans for 2011 specifically targeted a reductionin business and operational risk, whilst seeking to take on more liability and market risk where properly priced, for example through more protection products or guarantees.
The Market Policyholder risk category includes the ALM risk from guarantee business.
This remains a central tenet of the Long-Term Savings LTS 52 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 The table below shows the progress the Group made since the risk strategy and target risk profile was rolled out: 2010 vs 2011 Marginal impact Expected of extra exposure return Risk Category Target Risk preference 2010 2011 on economic relative to profile profile profile capital at a Group target level BU 100% Market 34% For 26% 27% 86% Excellent Policyholder Credit and Other 12% Against 22% 13% 64% Neutral Business 23% Neutral 24% 25% 47% Good Market Shareholder 5% Against 4% 6% 78% Poor Liability 15% Strongly for 8% 13% 11% Excellent Operational 7% Strongly 12% 11% 42% Very poor against Currency 4% Against 4% 5% 81% Poor Unless taken in the form of well-governed and managed banking-related credit risk Assumes risk is correctly priced This was referred to as ALM risk in the 2010 Accounts product development strategy.
The increase shown Our exposure to other risk types are generally in line abovefor liability risk appears greater than is the case, with our target profile.
Reported exposure to these risk asthe economic capital figures are expressed in terms types are expected to move marginally from year to year of% of the total and hence the reduction in credit risk as the model refinements are made and the effect of hasincreased the % for all other risk areas.
interactions with other risk types changes.
There have also been some changes in the classification Looking forward, the Group will continue to manage and modelling methodology as we have moved to the towards the stated target risk profile.
This will be driven Solvency II model for June 2011 results production.
by the products we sell greater focus on protection business in Europe as well as our focus on strong Our exposure to operational risk has come down as enterprise risk management in particular managing wehave reduced geographical spread and business ourexposure to operational risk.
lines, however, there is still work to do to achieve our target exposure.
Over the course of 2011 we have rolled out a new enterprise risk management methodology andsystem for measuring operational risk losses.
This greater focus and measurement has enhanced our ability to manage operational risk and the risk appetite targets are set to reduce this risk type over time.
Old Mutual plc 53 Summary Financial Statements 2011 risk AnD resPOnsiBiliTy risk AnD CAPiTAl MAnAGeMenT CONTINUED Embedding risk management culture The framework is supported by a remuneration policythat does not encourage risk-taking beyond theGroups risk We think of culture as the way in which we operate.
This policy has been designed to eliminate Wehave developed a set of behaviours that define the conflicts of interest and support business strategy, risk management culture we want.
These six behaviours objectives, values, and the long-term interests of the are core requirements of any role in the organisation, Group.
It is overseen by a Remuneration Committee regardless of where the role reports or what the job is: appointed by the Board, consisting of at least three non-executive directors with relevant experience and a People are responsive to risk information and do not good knowledge of the Group and the environment in just shrug it off which it operates.
Thisenables them to exercise Employees think carefully about the risks in their competent judgement on compensation policies and the environment and understand how they impact incentives for managing risk, value and capital in line with thebusiness stakeholders expectations.
Employees understand the value of rules and policies, We have made progress in aligning staff remuneration stick to them and challenge when necessary and incentives, explicitly taking into account the extent Inappropriate decisions and misleading information towhich risk exposures have delivered results, and are pointed out whether these risk exposures have complied with the agreed risk appetite.
Decisions about risk are made with clarity by the rightpeople Summary Employees share information openly: teams are In 2011 Old Mutual continued to embed tools, transparent with one another and mistakes are methodology and improved processes and governance notcovered up.
frameworks that enhance the management and monitoring of risk and capital in order to create value.
Incentivising the right behaviours Our progress is continually driven by the Groups vision To support and incentivise the right behaviours in to have improved risk management practices and the theexecutive management team, we have further appropriate behaviours to underpin them.
embedded the governance framework designed in 2010to align the risk reward balance with corporate governance objectives and ensure it promotes effective risk management.
We have rolled out risk-related objectives to senior management and performance is measured and monitored every six months.
For more information on our risk appetite and significant risks, please refer to our 2011 Annual Report: 4 www.
com ar2011 54 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 risk AnD resPOnsiBiliTy resPOnsiBle Business Our approach to responsible business In 2010 we decided to pull together the various strands of our work in the field of responsible business to create a consistent approach across theOld Mutual Group.
We reported on our work last year.
During 2011, we havemade positive strides in developing internal networks to share experience, collaborate on finding solutions to key issues and collect the comparable dataneeded to demonstrate progress.
Focusing our approach inthese areas has already contributed towardsour vision ofbecoming our customers mosttrusted partner.
We have continued to engage with stakeholders to help We pursue commercial refine our approach.
Our Responsible Business Strategy balances the expectations of our stakeholders while success in ways that uphold addressing key business issues.
Stakeholders with ethical values and respect whom we have worked include our customers, employees, suppliers, shareholders, community society and the natural organisations, Governments and regulators.
However, we recognise that we need to do more to align our responsible business strategy to our overall business Don Schneider priorities, and that we will progress further by prioritising Group Human Resources Director ourkey issues and improving the quality of management information used to track performance.
Therefore, during 2012, we will prioritise the integration ofresponsible investment into our businesses, provide Group-wide principles for community and social investments and drive performance to meet our 2020 carbon-reduction targets.
We will continue to invest time and resources across all parts of the Group to develop our responsible business approach, and support our businesses in tailoring their activity to meet local market needs.
Our Responsible Business Committee continued to provide direction and to be accountable for our approach to responsible business practice, with Don Schneider, Group Human Resources Director, reporting issues directly to the Group Executive Committee.
The key issues we address through our Responsible Business Strategy are: Responsible investment Responsible customer service Responsible to our employees Responsible to our communities Responsible environmental management Old Mutual plc 55 Summary Financial Statements 2011 risk AnD resPOnsiBiliTy resPOnsiBle Business CONTINUED Responsible investment: A long-term Responsible to our employees: valueapproach Building a culture of excellence We spent time in 2011 establishing the right governance During 2011, we asked our employees for their views on framework for responsible decision-making in our owned the current culture at Old Mutual, and are now working and managed investments.
We are seeking to build a through a programme to build a high performance culture consistent approach to integrating environmental, social which has the customer at the heart of what we do.
and good governance criteria into investment decisions, We also launched a Group-wide initiative to increase the using experience gained across the Group.
This includes number of women in senior positions.
Women currently the work of Nedbank as an Equator Principles signatory hold 13% of senior management jobs within the Group, and Old Mutual Investment Group South Africa as a with the figure rising to 40% in Mutual & Federals sponsor and signatory to the Code for Responsible executive team.
Much of our strength comes from the fact that, as a We also addressed key issues in the emerging markets globalbusiness, we have employees from many different where our businesses operate by investing in housing, backgrounds, cultures and professions.
We are agriculture and education funds.
committed to increase and leverage diversity as well as We conducted our second bribery risk assessment encouraging mobility across the Group.
across the Group and updated our Code of Conduct to Responsible to our communities: Investing take into account changes in UK anti-bribery legislation.
in the future Nedbank and Old Mutual South Africa successfully We have a proud history of social engagement, with a implemented new monitoring systems to identify and focus on supporting the long-term growth and stability prevent internal fraud as part of our drive to reduce of communities.
Through our five Old Mutual financial crime.
Foundations, and directly through our businesses, we Responsible customer service: donated a total of11.6 million to social projects last Buildingtrust year.
Employee volunteering helped to maximise the In our drive to become our customers most trusted value of the donations, which were particularly aimed partner, we have been implementing a Group-wide atsupporting financial capability, and enterprise and customer loyalty metric the Net Promoter Score.
measuring how likely our customers are to recommend We also run programmes that address specific local OldMutual as a financial services provider to their friends community and market needs.
For example, in 2011, and family, we can see how and where we need to theOld Mutual Foundation in South Africa increased improveour services and products.
thenumber of small black-owned businesses and All new products in 2011 were thoroughly assessed to community projects it supports through its Legends make sure that all aspects of sales, compliance, Programme by82%.
profitability and appropriateness to customer need were considered.
Anew formal sign-off process also ensures suitable risk management for our customers and shareholders, and there has been considerable focus on 11.6m addressing our approach to responsible marketing and selling so that we are transparent about what we do and Invested in local communities how we do it.
Our Long-Term Savings division is taking proactive steps toimprove its engagement with customers as part of its Our commitment to the transformation of South African customer-centric vision.
society continues, with Old Mutual South Africa and Nedbank maintaining their Level 2 status as BroadBased Black Economic Empowerment contributors.
We are building a consistent Mutual & Federal retained its Level 3 status.
approach to integrating environmental, social and good governance criteria into investment decisions.
56 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 Responsible environmental management: The future An essential role Over the next year, we will work to ensure our Responsible Business Strategy is completely aligned As an international business, we have a responsibility toour business priorities and vision, with clear targets tocontribute to wider global issues such as mitigating forthe rest of the decade.
We will work with our climate change, responding to macro changes in employees and others to highlight their roles in populations and using scarce resources responsibly.
deliveringour objectives and empower them to make We report each year to the UN Global Compact showing their own personal contribution to the achievement of our progress in addressing universal issues, which cover those objectives.
human and labour rights, environmental protection and Particular focus will be placed on better demonstrating anti-corruption.
This year we hosted a debate in London the positive impact we have with communities, onthe role of companies operating in conflict zones.
progressing ourresponsible investment work and Ourbusinesses took part in, and learnt from, the climate addressing our key environmental impacts.
change discussions at COP17 in Durban and we appeared in the Leadership Index of the Carbon We will continue to report through the UN Global Disclosure Project, which we have reported against for Compact, Carbon Disclosure Project and our own over three years.
communication channels to demonstrate our achievements transparently, while also acknowledging, In 2010, we established our own climate-change strategy where applicable, the challenges we face.
And we will with a target of reducing the Groups carbon emissions look to collaborate with others, so that we can continue by 20% by 2020 from a 2010 baseline.
Over the past to learn and create even greater benefit.
year, ourCarbon Taskforces across the Group have begun to implement the strategy and our performance For more information on the highlights of 2011 and isshown in the table below.
Old Mutuals carbon emissions plansfor 2012, please see our 2011 Responsible Business Report.
-6% Old Mutuals carbon emissions Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent 2011 2.33 per full-time employee from our -6% employee locations.
2010 2.47 -6% 2011 2.33 2010 2.47 -6% Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent 2 per m of Old Mutual property portfolios.
2010 0.23 Old Mutual plc 57 Summary Financial Statements 2011 GOVernAnCe BOArD OF DireCTOrs Patrick OSullivan joined the Board as Chairman in January 2010.
He also chairs the Nomination Committee.
From 2007 until 2009, he was Vice Chairman of Zurich Financial Services, where he had specific responsibility for its international businesses including those in South Africa.
He had previously held roles at Zurich as Group Finance Director and CEO, General Insurance and Banking, of its UKISA division.
Qualified as a chartered accountant, his prior experience includes positions at Bank of America, Goldman Sachs, Financial Guaranty Insurance Company a subsidiary of GE Capital, Barclays BZW and Eagle Star Insurance Company.
He is also Chairman of the Shareholder Executive and a non-executive director ofCOFRA Group in Switzerland and Man Group plc and Deputy Governor of the Bank of Ireland.
B. S. F. C. A. Mr OSullivan has a strong track record of leading financial services businesses through Ireland Chairman periods of challenge and of tackling strategic issues successfully.
His wide-ranging international experience and knowledge of the financial services industry, allied with excellent leadership ability, make him a highly effective Chairman of the Board, as shownbyfeedback from this years Board effectiveness review.
Julian Roberts has been Group Chief Executive of Old Mutual plc since September 2008.
He is also a member of the Nomination Committee, as permitted by the UK Corporate Governance Code, and a non-executive director of Nedbank Group Limited, Nedbank Limited and Old Mutual Life Assurance Company South Africa Limited.
He joined Old Mutual in August 2000 as Group Finance Director, moving on to become CEO of Skandia following its purchase by Old Mutual in February 2006.
Prior to joining Old Mutual, he wasGroup Finance Director of Sun Life & Provincial Holdings plc and, before that,  of Aon UK Holdings Limited.
Since becoming Group Chief Executive, Mr Roberts has steered the Group successfully through the aftermath of the 2008-9 financial crisis and set clear targets to be achieved 2.
Julian Roberts 54 bythe end of 2012, which the Group is well placed to fulfil.
He has also taken steps to B.
A. F. C. A. M. C. T. strengthen the quality of senior executive management and to improve the Groups Group Chief Executive governance model.
His knowledge of the Groups businesses and his depth of previous experience in the life sector make him a very strong contributor to the Board.
Philip Broadley has been Group Finance Director since November 2008.
He is also amember of the Board Risk Committee and a non-executive director of Old Mutual Asset Management.
He was previously Group Finance Director of Prudential plc from May 2000 until March 2008.
Prior to joining Prudential, he was a partner in Arthur Andersen from 1993 to 2000.
He has been Chairman of the 100 Group of Finance Directors, was a founding member and trustee of the CFO Forum of European Insurance Company Finance Directors, and was a member of the IASBsInsurance Working Group.
He is a member of the Code Committee of theTakeover Panel.
Mr Broadley has a deep understanding of, and experience in, the finances of insurance groups.
Since he became Group Finance Director, he has implemented significant 3.
Philip Broadley 51 improvements in the financial reporting and controls of the Group, while also making an M. A. F. C. A. important contribution to the Boards discussion of strategy and operational matters.
Group Finance Director 58 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 Mike Arnold has been an independent non-executive director of the Company sinceSeptember 2009 and chairs the Board Risk Committee.
He is also a memberof theGroup Audit and Nomination Committees.
He is aqualified actuary and was formerly Principal Consulting Actuary and Head of Life practice at the consulting actuarial firm Milliman from 2002 to 2009.
Prior to that, hehad been thesenior partner at the practice from 1995, having joined one of its predecessor organisations as a recently qualified actuary in 1971.
He is a past Member of Council and Vice Chairman of the Institute of Actuaries, past Chairman of the International Association of Consulting Actuaries and past member of the Board of Actuarial Standards.
He is also a non-executive director of Marine and General Mutual Life Assurance Society, Financial Information Technology 4.
Mike Arnold 64 Limited and the Scottish Equitable Policyholders Trust.
Independent non-executive Mr Arnold brings to the Board a detailed understanding of actuarial matters, which enables the Group Audit Committee of which he is a member and the Board Risk director Committee which he chairs to provide technical challenge to the Groups reported results, especially those of its life businesses.
Eva Castillo was appointed as an independent non-executive director of the Company in February 2011.
She is also a member of the Board Risk, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
She led the Global Wealth Management business of Bank of America Merrill Lynch in Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA from 2006 to 2009, having held a number of other senior positions in Merrill Lynch from 1997, including as Head of Global Markets and Investment Banking in Iberia and President of Merrill Lynch Spain and, before that, as Chief Operating Officer for Merrill Lynch EMEA Equity Markets.
Previously she had worked for the International Equities division of Goldman Sachs in London between 1992 and 1997.
She has been a non-executive director of Telefnica SA since the beginning of 2008.
Ms Castillo has a deep understanding of, and experience in, investment banking, wealth 5.
Eva Castillo 49 management and financial services, as well as a wide international perspective, which have B.
A. s in Business and Law enabled her to make an important contribution to theBoardover the past year.
Independent non-executive director Russell Edey has been an independent non-executive director of the Company since June 2004.
He chairs the Remuneration Committee and is also a member of the Group Audit and Nomination Committees.
He is Chairman of Avocet Mining Plc, a member of the Conseil fide Surveillance of Paris-Orlans, SA and a non-executive director of a number of companies in the Rothschild Group.
He retired from the chair of Anglogold Ashanti Limited in May 2010, having served on its board for 12 years.
Previously he had also served on the boards of English China Clays plc, Wassall plc, Northern Foods plc, Associated British Ports plc and Express Dairies plc.
His career began in the Finance Division of the Anglo American Corporation of South Africa Limited in Johannesburg.
In the 1970s he was General Manager Corporate Finance of Capel Court Corporation in Melbourne.
Russell Edey 69 joined Rothschild in 1977 andwas Head of Corporate Finance from 1991 to 1996.
F. C. A. Mr Edeys extensive range of executive and non-executive experience in both Independent non-executive thecorporate finance and wider industrial field, including those with strong director SouthAfrican connections, have enabled him to make a valuable contribution to the Board over the nearly eight years that he has served.
If re-elected this year, MrEdey will retire at the AGM in May 2013.
Old Mutual plc 59 Summary Financial Statements 2011 GOVernAnCe BOArD OF DireCTOrs Alan Gillespie has been an independent non-executive director of the Company since November 2010 and became the Senior Independent Director in May 2011.
He is also a member of the Group Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
His banking career began at Citibank, where he spent 10 years from 1976 to 1986.
He joined Goldman Sachs in New York in 1986 and was made a partner of the firm in 1990, with responsibility for corporate finance and mergers andacquisitions in the UK and Ireland.
He jointly led the firms financial services practice in Europe and in 1996 established Goldman Sachs presence in South Africa.
After retiring from Goldman Sachs in 1999, he became Chief Executive of theCommonwealth Development Corporation in the UK.
In 2001 he became Chairman of Ulster Bank, a subsidiary of Royal Bank of Scotland plc.
Alan Gillespie 61 Senior Independent Director of United Business Media plc and Chairman of the Economic & CBE, B.
D. Social Research Council and of the International Finance Facility for Immunization IFFIm.
Senior Independent Director Mr Gillespies background in investment banking and financial services has enabled him to make a valuable contribution to the Boards deliberations during the past year, particularly in discussions of the Groups future strategic direction.
He has alsotaken on the role of Senior Independent Director effectively, participating when required in discussions with significant shareholders and ensuring that their views are made known to the Board.
Reuel Khoza has been a non-executive director of the Company since January 2006 and Chairman of Nedbank Group since May 2006.
He is also a member of theBoard Risk and Nomination Committees.
He is Chairman of Aka Capital, which is 25% owned by Old Mutual South Africa.
He is also a non-executive director of Nampak Limited, Protea Hospitality Holdings Limited and Corobrik Pty Limited.
Hisprevious appointments include Chairmanship of Eskom Holdings Limited and non-executive directorships of Glaxo Wellcome SA, IBM SA, Vodacom, the JSE, JCI, Standard Bank Group and Liberty Life.
Heis currently a Fellow and President ofthe Institute of Directors of South Africa.
Mr Khozas position as Chairman of Nedbank enables the Board to gain direct insight into 8.
Revel Khoza 61 matters relating to one of the Groups major businesses and serves as an important conduit for managing the relationship between the Company and its South African banking Eng.
D. M. A. Non-executive director business.
More generally, his involvement in the South African business community provides the Board with valuable insights into developing issues in the country.
Roger Marshall was appointed as an independent non-executive director of the Company and Chairman of the Group Audit Committee in August 2010.
He is also amember of the Board Risk and Nomination Committees.
He was formerly an auditpartner in , where he led the audit of a number of majorgroups, including Zurich Financial Services and Lloyds TSB.
Previous outside appointments included six years as a member of the Accounting Standards Board.
Heis currently Interim Chairman of the Accounting Standards Board, a Director of the Financial Reporting Council and a non-executive director of Genworth Financials European insurance companies.
Mr Marshalls long experience of auditing major life companies gives him the ideal 9.
Roger Marshall 62 background to chair the Group Audit Committee and also enables him to make a B. Sc.
F. C. A. valuable contribution to the Boards discussions, particularly in addressing the Independent non-executive  of alternative courses of action.
director 60 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 Bongani Nqwababa has been an independent non-executive director of the Company since April 2007.
He is also a member of the Group Audit, Nomination andRemuneration Committees.
He has been Finance Director of Anglo American Platinum Limited since 2009, having previously beenFinance Director of the SouthAfrican electricity utility group, Eskom Holdings Limited, from 2004.
Prior to joining Eskom, he had been Treasurer and CFO of ShellSouthern Africa.
He is currently Chairman of the South African Revenue Services Receiver of Revenue Audit Committee.
Mr Nqwababas practical knowledge of the South African business and operating environment and his insight into financial matters make him a valued member of 10.
Bongani Nqwababa theBoardand of the Group Audit Committee.
Independent non-executive director Nku Nyembezi-Heita was appointed as an independent non-executive director ofthe Company in 9 March 2012.
She has been the Chief Executive Officer of ArcelorMittal SouthAfrica, the largest steel producer on the African continent, sinceMarch 2008.
Prior tothis, she served as the Chief Officer of Mergers & Acquisitionsfor the Vodacom Group and, before that, she was Chief Executive Officer of Alliance Capital which was at that time the local South African subsidiaryof the New York-based global investment management company forseven years.
She is also a non-executive director of the JSE Limited.
Having served as a non-executive director on the board of Old Mutual Life Assurance Company South Africa Limited since May 2010 a position she has relinquished upon 11.
Nku Nyembezitaking up her role at plc level, Ms Nyembezi-Heita brings to the Board significant knowledge Heita 51 of one of the Groups major businesses, as well as more general insight into the South B. Sc.
A. African business environment as a result of her currentand previous senior executive Independent non-executive rolesinthat country.
director Lars Otterbeck has been an independent non-executive director of the Company sinceNovember 2006.
He is also a member of the Board Risk, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Prior to joining the Board, he had held various senior business positions in Sweden, including as President and CEO of the Swedish mutual pension insurance company, Alecta, from 2000 to 2004.
He is also a non-executive director of Skandia Liv and Chairman of Hakon Invest AB.
Mr Otterbeck has made a significant contribution to the Boards discussions during his period of engagement and brings both operational and strategic experience, together with detailed knowledge of the Groups operations in the Nordic region, where he was 12.
Lars Otterbeck 69 until recently a Director of Skandia Insurance Company Limited publ, as well as of Skandia Liv.
It is anticipated that, if re-elected at this years AGM, he willserve one Dr. Econ.
Independent non-executive further year on the Board and retire at next years AGM.
director Old Mutual plc 61 Summary Financial Statements 2011 Governance Summary of the corporate Governance report We continued to refresh the Boards membership during 2011, with the recruitment of Eva Castillo and the retirement at our Annual General Meeting of two of our long-standing non-executive directors, Nigel Andrews and Rudi Bogni.
We were also pleased to welcome Nku Nyembezi-Heita to the Board in March 2012.
The Board spent a considerable amount of time during the year addressing strategic issues and the sale of the Groups Nordic business, which we anticipate will complete later in March 2012.
This transaction, along with the sale of the US Life business which completed in the first half of 2011, has contributed towards achieving the restructuring objectives that we announced in 2010, enabling the Board now to focus on the longer-term Old Mutual views good future of the Group.
governance as a vital During the year, the Board reviewed output from the first ingredient in operating a Group-wide survey of culture and values, which provided a helpful benchmark on current strengths and weaknesses.
We hope to improve the Groups culture over the coming years as these surveys are repeated annually.
Patrick OSullivan Chairman The Board continued to monitor relationships withregulators and received a report from our supervisory regulator, the FSA, on findings from itsmost recent ARROW visit, which showed animproved picture of theGroups governance andfinancial stability.
We  training onthe important  forour life insurance operations.
An externally facilitated review of Board effectiveness took place towards the end of the year under the auspices of an independent firm, IDDAS.
This has provided us with some useful suggestions for how toimprove Board performance in the future.
During the first half of 2011, we implemented a transition to paperless meetings through posting of materials on a Sharepoint site with access via iPads.
The timeliness and accessibility of information provided to the Board and its Committees have benefited as a direct result of this.
I intend to continue to ensure over the coming year that directors time is spent on issues that make a real difference to the Group.
Patrick OSullivan Chairman 62 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 Approach to governance In addition to its normal agenda items, the Board addressed the following matters, among others, Old Mutual views good governance as a vital ingredient duringthe year: in operating a successful business, so that it can provide assurance to shareholders, customers and regulators Progress against the Groups strategic targets for that the Groups businesses are being properly managed the end of 2012: and controlled.
Training on the implications for the Group of the During 2011, steps were taken to embed around the introduction of Solvency II: and Group our Group Operating Model, under which we nowoperate a strategic controller model steered from Hedging strategy and scenario-planning for our head office.
This Model establishes clear principles OldMutual Bermuda.
of delegation and escalation that are designed to Group Operating Model provideappropriate levels of assurance about the The objectives of the Group Operating Model are: controlenvironment, while retaining flexibility for our i to establish a clear and comprehensive governance businesses to operate efficiently.
framework, with appropriate procedures, systems and Board of Directors controls, facilitating the satisfactory discharge of the duties Membership and obligations of regulated firms, directors and employees within the Group: ii to provide a clear articulation of Old The Old Mutual Board currently has 12 members, two of whom are executive and ten of whom are nonMutual plcs expectations as shareholder of business unit boards when exercising their powers as set out in their executive directors.
All of the current directors, except forEva Castillo who was appointed to the Board in respective constitutions in force from time to time: iii to take due account of the regulatory requirement that boards of February 2011, and Nku Nyembezi-Heita who joined theBoard in March 2012, served throughout the year regulated entities maintain proper controls over the affairs of their respective businesses: and iv to protect the interests ended 31 December 2011.
Nigel Andrews and Rudi Bogni both retired from the Board at the end of the of the Groups various stakeholders including its shareholders, creditors, policyholders and customers.
AGMin May 2011, having each served nine years.
2011 operations The governance relationship with the Groups majority-owned subsidiary, Nedbank Group Limited, Board meetings were held regularly during 2011.
As recognises the latters own governance expectations as usual, scheduled meetings were co-ordinated with the a separately-listed entity on the JSE Limited and the Companys reporting calendar to allow for detailed factthat it has minority shareholders.
The Company consideration of interim and final results and interim entered into a relationship agreement with Nedbank management statements.
Sessions were also devoted Group Limited in 2004 setting out the Companys tostrategy and business planning and the Board met ad requirements and expectations as its majority hoc, as required, to deal with specific matters requiring shareholder.
The text of that relationship agreement its consideration.
In all, ten Board meetings of which isavailable on the Companys website.
Nedbank has eight were scheduled and two convened ad hoc were also now adopted the Group Operating Model, held during the year.
subjectto certain waivers in acknowledgement of its Monthly management accounts were circulated separately-listed and regulated status, which sits toeachmember of the Board within three weeks alongside that agreement.
ofthemonth end, containing detailed analysis of Rotation and re-election of directors thebusinesses financial performance, including comparisons against budget.
Any issues arising from The Articles of Association of the Company require that any newly-appointed directors should be subject to these are addressed atBoard meetings or can be raiseddirectly with management.
election at the next following AGM and also that the Chairman, along with at least one third of the directors The Board calendar ensures that all key matters are excluding those appointed by the Board during the scheduled for attention over the course of the year, year, should retire by rotation each year.
However, it has including presentations on the Groups major been decided this year, in line with recommended best businesses.
During 2011, the Board held three practice under the UK Corporate Governance Code, that meetingsat the Groups South African and one all of the directors will stand for election or re-election at meetingat its US businesses premises.
Old Mutual plc 63 Summary Financial Statements 2011 Governance Summary of the corporate Governance report CONTINUED The Board, having received and reviewed reports Skills, experience and diversity including input from the externally facilitated Board Plans for refreshing and renewing the Boards effectiveness review on the performance of the directors and the contributions that they have each respectively composition are managed proactively by the Nomination Committee so as to ensure that changes made, recommends that they each be elected or re-elected as directors at the AGM.
Biographical details take place without undue disruption and that there is an appropriate balance of experience and length of of all of the directors are contained in the Board of service.
That committee also considers, in making Directors section of this Annual Report and in the recommendations, the independence of candidates explanatory notes in the AGM circular.
and their suitability and willingness to serve on other Board performance review committees of the Board.
During 2011, it also The Board conducts a review of its performance on acknowledged explicitly the benefits of promoting anannual basis.
The review is designed to ensure, diversity on the Board and has used this as a criterion among other things, that each director continues to during its consideration of a number of senior roles, as contribute effectively and to demonstrate commitment well as for the Board recruitment.
The current Board tohis or her role including commitment of time for composition is considered by the Nomination Boardand committee meetings and any other duties.
Committee to be suitable for the requirements of the The results ofthe review are considered by the Board Groups business.
However, such matters continue to and appropriate actions taken, if necessary.
be kept under active review, having regard to scheduled retirements of non-executive directors and The review for 2011 was conducted externally through the Groups future strategy.
IDDAS, an independent board effectiveness consultancy.
It was undertaken in line with the Financial Reporting In September 2011, the Company issued a statement Councils Guidance on Board Effectiveness, including in response to the Davies Report on Women on the emphasis on a boards role in creating a highBoards in which we set a target of increasing female performance culture and the behavioural aspects of representation on the Board to at least two members board performance, related to challenge and decisionby the end of 2013 and to at least three members by making.
Consequently, for the first time, the Boards the end of 2015.
The Company has already achieved performance review included psychometric assessment the target announced for the end of 2013.
It has also of Board members.
This was designed to provide useful appointed Sue Kean to the Group Executive collective insights into how to improve team dynamics, Committee from January 2012 and is taking active communication effectiveness and constructive challenge steps through a variety of initiatives to encourage further within the Boardroom.
This insight information female members of staff around the Group to was reviewed by the whole Board in a session facilitated progress to more senior positions.
by IDDAS and a plan to address recommendations arising from this review over the coming year is currently Independence of non-executive directors under development.
Eight of the nine current non-executive directors other than the Chairman Mike Arnold, Eva Castillo, The Boards performance review is now externally Russell Edey, Alan Gillespie, Roger Marshall, Bongani facilitated at least every three years in line with the Nqwababa, Nku Nyembezi-Heita and Lars Otterbeck UKCorporate Governance Code.
are considered by the Board to be independent in character and judgement and with no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement.
The other non-executive director, Reuel Khoza, is not considered independent because of his chairmanship of the Groups majorityowned subsidiary, Nedbank Group Limited, and the business relationships between Aka Capital, in which heowns a stake, and Nedbank.
The terms and conditions of engagement of each of the non-executive directors are available on the Companys website.
These include details of the expected time commitment involved which each of the non-executive directors has accepted.
Other significant commitments of potential appointees are considered by the Nomination Committee as part of the selection process and are disclosed to the Board when recommendation 64 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 Auditors Directors conflicts of interest During the year ended 31 December 2011, fees paid by Processes are in place for any potential conflicts of the Group to KPMG Audit Plc, the Groups auditors, and interest to be disclosed and for directors to avoid its associates totalled 13.7 million for statutory audit participation in any decisions where they may have services 2010: 14.1 million, 0.4 million for other audit any such conflict or potential conflict.
The Companys and assurance services relating to Old Mutual Market procedures for dealing with directors conflicts of Consistent Embedded Value reporting 2010: 0.5 interest have operated effectively during 2011. million, and 3.4 million for tax and other services 2010: 6.0 million.
In addition to the above, Nedbank Group No director had a material interest in any significant paid a further 4.4 million 2010: 4.3 million to Deloitte contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries in respectof joint audit arrangements.
KPMG Audit Plc have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors to the Company and, of an appointment is submitted.
Non-executive directors following a recommendation by the Group Audit are also required to inform the Board of any subsequent Committee to the Board, a resolution proposing their changes to such commitments, which must be reappointment will be put to the AGM.
In reaching its pre-cleared with the Chairman if material.
decision to recommend the reappointment of KPMG Directors interests Audit Plc as auditors, the Board took into account the Details of the directors interests including interests of fact that the firm had been the Companys auditors since their connected persons in the share capital of the the Group demutualised in 1999 and that appropriate Company and its quoted subsidiary, Nedbank Group arrangements are in place for the rotation and renewal of Limited, at the end of the year under review are set out in key audit personnel.
The Company has not entered into the following table, while their interests in share options any contractual restriction preventing it from considering and restricted share awards are described in the section a change of auditors and the choice of auditors is kept of the Summary of the Remuneration Report entitled under review by the Board from year to year, taking into Directors interests under employee share plans.
There account appropriate benchmarking data.
have been no changes to any of these interests between 31 December 2011 and 8 March 2012.
Nedbank Old Mutual plc Group Limited Number of Number of shares shares At 31 December 2011 Mike Arnold 12,725 1 Philip Broadley 412,178 Eva Castillo Russell Edey 25,000 2,604 Alan Gillespie Reuel Khoza 3,174 Roger Marshall 40,000 Bongani Nqwababa Patrick OSullivan 104,365 Lars Otterbeck 1 Julian Roberts 1,128,633 1.
These figures do not include rights to restricted shares that have not yet vested, which are described in the Remuneration Report.
This figure does not include shares in the Aka-Nedbank Eyethu Trust, one of Nedbanks Eyethu BEE trusts.
These were disposed of during 2011.
Old Mutual plc 65 Summary Financial Statements 2011 Governance Summary of the corporate Governance report CONTINUED Board scheduled Group Audit Board Risk Remuneration Nomination Attendance record and ad hoc Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held: 10 6 7 7 5 Mike Arnold 10 10 6 6 7 7 5 5 Philip Broadley 10 10 7 7 Eva Castillo 9 10 6 6 5 6 4 4 Russell Edey 8 10 4 6 6 7 5 5 Alan Gillespie 10 10 5 6 6 7 5 5 Reuel Khoza 9 10 7 7 5 5 Roger Marshall 10 10 6 6 7 7 4 5 Bongani Nqwababa 8 10 5 6 5 7 4 5 Patrick OSullivan 10 10 5 5 1 Lars Otterbeck 8 10 7 7 7 7 5 5 Julian Roberts 10 10 5 5 Former directors Nigel Andrews 4 4 3 3 3 3 3 3 Rudi Bogni 4 4 3 3 3 3 3 3 1.
Lars Otterbeck did not participate in one Board meeting and part of another Board meeting during the year because of potential conflicts of interest arising from his position as a director of Skandia Insurance Company Limited publ and Skandia Liv while the Company was in active negotiations about the sale of the Groups Nordic business.
Attendance record heldduring the year with investors and analysts in the UK, SouthAfrica, North America and continental Europe, The table above sets out the number of meetings comprising 218 individual institutions.
This compared heldand individual directors attendance at with a total of 244 meetings held in 2010.
The majority of meetingsofthe Board and its principal committees meetings involved the Group Chief Executive, the Group basedon membership of those committees, rather Finance Director or another member of the senior thanattendance as an invitee during 2011. management team, although greater use was made of Internal control environment group meetings inorder to improve efficiency and Assessment of the system of internal control provide more institutions with access to management An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and and also to increase the efficient use of managements managing the significant risks faced by the Group has own time.
The Company continued to target smaller been in place for the year ended 31 December 2011 institutional investors and those who manage funds for and up to the date of approval of this Report.
high-net-worth retail clients and charities in both Europe and South Africa with a view to diversifying its The Board reviewed the effectiveness of the system of shareholder base.
internal control during and at the end of the year.
Our annual internal control assessment has not highlighted In addition, the Company presented at a number of any material failings.
We remain committed to having a majorinvestor conferences around the world as well as robust internal control environment across the Group.
hosting international investors to a visit to the Groups South African businesses.
The Company also hosted Relations with shareholders and analysts theChairman of the Mandela Institute at its London The Company gives high priority to regular, clear and office at an evening reception for investors and analysts direct communication with its shareholders, institutional to discuss the prospects of investing in Agriculture, investors and sell-side analysts by means of a proactive Infrastructure and Housing in Africa.
Copies of all Investor Relations IR programme.
The programme presentations and, where appropriate, transcripts are aims to facilitate communication with the global posted on the Companys website so that they are investment community, both equity and debt, and to accessible to shareholders generally.
keep investors updated on the Companys performance, within the constraints of the Listing, Prospectus and Employment policy Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The Groups employment policies reflect our belief that motivated and talented individuals are critical to our The Company has a dedicated IR team which runs its ability to achieve our business objectives.
Old Mutual continued to increase its the value that a diverse workforce brings and believe that communication and engagement with the investment it should reflect the diversity of the markets in which we community during 2011.
A total of 331 meetings were operate.
We promote the fair and consistent treatment of 66 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 all our employees and encourage equal opportunities and30,329,401 shares were issued under the scrip and diversity across the Group.
dividend alternative for the interim dividend for the six months ended 30 June 2011 at an effective price of While local employment policies and procedures are 1.0672 or its equivalent in other currencies each.
developed by each business according to its own circumstances, employees are recruited, retained, At 31 December 2011, shareholder authorities were in developed and rewarded solely on the basis of their force enabling the Company to make market purchases suitability for the job, without discrimination in terms of of, and or to purchase pursuant to contingent purchase race, religion, national origin, colour, gender, age, contracts relating to each of the overseas exchanges on maritalstatus or sexual orientation, subject always to which the Companys shares are listed, its own shares employment equity considerations in South Africa.
up to an aggregate of 545,683,000 shares.
No shares Further information on employee matters is set out in were bought back by the Company during 2011 or theResponsible Business section of this document.
during the period up to 8 March 2012.
Political donations In the period 1 January to 8 March 2012, 748,309 further shares were issued by the Company under its employee The Group made no EU or other political donations share schemes at an average price of 62.51p each.
Noshares were bought back during that period and Dividends and dividend policy 239,434,888 shares held in treasury were cancelled on Given the continued progress in achieving our debt 13 January 2012.
As a result, the Companys issued repayment programme, the Board has considered the share capital at 8 March 2012 was 556,235,469.80 position in respect of a final dividend for 2011, and is divided into 5,562,354,698 ordinary shares of 10 pence recommending the payment of a final 2011 dividend of each.
The total number of voting rights at that date was 3.5p per share or its equivalent in other applicable also 5,562,354,698. currencies, which is equivalent to 4.0p per new ordinary 3 Major shareholders share of 11 7p once the existing shares are consolidated At 31 December 2011, the following substantial interests following the close of business on 20 April 2012.
A scrip in voting rights had been declared to the Company in dividend alternative is not being made available in relation accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: to this dividend in view of the complexities involved in the share consolidation, and the Board will consider later in 31 Dec 2011 2012 whether to reinstate a scrip dividend alternative for Number of % of voting voting rights rights the interim dividend for the current year.
Cevian Capital 410,748,581 7.38 Further information on the final dividend for 2011 and of Public Investment the special dividend to be paid after completion of the Corporation of the sale of the Groups Nordic business is contained in the Republic of South Africa 307,212,664 5.52 Shareholder Information section of this document.
Sanlam Investment The Board intends to pursue a progressive dividend Management Pty Limited 305,691,719 5.50 policy consistent with our strategy, having regard to BlackRock Inc 264,286,239 4.75 overall capital requirements, liquidity and profitability, Legal & General Group andtargeting dividend cover of at least 2.5 times IFRS PLC 185,451,357 3.33 AOP earnings over time.
In future, we expect to set Old Mutual Life interim dividends routinely as 30% of the prior years Assurance Company fulldividend.
South Africa Limited 185,464,458 3.33 Share capital The Company has a single class of share capital, which Between 31 December 2011 and 8 March 2012, there is divided into ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
The have been no notifications to the Company of any Companys issued share capital at 31 December 2011 changes to the above disclosable interests nor any new was 580,104,127.70 divided into 5,801,041,277 ordinary such notifications by other shareholders.
shares of 10 pence each 2010: 569,522,432.60 divided By order of the Board into 5,695,224,326 ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
During the year ended 31 December 2011, 6,365,088 Martin Murray shares were issued under the Companys employee Group Company Secretary share option schemes at an average price of 80 pence 9 March 2012 each, 69,122,462 shares were issued under the scrip dividend alternative for the final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010 at an effective price of 1.3254 or its equivalent in other currencies each Old Mutual plc 67 Summary Financial Statements 2011 Governance Summary of the remuneratIon report I am pleased to present this summary of the Companys annual Remuneration Report.
Since I took over the Chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee the Committee in May 2011, executive pay has been continuously in the spotlight.
There has been significant scrutiny from the media and soul-searching within companies on the issue.
External governance guidelines and principles have been revised to reflect changing conditions in the financial sector, where companies have been inundated by recommendations from remuneration advisers and criticism from the public and the media.
I am pleased to say that my predecessor left me in a solid position as regards the governance of remuneration within the Company.
Since early 2010, extensive work has been done to develop risk management processes In this section, we describe that ensure rewards are appropriately aligned with both theCompanys remuneration shortand long-term performance and do not encourage excessive risk-taking in the Group.
All of our practices during 2011 and major business units now take account of risk-adjusted profit Economic Profit in the calculation of bonus itspolicies for 2012 and pools.
Outcomes from these bonus pools are linked to futureyears with particular balanced scorecards for all senior executives that have objectives which encourage improved risk management.
emphasis on the remuneration This approach has been adopted in line with FSA guidelines and the evolving requirements of Solvency II.
arrangements for the No significant change or restructuring has been made to executivedirectors.
the remuneration or incentive structure for the executive Russell Edey directors in 2012.
However, the current long-term Chairman of the Remuneration Committee incentive plan, the Old Mutual Strategic Incentive Plan OMSIP, was designed to incentivise a change in the strategic direction and restructuring of the Group over three to four years and the targets used for awards underthe OMSIP were agreed for a two-year period 2010 and 2011 only.
Accordingly, revised targets for annual long-term incentive awards have been agreed, asdescribed later in this report, to provide an appropriate level of reward for sustained financial performance withinagreed risk parameters.
68 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2011 Remuneration Committee remuneration at management tiers immediately belowdirector and Group Executive Committee level The Committee is a committee of the Board.
Its full terms and is responsible for the implementation of these in of reference are published on the Companys website.
The MRC and other subsidiary The Committee is responsible for: remuneration committees are supported and attended by Group HR and apply common principles, including Determining the remuneration, incentive the following: arrangements, benefits and any compensation payments of the executive directors Remuneration must support the business drivers, Determining the remuneration of the Chairman of corporate vision, strategy and strategic priorities theBoard Incentives should align the interests of employees Monitoring and approving the level and structure of with shareholders remuneration of the executive directors of the Incentives should be performance-related and Company, the Group Company Secretary, senior effectively linked to success in delivering the executive employees as identified by the Board and chosenstrategy those who perform a significant influence function or whose activities have, or could have, a material Pay should be set at levels that are both competitive impact on the risk profile of the Company or as and sustainably affordable defined for compliance with regulations in Remuneration should not encourage risk that accordance with the Groups remuneration policy exceeds the Groups risk tolerance Reviewing, monitoring and approving, or Remuneration must be viewed in conjunction with recommending for approval, the Companys wider people-management practices to support a shareincentive arrangements and awards.
consistent approach to achieving desired culture andbehaviour Subsidiary Remuneration Committees Remuneration committees operate at subsidiary level All pay must be compliant with local legislation around the Group to oversee local remuneration.
In Underperformance should be dealt with on a formal addition, the Management Remuneration Committee basis according to local policies.
MRC co-ordinates policy and governance of executive Performance graphs Old Mutual plc TSR Performance: This graph shows the total shareholder return TSR Five-year performance to 31 December 2011 to31December 2011 on 100 invested in shares in 140 Old Mutual OldMutual plc on 31 December 2006 compared with FTSE100 100invested in the FTSE100 index.
The other points 120 arethecomparative returns at the intervening financial 100 year ends.
80 In the opinion of the directors, the FTSE100 index is the most appropriate index against which to measure the 60 Companys total shareholder return, as it is an index of 40 which Old Mutual plc is a member and is located where the Company has its primary listing.
20 0 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Old Mutual plc TSR Performance: Source: Datastream Three-year performance to 31 December 2011 300 Old Mutual Old Mutual SA listing ZAR FTSE100 JSE ALSI ZAR 250 200 150 100 50 Old Mutual plc 69 0 Summary Financial Statements 2011 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2008 2009 2010 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2011 Old Mutual plc TSR Performance: Five-year performance to 31 December 2011 140 Old Mutual FTSE100 120 100 80 60 Governance 40 Summary of the remuneratIon report 20 CONTINUED 0 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Old Mutual plc TSR Performance: This graph shows the TSR to 31 December 2011 on Three-year performance to 31 December 2011 100 invested in shares in OldMutual plc on 31 December 2008 compared with 100 invested in the 300 Old Mutual Old Mutual SA listing ZAR FTSE100 index and on R100 invested in shares in Old FTSE100 JSE ALSI ZAR Mutual plc on 31 December 2008 compared with R100 250 invested in the JSE ALSI.
The three-year period shown 200 coincides with the measurement period for targets set on the long-term incentive awards granted in 2009 and 150 due to vest in 2012.
100 50 0 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2008 2009 2010 Remuneration policies To design remuneration arrangements that will attract, retain and motivate individuals of the Remuneration policy for executive directors exceptional calibre needed to lead the The Company embraces the principles of the UK Groupsdevelopment.
Corporate Governance Code relating to directors remuneration and complies with its provisions.
The The Committee has regard to risk-related metrics following are the guiding principles that the Committee inreviewing the executive directors short-term has applied during 2011 and intends to apply performance and it received and considered a report during2012: from the Group Risk and Actuarial Director, which had been approved by the Board Risk Committee, in To take account of appropriate benchmarks, while evaluating the short-term performance outcome for using such comparisons with caution and recognising 2011.
It also has discretion to consider corporate the risk of an upward ratchet of remuneration levels performance on environmental, social and governance with no corresponding improvement in performance.
ESG issues, to the extent relevant, when setting their Large UK insurers and members of the UK FTSE100 remuneration.
It ensures regulatory requirements relating index, with particular reference to the subset by to remuneration matters are met and that remuneration market capitalisation, provide the benchmarks for UKpolicies are consistent with, and promote, effective risk based executive directors management.
To be sensitive in determining, reviewing, monitoring The Committees policy is influenced by the need to be and approving matters under its remit in relation to competitive with other international financial services pay and employment conditions around the Group, groups, while avoiding any excess.
This includes its where relevant approach to setting the fixed elements of remuneration To make a significant percentage of total maximum at or below appropriate median levels.
It reviews potential rewards in the form of share-based thispolicy regularly and continues to consider it to incentives in order to align the executive directors beappropriate.
interests closely with those of shareholders Overview of executive directors remuneration To provide an opportunity for remuneration The Committee reviews the structure of the executive packagesto be in the upper quartile of the directors remuneration packages annually to satisfy comparator group through payments under itself that the balance between fixed and variable short-term and long-term incentive schemes if remuneration and short-term and long-term incentives superior performance is delivered and rewards remains appropriate.
The overall make-up of the remuneration packages for the executive To focus attention on the main drivers of shareholder directorsis as follows: value by linking performance-related remuneration to clearly defined objectives and measurable targets 70 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 Element Description Basic salary Reviewed each January, taking into account market benchmarks and the level of increases awarded to all Group employees.
Benefits The policy is currently to pay an allowance of 35% of basic salary to cover any benefits elected, with any balance paid in cash.
Life cover of 1,000,000 and disability cover capped at an annual basic salary of 140,000 are also provided.
Short-term incentive Payable subject to achievement of agreed financial targets and agreed scorecard objectives.
The policy is currently to make a maximum award of 150% of basic salary, 50% in cash and 50% deferred in Company restricted shares for three years, subject to claw-back.
Long-term incentive The policy is currently a maximum award of 250% of basic salary.
Vesting is subject to agreed performance targets and the award is subject to claw-back.
Executive directors remuneration in 2012 Long-term incentives Basic salary and benefits The Committee approved a change in structure of long-term incentive awards for executive directors in With effect from 1 January 2012, Julian Roberts basic 2010, after extensive consultation with shareholders.
salary was increased by 2.35%, from 850,000 to This included the use of a one-off award, which 870,000, and Philip Broadleys basic salary was wasspecifically related to the strategic review and increased by 2.65%, from 565,000 to 580,000.
This rationalisation of the Group, and regular annual share compares with similar increases for other employees incentive awards, subject to agreed financial targets across the Group, ranging from 3% for staff in the UK, forawards granted in 2010 and 2011.
Europe and the US to in excess of 5% in South Africa, in line with the local market.
Before making the decision on 2012 Award Targets the increases for the executive directors, the Committee Accordingly, revised targets for annual long-term considered the salary increases for other employees in incentive awards have been agreed by the Committee the Group as set out above, and had regard to those from 2012 onwards, taking into account the market increases.
Benefits equivalent to 35% of basic salary will context of the Company and advice received, which continue to be payable either as contributions to agreed emphasised the need for long-term metrics to be: benefits or monthly in cash, and life cover and disability cover will continue to be provided.
Transparent, clear and simple for both shareholders Pensions and executives Julian Roberts and Philip Broadley will not be contributing Stretching but attainable so that executives are to any employer-provided pension scheme of the Group appropriately rewarded for delivery and not paid during 2012.
The Company will not be making forfailure contributions to any such scheme on their behalf.
Short-term incentive Various approaches were considered and, given the The short-term incentive policy to be applied during the current context and strategic intention of the Group, the year is described above and there have been no following approach was agreed to be most appropriate: changes to the policy from 2011 to 2012.
Old Mutual plc 71 Summary Financial Statements 2011 Governance Summary of the remuneratIon report CONTINUED The primary target will be based on cumulative there are any negative financial impacts or growth over three years in Adjusted Operating Profit underperformance in the Group not adequately AOP on a constant-currency basis.
This was chosen reflected in AOP, giving the Committee discretion to incentivise significant growth in operating profit to take broad performance into account: or across the Groups principal business units.
An there is under-performance in the management adjustment to this outcome will be made based on ofGroup risk or the agreed risk appetite levels are the relative total shareholder return TSR over the exceeded.
This enables the Committee to factor three-year period, calculated 50% against the in the requirement of the FSA and ABI to take FTSE100 index and 50% against the JSE ALSI.
This account of company risk as a factor in takes into account relative performance against other performance measurement.
TSR will be averaged at the start Q4 2011 and end Q4 2014 of the three-year performance period.
In addition, discretionary downward adjustments to the formulaic outcome on the AOP metrics will be considered by the Committee where: The level at which the awards vest will be determined byreference to the total aggregate AOP in constant currency achieved over the three-year period, shown inthe table below.
AOP Targets Aggregated over three years Threshold Maximum AOP bn 2.9 3.5 % Vesting 0% |Interpolated| 100% Multiplied by Relative TSR Performance Relative TSR vs index Multiplier Threshold 4% or more below index 0.85 Target equal to index 1.00 Maximum 4% or more above index 1.15 Relative TSR performance against the above ranges, with a multiplier being set on a straight-line basis between the points.
The maximum award for the executive directors, inclusive of the TSR multiplier above, remains at 250% of basic salary at the date of award.
Executive directors remuneration during 2011 Basic Salary and benefits Julian Roberts basic salary was 850,000 and Philip Broadleys basic salary was 565,000.
Benefits equivalent to 35% of basic salary were paid monthly in cash.
Life cover of 1,000,000 and disability cover capped at an annual basic salary of 140,000 was also provided at a cost of approximately 2,000 each.
Pensions Julian Roberts is a deferred member of the defined contribution section of the Old Mutual Staff Pension Fund OMSPF.
The accumulated value of Julian Roberts funds in the OMSPF was 281,900 at 31 December 2011 294,700 at 31 December 2010.
Philip Broadley does not participate in any employer-provided pension scheme ofthe Group.
72 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 Short-term incentive targets for performance year 2011 The payment of short-term incentives is subject to the achievement of pre-determined financial targets and scorecard objectives based on the key deliverables for each executive director, as reviewed and approved by the Committee.
Details of the structure and outcomes of the metrics for Julian Roberts and Philip Broadleys short-term incentives for 2011 are set out in the following table: Julian Roberts Philip Broadley Elements as % of salary Maximum % Achieved % Maximum % Achieved % Group Targets EPS 56.25 56.25 37.50 37.50 RoE 56.25 46.13 37.50 30.75 Group targets sub-total 112.50 102.38 75.00 68.25 Scorecard objectives 37.50 35.25 75.00 66.00 Total 150.00 137.63 150.00 134.25 000 incentive for period 1,275 1,170 848 759 Achieved incentive as % of max 91.75 89.50 These amounts are as reflected in the Directors emoluments for 2011 table and will be paid 50% in cash and 50% deferred for three years in the form of forfeitable shares awards.
Summary of Remuneration paid in 2011 The following table shows the value of remuneration received by the executive directors on a cash basis in 2011.
It reflects the gross pre-tax value of salary and benefits received in the year, the cash bonus paid in March 2011 in relation to 2010 performance and the value of any shares vested together with gains from share options exercised in the year.
Julian Roberts Philip Broadley Basic Salary 850,000 565,000 Benefits Allowance 297,500 197,750 STI cash 610,050 387,750 DSTI proceeds 130,020 0 LTI proceeds 40,174 659,868 Total 1,927,744 1,810,368 2010 cash short-term incentive paid in March 2011 Vesting of 2008 deferred short-term incentive award Gain on exercise of share options Old Mutual plc 73 Summary Financial Statements 2011 Governance Summary of the remuneratIon report CONTINUED Directors emoluments for 2011 Directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2011 and the preceding financial year, including, in each case, remuneration from offices held with the Companys subsidiaries where relevant, was as follows: 2010 2011 Benefits and Short-term benefit 1 2 Salary and Fees Incentive allowance Pension Total Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Chairman Patrick OSullivan 350 350 350 Executive directors Philip Broadley 565 759 215 1,539 1,518 Julian Roberts 850 1,170 330 2,350 2,379 Non-executive directors Mike Arnold 93 93 86 Eva Castillo 65 65 - Russell Edey 83 83 73 Alan Gillespie 80 80 12 3 Reuel Khoza 382 382 367 Roger Marshall 96 96 38 Bongani Nqwababa 74 74 72 4 Lars Otterbeck 238 238 227 Former non-executive directors 5 Nigel Andrews 73 73 113 Rudi Bogni 36 36 94 6 Total emoluments 2,985 1,929 545 5,459 5,329 1.
The total short-term incentives are payable 50% in cash and 50% deferred for three years in the form of forfeitable shares awards.
The figures quoted represent both elements of the short-term incentives.
Benefits include cash allowances payable to the executive directors, as well as travel costs for directors spouses to accompany them to certain Board meetings or other corporate events of the Company and its major subsidiaries.
The amount of this expenditure is reported to and considered by the Committee, and procedures are in place for such costs to be authorised.
The Committee is satisfied that such expenditure is reasonable and in the interests of the Company.
Includes fees of 316,000 304,000 in 2010 from Nedbank Group Limited.
Includes fees of 166,000 159,000 in 2010 from Skandia Insurance Company Limited, Skandiabanken and Skandia Liv.
Includes fees of 47,000 42,000 in 2010 from Old Mutual US Holdings Inc. 6.
The prior-year comparative number as published in the Remuneration Report for 2010 was 5,391,000, which included 62,000 paid to the former non-executive director, Richard Pym.
The executive directors were required to waive fees for non-executive directorships held in subsidiary companies totalling 29,100 during the year ended 31 December 2011 2010: 30,400 in favour of the Company or its subsidiaries.
These waivers are expected to remain in force in the future.
74 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 Chairman and non-executive directors remuneration The Companys policy on remuneration for non-executive directors is that this should be: Fee-based Market-related Not linked to share price or Company performance.
There was no increase between 2011 and 2012 in the annual fees payable to the Chairman or to other non-executive directors.
The relevant fees, applicable for both years, by role are set out below: Chairman 350,000 Non-executive directors - Base fee 55,000 - Senior independent director additional fee 10,000 Additional fees payable for Committees Board Risk Committee - Chairman 25,000 - Member 8,000 Group Audit Committee - Chairman 30,000 - Member 10,000 Nomination Committee - Member 3,000 Remuneration Committee - Chairman 20,000 - Member 6,000 None of the non-executive directors of the Company including the Chairman contributed to any Group pension fund during 2011 or had any accrued pension fund benefits in any Group pension fund at 31 December 2011.
Old Mutual plc 75 Summary Financial Statements 2011 Governance Summary of the remuneratIon report CONTINUED Directors interests under employee share plans The following share options and rights over shares in the Company granted under various employee share schemes were outstanding at 1 January and 31 December 2011 in favour of the executive directors.
On 10 November 2011, Mr Broadley exercised his share option granted on 10 November 2008.
Mr Broadley sold 1,024,800 shares to cover the costs of exercise and his income tax and employees National Insurance Contribution liabilities and retained 290,989 shares.
Dividends are paid and the directors can vote the shares held under award during the vesting period.
Awards are subject to a claw-back provision under which the Committee may reduce the number of shares under option or award if financial results or business performance for which the director is responsible is found to have been materially incorrect or misleading or if undue risk was taken, resulting in financial loss to theCompany.
As a result of the EPS and RoE based performance targets being met, the share options and forfeitable shares awards granted under the PSP on 8 April 2009 will vest on 8 April 2012.
Subject to the achievement of certain initiatives relating to the restructuring of the Group.
Subject to the fulfilment of performance targets, under which 50% of the award is subject to the financial performance of the Companys Long-Term Savings business post restructuring and 50% of the award is subject to absolute TSR.
On 4 April 2011, Mr Roberts exercised his share option granted on 26 April 2005.
Mr Roberts sold 291,569 shares to coverthe costs of exercise and his income tax and employees National Insurance Contribution liabilities and retained 12,779 shares.
As a result of the EPS-based performance targets not being met, the share options and bonus-matching restricted share awards granted on 3 April 2008 lapsed on 8 March 2011.
On 4 April 2011, 93,104 shares were released to Mr Roberts in respect of the deferred short-term incentive restricted share award originally granted in April 2008.
MrRoberts sold 47,590 of these shares to cover his income tax and employees National Insurance Contribution liabilities and retained 45,514 shares.
The SAYE option price was determined as 20% below the average of the Companys share price between 16 and 18 March 2009.
The Companys share price at the date of grant 9 April 2009 was 63.3p.
Terms of engagement executive directors The terms of engagement of the executive directors are considered by the Committee to provide a proper balance of responsibilities and security between the parties.
The following is a summary of the main provisions: Provision Service contract Contract dates Julian Roberts 23 January 2009, as amended on 22 November 2011 Philip Broadley 10 November 2008, as amended on 22 November 2011 Notice Period Julian Roberts 12 months by either the Company or the director Philip Broadley 12 months by the Company and 6 months by the director Compensation for loss of office Tailored to reflect the Companys contractual obligations and the obligation on the part of the employee to mitigate loss Compensation payable on early termination No contractual provision Terms of engagement Chairman and non-executive directors Patrick OSullivan entered into an engagement letter with the Company in August 2009 as amended in December 2011 setting out the terms applicable to his role as Chairman from January 2010.
Under these terms, subject to: a 12 months notice at any time given by either the Company or Patrick OSullivan, b his being duly re-elected at Annual General Meetings, and c the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association relating to the removal of directors, his appointment is for an initial term of three years, renewable thereafter for a further three years subject to the same provisos, followed by up to three additional one-year terms.
The other non-executive directors are engaged on terms that may be terminated by either side without notice.
However, it is envisaged that they will remain in place on a three-year cycle, in order to provide assurance to both the Company and the non-executive director concerned that the appointment is likely to continue.
The renewal of non-executive directors terms for successive three-year cycles is not automatic, with the continued suitability of each non-executive director being assessed by the Nomination Committee.
The Board has determined that, with effect from January 2012, non-executive directors engagements will be extended on an annual basis for a maximum of three years from the end of their second three-year cycle.
78 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 The original dates of appointment and the dates when the current appointments of the non-executive directors are due to terminate are as follows: Date current Date of original Date of current Current term appointment appointment appointment as director terminates Mike Arnold 1 Sep 2009 1 Sep 2009 1st 1 Sep 2012 Eva Castillo 2 Feb 2011 2 Feb 2011 1st 2 Feb 2014 Russell Edey 24 Jun 2004 24 Jun 2010 3rd 24 Jun 2013 Alan Gillespie 3 Nov 2010 3 Nov 2010 1st 3 Nov 2013 Reuel Khoza 27 Jan 2006 27 Jan 2012 3rd 1st year 27 Jan 2013 Roger Marshall 5 Aug 2010 5 Aug 2010 1st 5 Aug 2013 Bongani Nqwababa 1 Apr 2007 1 Apr 2010 2nd 1 Apr 2013 Nku Nyembezi-Heita 9 March 2012 9 March 2012 1st 9 March 2015 Lars Otterbeck 14 Nov 2006 14 Nov 2009 2nd 14 Nov 2012 Shareholder approval of the Remuneration Report An advisory vote on the Remuneration Report of which this is a summary will be put to shareholders at the AGM on 10 May 2012.
Russell Edey Chairman of the Remuneration Committee On behalf of the Board 9 March 2012 Old Mutual plc 79 Summary Financial Statements 2011 Financial inDEPEnDEnT aUDiTORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF OlD MUTUal Plc For the year ended 31 December 2011 We have examined the Summary Financial Statements of Old Mutual plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the Summary Consolidated Income Statement, the Summary Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and the related notes, set out on pages 84 to 88, and the Summary Directors Remuneration Report set out on pages 68 to 79.
We have also examined the Summary Reconciliation of adjusted operating profitto profit after tax, which was prepared on the basis set out on page 82.
This statement is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 428 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor The directors are responsible for preparing the Summary Financial Statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the Summary Financial Statements with the full annual financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 428 of the Companies Act 2006 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statements.
Basis of opinion We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 2008 3 issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Our report on the Groups full annual financial statements describes the basis of our opinions on those financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report.
Opinion In our opinion the Summary Financial Statements are consistent with the full annual financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report of Old Mutual plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 and comply with the applicable requirements of section 428 of the Companies Act 2006, and the regulations made thereunder.
Philip Smart Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 9 March 2012 80 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 Financial cOnSOliDaTED incOME STaTEMEnT For the year ended 31 December 2011 m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Revenue Gross earned premiums 3,584 3,460 Outward reinsurance 325 300 Net earned premiums 3,259 3,160 Investment return non-banking 567 9,553 Banking interest and similar income 3,669 3,913 Banking trading, investment and similar income 217 199 Fee and commission income, and income from service activities 3,035 2,823 Other income 171 149 Total revenues 9,784 19,797 Expenses Claims and benefits including change in insurance contract provisions 3,331 4,956 Reinsurance recoveries 123 222 Net claims and benefits incurred 3,208 4,734 Change in investment contract liabilities 1,889 5,833 Losses on loans and advances 458 548 Finance costs 58 269 Banking interest payable and similar expenses 2,095 2,441 Fee and commission expenses, and other acquisition costs 1,007 917 Other operating and administrative expenses 3,852 3,643 Goodwill impairment 264 1 Change in third-party interest in consolidated funds 2 299 Total expenses 9,051 18,685 Share of associated undertakings and joint ventures profit after tax 10 5 Profit loss on acquisition disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments 251 22 Profit before tax 994 1,095 Income tax expense 225 391 Profit from continuing operations after tax 769 704 Discontinued operations Profit loss from discontinued operations after tax 198 728 Profit loss after tax for the financial year 967 24 Attributable to Equity holders of the parent 667 282 Non-controlling interests Ordinary shares 238 196 Preferred securities 62 62 Profit loss after tax for the financial year 967 24 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share based on profit from continuing operations pence 8.9 8.5 Basic earnings per share based on profit loss from discontinued operations pence 4.0 15.0 Basic earnings per ordinary share pence 12.9 6.5 Diluted earnings per share based on profit from continuing operations pence 8.0 7.7 Diluted earnings per share based on profit loss from discontinued operations pence 3.7 13.8 Diluted earnings per ordinary share pence 11.7 6.1 Weighted average number of shares millions 4,935 4,859 The year ended 31 December 2010 has been restated to reflect Nordic as discontinued see note 2.
Old Mutual plc 81 Summary Financial Statements 2011 Financial REcOnciliaTiOn OF aDjUSTED OPERaTing PROFiT TO PROFiT aFTER Tax For the year ended 31 December 2011 m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Core operations Long-Term Savings 793 787 Nedbank 755 601 Mutual & Federal 89 103 USAM 67 72 1,704 1,563 Finance costs 128 128 Long-term investment return on excess assets 37 31 Net interest payable to non-core operations 23 39 Corporate costs 57 60 Other net expenses income 18 4 Adjusted operating profit before tax 1,515 1,371 Adjusting items 329 392 Non-core operations 183 15 Profit before tax net of policyholder tax 1,003 994 Income tax attributable to policyholder returns 9 101 Profit before tax 994 1,095 Total tax expense 225 391 Profit from continuing operations after tax 769 704 Profit loss from discontinued operations after tax 198 728 Profit loss after tax for the financial year 967 24 Adjusted operating profit after tax attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Adjusted operating profit before tax 1,515 1,371 Tax on adjusted operating profit 341 327 Adjusted operating profit after tax 1,174 1,044 Non-controlling interests ordinary shares 257 217 Non-controlling preferred securities 62 62 Adjusted operating profit after tax attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent 855 765 Adjusted weighted average number of shares millions 5,435 5,359 Adjusted operating earnings per share pence 15.7 14.3 The year ended 31 December 2010 has been restated to reflect Nordic as discontinued and non-core see note 2.
Basis of preparation The reconciliation of adjusted operating profit has been prepared so as to reflect the directors view of the underlying long-term performance of the Group.
The statement reconciles adjusted operating profit to profit after tax as reported under IFRS as adopted by the EU.
For core life assurance and general insurance businesses, adjusted operating profit is based on a long-term investment return, including investment returns on life funds investments in Group equity and debt instruments, and is stated net of income tax attributable to policyholder returns.
For the US Asset Management business it includes compensation costs in respect of certain long-term incentive schemes defined as non-controlling interests in accordance with IFRS.
For all core businesses, adjusted operating profit excludes goodwill impairment, the impact of acquisition accounting, revaluations of put options related to long-term incentive schemes, profit loss on acquisition disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments, and fair value profits losses on certain Group debt movements but includes dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities.
Bermuda, which is non-core, and Nordic and US Life, which are discontinued and non-core, are not included in adjusted operating profit.
Adjusted operating earnings per share is calculated on the same basis as adjusted operating profit.
It is stated after tax attributable to adjusted operating profit and non-controlling interests.
It excludes income attributable to Black Economic Empowerment trusts of listed subsidiaries.
The calculation of the adjusted weighted average number of shares includes own shares held in policyholders funds and Black Economic Empowerment trusts.
82 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 Financial cOnSOliDaTED STaTEMEnT OF Financial POSiTiOn At 31 December 2011 m At At 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Assets Goodwill and other intangible assets 3,358 4,965 Mandatory reserve deposits with central banks 951 1,079 Property, plant and equipment 925 1,015 Investment property 2,064 2,040 Deferred tax assets 339 416 Investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures 111 162 Deferred acquisition costs 1,351 1,534 Reinsurers share of policyholder liabilities 989 1,104 Loans and advances 39,764 51,778 Investments and securities 81,253 106,153 Current tax receivable 138 156 Client indebtedness for acceptances 237 190 Trade, other receivables and other assets 3,348 3,934 Derivative financial instruments assets 1,795 2,503 Cash and cash equivalents 3,624 4,132 Non-current assets held for sale 22,138 12,391 Total assets 162,385 193,552 Liabilities Life assurance policyholder liabilities 76,350 98,631 General insurance liabilities 325 397 Third-party interests in consolidated funds 1,893 3,584 Borrowed funds 3,656 4,204 Provisions 269 260 Deferred revenue 701 730 Deferred tax liabilities 504 858 Current tax payable 199 238 Trade, other payables and other liabilities 4,243 5,661 Liabilities under acceptances 237 190 Amounts owed to bank depositors 40,978 53,236 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 1,755 1,870 Non-current liabilities held for sale 20,417 12,219 Total liabilities 151,527 182,078 Net assets 10,858 11,474 Shareholders equity Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 8,488 8,951 Non-controlling interests Ordinary shares 1,652 1,763 Preferred securities 718 760 Total non-controlling interests 2,370 2,523 Total equity 10,858 11,474 Old Mutual plc 83 Summary Financial Statements 2011 Financial nOTES TO THE cOnSOliDaTED Financial STaTEMEnTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 1: Accounting policies Basis of preparation The Summary Financial Statements have been prepared on the basis of accounting policies set out in the Groups Annual Report and Accounts the Group Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2011.
The Group Financial Statements included within the Group Accounts have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU.
The financial information for the periods shown has been abridged from the Group Financial Statements within the Group Accounts.
The auditors opinion on the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2011 was i unqualified: ii did not include references to any matters to which the auditors drew attention by way of emphasis without qualifying their reports: and iii did not contain any statements under sections 498 2 or 3 of the Companies Act 2006.
2: Significant corporate activity and business changes Disposal of US Life As previously reported, at 31 December 2010 the Group was in advanced stage negotiations for the disposal of its life assurance operations in the United States, which represented almost the entirety of the US Life operating segment.
Following US regulatory approval the disposal of US Life was completed on 7 April 2011.
The sale represented the Groups exit from the life assurance market in the United States and therefore met the criteria of a discontinued operation.
For the purposes of adjusted operating profit US Life has been classified as a discontinued and non-core operation and consequently is not included.
Skandia Liv and the disposal of Nordic In line with previous periods the consolidated financial statements do not include the company  Skandia Skandia Liv and its subsidiaries.
Skandia Livs business is a mutual life assurance company that is highly regulated within a strict legal framework for mutual life assurance companies in Sweden, particularly in relation to its relationship with its holding company.
The Group does not have the power to control Skandia Liv in such a way as to access the benefits usually associated with share ownership due to the legal and regulatory restrictions.
Those benefits accrue to the policyholders of Skandia Liv.
Consequently, Skandia Liv is not consolidated.
The shares in Skandia Liv are accounted for in accordance with the accounting policies for equity financial instruments.
As announced on 15 December 2011, the Group has agreed to sell the Nordic business unit comprising the life assurance, asset management and banking operations in Sweden, Denmark and Norway to Skandia Liv.
As a result the assets and liabilities of the Nordic disposal group have been classified as held for sale in the statement of financial position for the current year in accordance with IFRS 5.
This sale will result in the Groups exit from the life assurance, asset management and banking operations in the Nordic region and therefore meets the criteria of a discontinued operation.
Consequently the comparative information in the income statement and the related notes has been restated where applicable to reflect this.
For the purposes of adjusted operating profit, Nordic has been reclassified as a discontinued and non-core operation for the year ended 31 December 2011 with the comparative restated accordingly.
Disposal of the Finnish branch in Wealth Management On 21 December 2011 the Group announced that it had agreed terms to sell the Finnish branch of Wealth Management to OP-Pohjola osk.
As a result of this the assets and liabilities of the Finnish branch have been classified as held for sale in the statement of financial position for the current year.
Further details of the impact for discontinued operations is provided in note 7.
In addition, certain comparative information has been revised in accordance with changes to presentation made in the current year.
Consolidation of other African businesses In preparing the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 the Emerging Markets segment included its South African and Namibian businesses but excluded all other African businesses.
This was consistent with prior periods.
Nedbank and Mutual & Federal consolidated the results of all African businesses under their control.
84 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 Following a period of greater political and currency stability in Zimbabwe and an expectation that the Group will be able to extract benefits from its Zimbabwean business the Group re-evaluated its ability to control this business within the meaning of accounting standards.
As a result the Groups Zimbabwean business has been consolidated for the first time together with operations in Kenya, Malawi, Swaziland and Nigeria collectively the other African businesses, with this being effective from 1 January 2011.
The acquisition has been accounted for at the net asset value of the underlying businesses on 1 January 2011, being the fair value of the Groups investment in these operations for the assets and liabilities acquired.
Deemed consideration for the acquisition is the fair value of the Groups investment immediately prior to control.
The result was a gain for the Group in these businesses that is accounted for as a profit on acquisition in the year.
This profit has been excluded from adjusted operating profit.
On initial recognition the assets directly associated with other African businesses consisted of 290 million of investment property, 576 million of investments and securities and 115 million of other assets, with liabilities at this time being 624 million of policyholder liabilities and 108 million of other liabilities.
The trading results of the other African businesses for the year ending 31 December 2011 have been included in the Groups income statement and adjusted operating profit.
In anticipation of the indigenisation of the Zimbabwe business a non-controlling interest adjustment has been included for this operation in respect of adjusted operating profit to reflect the most likely expected indigenous shareholding to be provided.
At 31 December 2011 the Group retained a 100% holding in the ordinary shares of Zimbabwe and consequently the operation has been consolidated as a wholly owned subsidiary for the purposes of IFRS reporting.
3: Foreign currencies The principal exchange rates used to translate the operating results, assets and liabilities of key foreign business segments to pounds sterling are: Year ended 31 December 2011 Year ended 31 December 2010 Statement Statement of Income of financial Income financial statement position statement position average rate closing rate average rate closing rate Rand 11.6445 12.5643 11.3095 10.2796 US dollars 1.6037 1.5553 1.5459 1.5530 Swedish kronor 10.4144 10.6801 11.1364 10.4227 Euro 1.1519 1.1970 1.1650 1.1614 4: Earnings and earnings per share a Basic and diluted earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the financial year attributable to ordinary equity shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year excluding own shares held in policyholder funds, ESOP trusts, Black Economic Empowerment trusts and other related undertakings.
m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2011 Restated Profit for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent from continuing operations 469 446 Profit loss for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent from discontinued operations 198 728 Profit loss for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent 667 282 Dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities 32 32 Profit loss attributable to ordinary equity holders 635 314 Old Mutual plc 85 Summary Financial Statements 2011 Financial nOTES TO THE cOnSOliDaTED Financial STaTEMEnTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued Total dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities of 44 million in 2011 2010: 44 million are stated net of tax credits of 12 million 2010: 12 million.
Millions Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 5,502 5,422 Shares held in charitable foundations 6 7 Shares held in ESOP trusts 61 56 Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares 5,435 5,359 Shares held in life funds 201 205 Shares held in Black Economic Empowerment trusts 299 295 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 4,935 4,859 Basic earnings per ordinary share pence 12.9 6.5 Diluted earnings per share recognises the dilutive impact of share options held in ESOP trusts and Black Economic Empowerment trusts which are currently in the money in the calculation of the weighted average number of shares, as if the relevant shares were in issue for the full period.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 635 314 Profit loss attributable to ordinary equity holders m Dilution effect on profit loss relating to share options issued by subsidiaries m 8 8 Diluted profit loss attributable to ordinary equity holders m 627 322 Weighted average number of ordinary shares millions 4,935 4,859 Adjustments for share options held by ESOP trusts millions 133 137 Adjustments for shares held in Black Economic Empowerment trusts millions 299 295 5,367 5,291 Diluted earnings per ordinary share pence 11.7 6.1 b Adjusted operating earnings per ordinary share The reconciliation of profit loss for the financial year to adjusted operating profit after tax attributable to ordinary equity holders is as follows: m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2011 Restated Profit loss for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent 667 282 Adjusting items 329 392 Tax on adjusting items 108 33 Non-core operations 184 19 Profit loss from discontinued operations 198 728 Non-controlling interest on adjusting items 19 21 Adjusted operating profit after tax attributable to ordinary equity holders 855 765 Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares millions 5,435 5,359 Adjusted operating earnings per ordinary share pence 15.7 14.3 86 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 c Headline earnings per share In accordance with the JSE Limited JSE listing requirements, the Group is required to calculate a headline earnings per share HEPS, determined by reference to the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants circular 3 2009 Headline Earnings.
The table below sets out a reconciliation of basic earnings per ordinary share and HEPS in accordance with that circular.
Disclosure of HEPS is not a requirement of IFRS.
m Year ended Year ended 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 Gross Net Gross Net Profit loss for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent 667 667 282 282 Dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities 32 32 32 32 Profit loss attributable to ordinary equity holders 635 635 314 314 Adjustments: Impairments of goodwill and intangible assets 264 264 20 20 Impairment of discontinued operations 827 827 Profit loss on acquisition disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments 222 228 22 17 Realised gains including impairments on available-for-sale financial assets 144 144 12 12 Headline earnings 533 527 543 538 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 4,935 4,935 4,859 4,859 Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares 5,367 5,367 5,291 5,291 Headline earnings per share pence 10.8 10.7 11.2 11.1 Diluted headline earnings per share pence 9.8 9.7 10.1 10.0 5: Dividends Dividends paid were as follows: m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 2009 Final dividend paid 1.5p per 10p share 77 2010 Interim dividend paid 1.1p per 10p share 54 2010 Final dividend paid 2.9p per 10p share 145 2011 Interim dividend paid 1.5p per 10p share 76 Dividends to ordinary equity holders 221 131 Dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities 44 44 Dividend payments for the year 265 175 Dividends paid to ordinary equity holders, as above, are calculated using the number of shares in issue at the record date, less treasury shares held in ESOP trusts, life funds of Group companies, Black Economic Empowerment trusts and related undertakings.
As a consequence of the exchange control arrangements in place in certain African territories, dividends to ordinary equity holders on the branch registers of those countries or, in the case of Namibia, the Namibian section of the principal register are settled through Dividend Access Trusts established for that purpose.
In March and November 2011, 22 million and 22 million respectively were declared and paid to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities March 2010: 22 million and November 2010: 22 million.
Old Mutual plc 87 Summary Financial Statements 2011 Financial nOTES TO THE cOnSOliDaTED Financial STaTEMEnTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued A final dividend of 3.5 pence per 10p share has been recommended by the directors.
Subject to shareholders approval, the dividend will be paid on 7 June 2012 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 20April 2012.
The dividend will absorb an estimated 175 million of shareholders funds.
The Company is not planning to offer a scrip dividend alternative.
In addition the Company announced on 3 February 2012 that as part of the proposed sale of the Nordic business unit a special dividend of 18.0 pence per 10p share has been recommended by the directors.
The special dividend will be paid on 7 June 2012 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 20 April 2012 subject to both shareholder approval of the Nordic disposal and the related share consolidation and completion of the Nordic disposal.
The special dividend will absorb an estimated 1.0 billion of shareholders funds.
Further details of the disposal of the Nordic business unit have been provided in notes 2 and 7.
6: Events after the reporting date On 18 January 2012 the Group redeemed the remaining 200 million of the 750 million Lower Tier 2 Bond which had not been repaid during 2011.
On 3 February 2012 the Group issued a circular in respect of the proposed disposal of the Nordic business unit.
Additional details have been provided in notes 2 and 7.
On 7February 2012 the Group announced that it had sold Dwight Asset Management subject to certain conditions.
On 22 February 2012 the Group announced that a preliminary non-binding offer had been accepted by Ecobank Transnational Incorporated for the acquisition of Oceanic Life.
In March 2012 Bermuda enhanced its hedging strategy by implementing an option based hedging arrangement.
On 8 March 2012 final regulatory approval was received in respect of the disposal of the Nordic business unit.
7: Discontinued operations The results of the Groups Swedish, Danish and Norwegian life businesses, collectively Nordic, and United States life business, US Life, are shown as discontinued operations in these financial statements.
At 31 December 2011 the Group had entered into an agreement to dispose of the controlling interest in Nordic to Skandia Liv, which remains subject to shareholder approval for the sale.
The disposal of US Life was completedon 7 April 2011 following regulatory approval, and has been reported up until that date.
Analysis of the results is given below.
a Income statement from discontinued operations m Nordic US Life Total For the year ended 31 December 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Revenue 421 1,779 342 1,608 79 3,387 Expenses 541 1,729 330 1,557 211 3,286 Profit before tax from discontinued operations 120 50 12 51 132 101 Impairment on remeasurement to fair value less costs to sell 827 827 Loss on disposal 29 29 Realised available-for-sale investment gains and exchange differences on disposal 133 133 Profit loss before tax 120 50 116 776 236 726 Income tax charge credit 52 65 14 63 38 2 Profit loss from discontinued operations after tax 68 15 130 713 198 728 88 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 McEV aDjUSTED gROUP McEV BY linE OF BUSinESS At 31 December 2011 m At At 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 MCEV of the core covered business Long-Term Savings 5,713 5,913 Adjusted net worth 2,204 2,228 Value of in-force business 3,509 3,685 MCEV of the non-core covered business Bermuda 66 287 Adjusted net worth 187 403 Value of in-force business 121 116 MCEV of the discontinued covered business Nordic and US Life 1,433 1,315 Adjusted net worth 285 720 Value of in-force business 1,148 595 Adjusted net worth of asset management and other businesses 1,955 1,939 Emerging Markets 499 289 Retail Europe 14 14 Wealth Management 165 171 US Asset Management 1,270 1,461 Nordic 7 4 Value of the banking business 3,286 3,603 Nedbank market value 2,935 3,275 Emerging Markets adjusted net worth 29 Nordic adjusted net worth 322 328 Value of the general insurance business Mutual & Federal adjusted net worth 294 409 Net other business 175 42 Adjustment for present value of Black Economic Empowerment scheme deferred consideration 270 266 Adjustment for value of own shares in ESOP schemes 117 85 Market value of perpetual preferred securities 465 449 Market value of perpetual preferred callable securities 605 598 Market value of subordinated debt 1,445 1,782 Adjusted Group MCEV 10,794 11,030 Adjusted Group MCEV per share pence 194.1 202.2 Number of shares in issue at the end of the financial period less treasury shares millions 5,562 5,456 Adjusted net worth is after the elimination of inter-company loans.
Includes the adjusted net worth of Nordic holding companies that are classified as non-covered business, net of the holding companies investment in Group subsidiaries.
Includes any other business that is not included within the main lines of business, largely Old Mutual parent company IFRS equity net of Group adjustments, consolidation adjustments in respect of intercompany transactions and debt, and Bermuda asset management.
The effect of the acquisition of the minority interest in Mutual & Federal during 2010 has been included in this adjustment for the first time during 2011.
Includes adjustment for value of excess own shares in employee share scheme trusts.
The movement in value between 31 December 2010 and 31December 2011 is the net effect of the increase in the Old Mutual plc share price, the reduction in excess own shares following employee share grants in March 2011 and the reduction in overall shares held due to exercises of rights to take delivery of, or net settle, share grants during the financial period.
The 239 million treasury shares were cancelled on 13 January 2012.
Old Mutual plc 89 89 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 McEV aDjUSTED OPERaTing gROUP McEV STaTEMEnT OF EaRningS For the year ended 31 December 2011 m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Long-Term Savings Covered business 714 640 Asset management and other business 123 124 Banking 15 852 764 Nedbank Banking 755 601 Mutual & Federal General insurance 89 103 US Asset Management Asset management 67 72 Other operating segments Finance costs 155 183 Corporate costs 43 46 Other shareholders expenses income 18 4 Adjusted operating Group MCEV earnings before tax from core operations 1,547 1,315 This includes interest payable from Old Mutual plc to non-core operations of 27 million for the year ended 31 December 2011 2010: 55 million.
Central costs of 14 million are allocated to the covered business and provisioned in the VIF 2010: 14 million hence corporate costs under MCEV of 43 million differ from the IFRS amount of 57 million 2010: 60 million.
90 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 McEV cOMPOnEnTS OF gROUP McEV anD aDjUSTED gROUP McEV For the year ended 31 December 2011 m At At 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Adjusted net worth attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent 5,193 5,737 Equity 8,488 8,951 Adjustment to IFRS net asset value 2,607 2,526 Adjustment to remove perpetual preferred callable securities 688 688 Value of in-force business 4,535 4,164 Present value of future profits 5,248 5,256 Additional time value of financial options and guarantees 136 433 Frictional costs 243 276 Cost of residual non-hedgeable risks 334 383 Group MCEV 9,728 9,901 Adjustments to bring Group investments to market value Adjustment to bring listed subsidiary Nedbank to market value 655 715 Adjustment for value of own shares in ESOP schemes 117 85 Adjustment for present value of Black Economic Empowerment scheme deferred consideration 270 266 Adjustment to bring external debt to market value 24 63 Adjusted Group MCEV 10,794 11,030 Group MCEV value per share pence 174.9 181.5 Adjusted Group MCEV per share pence 194.1 202.2 Number of shares in issue at the end of the financial period less treasury shares millions 5,562 5,456 Return on Group MCEV ROEV per annum from core operations 8.8% 9.8% Return on Group MCEV ROEV per annum from continuing non-core operations 0.5% 0.3 % Return on Group MCEV ROEV per annum from discontinued operations 1.4% 1.4% Return on Group MCEV ROEV per annum 10.7% 10.9% Includes adjustment for value of excess own shares in employee share scheme trusts.
The movement in value between 31 December 2010 and 31December 2011 is the net effect of the increase in the Old Mutual plc share price, the reduction in excess own shares following employee share grantsinMarch 2011 and the reduction in overall shares held due to exercises of rights to take delivery of, or net settle, share grants during the financialperiod.
The effect of the acquisition of the minority interest in Mutual & Federal during 2010 has been included in this adjustment for the firsttimeduring 2011.
The ROEV is calculated as the adjusted operating Group MCEV earnings after tax and non-controlling interests of 1,055 million 2010: 830 million divided by the opening Group MCEV.
Old Mutual plc 91 Summary Financial Statements 2011 SHaREHOlDER inFORMaTiOn Listings and shares in issue The Companys shares are listed on the London, Malawi, Namibian and Zimbabwe Stock Exchanges and on the JSE Limited JSE.
The primary listing is on the London Stock Exchange and the other listings are all secondary listings.
The Companys secondary listing on the Stockholm Stock Exchange ended on 7 September 2007, but the Companys shares may still be traded on the Xternallist of the Nordic Exchange in Stockholm.
The ISIN number of the Companys existing ordinary shares of 10p each is GB0007389926, but a new ISIN number GB00B77J0862 has 3 been provisionally assigned to the new ordinary shares of 11 7p each that will result from the proposed 7 for 8 share consolidation, which is expected to take effect following the close of business on 20 April 2012.
The registered shareholdings on the South African branch register included PLC Nominees Pty Limited, which held a total of 2,505,056,756 shares, including 363,254,227 shares held for the Companys sponsored nominee, Old Mutual South Africa Nominees Pty Limited, for the benefit of 425,129 underlying beneficial owners.
The registered shareholdings on the Zimbabwe branch register included Old Mutual Zimbabwe Nominees Pvt Limited, which held a total of 783,827 shares as nominee for 3,496 underlying beneficial owners.
The registered shareholdings on the Namibian section of the principal register included Old Mutual Namibia Nominees Pty Limited, which held a total of 7,585,456 shares as nominee for 6,980 underlying beneficial owners.
The registered shareholdings on the Malawi branch register included Old Mutual Blantyre Nominees Limited, which held a total of 64,134 shares as nominee for 137 underlying beneficial owners.
The shares held in treasury were all cancelled on 13 January 2012 and the total number of issued shares was reduced by a corresponding amount.
92 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 Registrars Limited on the South African branch register and shares held through Old Mutual Namibia Nominees The Companys share register is admini tered by Pty Limited on the Namibian section of the principal Computershare Investor Services in conjunction with register.
If you hold your shares in this way and wish to local representatives in various jurisdictions.
The sell your shares by telephone, Computershare may be following are the contact details: contacted on 0861 100 940 a South African number UK between 8.00 a. m. and 4.30 p. m. local time Computershare Investor Services PLC on Mondays to Fridays, excluding public holidays.
A The Pavilions service fee is payable based on the value of the Bridgwater Road shares sold.
Bristol Internet share dealing: This service provides BS99 6ZZ shareholders with a facility to buy or sell Old Mutual Tel: 44 0 870 707 1212 plc ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange.
co. uk contactus The commission for deals through the internet is South Africa 1.0%, subject to a minimum charge of 30.
In addition, stamp duty, currently 0.5%, is payable on Computershare Investor Services Pty Ltd purchases.
There is no need to open an account in 70 Marshall Street order to deal.
Real-time dealing is available during Johannesburg 2001 market hours.
Orders may also be placed outside PO Box 61051, Marshalltown 2107 market hours.
Up to 90-day limit orders are available Tel: 0861 100 940 for sales.
To access the service, log on to www.
co. za Telephone share dealing: The commission for deals Malawi on the London Stock Exchange through National Bank of Malawi Computershares telephone share-dealing service is Financial Management Services Department 1%, plus 35.
In addition, stamp duty, currently 0.5%, Cnr Victoria Avenue Henderson Street is payable on purchases.
The service is available from Blantyre 8.00 a. m. to 4.30 p. m. Monday to Friday, excluding PO Box 1438, Blantyre, Malawi bank holidays, on UK telephone number 0870 703 Tel: 265 182 3483 0900 0084.
Detailed terms and conditions are available on Email: nbminvestment@natbankmw.
Namibia For sales under both the internet and telephone share Transfer Secretaries Pty Limited dealing services above, shareholders should have 4 Robert Mugabe Street their Shareholder Reference Number SRN ready.
The Windhoek SRN appears on share certificates and dividend PO Box 2401, Windhoek cheques or tax statements.
Payment by cheque will Tel: 264 0 61 227647 be required for purchases.
For general enquiries Fax: 264 0 61 248531 about the dealing services, shareholders can call Email: ts@nsx.
Zimbabwe These services are offered on an execution-only basis Corpserve Share Transfer Secretaries and subject to the applicable terms and conditions.
2nd Floor, ZB Centre This is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold Cnr First Street Kwame Nkrumah Avenue shares in Old Mutual plc.
Shareholders who are Harare unsure of what action to take should obtain PO Box 2208, Harare, Zimbabwe independent financial advice.
Share values may go Tel: 263 0 4 751559 61 down as well as up, which may result in a shareholder Fax: 263 0 4 752629 receiving less than originally invested.
To the extent Email: enquiries@corpserve.
co. zw that this statement is a financial promotion for the share dealing service provided by Computershare Computershare share dealing services Investor Services PLC, it has been approved by Share dealing service in South Africa and Namibia: Computershare Investor Services PLC for the purpose The Companys South African registrars, of section 21 2 b of the Financial Services and Computershare Investor Services, administer a Markets Act 2000 only.
Computershare Investor telephone and postal sales service for shares held Services PLC is authorised and regulated by the through Old Mutual South Africa Nominees Pty Old Mutual plc 93 Summary Financial Statements 2011 SHaREHOlDER inFORMaTiOn Financial Services Authority.
Where this has been Strate received in a country where the provision of such a All transactions in the Companys shares on the JSE service would be contrary to local laws or regulations, are required to be settled electronically through Strate, this should be treated as information only.
and share certificates are no longer good for delivery in respect of such transactions.
Shareholders who Electronic communication and electronic have any enquiries about the effect of Strate on their proxyappointment holdings in the Company should contact If you would like to receive future communications Computershare Investor Services in Johannesburg on from the Company by email, please log on to our 0861 100 940 or 27 0 11 870 8211. website, www.
com, select Investor Relations, then Shareholder Centre, then click on Checking your holding online Electronic Communication and follow the instructions An online service is situated at the Investor Centre for registration of your details.
In order to register, you option within the website address www.
will need your Shareholder Reference Number, which computershare.
com which gives shareholders access can be found on the payment advice notice or tax to their account to confirm registered details, to give voucher accompanying your last dividend payment or amend dividend mandate instructions, and to ornotification.
The number is also printed on forms obtain a current shareholding balance.
There are also ofproxy but not voting instruction forms for the a number of downloadable forms from this site such AnnualGeneral Meeting.
as change of address, dividend mandate and stock transfer forms as well as an extensive list of frequently Before you register, you will be asked to agree to the asked questions and the facility to contact Terms and Conditions for Electronic Communications Computershare Investor Services by email.
It is important that you read these Terms and Conditions carefully, as they set out the Final Dividend for the year ended 31 December basis on which electronic communications will be sent 2011 and timetable for the Special Dividend and to you.
share consolidation The Directors of the Company are recommending a You should bear in mind that, in accessing documents final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011 of electronically, you will incur the cost of online time.
3.5p per existing ordinary share of 10 pence an Any election to receive documents electronically will Ordinary Share, which will be paid, subject to being generally remain in force until you contact the approved by shareholders at the Companys 2012 Companys Registrars via the online address set out Annual General Meeting, on 7 June 2012 the Final earlier in this section of the Report or otherwise to Dividend.
The Final Dividend would equate to 4.0p terminate or change such election.
3 per new ordinary share of 11 7 pence a New Ordinary Share if the proposed 7 for 8 share The use of the electronic communications facility consolidation the Share Consolidation is approved described above is entirely voluntary.
If you wish to by shareholders at the Companys General Meeting continue to receive communications from the on 14 March 2012.
The Share Consolidation was Company by post, then you do not need to take any announced by the Company on 3 February 2012 and action.
However, the Company has indicated that it is also conditional on approval by shareholders of the plans to move later in 2012 towards using electronic sale of the Groups Nordic business the Disposal, communications as the default means of the Disposal being completed and the related Special communication with shareholders, in line with the Dividend defined below becoming unconditional.
provisions of the UK Companies Act 2006 and as permitted by its Articles of Association.
Further The special dividend of 18p or its equivalent in other information about the arrangements for this, including applicable currencies per Ordinary Share the details of how you can elect to continue to receive Special Dividend, which was announced on 3 printed shareholder communications, will be provided February 2012, will also be paid on 7 June 2012, when this change-over is initiated.
subject to approval by shareholders of the Disposal and the Share Consolidation at the General Meeting Electronic proxy appointment is available for this and the Disposal being completed.
This enables proxy votes to be submitted electronically, as an alternative to filling out and posting a form of proxy.
Further details are set out on the form of proxy.
94 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 Shareholders on the South African, Zimbabwe and Admission of New Ordinary Opening of business Malawi branch registers and the Namibian section of Shares to the branch on 16 April 2012 registers in South Africa, the principal register will be paid the local currency Malawi and Zimbabwe and cash equivalents of the Final Dividend and the Special on the Namibian section of Dividend under dividend access trust or similar the principal register, and arrangements established in each country.
commencement of dealings in such New Ordinary Shareholders who hold their shares through Euroclear Shares ex-Special Dividend Sweden AB, the Swedish nominee, will be paid the and Final Dividend in each cash equivalent of both dividends in Swedish Kronor.
case, on a to be issued Local currency cash equivalents of the dividends for basis all five territories will be determined by the Company Last day to trade cum 17 April 2012 using exchange rates prevailing at the close of dividend for the Final Dividend for Ordinary business on 3 April 2012 and will be announced by Shareholders on the UK the Company on 4 April 2012. register Ex-dividend date for the 18 April 2012 Share certificates for shareholders on the South Final Dividend for Ordinary African register may not be dematerialised or Shareholders on the UK rematerialised between 4 April 2012 and 20 April register 2012, both dates inclusive, and transfers between the Last day to trade cum 20 April 2012 registers may not take place during that period.
dividend for the Special Dividend and preA scrip dividend alternative is not being made consolidation for Ordinary Shareholders on the UK available in relation to the Final Dividend, in view of the register complexities involved in the Share Consolidation, nor Record Date for entitlement Close of business in relation to the Special Dividend.
The Directors of the of holders of existing on 20 April 2012 Company will consider later in 2012 whether to Ordinary Shares to Final reinstate a scrip dividend alternative for the interim Dividend, Special Dividend dividend for the current year.
and Share Consolidation all registers.
No further dealings in existing Ordinary The full timetable for the Final Dividend and the Shares on the UK register Special Dividend is set out below.
Consolidation is effected The period commencing General Meeting relating to 14 March 2012 immediately after the Disposal, related Special close of business on Dividend and Share 20 April 2012 Consolidation and ending on Anticipated completion date 21 March 2012 opening of business for the Disposal and, subject on 23 April 2012 to the Disposal being New Ordinary Shares Opening of business completed, the date the admitted to the Official List on 23 April 2012 Special Dividend becomes and the LSE and unconditional commencement of dealings Currency conversion date Closing rates on in New Ordinary Shares, 3 April 2012 ex-dividend for the Special Dividend Exchange rates announced 4 April 2012 New Ordinary Shares 23 April 2012 Trading suspended between Opening of business enabled in CREST and registers on 4 April 2012 CREST accounts credited with New Ordinary Shares Last day to trade existing 13 April 2012 New Ordinary Shares 23 April 2012 Ordinary Shares cum credited to the accounts of dividend for the Special dematerialised South African Dividend and the Final shareholders at their CSDP Dividend for Ordinary or broker and other African Shareholders on the branch exchanges registers in South Africa, Malawi and Zimbabwe and Trading between registers Opening of business on the Namibian section of recommences on 23 April 2012 the principal register.
No further dealings in existing Ordinary Shares on these registers Old Mutual plc 95 Summary Financial Statements 2011 SHaREHOlDER inFORMaTiOn Annual Review and Summary Annual General Meeting 10 May 2012 FinancialStatements The Annual Review and Summary Financial Payment of Special Dividend 7 June 2012 Statements were approved by the Approvals and Final Dividend Committee, as authorised by the Board, and were signed by Philip Broadley, the Group Finance Director, For further details of the Special Dividend and Share on 9 March 2012.
They are a summary of information Consolidation referred to above, please read the in the full Report and Accounts and do not contain shareholder circular dated 3 February 2012 the sufficient information to allow a full understanding of Shareholder Circular, which was sent to the results of the Group or the state of affairs of the shareholders during February 2012.
This alsocontains Company and the Group.
For further information, the information about how fractional entitlements resulting full Report and Accounts, including the Auditors from the Share Consolidation are being dealt with.
Report on those Accounts, should be consulted.
If Theconsolidation ratio resulting from the Share you wish to obtain a copy of the full Report and Consolidation forthepurposes of dealings on the JSE Accounts for 2011, free of charge, or elect to receive is 0.875.
The Shareholder Circular is also available on the full Report and Accounts in future years, please the Companys websiteat www.
contact Computershare Investor Services, whose Financial Calendar for the rest of 2012 details are set out earlier in this section.
The Companys financial calendar for the rest of 2012 is as follows: Annual General Meeting and First Quarter Interim Management Statement 10 May 2012 Interim results 8 August 2012 Third Quarter Interim Management Statement 7 November 2012 Interim dividend paymentdate 30 November 2012 Final results for 2012 March 2013 Glossary A glossary of certain technical and financial terms used in this document can be found on our website atwww.
com 96 Old Mutual plc Summary Financial Statements 2011 Old Mutual is an international long-term savings, protection and investment group overview governance 2 Our business at a glance 58 Board of directors 4 Key successes 62 Summary of the Corporate Governance Report 6 Delivering on our strategy 68 Summary of the Remuneration 8 Business model Report 10 Key performance indicators 12 Strategy in action financial 18 Chairmans statement 20 Group Chief Executives statement 80 Independent auditors reportto the 24 Group Chief Executives Q&A members ofOldMutual plc 81 Consolidated income statement business review 82 Reconciliation of adjusted operating profit to profit after tax 26 Long-Term Savings 83 Consolidated statement 32 Banking of financial position 36 Short-Term Insurance 84 Notes to the consolidated 40 US Asset Management financial statements 45 Non-core business operations 89 Adjusted Group MCEV by line 46 Group Finance Directors of business Statement 90 Adjusted operating Group MCEV statementofearnings Forward-looking statements Acknowledgements risk and 91 Components of Group MCEV and This Report contains certain forward-looking Designed and produced by MerchantCantos Adjusted Group MCEV responsibility statements with respect to Old Mutual plcs and its www.
Old Mutual plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 Old Mutual plc Registered in England and Wales No.
com connecting with customers annual review and summary financial statements 2011
