GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 A: Significant accounting policies A1: Basis of preparation Statement of compliance Old Mutual plc the Company is a company incorporated in England and Wales.
The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and equity account the Groups interest in associates and jointly controlled entities other than those held by life assurance funds which are accounted for as investments.
The Parent Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about the Group.
Both the Parent Company financial statements and the Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU.
On publishing the Parent Company financial statements here together with the Group financial statements, the Company is taking advantage of the exemption in section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form a part of these approved financial statements.
The accounting policies adopted by the Company and Group, unless otherwise stated, have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative financial instruments, financial assets and liabilities designated as fair value through the income statement or as available-for-sale, owner-occupied property and investment property.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale are stated at the lower of the previous carrying amount and the fair value less costs to sell.
The Parent Company financial statements are prepared in accordance with these accounting policies, other than for investments in subsidiary undertakings and associates, which are stated at cost less impairments see note A5 n, in accordance with IAS 27.
The Company and Group financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis which the directors believe to be appropriate having taken into consideration the points as set out in the Directors Report in the section headed Going concern.
Judgements made by the directors in the applications of these accounting policies that have a significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in note A3.
Translation of foreign operations The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated from their respective functional currencies into the Groups presentation currency using the year end exchange rates, and their income and expenses using the average exchange rates.
Other than in respect of cumulative translation gains and losses up to 1 January 2004, cumulative unrealised gains or losses resulting from translation of functional currencies to the presentation currency are included as a separate component of shareholders equity.
To the extent that these gains and losses are effectively hedged, the cumulative effect of such gains and losses arising on the hedging instruments are also included in that component of shareholders equity.
Upon the disposal of subsidiaries the cumulative amount of exchange differences deferred in shareholders equity, net of attributable amounts in relation to net investments, is recognised in the income statement.
Cumulative translation gains and losses up to 1 January 2004 were reset to zero.
Developments during 2011 Other than changes arising from new accounting developments as mentioned in note A9, the Group has not made any changes to the accounting policies during the year.
Disclosures about the impact of future standards can be found in note A10.
These financial statements describe those accounting policies which involve significant judgement, optionality in application and are material to the Groups overall financial statements.
As such items which are immaterial or duplicated elsewhere in the annual report have been removed from these financial statements.
A detailed list of the Groups accounting policies can be found at www.
The contents of the website are not subject toaudit.
A2: Significant corporate activity and business changes Disposal of US Life As previously reported, at 31 December 2010 the Group was in advanced stage negotiations for the disposal of its life assurance operations in the United States, which represented almost the entirety of the US Life operating segment.
Following US regulatory approval the disposal of US Life was completed on 7 April 2011.
The sale represented the Groups exit from the life assurance market in the United States and therefore met the criteria of a discontinued operation.
For the purposes of adjusted operating profit US Life has been classified as a discontinued and non-core operation and consequently is not included.
134 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Skandia Liv and the disposal of Nordic In line with previous periods the consolidated financial statements do not include the company  Skandia Skandia Liv and its subsidiaries.
Skandia Livs business is a mutual life assurance company that is highly regulated within a strict legal framework for mutual life assurance companies in Sweden, particularly in relation to its relationship with its holding company.
The Group does not have the power to control Skandia Liv in such a way as to access the benefits usually associated with share ownership due to the legal and regulatory restrictions.
Those benefits accrue to the policyholders of Skandia Liv.
Consequently, Skandia Liv is not consolidated.
The shares in Skandia Liv are accounted for in accordance with the accounting policies for equity financial instruments.
As announced on 15 December 2011, the Group has agreed to sell the Nordic business unit comprising the life assurance, asset management and banking operations in Sweden, Denmark and Norway to Skandia Liv.
As a result the assets and liabilities of the Nordic disposal group have been classified as held for sale in the statement of financial position for the current year in accordance with IFRS 5.
This sale will result in the Groups exit from the life assurance, asset management and banking operations in the Nordic region and therefore meets the criteria of a discontinued operation.
Consequently the comparative information in the income statement, statement of comprehensive income, statement of cash flows and the related notes have been restated where applicable to reflect this.
For the purposes of adjusted operating profit, Nordic has been reclassified as a discontinued and non-core operation for the year ended 31 December 2011 with the comparative restated accordingly.
Disposal of the Finnish branch in Wealth Management On 21 December 2011 the Group announced that it had agreed terms to sell the Finnish branch of Wealth Management to OP-Pohjola osk.
As a result of this the assets and liabilities of the Finnish branch have been classified as held for sale in the statement of financial position for the current year.
Further details of the impact for discontinued operations and disposal groups are provided in notes H1 and H2.
In addition, certain comparative information has been revised in accordance with changes to presentation made in the current year.
Consolidation of other African businesses In preparing the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 the Emerging Markets segment included its South African and Namibian businesses but excluded all other African businesses.
This was consistent with prior periods.
Nedbank and Mutual & Federal consolidated the results of all African businesses under their control.
Following a period of greater political and currency stability in Zimbabwe and an expectation that the Group will be able to extract benefits from its Zimbabwean business the Group re-evaluated its ability to control this business within the meaning of accounting standards.
As a result the Groups Zimbabwean business has been consolidated for the first time together with operations in Kenya, Malawi, Swaziland and Nigeria collectively the other African businesses, with this being effective from 1 January 2011.
The acquisition has been accounted for at the net asset value of the underlying businesses on 1 January 2011, being the fair value of the Groups investment in these operations for the assets and liabilities acquired.
Deemed consideration for the acquisition is the fair value of the Groups investment immediately prior to control.
The result was a gain for the Group in these businesses that is accounted for as a profit on acquisition in the year.
This profit has been excluded from adjusted operating profit.
On initial recognition the assets directly associated with other African businesses consisted of 290 million of investment property, 576 million of investments and securities and 115 million of other assets, with liabilities at this time being 624 million of policyholder liabilities and 108 million of other liabilities.
The trading results of the other African businesses for the year ending 31 December 2011 have been included in the Groups income statement and adjusted operating profit.
In anticipation of the indigenisation of the Zimbabwe business a non-controlling interest adjustment has been included for this operation in respect of adjusted operating profit to reflect the most likely expected indigenous shareholding to be provided.
At 31 December 2011 the Group retained a 100% holding in the ordinary shares of Zimbabwe and consequently the operation has been consolidated as a wholly owned subsidiary for the purposes of IFRS reporting.
A3: Critical accounting estimates and judgements In the preparation of the financial statements the Group is required to make estimates and judgements that affect items reported in the consolidated income statement, statement of financial position, other primary statements and related supporting notes.
Old Mutual plc 135 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued A: Significant accounting policies continued A3: Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued Critical accounting estimates and judgements are those which involve the most complex or subjective judgements or assessments, with estimates based on knowledge of the current situation and circumstances and assumptions based on that knowledge and predictions of future events and actions.
The areas of the Groups business that typically require such estimates and the relevant accounting policies and notes are as follows: Area Accounting policy Note Life insurance contract provisions A4 E8 Deferred acquisition costs A4 F4 Fair value for financial assets and liabilities A5 E1 Intangible assets and goodwill A6 F1 Non consolidation of wholly owned mutual life insurance undertaking A2 G3 Specific areas requiring estimates and judgements are provided in more detail below.
a Bermuda guarantees Old Mutual Bermuda, which is closed to new business, previously offered variable annuity products with a number of these remaining in place.
For variable annuity contracts with guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits GMABs there are risks to the Group, with significant volatility in financial results possible due to changes in key market and economic variables, as well as unexpected policyholder behaviour.
Short-term liquidity risk in relation to the GMABs is further increased by potentially significant product top-ups in 2012 and 2013 on the fifth anniversary of the Universal Guarantee Option UGO contracts.
The top ups relate to an automatic exercise feature included in these products under which policyholders receive any shortfall between the account value and 105% of the original premium paid by the policyholder on the fifth anniversary of the contract.
In addition for UGO contracts there are 120% top ups for the tenth anniversary, plus any high water mark features if elected.
Analysis of Bermuda policyholder liabilities is detailed below: m At At 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Variable annuity contract balances 2,012 2,895 GMAB provision 682 433 Deferred and fixed index annuities 412 605 Total insurance liabilities Bermuda 3,106 3,933 GMAB and guaranteed minimum death benefit reserve calculations rely on the mapping of policyholder investment funds to hedgeable indices to determine market consistent assumptions and are performed at least quarterly.
Regular fund mapping ensures that exposures to relevant markets are accurately reflected in the determination of the reserves.
The fund mapping is especially important to identify exposures to Asian and other emerging markets which require higher levels of reserving given their higher inherent volatility.
Bermudas current best estimate for future cash flow requirements at 31 December 2011 is that 619 million of its holding in affiliated notes issued by the Parent may eventually need to be converted to cash.
The notes are forecast to be redeemed starting from 2013, with 86 million required before 2017, 488 million between 2017 and 2018 and an additional 45 million up to 2029.
The increase in this estimate from 31 December 2010 is due to lower initial assets and lower expected future income.
Taking an average of the 10% worst case scenarios it would be expected that 1,125 million is required, being an additional requirement of 506 million, which would exceed the current value of notes held and forecast interest to be earned by 2017 and so require additional funding from the Group.
Statutory capital reduced to 187 million at 31 December 2011 reflecting the loss for the year 2010: 402 million.
Surrenders of variable annuity contracts with GMABs are influenced by the differential between the account value of the underlying funds and the nominal level of the guarantee, along with the financial circumstances of each policyholder.
Despite the volatility experienced in the markets during the second half of 2011, the actual surrenders of UGO contracts for the year ended 31 December 2011 increased by over 250% compared to the prior year.
This increase was partially attributable to special surrender and asset transfer offers made to policyholders as part of fide-risking initiatives implemented during 2011.
Surrender activity will have a significant impact on the speed of the run-off as well as the extent and timing of any associated capital requirements in the form of cash released from investments for this business.
Group and local management actively monitor surrender behaviour and manage liquidity risk.
136 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Bermuda is continuing its run-off strategy with attention to the adequacy of the hedging strategy, focusing on market segments that are considered vulnerable whilst conserving liquidity by removing hedges on stronger market segments.
The hedging programme is dynamically managed to strike a balance between reserve and income statement volatility, liquidity and transactional costs.
Exposures are primarily to Asian equities and currencies versus the US dollar.
At 31 December 2011 this strategy meant the hedge coverage over equities was approximately 54% 2010: 57%, over foreign exchange was 53% 2010: 39%, whilst interest rates remain unhedged 2010: nil.
The dynamic management of these risks includes evaluating the most appropriate level of hedges on a continuing basis, with any proposed changes to the strategy subject to strict oversight.
The stop-loss protocol continues to be monitored daily by local management and Group to measure the impact of equity and exchange rate movements on the GMAB reserves and hedging assets.
In March 2012 Bermuda enhanced its hedging strategy by implementing an option based hedging arrangement to protect against downside risk from equity market movements relating to the five year anniversary of UGO contract top-up obligations, replacing the futures based hedging strategy previously employed.
The existing hedging strategy will remain in place for the rest of the variable annuity book, with the exposure to currency movements impacting the five year anniversary top-ups continuing to be dynamically hedged.
The enhanced hedging strategy aims to provide greater cash flow certainty over the period when the five year anniversary UGO top-up payments fall due.
b US Asset Management goodwill impairment The impairment test in respect of the US Asset Management USAM has been performed by comparing USAMs carrying amount to its recoverable amount, which is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value-in-use.
Value-in-use has been determined using a discounted cash flow methodology.
The key assumptions used in the value-in-use calculations for USAM are as follows: Q The three year business plan and two further years have growth rate assumptions based on managements expectation of performance over this period.
A terminal value, using a long-term growth rate of 4% 2010: 6% is added for the value of cash flows beyond five years.
The assumed long-term growth rate was determined with reference to nominal historical gross domestic product GDP growth in the US, and the outlook for nominal GDP growth for the US.
Q The risk-adjusted discount rate applied was 12% 2010: 12.9%.
Based on the expected impact from the adverse outlook for US nominal GDP growth and net cash outflows experienced by USAM in 2011 the long-term growth rate was reduced for the purposes of the 2011 impairment test.
As a result of the change in the growth rate assumptions and the reduction in near term client cash flows, an impairment charge has been recognised to reflect the reduction in value-in-use for USAM with a charge of 264 million being recognised in the year 2010: nil.
c Discretionary reserves Management has discretion in managing exposure to financial options and guarantees, particularly within participating business.
As required by the applicable Actuarial Society of South Africa guidance note, the time value of the financial options and guarantees included in the statutory reserves in the Emerging Markets businesses at 31 December 2011 have been valued using a risk-neutral market consistent asset model and is referred to as the Investment Guarantee Reserve IGR.
This reserve includes a discretionary margin as defined by local guidelines to allow for the sensitivity of the reserve to future interest rate and equity market movements.
Further detail is provided in the Old Mutual audited Market Consistent Embedded Value supplementary basis information section.
d Provisions for impairment of loans and advances The majority of loans and advances are in respect of Nedbank, which assesses its loan portfolios for impairment at each financial reporting data.
The impairment for performing loans is calculated on a portfolio basis, based on historical loss ratios, adjusted for national and industry specific economic conditions and other indicators present at the reporting date that correlate with defaults on the portfolio.
These include early arrears and other indicators of potential default, such as changes in macroeconomic conditions and legislation affecting credit recovery.
These annual loss ratios are applied to loan balances in the portfolio and scaled to the estimated loss emergence period.
For portfolios which comprise large numbers of small homogenous assets with similar risk characteristics where credit scoring techniques are generally used, statistical techniques are used to calculate impairment allowances on the portfolio, based on historical recovery rates and assumed emergence periods.
There are many models in use, each tailored to a product, line of business or client category.
Judgement and knowledge is needed in selecting the statistical methods to use when the models are developed or revised.
For larger exposures impairment allowances are calculated on an individual basis and all relevant considerations that have a bearing on the expected future cash flows are taken into account.
The level of impairment allowance is the difference between the value of the discounted expected future cash flows and its carrying amount.
Subjective judgements are made in the calculations of future cash flows and change with time as new information becomes available or as strategies evolve, resulting in frequent revisions to the impairment provision as individual decisions are taken.
Further detail is provided in note E3.
Old Mutual plc 137 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued A: Significant accounting policies continued A3: Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued e Tax Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in other comprehensive income, in which case it is correspondingly recognised in other comprehensive income.
The Group is regularly in discussion with the respective tax authorities in each of the jurisdictions where the Group is active.
In certain circumstances the Group applies its judgement to determine if a provision for future tax should be raised.
The Group reviews any potential exposure to tax authorities under the requirements of IAS 37 to determine if a provision should be recognised.
The measurement of any provisions for future taxes is based on the Groups assessment of the specific circumstances and it applies judgement to determine the most likely outcome of its discussions with the relevant tax authorities.
As these provisions are based on estimates and rely on judgements made by the Group, the actual amount of future taxes paid by the Group could be different to the amounts provided.
A4: Insurance and investment contracts Life assurance a Classification of contracts Contracts sold as life assurance with the exception of unit-linked assurance contracts are categorised into insurance contracts, contracts with a discretionary participation feature or investment contracts, being in accordance with the classification criteria set out in the following paragraphs.
For the Groups unit-linked assurance business, contracts are separated into an insurance component and an investment component known as unbundling, and each unbundled component is accounted for separately in accordance with the accounting policy for that component.
Unit-linked assurance contracts are savings contracts with a small or insignificant component of insurance risk.
Contracts under which the transfer of insurance risk to the Group from the policyholder is not significant are classified as investment contracts.
Such contracts include savings and or investment contracts sold without life assurance protection.
Contracts under which the Group accepts significant insurance risk from another party the policyholder by agreeing to compensate the policyholder or other beneficiary if a specified uncertain future event the insured event adversely affects the policyholder are classified as insurance contracts.
Insurance risk is risk other than financial risk.
Contracts accounted for as insurance contracts include life assurance contracts and savings contracts providing more than an insignificant amount of life assurance protection.
Financial risk is the risk of a possible future change in one or more of a specified interest rate, security price, security index, commodity price, foreign exchange rate, index of prices or rates, a credit rating or credit index, or other variable, provided in the case of a non-financial variable that the variable is not specific to a party to the contract.
Contracts with a discretionary participating feature are those under which the policyholder holds a contractual right to receive additional payments as a supplement to guaranteed minimum payments.
These additional payments, the amount or timing of which is at the Groups discretion, represent a significant portion of the total contractual payments and are contractually based on 1 the performance of a specified pool of contracts or a specified type of contract, 2 realised and or unrealised investment returns on a specified pool of assets held by the Group or 3 the profit or loss of the Group.
Investment contracts with discretionary participating features, which have no life assurance protection in the policy terms, are accounted for in the same manner as insurance contracts.
b Premiums on life assurance Premiums and annuity considerations receivable under insurance contracts and investment contracts with a discretionary participating feature are stated gross of commission, and exclude taxes and levies.
Premiums in respect of linked insurance contracts are recognised when the liability is established.
Premiums in respect of other insurance contracts and investment contracts with a discretionary participation feature are recognised when due for payment.
Outward reinsurance premiums are recognised when due for payment.
Amounts received under investment contracts other than those with a discretionary participating feature and unit-linked assurance contracts are recorded as deposits and credited directly to investment contract liabilities.
c Revenue on investment management service contracts Fees charged for investment management services provided in conjunction with an investment contract are recognised as revenue as the services are provided.
Initial fees, which exceed the level of recurring fees and relate to the future provision of services, are deferred and amortised over the anticipated period in which services will be provided.
Fees charged for investment management service contracts by asset management businesses are also recognised on this basis.
138 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information d Claims paid on life assurance Claims paid under insurance contracts and investment contracts with a discretionary participating feature include maturities, annuities, surrenders, death and disability payments.
Maturity and annuity claims are recorded as they fall due for payment.
Death and disability claims and surrenders are accounted for when notified.
Reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same period as the related claim.
Amounts paid under investment contracts other than those with a discretionary participating feature and unit-linked assurance contracts are recorded as deductions from investment contract liabilities.
e Insurance contract provisions Insurance contract provisions for African businesses have been computed using a gross premium valuation method.
Provisions in respect of African business have been made in accordance with the Financial Soundness Valuation basis as set out in the guidelines issued by the Actuarial Society of South Africa in Professional Guidance Note PGN 104 2001.
Under this guideline, provisions are valued using realistic expectations of future experience, with margins for prudence and deferral of profit emergence.
Provisions for investment contracts with a discretionary participating feature are also computed using the gross premium valuation method in accordance with the Financial Soundness Valuation basis.
Surplus allocated to policyholders but not yet distributed related to these contracts is included as part of life assurance policyholder liabilities.
Reserves on immediate annuities and guaranteed payments are computed on the prospective deposit method, which produces reserves equal to the present value of future benefit payments.
For other territories, the valuation bases adopted are in accordance with local actuarial practices and methodologies.
Derivatives embedded in an insurance contract are not separated and measured at fair value if the embedded derivative itself qualifies for recognition as an insurance contract.
In this case the entire contract is measured as described above.
The Group performs liability adequacy testing at a business unit level on its insurance liabilities to ensure that the carrying amount of its liabilities less related deferred acquisition costs and intangible assets is sufficient in view of estimated future cash flows.
When performing the liability adequacy test, the Group discounts all contractual cash flows and compares this amount to the carrying value of the liability at discount rates appropriate to the business in question.
Where a shortfall is identified, an additional provision is made.
The provision estimation techniques and assumptions are periodically reviewed, with any changes in estimates reflected in the income statement as they occur.
Whilst the directors consider that the gross insurance contract provisions and the related reinsurance recoveries are fairly stated on the basis of the information currently available to them, the ultimate liability will vary as a result of subsequent information and events and may result in significant adjustments to the amount provided.
In respect of the South Africa life assurance, shadow accounting is applied to insurance contract provisions where the underlying measurement of the policyholder liability depends directly on the value of owner-occupied property and the unrealised gains and losses on such property, which are recognised in other comprehensive income.
The shadow accounting adjustment to insurance contract provisions is recognised in other comprehensive income to the extent that the unrealised gains or losses on owneroccupied property backing insurance contract provisions are also recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
Financial guarantee contracts are recognised as insurance contracts.
Liability adequacy testing is performed to ensure that the carrying amount of the liability for financial guarantee contracts is sufficient.
f Investment contract liabilities Investment contract liabilities in respect of the Groups non-linked business are recorded at amortised cost unless they are designated at fair value through the income statement in order to eliminate or significantly reduce a measurement or recognition inconsistency, for example where the corresponding assets are recorded at fair value through the income statement.
Investment contract liabilities in respect of the Groups linked business are recorded at fair value.
For such liabilities, including the deposit component of unbundled unit-linked assurance contracts, fair value is calculated as the account balance, which is the value of the units allocated to the policyholder, based on the bid price of the assets in the underlying fund adjusted for tax.
Investment contract liabilities measured at fair value are subject to a deposit floor such that the liability established cannot be less than the amount repayable on demand.
Old Mutual plc 139 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued A: Significant accounting policies continued A4: Insurance and investment contracts continued g Acquisition costs Acquisition costs for insurance contracts comprise all direct and indirect costs arising from the sale of insurance contracts.
As the gross premium valuation method used in African territories to determine insurance contract provisions makes implicit allowance for the deferral of acquisition costs, no explicit deferred acquisition cost asset is recognised in the statement of financial position for the contracts issued in these areas.
Deferral of costs on insurance business in other territories is limited to the extent that they are deemed recoverable from available future margins.
h Costs incurred in acquiring investment management service contracts Incremental costs that are directly attributable to securing an investment management service contract are recognised as an asset if they can be identified separately and measured reliably and it is probable that they will be recovered.
Deferred acquisition costs represent the contractual right to benefit from providing investment management services and are amortised as the related revenue is recognised.
Costs attributable to investment management service contracts in the asset management businesses are also recognised on this basis.
General insurance Contracts under which the Group accepts significant insurance risk from another party and are not classified as Life Insurance are classified as General insurance.
All classes of general insurance business are accounted for on an annual basis.
i Premiums on general insurance Premiums stated gross of commissions exclude taxes and levies and are accounted for in the period in which the risk commences.
The proportion of the premiums written relating to periods of risk after the reporting date is carried forward to subsequent accounting periods as unearned premiums, so that earned premiums relate to risks carried during the accounting period.
Outward reinsurance premiums are accounted for in the same accounting period as the premiums for the related direct insurance.
j Claims on general insurance Claims incurred comprise the settlement and handling costs of paid and outstanding claims arising during the year and adjustments to prior year claim provisions.
Outstanding claims comprise claims incurred up to, but not paid, at the end of the accounting period, whether reported or not.
Outstanding claims do not include any provision for possible future claims where the claims arise under contracts not in existence at the reporting date.
The Group performs liability adequacy testing at a business unit level on its claim liabilities to ensure that the carrying amount of its liabilities less related deferred acquisition costs and the unearned premium reserve is sufficient in view of estimated future cash flows.
Whilst the directors consider that the gross provisions for claims and the related reinsurance recoveries are fairly stated on the basis of the information currently available to them, the ultimate liability will vary as a result of subsequent information and events, and may result in significant adjustments to the amount provided.
Adjustments to the amounts of claims provisions established in prior years are reflected in the financial statements for the period in which the adjustments are made, and disclosed separately if material.
The methods used and estimates made are reviewed regularly.
k Acquisition costs on general insurance Acquisition costs, which represent commission and other related expenses, are deferred and amortised over the period in which the related premiums are earned.
l Reinsurance The Group cedes reinsurance in the normal course of business for the purpose of limiting its net loss potential through the diversification of its risks.
Assets, liabilities and income and expense arising from ceded reinsurance contracts are presented separately from the related assets, liabilities, income and expense from the related insurance contracts because the reinsurance arrangements do not relieve the Group from its direct obligations to its policyholders.
Only rights under contracts that give rise to a significant transfer of insurance risk are accounted for as reinsurance assets.
Rights under contracts that do not transfer significant insurance risk are accounted for as financial instruments.
Reinsurance premiums for ceded reinsurance are recognised as an expense on a basis that is consistent with the recognition basis for the premiums on the related insurance contracts.
For general insurance business, reinsurance premiums are expensed over the period that the reinsurance cover is provided based on the expected pattern of the reinsured risks.
The unexpensed portion of ceded reinsurance premiums is included in reinsurance assets.
140 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The net amounts paid to a reinsurer at the inception of a contract may be less than the reinsurance assets recognised by the Group in respect of its rights under such contracts.
Any difference between the premium due to the reinsurer and the reinsurance asset recognised is included in the income statement in the period in which the reinsurance premium is due.
The amounts recognised as reinsurance assets are measured on a basis that is consistent with the measurement of the provisions held in respect of the related insurance contracts.
Reinsurance assets include recoveries due from reinsurance companies in respect of claims paid.
Reinsurance assets are assessed for impairment at each reporting date.
An asset is deemed impaired if there is objective evidence, as a result of an event that occurred after its initial recognition, that the Group may not recover all amounts due, and that the event has a reliably measurable impact on the amounts that the Group will receive from the reinsurer.
A5: Financial instruments a Recognition and fide-recognition A financial asset or liability is recognised when, and only when, the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the financial instrument.
The Group fide-recognises a financial asset when, and only when: Q The contractual rights to the cash flows arising from the financial assets have expired or been forfeited by the Group: or Q It transfers the financial asset including substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset: or Q It no longer controls the financial asset nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, regardless of whether it has transferred the asset.
A financial liability is fide-recognised when and only when the liability is extinguished, that is, when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, assigned, cancelled or has expired.
The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability or part thereof extinguished or transferred to another party and consideration received, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in the income statement.
All purchases and sales of financial assets that require delivery within the timeframe established by regulation or market convention regular way purchases and sales are recognised at trade date, which is the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Otherwise such transactions are treated as derivatives until settlement occurs.
Loans and receivables are recognised at fair value plus attributable transaction costs when cash is advanced to borrowers.
b Initial measurement Financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset or financial liability not at fair value through the income statement, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the financial asset or financial liability.
c Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are recognised in the statement of financial position at fair value.
Fair values are obtained from quoted market prices, discounted cash flow models and option pricing models as appropriate.
All derivatives are carried as assets when their fair value is positive and as liabilities when their fair value is negative.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives not designated as hedges for hedge accounting purposes are included in investment income or finance costs as appropriate.
d Hedge accounting Qualifying hedging instruments must either be derivative financial instruments or non-derivative financial instruments used to hedge the risk of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in fair value or changes in cash flows.
Changes in the value of the financial instrument should be expected to offset changes in the fair value or cash flows of the underlying hedged item.
The Group designates certain qualifying hedging instruments as either 1 a hedge of the exposure to changes in fair value of a recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised firm commitment fair value hedge : 2 a hedge of a future cash flow attributable to a recognised asset or liability, or a forecasted transaction, and could affect profit or loss cash flow hedge : or, 3 a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation.
Hedge accounting is used for qualifying hedging instruments designated in this way provided certain criteria are met.
Old Mutual plc 141 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued A: Significant accounting policies continued A5: Financial instruments continued The Groups criteria in accordance with reporting standards for a qualifying hedging instrument to be accounted for as a hedge include: Q Upfront formal documentation of the hedging instrument, hedged item or transaction, risk management objective and strategy, the nature of the risk being hedged and the effectiveness measurement methodology that will be applied is prepared before hedge accounting is adopted.
Q The hedge is documented showing that it is expected to be highly effective in offsetting the changes in the fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk, consistent with the risk management and strategy detailed in the upfront hedge documentation.
Q The effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured.
Q The hedge is assessed and determined to have been highly effective on an ongoing basis.
Q For cash flow hedges of a forecast transaction, an assessment that it is highly probable that the hedged transaction will occur and will carry profit and loss risk.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges and that prove to be highly effective in relation to hedged risk, are recorded in the income statement, along with the corresponding change in fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to that specific hedged risk.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges or hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation and that prove to be highly effective in relation to the hedged risk are recognised in other comprehensive income.
If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively.
Any previous adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged interest-bearing financial instrument carried at amortised cost as a result of previous hedge accounting is amortised in the income statement from the date hedge accounting ceases, to the maturity date of the financial instrument, based on the effective interest method.
For hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, any cumulative gains or losses in equity are recognised in the income statement on disposal of the foreign operation.
e Embedded derivatives Certain derivatives embedded in financial and non-financial instruments, such as the conversion option in a convertible bond, are treated as separate derivatives and recognised as such on a stand alone basis, when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract and the host contract is not carried at fair value with unrealised gains and losses reported in the income statement.
If it is not possible to determine the fair value of the embedded derivative, the entire hybrid instrument is categorised as fair value through the income statement and measured at fair value.
f Offsetting financial instruments and related income Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the statement of financial position only when there is a legally enforceable right to set off and there is intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Income and expense items are offset only to the extent that their related instruments have been offset in the statement of financial position, with the exception of those relating to hedges, which are disclosed in accordance with the income statement effect of the hedged item.
g Interest income and expense Interest income and expense in relation to financial instruments carried at amortised cost or held as available-for-sale is recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method taking into account the expected timing and amount of cash flows.
Interest income and expense include the amortisation of any discount or premium or other differences between the initial carrying amount of an interest-bearing instrument and its amount at maturity calculated on an effective interest basis.
Interest income and expense on financial instruments carried at fair value through the income statement is presented as part of interest income or expense.
h Non-interest revenue Non-interest revenue in respect of financial instruments principally comprises fees and commission and other operating income.
These are accounted for as set out below.
142 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Fees and commission income Loan origination fees for loans that are probable of being drawn down, are deferred together with related direct costs and recognised as an adjustment to the effective yield on the loan.
Fees and commission arising from negotiating, or participating in the negotiation of a transaction for a third-party, such as the acquisition of loans, shares or other securities or the purchase or sale of businesses, are recognised on completion of the underlying transaction.
Other Revenue other than interest, fees and commission including fees and insurance premiums, which includes exchange and securities trading income, dividends from investments and net gains on the sale of banking assets, is recognised in the income statement when the amount of revenue from the transaction or service can be measured reliably and it is probable that the economic benefits of the transaction or service will flow to the Group.
i Financial assets Non-derivative financial assets are recorded as held-for-trading, designated as fair value through the income statement, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity or available-for-sale.
An analysis of the Groups statement of financial position, showing the categorisation of financial assets, together with financial liabilities is set out in note E1 a. Held-for-trading financial assets Held-for-trading financial assets are those that were either acquired for generating a profit from short-term fluctuations in price or dealers margin, or are securities included in a portfolio in which a pattern of short-term profit taking exists, or are derivatives that are not designated as effective hedging instruments.
Financial assets designated as fair value through the income statement Financial assets that the Group has elected to designate as fair value through the income statement are those where the treatment either eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise when using a different measurement basis for instance with respect to financial assets supporting insurance contract provisions or are managed, evaluated and reported using a fair value basis for instance financial assets supporting shareholders funds.
All financial assets carried at fair value through the income statement, whether held-for-trading or designated, are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently re-measured at fair value based on quoted bid prices.
If such price information is not available for these instruments, the Group uses other valuation techniques, including internal models, to measure these instruments.
These techniques use market observable inputs where available, derived from similar assets and liabilities in similar and active markets, from recent transaction prices for comparable items or from other observable market data.
For positions where observable reference data are not available for some or all parameters the Group estimates the non-market observable inputs used in its valuation models.
Where discounted cash flow techniques are used, estimated future cash flows are based on managements best estimates and the discount rate used is a market-related rate at the reporting date for an instrument with similar terms and conditions.
Fair values of certain financial instruments, such as over-the-counter OTC derivative instruments, are determined using pricing models that consider, among other factors, contractual and market prices, correlations, yield curves, credit spreads, and volatility factors.
Realised and unrealised fair value gains and losses on all financial assets carried at fair value through the income statement are included in Investment return non-banking or in Banking trading, investment and similar income as appropriate.
Interest earned whilst holding financial assets at fair value through the income statement is reported within Investment return non-banking or Banking interest and similar income, as appropriate.
Dividends receivable are included separately in dividend income, within Investment return non-banking or Banking trading, investment and similar income, when a dividend is declared.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, other than those classified by the Group as fair value through income statement or available-for-sale.
Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost less any impairment write-downs.
Third-party expenses such as legal fees incurred in securing a loan are treated as part of the cost of the transaction.
Old Mutual plc 143 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued A: Significant accounting policies continued A5: Financial instruments continued Held-to-maturity financial assets Financial assets with fixed maturity dates which are quoted in an active market and where management has both the intent and the ability to hold the asset to maturity are classified as held-to-maturity.
These assets are carried at amortised cost less any impairment write-downs.
Interest earned on held-to-maturity financial assets is reported within Investment return non-banking or Banking interest and similar income, as appropriate.
Available-for-sale financial assets Financial assets intended to be held for an indefinite period of time, which may be sold in response to needs for liquidity or changes in interest rates, exchange rates or equity prices other than those designated fair value through income statement or as loans and receivables, are classified as available-for-sale.
Management determines the appropriate classification of its investments at the time of the purchase.
Available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value based on quoted bid prices.
If quoted bid prices are unavailable or determined to be unreliable, the fair value of the financial asset is estimated using pricing models or discounted cash flow techniques.
Where pricing models are used, inputs are based on observable market data where available at the reporting date.
Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets are recognised in other comprehensive income.
When available-for-sale financial assets are disposed the related accumulated fair value adjustments are included in the income statement as gains and losses from available-for-sale financial assets.
When available-for-sale assets are impaired the resulting loss is shown separately in the income statement as an impairment charge.
Interest earned on available-for-sale financial assets is reported within Investment return non-banking or Banking interest and similar income, as appropriate.
Dividends receivable are included separately in dividend income, within Investment return non-banking or Banking trading, investment and similar income, as appropriate when a dividend is declared.
j Sale and repurchase agreements and lending of securities Securities sold subject to linked repurchase agreements are retained in the financial statements as appropriate when considering the fide-recognition criteria contained within IAS 39.
The securities that are retained in the financial statements are reflected as trading or investment securities and the counterparty liability is included in amounts owed to other depositors, deposits from other banks, or other money market deposits, as appropriate.
Securities purchased under agreements to resell at a pre-determined price are recorded as loans and advances to other banks or customers as appropriate.
The difference between the sale and repurchase price is treated as interest and accrued over the lives of agreements using the effective interest method.
Securities lent to counterparties are retained in the financial statements and any interest earned recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method.
Securities borrowed are not recognised in the financial statements, unless these are sold to third parties, in which case the purchase and sale are recorded with the gain or loss included in trading income.
The obligation to return them is recorded at fair value as a trading liability.
k Impairments of financial assets Indicators of impairment A provision for impairment is established if there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to recover all amounts relating to the financial asset.
Observable data that could come to the attention of the Group that could lead to a provision for impairment to be made includes: Q Significant financial difficulty of the counterparty.
Q A breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in interest or principal payments.
Q The Group, for economic or legal reasons relating to the counterpartys financial difficulty, grants to the counterparty a concession that the Group would not otherwise consider.
Q It becoming probable that the counterparty will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation.
Q Observable data indicating that there is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows from a group of assets since the initial recognition of those assets, although the decrease cannot yet be identified with the individual financial assets, including: adverse changes in the payment status of counterparties in the group of financial assets: or national or local economic conditions that correlate with defaults on the assets in the group of financial assets.
In addition, for an available-for-sale financial asset, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value below its cost is also objective evidence of impairment.
144 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Financial assets at amortised cost The amount of the impairment of a financial asset held at amortised cost is the difference between the carrying amount and the recoverable amount, being the value of expected cash flows, including amounts recoverable from guarantees and collateral, discounted based on the effective interest rate at initial recognition.
In estimating expected cash flows the Group looks at the contractual cash flows of the assets and adjusts these contractual cash flows for historical loss experience of assets with similar credit risks, with this adjusted to reflect any additional conditions that are expected to arise or to account for those which no longer exist.
The impairment provision also covers losses where there is objective evidence that losses are present in components of the loan portfolio at the reporting date, but these components have not yet been specifically identified.
When a loan is uncollectable, it is written-off against the related impairment provision.
If the amount of impairment subsequently decreases due to an event occurring after the write-down, the release of the impairment provision is credited to the income statement.
Impairment reversals are limited to what the carrying amount would have been, had no impairment losses been recognised.
Interest income on impaired loans and receivables is recognised on the impaired amount using the original effective interest rate before the impairment.
Available-for-sale financial assets The amount of the impairment loss of an available-for-sale financial asset is the cumulative loss that has been recognised in other comprehensive income, being the difference between the acquisition cost and the assets current fair value, less any impairment loss on that asset previously recognised in the income statement.
For available-for-sale debt securities, fair value is determined as is the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the current market rate of interest.
All such impairments are recognised in the income statement.
The release of an impairment allowance in respect of a debt instrument categorised as available-for-sale is credited to the income statement, the release in respect of an equity instrument categorised as available-for-sale is credited to the available-for-sale reserve within equity.
l Financial liabilities other than investment contracts and derivatives Non-derivative financial liabilities, including borrowed funds, amounts owed to depositors and liabilities under acceptances, are recorded as held-for-trading, designated as fair value through the income statement or as financial liabilities at amortised cost.
Liabilities that the Group has elected to designate as fair value through the income statement are those where the treatment either eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise when using a different measurement basis and are managed, evaluated and reported using a fair value basis.
For financial liabilities recorded at fair value and which contain a demand feature, the fair value of the liability is not less than the amount payable on demand, discounted from the first date that the amount could be required to be paid.
Financial liabilities categorised at amortised cost are recognised initially at fair value, which is normally represented by the transaction price, less directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition these financial liabilities are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Conversion options included within financial liabilities are recorded separately in shareholders equity.
The Group does not recognise any change in the value of this option in subsequent periods.
The remaining obligation to make future payments of principal and interest to bondholders is calculated using a market interest rate for an equivalent non-convertible bond and is presented on the amortised cost basis in other borrowed funds until extinguished on conversion or maturity of the bonds.
If the Group purchases its own debt, it is removed from the statement of financial position and the difference between the carrying amount of a liability and the consideration paid is included in other income.
m Reclassifications of financial assets A non-derivative financial asset that would have met the definition of loans and receivables at initial recognition that was required to be categorised as held-for-trading on the basis that it was held for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term may under exceptional circumstances be reclassified out of the fair value through income statement category if the Group intends and is able to hold the financial asset for the foreseeable future or until maturity.
If a financial asset is so reclassified, it is reclassified at its fair value on the date of reclassification.
Any gain or loss already recognised in profit or loss is not reversed.
The fair value at the date of reclassification becomes its new cost or amortised cost, as applicable.
Old Mutual plc 145 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued A: Significant accounting policies continued A5: Financial instruments continued Other non-derivative financial assets that were required to be categorised as held-for-trading at initial recognition may be reclassified out of the fair value through income statement category in rare circumstances.
Measurement of the asset after reclassification depends on the subsequent categorisation.
A non-derivative financial asset that would have met the definition of loans and receivables at initial recognition that was designated as available-for-sale may under exceptional circumstances be reclassified out of the available-for-sale category to the loans and receivables category if it meets the loans and receivables definition at the date of reclassification and if the Group intends and is able to hold the financial asset for the foreseeable future or until maturity.
In the case of a financial asset with a fixed maturity, the gain or loss already recognised in the available-for-sale reserve in equity is amortised to profit or loss over the remaining life using the effective interest method together with any difference between the new amortised cost and the maturity amount.
In the case of a financial asset that does not have a fixed maturity, the gain or loss already recognised in the available-for-sale reserve in equity is recognised in profit or loss when the financial asset is sold or otherwise disposed of.
n Parent Company investments in subsidiary undertakings and associates Parent Company investments in subsidiary undertakings and associates are recorded at cost.
Impairments of Parent Company investments in subsidiary undertakings and associates are accounted for in the same way as impairments of other non-financial assets.
A6: Intangible assets a Goodwill and goodwill impairment Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary undertaking is recognised as an asset at the date that control is achieved the acquisition date.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the fair value of the consideration transferred, the amount of any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously-held equity interest in the acquiree if any over the net of the acquisition date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
If the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable net assets exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously-held equity interest if any, this excess is recognised immediately in the income statement as a bargain purchase gain.
Goodwill is not amortised, but is reviewed for impairment at least once annually.
Any impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
On loss of control of a subsidiary undertaking, any attributable goodwill is included in the determination of any profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill is allocated to one or more cash-generating units CGUs, being the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or group of assets.
The directors annually test for impairment of each CGU or group of CGUs containing goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, at a level that is no larger than that of the Groups identified operating segments for the purposes of segment reporting.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its CGU or group of CGUs exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Impairment losses relating to goodwill are not reversed.
b Present value of acquired in-force for insurance and investment contract business The present value of acquired in-force for insurance and investment contract business is capitalised in the consolidated statement of financial position as an intangible asset.
The capitalised value is the present value of cash flows anticipated in the future from the relevant book of insurance and investment contract policies acquired.
This is calculated by performing a cash flow projection of the associated life assurance fund and book of in-force policies in order to estimate future after tax profits attributable to shareholders.
The valuation is based on actuarial principles taking into account future premium income, mortality, disease and surrender probabilities, together with future costs and investment returns on the assets supporting the fund.
These profits are discounted at a rate of return allowing for the risk of uncertainty of the future cash flows.
The key assumptions impacting the valuation are discount rate, future investment returns and the rate at which policies discontinue.
The asset is amortised over the expected profit recognition period on a systematic basis over the anticipated lives of the related contracts.
146 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The amortisation charge is stated net of any unwind in the discount rate used to calculate the asset.
The recoverable amount of the asset is re-calculated at each reporting date and any impairment losses recognised accordingly.
c Other intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination Contractual banking and asset management customer relationships, relationships with distribution channels and similar intangible assets, acquired as a part of a business combination, are capitalised at their fair value, represented by the estimated net present value of the future cash flows from the relevant relationships acquired at the date of acquisition.
Brands and similar items acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised at their fair value based on a relief from royalty valuation methodology.
Subsequent to initial recognition such acquired intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as set out below: Q Distribution channels 10 years Q Customer relationships 10 years Q Brand 15 20 years The estimated life is re-evaluated on a regular basis.
d Internally developed software Internally developed software is amortised over its estimated useful life.
Such assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Software is recognised in the statement of financial position if, and only if, it is probable that the relevant future economic benefits attributable to the software will flow to the Group and its cost can be measured reliably.
Costs incurred in the research phase are expensed whereas costs incurred in the development phase are capitalised subject to meeting specific criteria, set out in the relevant accounting guidance.
The main criteria is that future economic benefits can be identified as a result of the development expenditure.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the relevant software, which range between two and five years.
e Subsequent expenditure Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates.
All other expenditure is expensed as incurred.
For properties reclassified during the year from property, plant and equipment to investment properties, any revaluation gain arising is initially recognised in the income statement to the extent that impairment losses were previously recognised.
Any residual excess is taken to the revaluation reserve.
Revaluation deficits are recognised in the revaluation reserve to the extent of previously recognised gains and any residual deficit is accounted for in the income statement.
Investment properties that are reclassified to owner-occupied property are revalued at the date of transfer, with any difference being taken to the income statement.
A7: Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and their fair value less costs to sell.
Where the proceeds of disposal are expected to exceed the carrying amount of the related net assets no impairment loss is recognised on the reclassifications of assets as held for sale.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sales transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as having been met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale, which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year of the date of classification.
A discontinued operation is defined as a component of an entity that either has been disposed of, or is classified as held for sale and: Q Represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations: Q Is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations: or Q Is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale.
When a non-current asset or disposal group ceases to be classified as held for sale, the individual assets and liabilities cease to be shown separately in the statement of financial position at the end of the year in which the classification changes.
If the line of business was previously presented as a discontinued operation and subsequently ceases to be classified as held for sale the income statement and cash flows of the comparative period are restated to show that line of business as a continuing operation.
Old Mutual plc 147 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued A: Significant accounting policies continued A8: Liquidity analysis of the statement of financial position The Groups statement of financial position is in order of liquidity as is permitted by IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
In order to satisfy the requirements of IAS 1, the following analysis is given to describe how statement of financial position lines are categorised between current and non-current balances, applying the principles laid out in IAS 1.
The following statement of financial position captions are generally classified as current cash and cash equivalents, non-current assets held for sale, client indebtedness for acceptances, current tax receivable, third-party interests in the consolidation of funds, current tax payable, liabilities under acceptances and non-current liabilities held for sale.
The following balances are generally classified as non-current goodwill and other intangible assets, mandatory reserve deposits with central banks, property, plant and equipment, investment property, deferred tax assets, investments in associated undertakings and jointly controlled operations, deferred acquisition costs, deposits held with reinsurers, provisions, deferred revenue and deferred tax liabilities.
The following balances include both current and non-current portions reinsurers shares of life assurance and general insurance business policyholder liabilities, loans and advances, investments and securities, other assets, derivative financial assets and liabilities, life assurance and general insurance policyholder liabilities, borrowed funds, amounts owed to bank depositors and other liabilities.
The split between the current and non-current portions for these assets and liabilities is given either by way of a footnote to the relevant note to the accounts or by way of a maturity analysis in respect of major financial liability captions.
A9: Standards, amendments to standards, and interpretations adopted in the 2011 annual financial statements The following standards, amendments to standards and interpretations, which are relevant to the Group, have been adopted in thesefinancial statements.
The adoption of these standards had no impact in the Groups financial position or performance unlessstated otherwise.
Q IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures Amendment.
The amended standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1January 2011.
It clarifies the definition of a related party to simplify the identification of such relationships and to eliminate inconsistencies in its application.
The revised standard introduced a partial exemption of disclosure requirements for governmentrelated entities.
Q IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments effective 1 July 2010 clarifies the treatment of transactions whereby equity instruments are issued in order to extinguish all or part of a financial liability.
Q IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement.
The amendment to IFRIC 14 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011 with retrospective application.
The amendment provides guidance on assessing the recoverable amount of a net pension asset.
The amendment permits an entity to treat the prepayment of a minimum funding requirement as anasset.
Q The improvements to IFRSs issued in 2010 have been adopted.
148 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information A10: Future standards, amendments to standards, and interpretations not early-adopted in the 2011 annual financial statements At the date of authorisation of these financial statements the following standards, amendments to standards, and interpretations, which are relevant to the Group, have been issued by the International Accounting Standards Board, although the EU has not yet endorsed all of them.
The standards, amendments to standards and interpretations have not yet been endorsed by the EU unless stated otherwise, with the Group currently assessing the full impact of each.
Q IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective 1 January 2013 is a new standard on financial instruments that will eventually replace IAS 39.
The published standard introduces changes to the current IAS 39 rules for classification and measurement of financial assets.
Under IFRS 9 there will be two measurement bases for financial assets, amortised cost and fair value.
Financial assets at fair value will be recorded at fair value through the income statement with a limited opportunity to record changes in fair value of certain equity instruments through other comprehensive income.
The main impact for the Group will be the reclassification of the Bermuda business bond portfolios from available-for-sale fair value changes through other comprehensive income to amortised cost or fair value through the income statement.
Financial liabilities are excluded from the scope of the standard.
Q IFRS 7 Disclosures Transfers of Financial Assets Amendments to IFRS 7 was issued in October 2010.
The amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures require enhancements to the existing disclosures where an asset is transferred but is not derecognised and introduce new disclosures for assets that are derecognised but the entity continues to have a continuing exposure to the asset after the sale.
These amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011.
Early application of the amendments is permitted.
Q IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements effective 1 January 2013 : IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements effective 1 January 2013 : IFRS 12 Disclosures of interests in other entities effective 1 January 2013.
These standards all relate to how the Group will account for its interests in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, together with new disclosures regarding these investments.
The most significant impact is expected from IFRS 10 which provides a revised principle of when the Group controls another entity.
Q IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement effective 1 January 2013 is a new standard providing principles on the determination of fair value.
Q Amendment to IAS 12 Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets effective 1 January 2012 introduces an exception to the current measurement principles of deferred tax assets and liabilities arising from investment property measured using the fair value model in accordance with IAS 40 Investment Property.
Q Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income effective 1 July 2012 require that an entity present separately the items of OCI that may be reclassified to profit or loss in the future from those that would never be reclassified to profit or loss.
This amendment is not expected to have an impact on the Group financial statements.
Q Amendments to IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans effective 1 January 2013 require immediate recognition of actuarial gains and losses in other comprehensive income and eliminate the corridor method.
Old Mutual plc 149 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued B: Segment information B1: Basis of segmentation The Groups results are analysed and reported on a basis consistent with the way that management and the Board of Directors considers information when making operating decisions and the basis on which resources are allocated and performance assessed by management and the Board of Directors, being in line with that reported in the previous financial year.
This information is presented to the Board in local currency, however this note is presented in pounds sterling, the presentation currency of the Group.
As detailed in note A2, Nordic has been reclassified as discontinued and as a result also non-core, with the comparative segment information restated accordingly, resulting in a reduction in adjusted operating profit before tax and non-controlling interests of 110 million for the year ended 31 December 2010.
There are four principal business activities from which the Group generates revenues.
These are life assurance premium income, asset management business fee and commission income, banking banking interest receivable and general insurance premium income.
The revenues generated in each reported segment can be seen in the analysis of profits and losses in note B3.
The information reflects the measures of profit and loss, assets and liabilities for each operating segment as regularly provided to management and the Board of Directors.
There are no differences between the measurement of the assets and liabilities reflected in the primary statements and that reported for the segments.
A reconciliation between the segment revenues and expenses and the Groups revenues and expenses is shown in note B2.
In line with internal reporting, assets, liabilities, revenues or expenses that are not directly attributable to a particular segment are allocated between segments where appropriate and where there is a reasonable basis for doing so.
The Group accounts for inter-segment revenues and transfers as if the transactions were with third parties at current market prices.
Given the nature of the operations, there are no major customers within any of the segments.
The types of products and services from which each operating segment derives its revenues are as follows: Core operations Long-Term Savings Emerging Markets life assurance and asset management Retail Europe life assurance and asset management Wealth Management life assurance and asset management Other core operations Nedbank banking and asset management Mutual & Federal general insurance US Asset Management asset management Other other operating segments and business activities Discontinued and non-core operations Bermuda life assurance non-core Nordic life assurance, asset management and banking discontinued and non-core US Life life assurance discontinued and non-core Income statement segmentation For the IFRS income statement Nordic and US Life have been classified as discontinued operations.
All other businesses including Bermuda are classified as continuing.
The profits of the Nordic, US Life and Bermuda businesses are excluded in determining adjusting operating profit in both periods, on the basis that they are either discontinued Nordic and US Life or non-core Bermuda.
150 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Statement of financial position segmentation The segmental analysis of the statement of financial position at both 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010 discloses Bermuda as non-core, consistent with the treatment of the business for AOP purposes.
Nordic is disclosed as discontinued in the statement of financial position consistent with the income statement classification.
The agreement to dispose of Nordic announced on 15 December 2011 resulted in the assets and liabilities of the business being classified as held for sale at 31 December 2011.
For the corresponding period Nordic has been reported on a line by line basis.
US Life is disclosed as discontinued at 31 December 2010, being classified as held for sale.
The disposal of US Life was completed on 7 April 2011.
Adjusted operating profit is one of the key measures reported to the Groups management and Board of Directors for their consideration in the allocation of resources to and the review of performance of the segments.
The Group utilises additional measures to assess the performance of each of the segments, in particular the level of net client cash flows and funds under management.
Additional performance measures considered by management and the Board of Directors in assessing the performance of the segments can be found in the Market Consistent Embedded Value basis supplementary information presented on pages 244 to 285.
In the analysis that follows, consolidation adjustments include the elimination of inter-segment revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities together with the impacts of the consolidation of the Groups interest in unit trusts, mutual funds and similar entities.
B2: Gross earned premiums m Emerging Retail Wealth Long-Term Year ended 31 December 2011 Markets Europe Management Savings M&F Bermuda Total Life assurance insurance contracts 1,567 30 274 1,871 2 1,873 Life assurance investment contracts with discretionary participation features 975 975 975 General insurance 736 736 Gross earned premiums 2,542 30 274 2,846 736 2 3,584 Life assurance other investment contracts recognised as deposits 2,088 666 5,740 8,494 8,494 m Emerging Retail Wealth Long-Term Total Year ended 31 December 2010 Markets Europe Management Savings M&F Bermuda Restated Life assurance insurance contracts 1,498 28 351 1,877 1,877 Life assurance investment contracts with discretionary participation features 855 855 855 General insurance 728 728 Gross earned premiums 2,353 28 351 2,732 728 3,460 Life assurance other investment contracts recognised as deposits 1,829 656 6,287 8,772 8,772 Old Mutual plc 151 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued B: Segment information continued B3: Adjusted operating profit statement segment information year ended 31 December 2011 Long-Term Savings Total Emerging Retail Wealth Long-Term Markets Europe Management Savings Revenue Gross earned premiums 2,542 30 274 2,846 Outward reinsurance 88 8 80 176 Net earned premiums 2,454 22 194 2,670 Investment return non-banking 2,626 214 2,664 252 Banking interest and similar income Banking trading, investment and similar income Fee and commission income, and income from service activities 411 201 982 1,594 Other income 68 22191 Inter-segment revenues 6656 77 Total revenues 5,625 16 1,461 4,180 Expenses Claims and benets including change in insurance contract provisions 2,854 20 82 2,956 Reinsurance recoveries 7336 82 Net claims and benets incurred 2,781 17 76 2,874 Change in investment contract liabilities 925 226 2,588 1,889 Losses on loans and advances 1 1 Finance costs including interest and similar expenses Banking interest payable and similar expenses Fee and commission expenses, and other acquisition costs 223 84 580 887 Other operating and administrative expenses 1,076 93 311 1,480 Goodwill impairment Change in third-party interest in consolidated funds Income tax attributable to policyholder returns 53 62 9 Inter-segment expenses 7 3 43 53 Total expenses 5,065 28 1,640 3,397 Share of associated undertakings and joint ventures profit after tax 10 10 profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments Adjusted operating profit loss before tax and non-controlling interests 570 44 179 793 Income tax expense 120 11 15 146 Non-controlling interests 3 3 Adjusted operating profit loss after tax and non-controlling interests 447 33 164 644 Adjusting items net of tax and non-controlling interests 126 30 57 39 profit loss after tax from continuing operations 573 3 107 683 profit from discontinued operations after tax profit loss after tax attributable to equity holders of the parent 573 3 107 683 Of the total revenues, excluding intercompany revenues, 1,492 million was generated in the UK 2010: 5,143 million, 81 million in rest of Europe 2010: 1,160 million, 11,007 million in southern Africa 2010: 12,575 million, 270 million in United States 2010: 829 million and 80 million relates to other operating segments 2010: 90 million.
Non-core operations relates to Bermuda with the exception of 22 million and 5 million of inter-segment revenue and expenses and the profit from discontinued operations after tax, with these reflecting the results of Nordic and US Life both of which have been classified as discontinued operations as detailed in notes A2 and B1.
Bermuda loss after tax for 2011 was 201 million.
Further detail on the results of discontinued operations is provided in note H1.
152 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information m Adjusted Adjusting Discontinued Consolidation operating items and non-core IFRS Income Nedbank M&F USAM Other adjustments profit note C1 operations statement 736 3,582 2 3,584 149 325 325 587 3,257 2 3,259 54 52 30 116 241 210 567 3,669 3,669 3,669 217 217 217 1,051 34 447 3,126 91 3,035 50 10 151 20 171 27 18 1 16 185 46 46 5,014 693 458 68 155 10,258 332 142 9,784 422 3,378 47 3,331 41 123 123 381 3,255 47 3,208 1,889 1,889 457 458 458 128 128 70 58 2,091 2,091 4 2,095 9 109 12 24 1,041 104 70 1,007 1,641 95 379 81 8 3,684 154 14 3,852 264 264 2 2 2 9 9 61 19 48 185 4 4 4,259 604 391 257 155 8,753 257 41 9,051 10 10 251 251 755 89 67 189 1,515 338 183 994 188 22 8 23 341 117 1 225 269 8 39 319 19 300 298 59 59 205 855 202 184 469 16 24 260 27 202 202 314 35 201 178 653 184 469 198 198 314 35 201 178 653 14 667 Old Mutual plc 153 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued B: Segment information continued B3: Adjusted operating profit statement segment information year ended 31 December 2010 restated Long-Term Savings Total Emerging Retail Wealth Long-Term Markets Europe Management Savings Revenue Gross earned premiums 2,353 28 351 2,732 Outward reinsurance 72 8 79 159 Net earned premiums 2,281 20 272 2,573 Investment return non-banking 4,072 392 4,409 8,873 Banking interest and similar income Banking trading, investment and similar income Fee and commission income, and income from service activities 372 198 912 1,482 Other income 72 11 83 Inter-segment revenues 54 5 12 71 Total revenues 6,851 615 5,616 13,082 Expenses Claims and benets including change in insurance contract provisions 3,943 25 303 4,271 Reinsurance recoveries 83 5 75 163 Net claims and benets incurred 3,860 20 228 4,108 Change in investment contract liabilities 1,261 382 4,190 5,833 Losses on loans and advances 1 1 Finance costs including interest and similar expenses Banking interest payable and similar expenses Fee and commission expenses, and other acquisition costs 219 75 500 794 Other operating and administrative expenses 941 84 390 1,415 Goodwill impairment Change in third-party interest in consolidated funds Income tax attributable to policyholder returns 32 69 101 Inter-segment expenses 2 2 43 47 Total expenses 6,315 564 5,420 12,299 Share of associated undertakings and joint ventures profit after tax 3 1 4 Loss on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments Adjusted operating profit loss before tax and non-controlling interests 539 51 197 787 Income tax expense 146 13 44 203 Non-controlling interests 1 1 Adjusted operating profit loss after tax and non-controlling interests 392 38 153 583 Adjusting items net of tax and non-controlling interests 1 25 140 166 profit loss after tax from continuing operations 391 13 13 417 Loss from discontinued operations after tax profit loss after tax attributable to equity holders of the parent 391 13 13 417 Non-core operations relates to Bermuda with the exception of 18 million and 21 million of inter-segment revenue and expenses and the loss from discontinued operations after tax, with these reflecting the results of Nordic and US Life both of which have been classified as discontinued operations as detailed in notes A2 and B1.
Bermuda profit after tax for 2010 was 22 million.
Further detail is provided in note H2.
The net assets of Emerging Markets are stated after eliminating investments in Group equity and debt instruments of 368 million 2010: 399 million held in policyholder funds.
These include investments in the Companys ordinary shares and subordinated liabilities and preferred securities issued by the Groups banking subsidiary Nedbank Limited.
All Emerging Markets debt relates to life assurance.
All other debt relates to other shareholders net assets.
Old Mutual plc 159 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued C: Other key performance information C1: Operating profit adjusting items a Summary of adjusting items In determining the adjusted operating profit of the Group for core operations certain adjustments are made to profit before tax to reflect the directors view of the underlying long-term performance of the Group.
The following table shows an analysis of those adjustments from adjusted operating profit to profit before and after tax.
m Total Emerging Retail Wealth Long-Term Year ended 31 December 2011 Notes Markets Europe Management Savings Income expense Goodwill impairment and impact of acquisition accounting C1 b 2 40 87 129 profit on acquisition disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments C1 c 249 249 Short-term uctuations in investment return C1 d 98 1 13 112 Investment return adjustment for Group equity and debt instruments held in life funds C1 e 71 71 Dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities C1 f US Asset Management equity plans and non-controlling interests C1 g Credit-related fair value gains losses on Group debt instruments C1 h Total adjusting items 78 41 100 63 Tax on adjusting items D1 d 43 11 43 97 Non-controlling interest in adjusting items F11 a iii 5 5 Total adjusting items after tax and non-controlling interests 126 30 57 39 m Total Emerging Retail Wealth Long-Term Year ended 31 December 2010 Notes Markets Europe Management Savings Income expense Goodwill impairment and impact of acquisition accounting C1 b 2 41 74 117 Loss on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments C1 c Short-term uctuations in investment return C1 d 11 71 69 Investment return adjustment for Group equity and debt instruments held in life funds C1 e 10 10 Dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities C1 f US Asset Management equity plans and non-controlling interests C1 g Credit-related fair value losses on Group debt instruments C1 h Total adjusting items 11 40 145 196 Tax on adjusting items D1 d 10 15 5 30 Non-controlling interest in adjusting items F11 a iii Total adjusting items after tax and non-controlling interests 1 25 140 166 The year ended 31 December 2010 has been restated to reflect Nordic as non-core and discontinued.
160 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information m LongTerm Year ended 31 December 2011 Notes Savings Nedbank M&F USAM Other Total Income expense Goodwill impairment and impact of acquisition accounting C1 b 129 272 401 profit on acquisition disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments C1 c 249 2 251 Short-term uctuations in investment return C1 d 112 28 31 171 Investment return adjustment for Group equity and debt instruments held in life funds C1 e 71 71 Dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities C1 f 44 44 US Asset Management equity plans and non-controlling interests C1 g 4 4 Credit-related fair value gains losses on Group debt instruments C1 h 4 27 23 Total adjusting items 63 4 28 274 40 329 Tax on adjusting items D1 d 9713 20 13 108 Non-controlling interest in adjusting items F11 a iii 519 1 6 19 Total adjusting items after tax and non-controlling interests 39 16 24 260 27 202 m Long-Term Year ended 31 December 2010 Notes Savings Nedbank M&F USAM Other Total Income expense Goodwill impairment and impact of acquisition accounting C1 b 117 6 2 125 Loss on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments C1 c 1 21 22 Short-term uctuations in investment return C1 d 69 7 6 82 Investment return adjustment for Group equity and debt instruments held in life funds C1 e 10 10 Dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities C1 f 44 44 US Asset Management equity plans and non-controlling interests C1 g 6 6 Credit-related fair value losses on Group debt instruments C1 h 20 183 203 Total adjusting items 196 27 7 17 145 392 Tax on adjusting items D1 d 30 7 4 6 6 33 Non-controlling interest in adjusting items F11 a iii 30 9 21 Total adjusting items after tax and non-controlling interests 166 10 11 20 151 338 The year ended 31 December 2010 has been restated to reflect Nordic as non-core and discontinued.
Old Mutual plc 161 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued C: Other key performance information continued C1: Operating profit adjusting items continued b Goodwill impairment and impact of acquisition accounting Acquisition date deferred acquisition costs and deferred revenues are not recognised.
These are reversed in the acquisition statement of financial position and replaced by goodwill, other intangible assets and the value of the acquired present value of in-force business acquired PVIF.
In determining its adjusted operating profit the Group recognises deferred revenue and acquisition costs in relation to policies sold by acquired businesses pre-acquisition, and excludes the impairment of goodwill and the amortisation of acquired other intangibles and acquired PVIF and the movements in certain acquisition date provisions.
Goodwill impairment and acquisition accounting adjustments to adjusted operating profit are summarised below: m Emerging Retail Wealth Year ended 31 December 2011 Markets Europe Management Nedbank USAM Total Amortisation of acquired PVIF 20 70 90 Amortisation of acquired deferred costs and revenue 7 20 13 Amortisation of other acquired intangible assets 2 13 37 8 60 Change in acquisition date provisions Goodwill impairment 264 264 2 40 87 272 401 m Emerging Retail Wealth Year ended 31 December 2010 Markets Europe Management Nedbank USAM Total Amortisation of acquired PVIF 21 77 98 Amortisation of acquired deferred costs and revenue 7 34 27 Amortisation of other acquired intangible assets 1 13 35 6 2 57 Change in acquisition date provisions 4 4 Goodwill impairment 1 1 2 41 74 6 2 125 The year ended 31 December 2010 has been restated to reflect Nordic as discontinued and non-core.
c Profit loss on acquisition disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments Profit loss on the acquisition disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments is analysed below: m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Emerging Markets 249 Long-Term Savings 249 Nedbank 1 USAM 2 21 profit loss on acquisition disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments 251 22 In preparing the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 the Emerging Markets segment included the South African and Namibian businesses but excluded all other African businesses.
Following a period of greater political and currency stability in Zimbabwe and an expectation that the Group will be able to extract benefits from its Zimbabwean business it has been consolidated for the first time together with operations in Kenya, Malawi, Swaziland and Nigeria.
Further detail has been provided in note A2.
On 30 December 2011 USAM disposed of Lincluden Management Ltd, a subsidiary, at a profit of 2 million.
On 27 August 2010 USAM disposed of Thomson, Horstmann & Bryant, a subsidiary, for a loss of 21 million.
162 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information d Short-term fluctuations in investment return Profit before tax includes actual investment returns earned on the shareholder assets of the Groups life assurance and general insurance businesses.
Adjusted operating profit is stated after recalculating shareholder asset investment returns based on a long-term investment return rate.
The difference between the actual and the long-term investment returns are short-term fluctuations in investment return.
Long-term rates of return are based on achieved rates of return appropriate to the underlying asset base, adjusted for current inflation expectations, default assumptions, costs of investment management and consensus economic investment forecasts.
The long-term rates of return are reviewed frequently, usually annually, for appropriateness.
These rates of return have been selected with a view to ensuring that returns credited to adjusted operating profit are consistent with the actual returns expected to be earned over the long term.
For Emerging Markets, the return is applied to an average value of investible shareholders assets, adjusted for net fund flows.
For Retail Europe and Wealth Management, the return is applied to average investible assets.
For M&F general insurance business, the return is an average value of investible assets supporting shareholders funds and insurance liabilities, adjusted for net fund flows.
% Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Long-term investment rates 2011 2010 Emerging Markets 9.0 9.4 Retail Europe 2.1 2.5 Wealth Management 2.0 2.0 M&F 9.0 9.4 Analysis of short-term fluctuations in investment return m Total Emerging Retail Wealth Long-Term Year ended 31 December 2011 Markets Europe Management Savings M&F Other Total Actual shareholder investment return 14 1 65 80 26 6 112 Less: Long-term investment return 112 2 78 192 54 37 283 Short-term uctuations in investment return 98 1 13 112 28 31 171 m Total Emerging Retail Wealth Long-Term Year ended 31 December 2010 Markets Europe Management Savings M&F Other Total Actual shareholder investment return 109 2 61 172 49 25 246 Less: Long-term investment return 108 1 132 241 56 31 328 Short-term uctuations in investment return 1 1 71 69 7 6 82 Wealth Management long-term investment return includes 65 million 2010: 121 million in respect of income tax attributable to policyholder returns.
The year ended 31 December 2010 has been restated to reflect Nordic as discontinued and non-core.
e Investment return adjustment for Group equity and debt instruments held in life funds Adjusted operating profit includes investment returns on policyholder investments in Group equity and debt instruments held by the Groups life funds.
These include investments in the Companys ordinary shares, and the subordinated liabilities and ordinary securities of Nedbank.
These investment returns are eliminated within the consolidated income statement in arriving at profit before tax, but are included in adjusted operating profit.
In 2011 the investment return adjustment increased adjusted operating profit by 71million 2010: increase of 10 million.
f Dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities Dividends declared to the holders of the Groups perpetual preferred callable securities were 44 million in the year ended 31December 2011 2010: 44 million.
These are recognised in finance costs on an accruals basis for the purpose of determiningadjusted operating profit.
In the IFRS financial statements this cost is recognised in equity.
g US Asset Management equity plans and non-controlling interests US Asset Management has a number of long-term incentive arrangements with senior employees in its asset management affiliates.
In accordance with IFRS requirements the cost of these schemes is disclosed as being attributable to non-controlling interests.
However, this is treated as a compensation expense in determining adjusted operating profit.
The loss recognised in 2011 was 6million 2010: loss 9 million.
Old Mutual plc 163 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued C: Other key performance information continued C1: Operating profit adjusting items continued The Group has issued put options to senior employees as part of some of its US affiliate incentive schemes.
The impact of revaluing these instruments is recognised in accordance with IFRS, but excluded from adjusted operating profit.
At 31 December 2011 these instruments were revalued, the impact of which was a profit of 10 million 2010: profit 3 million.
h Credit-related fair value gains and losses on Group debt instruments The widening of credit spread of the Groups debt instruments in the market price has resulted in gains of 27 million 2010: losses due to narrowing of 183 million on Other operating segments and losses of 4 million 2010: losses of 20 million in Nedbank being recorded in the Groups income statement for those instruments that are recorded at fair value.
In the directors view, such movements are not reflective of the underlying performance of the Group and will reverse over time.
They have therefore been excluded from adjusted operating profit.
C2: Foreign currencies The principal exchange rates used to translate the operating results, assets and liabilities of key foreign business segments to pounds sterling are: Year ended 31 December 2011 Year ended 31 December 2010 Statement Statement of Income of financial Income financial statement position statement position average rate closing rate average rate closing rate Rand 11.6445 12.5643 11.3095 10.2796 US dollars 1.6037 1.5553 1.5459 1.5530 Swedish kronor 10.4144 10.6801 11.1364 10.4227 Euro 1.1519 1.1970 1.1650 1.1614 C3: Earnings and earnings per share a Basic and diluted earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the financial year attributable to ordinary equity shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year excluding own shares held in policyholder funds, ESOP trusts, Black Economic Empowerment trusts and other related undertakings.
m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2011 Restated profit for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent from continuing operations 469 446 profit loss for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent from discontinued operations 198 728 profit loss for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent 667 282 Dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities 32 32 profit loss attributable to ordinary equity holders 635 314 Total dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities of 44 million in 2011 2010: 44 million are stated net of tax credits of 12 million 2010: 12 million.
164 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Millions Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 5,502 5,422 Shares held in charitable foundations 6 7 Shares held in ESOP trusts 61 56 Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares 5,435 5,359 Shares held in life funds 201 205 Shares held in Black Economic Empowerment trusts 299 295 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 4,935 4,859 Basic earnings per ordinary share pence 12.9 6.5 Diluted earnings per share recognises the dilutive impact of share options held in ESOP trusts and Black Economic Empowerment trusts which are currently in the money in the calculation of the weighted average number of shares, as if the relevant shares were in issue for the full period.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 635 314 profit loss attributable to ordinary equity holders m Dilution effect on profit loss relating to share options issued by subsidiaries m 8 8 Diluted profit loss attributable to ordinary equity holders m 627 322 Weighted average number of ordinary shares millions 4,935 4,859 Adjustments for share options held by ESOP trusts millions 133 137 Adjustments for shares held in Black Economic Empowerment trusts millions 299 295 5,367 5,291 Diluted earnings per ordinary share pence 11.7 6.1 b Adjusted operating earnings per ordinary share The reconciliation of profit loss for the financial year to adjusted operating profit after tax attributable to ordinary equity holders is as follows: m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2011 Restated profit loss for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent 667 282 Adjusting items 329 392 Tax on adjusting items 108 33 Non-core operations 184 19 profit loss from discontinued operations 198 728 Non-controlling interest on adjusting items 19 21 Adjusted operating profit after tax attributable to ordinary equity holders 855 765 Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares millions 5,435 5,359 Adjusted operating earnings per ordinary share pence 15.7 14.3 c Headline earnings per share In accordance with the JSE Limited JSE listing requirements, the Group is required to calculate a headline earnings per share HEPS, determined by reference to the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants circular 3 2009 Headline Earnings.
The table below sets out a reconciliation of basic earnings per ordinary share and HEPS in accordance with that circular.
Disclosure of HEPS is not a requirement of IFRS.
Old Mutual plc 165 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued C: Other key performance information continued C3: Earning and earnings per share continued m Year ended Year ended 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 Gross Net Gross Net profit loss for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent 667 667 282 282 Dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities 32 32 32 32 profit loss attributable to ordinary equity holders 635 635 314 314 Adjustments: Impairments of goodwill and intangible assets 264 264 20 20 Impairment of discontinued operations 827 827 profit loss on acquisition disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments 222 228 22 17 Realised gains including impairments on available-for-sale financial assets 144 144 12 12 Headline earnings 533 527 543 538 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 4,935 4,935 4,859 4,859 Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares 5,367 5,367 5,291 5,291 Headline earnings per share pence 10.8 10.7 11.2 11.1 Diluted headline earnings per share pence 9.8 9.7 10.1 10.0 C4: Dividends Dividends paid were as follows: m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Note 2011 2010 2009 Final dividend paid 1.5p per 10p share 77 2010 Interim dividend paid 1.1p per 10p share 54 2010 Final dividend paid 2.9p per 10p share 145 2011 Interim dividend paid 1.5p per 10p share 76 Dividends to ordinary equity holders 221 131 Dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities F10 b 44 44 Dividend payments for the year 265 175 Dividends paid to ordinary equity holders, as above, are calculated using the number of shares in issue at the record date, less treasury shares held in ESOP trusts, life funds of Group companies, Black Economic Empowerment trusts and related undertakings.
As a consequence of the exchange control arrangements in place in certain African territories, dividends to ordinary equity holders on the branch registers of those countries or, in the case of Namibia, the Namibian section of the principal register are settled through Dividend Access Trusts established for that purpose.
In March and November 2011, 22 million and 22 million respectively were declared and paid to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities March 2010: 22 million and November 2010: 22 million.
A final dividend of 3.5 pence per 10p share has been recommended by the directors.
Subject to shareholders approval, the dividend will be paid on 7 June 2012 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 20 April 2012.
The dividend will absorb an estimated 175 million of shareholders funds.
The Company is not planning to offer a scrip dividend alternative.
In addition the Company announced on 3 February 2012 that as part of the proposed sale of the Nordic business unit a special dividend of 18.0 pence per 10p share has been recommended by the directors.
The special dividend will be paid on 7 June 2012 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 20 April 2012 subject to both shareholder approval of the Nordic disposal and the related share consolidation and completion of the Nordic disposal.
The special dividend will absorb an estimated 1.0 billion of shareholders funds.
Further details of the disposal of the Nordic business unit have been provided in notes A2, H1 and H2.
166 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information D: Other income statement notes D1: Income tax expense a Analysis of total income tax expense m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2011 Restated Current tax United Kingdom tax 22 23 Overseas tax South Africa 390 346 United States 2 4 Europe 20 10 Secondary Tax on Companies STC 14 4 Prior year adjustments 7 1 Total current tax 437 378 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 204 10 Changes in tax rates bases 8 4 Recognition of deferred tax assets 7 Total deferred tax 212 13 Total income tax expense 225 391 b Reconciliation of total income tax expense m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2011 Restated profit before tax 994 1,095 Tax at standard rate of 26.5% 2010: 28% 263 307 Different tax rate or basis on overseas operations 57 19 Untaxed and low taxed income 166 146 Disallowable expenses 93 90 Net movement on deferred tax assets not recognised 5 85 Effect on deferred tax of changes in tax rates 8 7 STC 19 3 Income tax attributable to policyholder returns 28 96 Other 10 12 Total income tax expense 225 391 c Income tax relating to components of other comprehensive income m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2011 Restated Preferred perpetual callable securities 12 12 Other 1 Income tax credit continuing operations 12 13 Fair value gains 2 181 Shadow accounting 4 114 Income tax credit expense discontinued operations 2 67 Income tax credit expense relating to components of other comprehensive income 14 54 Old Mutual plc 167 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued D: Other income statement notes continued D1: Income tax expense continued d Income tax on adjusted operating profit m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2011 Restated Income tax expense 225 391 Tax on adjusting items Impact of acquisition accounting 35 31 profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments 6 5 Short-term uctuations in investment return 75 4 Income tax attributable to policyholders returns 9 101 Tax on dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities recognised in equity 12 12 Fair value gains and losses on Group debt instruments 2 5 US Asset Management equity plans 2 Tax on non-core operations 1 4 Income tax on adjusted operating profit 341 327 D2: Investment return non-banking m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2011 Restated Interest and similar income Loans and advances 8 47 Investments and securities 1,151 1,218 Government and  securities 348 368 Other debt securities, preference shares and debentures 412 378 Pooled investments 136 271 Short-term funds and securities treated as investments 164 184 Other 91 17 Cash and cash equivalents 94 100 Total interest and similar income 1,253 1,365 Dividend income investments and securities 431 327 Equity securities 339 301 Pooled investments 92 26 Fair value gains and losses recognised in income 2,352 7,713 Investments and securities 2,105 7,453 Derivatives 10 87 Other 257 347 Rental income from investment property 180 166 Investment property losses gains on revaluation 78 30 Foreign currency losses 1 48 Total investment return recognised in income 567 9,553 168 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2011 Restated Total interest income for assets not at fair value through income statement 36 97 The fair value gains and losses shown above are analysed according to their IAS 39 categorisations as follows: Held-for-trading including derivatives 25 87 Designated at fair value through income statement 2,378 7,800 Available-for-sale financial assets 1 2,352 7,713 Fair value gains losses on available-for-sale financial assets reflect the amount previously recognised as unrealised within the available-for-sale reserve in equity that has been recycled to the income statement on disposal or impairment of the particular assets.
Fair value gains and losses on available-for-sale investments and securities for the year of 1 million 2010: nil relate to debt securities held by the Groups Bermuda businesses.
D3: Banking interest and similar income m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2011 Restated Loans and advances 3,300 3,589 Mortgage loans 1,577 1,736 Finance lease and instalment debtors 608 646 Credit cards 100 98 Bills and acceptances 1 2 Overdrafts 105 118 Term loans and other 909 989 Investments and securities 369 324 Government and  securities 264 259 Other debt securities, preference shares and debentures 105 65 Total interest and similar income 3,669 3,913 Total interest income for assets not at fair value through income statement 3,154 3,417 Total interest income on impaired financial assets 121 151 Old Mutual plc 169 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued D: Other income statement notes continued D4: Banking trading, investment and similar income m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2011 Restated Dividend income investments and securities 37 22 Equity securities 37 22 Rental income from investment property 4 4 Exchange and other non-interest income 10 7 Derivative income 103 65 Exchange 1 Securities dealing 113 68 Fair value losses 1 4 Net trading income 186 180 Foreign exchange 94 92 Debt securities 55 63 Equities 34 24 Other 3 1 Total banking trading, investment and similar income 217 199 The fair value gains and losses shown above are analysed according to their IAS 39 categorisations as follows: Held-for-trading including derivatives 41 97 Designated at fair value through income statement 40 93 1 4 Realised fair value gains included in the above 1 4 D5: Fee and commission income, and income from service activities m Long-term Asset General Year ended 31 December 2011 business management Banking insurance Total Fee and commission income 1,003 1,048 975 34 3,060 Transaction and performance fees 20 20 Change in deferred revenue 45 1 1 45 958 1,067 976 34 3,035 m Long-term Asset General Total Year ended 31 December 2010 business management Banking insurance Restated Fee and commission income 979 1,043 832 28 2,882 Transaction and performance fees 22 22 Change in deferred revenue 73 9 1 81 906 1,056 833 28 2,823 The amounts shown above for asset management relate to fees earned on trust and fiduciary activities where the Group holds or invests assets on behalf of its customers.
170 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information D6: Finance costs m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Note 2011 2010 Interest payable on borrowed funds 87 79 Senior debt and term loans 37 44 Subordinated debt 65 68 Other 15 33 Fair value gains and losses on borrowed funds 32 189 Borrowed funds 11 166 Derivative instruments 43 23 Foreign currency gains and losses on borrowed funds 3 2 Reserve movements relating to debt and derivative instruments 1 Total finance costs excluding banking activities 58 269 Finance costs from banking activities D7 209 202 Total interest expense included above for liabilities not at fair value through income statement 23 25 The fair value gains and losses shown above are analysed according to their IAS 39 categorisations as follows: Held-for-trading including derivatives 43 23 Designated at fair value through income statement 11 166 32 189 D7: Banking interest payable and similar expense m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 2011 Restated Amounts owed to bank depositors 1,953 2,235 Deposits and loan accounts 1,106 1,234 Current and savings accounts 20 44 Negotiable certicates of deposit 614 736 Banking non-interest credit spreads 4 19 Long-term debt instruments 209 202 Other liabilities 142 206 Total interest payable and similar expenses 2,095 2,441 Total interest expense included above for liabilities not at fair value through income statement 1,686 2,063 D8: Fee and commission expenses, and other acquisition costs m Long-term business Asset management General insurance Total Year ended 2010 31 December 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 Restated Fee and commission expenses 591 596 243 173 110 109 944 878 Changes in deferred acquisition costs 8 20 4 4 1 3 24 Other acquisition costs 60 56 7 60 63 659 632 239 176 109 109 1,007 917 Old Mutual plc 171 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued D: Other income statement notes continued D9: Other operating and administrative expenses a Other operating and administrative expenses include: m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 Note 2011 Restated Staff costs D9 b 1,964 1,808 Depreciation F2 104 100 Software costs 11 11 Operating lease rentals banking 65 63 Operating lease rentals non-banking 29 31 Amortisation of PVIF and other acquired intangibles 211 216 Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets 264 20 Included within the gain from discontinued operations is an additional amortisation of intangibles charge of 74 million 2010:150million b Staff costs m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2010 Note 2011 Restated Staff costs Wages and salaries 1,259 1,191 Social security costs 33 34 Retirement obligations Dened contribution plans 101 96 Dened benefit plans 3 3 Other retirement benets 10 12 Bonus and incentive remuneration 359 339 Share-based payments Cash settled G2 e 37 7 Equity settled G2 e 24 13 Other 144 119 1,964 1,808 Number The average number of persons employed by the Group during 2011 was: Long-Term Savings 22,851 Nedbank 28,494 M&F 2,390 USAM 1,564 Other 210 Non-core operations 40 55,549 Discontinued operations 1,881 57,430 172 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information c Fees to Groups auditors Included in other operating expenses and loss from discontinued operations are fees paid to the Groups auditors.
These can be categorised as follows: m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Fees for audit services Group 1.4 1.5 Subsidiaries 12.1 12.3 Pension schemes 0.2 0.3 Total audit fees 13.7 14.1 Fees for non-audit services Audit related assurance 0.7 1.1 Taxation compliance 1.4 1.6 Taxation advisory 0.4 0.6 Corporate finance transactions 0.2 0.4 Other non-audit services 0.7 2.3 Total non-audit services 3.4 6.0 Total Group auditors remuneration 17.1 20.1 In addition to the above, fees of 4.4 million 2010: 4.3 million were payable to other auditors in respect of joint audit arrangements of Nedbank, the Groups banking subsidiary in South Africa.
Of the fees for audit services to subsidiaries, nil million 2010: 1.1million is in respect of discontinued US Life operations and 0.6 million 2010: 0.8 million is in respect of the discontinued Nordic business unit.
d Operating lease payments m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year 2011 2010 Banking 65 63 Non-banking 12 33 77 96 Operating lease payments principally represent rentals payable by the Group for the rental of buildings and equipment.
Old Mutual plc 173 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued E: Financial assets and liabilities E1: Group statement of financial position The Group is exposed to financial risk through its financial assets investments and loans, financial liabilities investment contracts, customer deposits and borrowings, reinsurance assets and insurance liabilities.
The key focus of financial risk management for the Group is ensuring that the proceeds from its financial assets are sufficient to fund the obligations arising from its insurance and banking operations.
The most important components of financial risk are credit risk, market risk arising from changes in equity, and bond prices, interest and foreign exchange rates, and liquidity risk.
Market risk arises from open positions in interest rate, currency and equity products, all of which are exposed to general and specific market movements and or conditions.
a Categories of financial instruments The analysis of assets and liabilities into their categories as defined in IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement is set out in the following table.
For completeness, assets and liabilities of a non-financial nature, or financial assets and liabilities that are specifically excluded from the scope of IAS 39, are reflected in the non-financial assets and liabilities category.
m Fair value through income statement AvailableFinancial Nonfor-sale Held-toliabilities financial Held-forfinancial maturity Loans and amortised assets and At 31 December 2011 Total trading Designated assets investments receivables cost liabilities Assets Mandatory reserve deposits with central banks 951 951 Reinsurers share of policyholder liabilities 989 784 21 184 Loans and advances 39,764 1,586 3,97034,208 Investments and securities 81,253 1,15577,789 988 677 644 Other financial assets 3,348 530 828 1,591 399 Derivative financial instruments assets 1,795 1,795 Cash and cash equivalents 3,624 3,624 Total financial assets 131,724 5,066 83,371 988 677 41,039 583 Non-financial assets 30,661 30,661 162,385 5,066 83,371 988 677 41,039 31,244 Liabilities Life assurance policyholder liabilities 76,350 55,333 28 176 20,813 Third-party interest in consolidation of funds 1,893 1,893 Borrowed funds 3,656 1,071 2,585 Other financial liabilities 4,243 547 349 2,434 913 Amounts owed to bank depositors 40,978 3,068 6,870 31,040 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 1,755 1,755 Total financial liabilities 128,875 5,370 65,516 28 176 36,059 21,726 Non-financial liabilities 22,652 22,652 151,527 5,370 65,516 28 176 36,059 44,378 174 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information m Fair value through income statement AvailableFinancial Nonfor-sale Held-toliabilities financial Held-forfinancial maturity Loans and amortised assets and At 31 December 2010 Total trading Designated assets investments receivables cost liabilities Assets Mandatory reserve deposits with central banks 1,079 1,079 Reinsurers share of policyholder liabilities 1,104 816 38 250 Loans and advances 51,778 1,914 4,223 45,641 Investments and securities 106,153 1,370 100,898 2,459 1,070 356 Other financial assets 3,934 507 1,064 2,044 319 Derivative financial instruments assets 2,503 2,503 Cash and cash equivalents 4,132 4,132 Total financial assets 170,683 6,294 107,001 2,459 1,070 53,290 569 Non-financial assets 22,869 22,869 193,552 6,294 107,001 2,459 1,070 53,290 23,438 Liabilities Life assurance policyholder liabilities 98,631 72,200 26 160 26,245 Third-party interests in consolidation of funds 3,584 3,584 Borrowed funds 4,204 1,579 2,625 Other financial liabilities 5,661 1,155 576 2,960 970 Amounts owed to bank depositors 53,236 3,484 8,703 41,049 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 1,870 1,870 Total financial liabilities 167,186 6,509 86,642 26 160 46,634 27,215 Non-financial liabilities 14,892 14,892 182,078 6,509 86,642 26 160 46,634 42,107 b Fair values of financial assets and liabilities Determination of fair value All financial instruments, regardless of their IAS 39 categorisation, are initially recorded at fair value.
The fair value of a financial instrument on initial recognition is normally the transaction price, that is, the fair value of the consideration given or received.
In certain circumstances, however, the initial fair value may be based on other observable current market transactions in the same instrument, without modification or repackaging, or on a valuation technique whose variables include only observable data.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the fair values of financial instruments measured at fair value that are quoted in active markets are based on bid prices for assets, which in certain circumstances includes using quotations from independent third parties such as brokers and pricing services, and offer prices for liabilities.
When quoted prices are not available, fair values are determined by using valuation techniques that refer as far as possible to observable market data.
These include comparison with similar instruments where market observable prices exist, discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing models and other valuation techniques commonly used by market participants.
A number of factors such as bid-offer spread, credit profile, servicing costs and model uncertainty are taken into account, as appropriate, when values are calculated using a valuation technique.
Changes in the assumptions used in such valuations could impact the reported value of such instruments.
In general none of the carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities carried at amortised cost have a fair value significantly different to their carrying amounts.
Such assets and liabilities primarily comprise of variable-rate financial assets and liabilities that reprice as interest rates change, short-term deposits or current assets.
Loans and advances Loans and advances principally comprise of variable rate financial assets and liabilities, which are re-priced when there are movements in the interest rates.
The Group has developed and applied a fair value methodology in respect of gross exposures of loans and advances that are measured at amortised cost.
The methodology incorporates the historical interest rates per product type and the projected monthly cash flows per product type.
Future forecasts for the overall probability of default PD and Loss Given Defaults LGDs for periods 2012 to 2014 2010: for periods 2011 to 2013, based on the latest internal data available, are applied to the first three years projected cash flows.
Average PDs and LGDs are applied to the projected cash flows for later years.
These results are compared to both regulatory and accounting credit model values.
There are no significant variances in the fair value methodology results compared to the carrying values reported in these financial statements.
Old Mutual plc 175 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued E: Financial assets and liabilities continued E1: Group statement of financial position continued b Fair values of financial assets and liabilities continued Loans and advances continued For impaired advances, the carrying value as determined from the Groups credit models is considered the best estimate of fair value.
The Group is satisfied that, after considering the internal credit models together with other assumptions and the variable interest rate exposure, the carrying value of loans and advances measured at amortised cost approximates fair value.
Investments and securities Investments and securities include government and  securities, listed and unlisted debt securities, preference shares and debentures, listed and unlisted equity securities, listed and unlisted pooled investments see below, shortterm funds and securities treated as investments and certain other securities.
Pooled investments represent the Groups holdings of shares units in open-ended investment companies, unit trusts, mutual funds and similar investment vehicles.
Pooled investments are stated at fair value.
The fair values of pooled investments are based on widely published prices that are regularly updated or models based on the market prices of investments held in the underlying pooled investment funds.
Investment contracts The approach to determining the fair values of investment contracts is set out in the accounting policies section for insurance and investment contract business.
Amounts owed to bank depositors The fair values of amounts owed to bank depositors corresponds with the carrying amount shown in the statement of financial position, which generally reflects the amount payable on demand.
Borrowed funds The fair values of amounts included in borrowed funds are based on quoted market prices at the reporting date where applicable, or by reference to quoted prices of similar instruments.
Other financial assets and liabilities The fair values of other financial assets and liabilities which comprise of cash and cash equivalents, cash with central banks, other assets and liabilities are reasonably approximated by the carrying amounts reflected in the statement of financial position as they are short-term in nature or re-price to current market rates frequently.
176 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Fair value hierarchy Fair values are determined according to the following hierarchy.
Q Level 1 quoted market prices: financial assets and liabilities with quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets.
Instruments classified as Level 1 generally comprise listed equity securities, government securities and other listed debt securities and similar instruments, actively traded pooled investments, certain quoted derivative assets and liabilities, listed borrowed funds and investment contract liabilities linked to Level 1 pooled investments and other assets.
Q Level 2 valuation techniques using observable inputs: financial assets and liabilities with quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets or quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in inactive markets and financial assets and liabilities valued using models where all significant inputs are observable.
Instruments classified as Level 2 generally comprise unlisted equity and debt securities where the valuation is based on models involving no significant unobservable data.
This includes certain loans and advances, certain privately placed debt instruments, third-party interests in consolidated funds and amounts owed to bank depositors.
Q Level 3 valuation techniques using significant unobservable inputs: financial assets and liabilities valued using valuation techniques where one or more significant inputs are unobservable.
Instruments classified as Level 3 generally comprise unlisted equity and securities with significant unobservable inputs, securities where the market is not considered sufficiently active, including certain inactive pooled investments, and derivatives embedded in certain portfolios of insurance contracts where the derivative is not closely related to the host contract and the valuation contains significant unobservable inputs.
The best evidence of fair value is a quoted price in an active market.
In the event that the market for a financial asset or liability is not active, or quoted prices cannot be obtained without undue effort, a valuation technique is used.
The judgement as to whether a market is active may include, for example, consideration of factors such as the magnitude and frequency of trading activity, the availability of prices and the size of bid offer spreads.
In inactive markets, obtaining assurance that the transaction price provides evidence of fair value or determining the adjustments to transaction prices that are necessary to measure the fair value of the asset or liability requires additional work during the valuation process.
Old Mutual plc 177 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued E: Financial assets and liabilities continued E1: Group statement of financial position continued b Fair values of financial assets and liabilities continued The majority of valuation techniques employ only observable market data, and so the reliability of the fair value measurement is high.
However, certain financial assets and liabilities are valued on the basis of valuation techniques that feature one or more significant market inputs that are unobservable and, for them, the derivation of fair value is more judgemental.
A financial asset or liability in its entirety is classified as valued using significant unobservable inputs if a significant proportion of that asset or liabilitys carrying amount is driven by unobservable inputs.
In this context, unobservable means that there is little or no current market data available for which to determine the price at which an arms length transaction would be likely to occur.
It generally does not mean that there is no market data available at all upon which to base a determination of fair value.
Furthermore, in some cases the majority of the fair value derived from a valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs may be attributable to observable inputs.
Consequently, the effect of uncertainty in determining unobservable inputs will generally be restricted to uncertainty about the overall fair value of the asset or liability being measured.
Additional information on the impact of unobservable inputs is provided in the section headed Effect of changes in significant unobservable assumptions to reasonably possible alternatives.
Fair value hierarchy m At 31 December 2011 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Financial assets measured at fair value Held-for-trading fair value through income statement 5,066 764 4,294 8 Loans and advances 1,586 1,586 Investments and securities 1,155 234 915 6 Other assets 530 530 Derivative financial instruments assets 1,795 1,793 2 Designated fair value through income statement 83,371 62,368 20,002 1,001 Reinsurers share of policyholder liabilities 784 782 2 Loans and advances 3,970 2 3,961 7 Investments and securities 77,789 60,808 15,987 994 Other assets 828 776 52 Available-for-sale financial assets 988 459 525 4 Investments and securities 988 459 525 4 Total financial assets measured at fair value 89,425 63,591 24,821 1,013 Financial liabilities measured at fair value Held-for-trading fair value through income statement 5,370 555 4,814 1 Other liabilities 547 542 5 Amounts owed to bank depositors 3,068 3,068 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 1,755 13 1,741 1 Designated fair value through income statement 65,516 33,213 31,282 1,021 Life assurance policyholder liabilities 55,333 32,156 22,156 1,021 Third-party interests in consolidated funds 1,893 1,893 Borrowed funds 1,071 1,057 14 Other liabilities 349 349 Amounts owed to bank depositors 6,870 6,870 Total financial liabilities measured at fair value 70,886 33,768 36,096 1,022 178 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information m Fair value hierarchy At 31 December 2010 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Financial assets measured at fair value Held-for-trading fair value through income statement 6,294 810 5,444 40 Loans and advances 1,914 1,911 3 Investments and securities 1,370 302 1,031 37 Other assets 507 506 1 Derivative financial instruments assets 2,503 2 2,501 Designated fair value through income statement 107,001 87,081 18,490 1,430 Reinsurers share of policyholder liabilities 816 813 3 Loans and advances 4,223 2 4,221 Investments and securities 100,898 86,244 13,224 1,430 Other assets 1,064 22 1,042 Available-for-sale financial assets 2,459 579 1,872 8 Investments and securities 2,459 579 1,872 8 Total financial assets measured at fair value 115,754 88,470 25,806 1,478 Financial liabilities measured at fair value Held-for-trading fair value through income statement 6,509 1,132 5,376 1 Other liabilities 1,155 1,123 32 Amounts owed to bank depositors 3,484 3,484 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 1,870 9 1,860 1 Designated fair value through income statement 86,642 47,678 38,204 760 Life assurance policyholder liabilities 72,200 46,099 25,341 760 Third-party interests in consolidated funds 3,584 3,584 Borrowed funds 1,579 1,579 Other liabilities 576 576 Amounts owed to bank depositors 8,703 8,703 Total financial liabilities measured at fair value 93,151 48,810 43,580 761 Old Mutual plc 179 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued E: Financial assets and liabilities continued E1: Group statement of financial position continued b Fair values of financial assets and liabilities continued Gains losses Gains losses recognised in At recognised in other beginning of income comprehensive Purchases Sales and Year ended 31 December 2011 the year statement income and issues Settlements Level 3 financial assets Held-for-trading fair value through income statement 40 5 4 10 Loans and advances 3 3 Investments and securities 37 2 4 7 Derivative financial instruments assets 3 Designated fair value through income statement 1,430 79 51 440 Loans and advances Investments and securities 1,430 79 51 440 Available-for-sale financial assets 8 4 8 8 4 8 Investments and securities Total Level 3 financial assets 1,478 84 59 458 Level 3 financial liabilities Held-for-trading fair value through income statement 1 1 1 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 1 1 1 Designated fair value through income statement 760 240 52 Life assurance policyholder liabilities investment contracts 760 240 52 Total Level 3 financial liabilities 761 239 1 52 Gains losses Gains losses recognised in At recognised in other beginning of income comprehensive Purchases Sales and Year ended 31 December 2010 the year statement income and issues Settlements Level 3 financial assets Held-for-trading fair value through income statement 36 10 5 Loans and advances 7 1 3 Investments and securities 28 9 1 Derivative financial instruments assets 1 1 Designated fair value through income statement 1,784 164 6 94 240 Investments and securities 1,784 164 6 94 240 Available-for-sale financial assets 448 5 1 Investments and securities 448 5 1 Total Level 3 financial assets 2,268 154 6 99 246 Level 3 financial liabilities Held-for-trading fair value through income statement 1,365 3 1 Life assurance policyholder liabilities 1,352 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 13 3 1 Designated fair value through income statement 596 31 2 54 Life assurance policyholder liabilities investment contracts 596 31 2 54 Total Level 3 financial liabilities 1,961 34 2 53 180 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information m Gains losses Foreign Gains losses recognised in exchange recognised in other Transfers Transfers and other At end income comprehensive in out movements of the year statement income 27 4 8 27 3 6 1 2 93 41 171 1,001 21 7 7 86 41 171 994 21 4 4 93 68 175 1,013 21 1 1 76 10 7 1,021 240 76 10 7 1,021 240 76 10 7 1,022 240 m Gains losses Foreign Gains losses recognised in exchange recognised in other Transfers Transfers and other At end income comprehensive in out movements of the year statement income 1 20 40 3 1 20 37 20 433 35 1,430 12 20 433 35 1,430 12 5 31 418 8 8 5 31 418 8 8 25 465 363 1,478 12 8 3 1,359 1 67 1,352 67 3 7 1 18 262 491 760 31 18 262 491 760 31 18 265 868 761 98 Included within foreign exchange and other movements are the financial assets and liabilities which have been transferred to non-current assets and liabilities held for sale see note H2.
Old Mutual plc 181 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued E: Financial assets and liabilities continued E1: Group statement of financial position continued b Fair values of financial assets and liabilities continued The transfers into Level 3 largely relate to instances where inputs on certain financial assets and liabilities obtained from pricing service providers are no longer observable.
The transfers out of Level 3 relate to certain pooled investments no longer being considered inactive and for which observable inputs are now available.
There were no significant transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the year.
Effect of changes in significant unobservable assumptions to reasonably possible alternatives Favourable and unfavourable changes are determined on the basis of changes in the value of the financial asset or liability as a result of varying the levels of the unobservable parameter using statistical techniques.
When parameters are not amenable to statistical analysis, quantification of uncertainty is judgemental.
When the fair value of a financial asset or liability is affected by more than one unobservable assumption, the figures shown reflect the most favourable or most unfavourable change from varying the assumptions individually.
In respect of private equity investments, the valuations are assessed on an asset-by-asset basis using a valuation methodology appropriate to the specific investment, in line with industry guidelines.
In many of the methodologies, the principal assumption is the valuation multiple to be applied to the main financial indicators including, for example, multiples for comparable listed companies and discounts to marketability.
For asset-backed securities whose prices are unobservable, models are used to generate the expected value of the asset, incorporating benchmark information on factors such as prepayment patterns, default rates, loss severities and the historical performance of the underlying assets.
The models used are calibrated by using securities for which external market information is available.
For structured notes and other derivatives, principal assumptions concern the future volatility of asset values and the future correlation between asset values.
These principle assumptions include credit volatilities and correlations used in the valuation of the structured credit derivatives.
For such unobservable assumptions, estimates are based on available market data, which may include the use of a proxy method to derive a volatility or correlation from comparable assets for which market data is more readily available, and examination of historical levels.
Analysis of reasonably possible alternative assumptions m Reected in Reected in other income statement comprehensive income Favourable Unfavourable Favourable Unfavourable Year ended 31 December 2011 changes changes changes changes Level 3 financial assets Held-for-trading fair value through income statement 53 Loans and advances 11 Investments and securities 32 Derivative financial instruments assets 1 Designated fair value through income statement 116 94 Investments and securities 116 94 Available-for-sale financial assets Investments and securities Total Level 3 financial assets 121 97 Level 3 financial liabilities Held-for-trading fair value through income statement Life assurance policyholder liabilities Derivative financial instruments liabilities Designated fair value through income statement 35 63 Life assurance policyholder liabilities investment contracts 35 63 Total Level 3 financial liabilities 35 63 For the above analysis, the determination of the impacts of the favourable and unfavourable changes was based on a reasonable range of favourable and unfavourable changes in the key observable inputs for the major types of Level 3 financial assets and liabilities, ranging from, for example, a 10% change in the price earnings multiple for equity securities, to a 25% change in the discount rates applied to debt securities and volatility assumptions in derivative contracts.
Changes in other key observable inputs such as lapses and non-performance risk were also considered.
182 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Financial instruments designated as fair value through income statement Certain items in the Groups statement of financial position that would otherwise be categorised as loans and receivables under IAS 39 have been designated as fair value through income statement.
Information relating to the change in fair value of these items as it relates to credit risk is shown in the table below: m Change in fair value due to change in credit risk Maximum Current exposure to financial At 31 December 2011 credit risk year Cumulative Loans and advances 3,970 Investments and securities 8,932 1 17 Other assets 71 12,973 1 17 m Change in fair value due to change in credit risk Maximum Current exposure to financial At 31 December 2010 credit risk year Cumulative Loans and advances 4,223 Investments and securities 9,857 8 11 Other assets 88 14,168 8 11 Certain items in the Groups statement of financial position that would otherwise be categorised as financial liabilities at amortised cost under IAS 39 have been designated as fair value through income statement.
Information relating to the change in fair value of these items as it relates to credit risk is shown in the table below: m Change in fair value due to change in credit risk Current Contractual financial maturity At 31 December 2011 Fair value year Cumulative amount Borrowed funds 1,071 23 69 1,153 Amounts owed to bank depositors 6,870 3 6 6,859 7,941 20 75 8,012 m Change in fair value due to change in credit risk Current Contractual financial maturity At 31 December 2010 Fair value year Cumulative amount Borrowed funds 1,579 203 74 1,686 Amounts owed to bank depositors 8,769 11 11 8,734 10,348 192 85 10,420 The fair values of other categories of financial liabilities designated as fair value through the income statement do not change significantly in respect of credit risk.
Old Mutual plc 183 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued E: Financial assets and liabilities continued E1: Group statement of financial position continued b Fair values of financial assets and liabilities continued The change in fair value due to change in credit risk shown above is determined as the amount of the change in fair value of the instrument that is not attributable to changes in market conditions that give rise to market risk.
For loans and receivables that have been designated as at fair value through the income statement, individual credit spreads are determined at inception as the difference between the benchmark interest rate and the interest rate charged to the client.
Subsequent changes in the benchmark interest rate and the credit spread give rise to changes in fair value of the financial instrument.
Loans and advances are reviewed for observable changes in credit risk, and the credit spread is adjusted at subsequent dates if there has been an observable change in credit risk relating to a particular loan or advance.
No credit derivatives are used to hedge the credit risk on any of the financial assets designated at fair value through the income statement.
The change in fair value due to credit risk of financial liabilities designated at fair value through the income statement has been determined as the difference between fair values determined using a liability curve adjusted for credit and a risk-free liability curve.
This difference is cross-checked to market related data on credit spreads, where available.
c Market risk i Overview Market risk is the risk of a financial impact arising from the changes in values of financial assets or financial liabilities from changes in equity, bond and property prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
Market risk arises differently across the Groups businesses depending on the types of financial assets and liabilities held.
Each of the Groups business units has an established set of policies, principles and governance processes to manage market risk within their individual businesses and in accordance with their local regulatory requirements.
A monitoring process established at a Group level overlies these individual approaches to the management of market risk.
The impacts of changes in market risk are monitored and managed by way of sensitivity analyses, through the business units own regulatory processes, with reference to the Groups economic capital processes, and by other means.
The sensitivity of the Groups earnings, capital position and embedded value is monitored through the Groups embedded value reporting processes.
ii Insurance operations For the Groups insurance operations, equity and property price risk and interest rate risk on the value of the securities are modelled in accordance with the Groups risk-based capital practices, which require sufficient capital to be held in excess of the statutory minimum to allow the Group to manage significant equity exposures.
Additional detail is provided in the Risk and Capital Management section.
In South Africa the stock selection and investment analysis process is supported by a well-developed research function.
For fixed annuities, market risks are managed where possible by investing in fixed interest securities with a duration closely corresponding to those liabilities.
Market risk on policies that include specific guarantees and where shareholders carry the investment risk principally reside in the South African guaranteed non-profit annuity book, which is closely matched with gilts and semi-gilts.
Other non-profit policies are also suitably matched based upon comprehensive investment guidelines.
Market risk on with-profit policies, where investment risk is shared, is minimised by appropriate bonus declaration practices.
For the variable annuity business in Old Mutual Bermuda the guaranteed returns are dynamically managed, with the overall exposures to changes in markets monitored closely so that actions are taken to re-establish hedging at short notice as required.
However this does create more short-term risk of volatility in earnings and capital position for the Bermuda operation.
In Skandias unit-linked assurance operations, the Group has limited exposure to the volatility from equity markets, because in the main, equity price risk is borne by policyholders subject to the impact on asset-based fees charged on policyholder funds.
In respect of Skandias shareholders funds, equity price risks are addressed in Skandias investment policy, which provides for very limited opportunity for business units to invest their own capital in equities or in units in equity funds.
In some areas of Skandias business, most notably its traditional life insurance business, Skandia is exposed to market risks arising from various forms of guarantees.
Typically the policyholder is guaranteed a certain return regardless of the asset return achieved during the term of the policy.
These risks are closely monitored and mitigated by applying asset and liability management techniques, ensuring that the proceeds from sale of assets are sufficient to meet the obligations to policyholders.
Sensitivities to adverse impacts of changes in market prices arising in the Groups insurance operations are set out in the Old Mutual audited Market Consistent Embedded Value supplementary basis information section of the Annual Report and Accounts on pages 282 to 284.
184 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information iii Banking operations The principal market risks arising in the Groups banking operations arise from: Q Trading risk in Nedbank Capital: and Q Banking book interest rate risk arises from repricing and or maturity mismatches between on and off-balance sheet components in all banking businesses.
A comprehensive market risk framework is used to ensure that market risks are understood and managed.
Governance structures are in place to achieve effective independent monitoring and management of market risk.
Trading risk Market risk exposures from trading activities at Nedbank Capital are measured using Value-at-Risk VaR, supplemented by sensitivity analysis, and stress-scenario analysis, and limit structures are set accordingly.
The VaR risk measure for Nedbank estimates the potential loss in pre-tax profit over a given holding period for a specified confidence level.
The VaR methodology is a statistically defined, probability-based approach that takes into account market volatilities as well as risk diversification by recognising offsetting positions and correlations between products and markets.
Risks can be measured consistently across all markets and products, and risk measures can be aggregated to arrive at a single risk number.
The one-day 99% VaR number used by Nedbank represents the overnight loss that has less than 1% chance of occurring under normal market conditions.
By its nature, VaR is only a single measure and cannot be relied upon on its own as a means of measuring and managing risk.
m Average Minimum Maximum Year end At 31 December 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Historical VaR one-day, 99% by risk type Foreign exchange 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.1 1.1 0.7 0.3 0.4 Interest rate 0.7 0.9 0.4 0.4 1.1 1.4 0.4 0.6 Equity products 0.3 0.4 0.2 0.1 0.8 0.9 0.7 0.3 Other 0.2 0.4 0.1 0.1 0.4 0.5 0.3 0.4 Diversication 0.5 0.7 0.6 0.6 Total VaR exposure 1.0 1.2 0.8 0.7 3.4 3.5 1.1 1.1 Banking book interest rate risk Banking book interest rate risk at Nedbank arises because: Q The bank writes a large quantum of prime-linked assets and raises fewer prime-linked deposits: Q Funding is prudently raised across the curve at fixed-term deposit rates that re-price only on maturity: Q Short-term demand-funding products re-price to different short-end base rates: Q Certain ambiguous maturity accounts are non-rate-sensitive: and Q The bank has a mismatch in net non-rate-sensitive balances, including shareholders funds that do not re-price for interest rate changes.
Nedbank uses standard analytical techniques to measure interest rate sensitivity within its banking book.
This includes static re-price gap analysis and a point-in-time interest income stress testing for parallel interest rate moves over a forward-looking 12-month period.
At 31 December 2011 the sensitivity of the banking book to a 1% instantaneous reduction in interest rates would have led to a reduction in net interest income and equity of 67 million 2010: 44 million.
Old Mutual plc 185 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued E: Financial assets and liabilities continued E1: Group statement of financial position continued c Market risk continued The table below shows the re-pricing profile of Nedbanks banking book, which highlights the fact that assets re-price quicker than liabilities following derivative hedging activities.
m Up to 3 3 to 6 6 months 1 to 5 Over Trading and At 31 December 2011 months months to 1 year years 5 years non-rate Total Interest rate re-pricing gap Total assets 38,262 704 510 2,782 1,165 8,162 51,585 Total liabilities and shareholders funds 32,895 2,371 2,021 1,507 154 12,637 51,585 Interest rate hedging activities 236 1,496 1,083 1,336 1,007 Re-pricing prole 5,131 171 428 61 4 4,475 Cumulative re-pricing prole 5,131 4,960 4,532 4,471 4,475 Expressed as a % of total assets 9.9 9.6 8.8 8.7 8.7 m Up to 3 to 6 6 months 1 to 5 Over Trading and At 31 December 2010 3 months months to 1 year years 5 years non-rate Total Interest rate re-pricing gap Total assets 42,497 1,138 1,033 2,730 2,040 9,778 59,216 Total liabilities and shareholders funds 35,960 3,750 2,977 1,673 190 14,666 59,216 Interest rate hedging activities 2,707 2,684 2,134 333 1,778 Re-pricing prole 3,830 72 190 724 72 4,888 Cumulative re-pricing prole 3,830 3,902 4,092 4,816 4,888 Expressed as a % of total assets 6.5 6.6 6.9 8.1 8.3 d Capital management The Group actively manages its capital with a focus on capital efficiency and effective risk management.
The capital objectives are to maintain the Groups ability to continue as a going concern while enabling the ability to identify capital strains and ensuring that the return to shareholders is maximised through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
The Group ensures that it can meet its expected capital and financing needs at all times having regard to the Groups business plans, forecasts and strategic initiatives.
It is critical that the Groups capital management policies are aligned with the Groups overall strategy, business plans and risk appetite.
The Groups Capital Management Committee GCMC reviews the capital structure regularly, with further detail included in the Risk and Capital Management section.
The Groups overall capital risk appetite is managed with reference to the requirements of the relevant stakeholders and seeks to maintain sufficient, but not excessive, financial strength to support stakeholder requirements and optimise its overall debt to equity structure to enhance returns to shareholders, subject to the requirements set by the Groups capital risk appetite and retain financial flexibility by maintaining liquidity including unutilised committed credit lines.
The primary sources of capital used by the Group are equity shareholders funds, preference shares, subordinated debt and borrowings.
Alternative resources are utilised where appropriate.
Targets are established in relation to regulatory solvency, ratings, liquidity and dividend capacity and are a key tool in managing capital in accordance with our risk appetite and the requirements of our various stakeholders.
The individual companies in the Group are subject to regulatory capital requirements at an individual level.
In addition the Group as a whole is subject to the solvency requirements of the Financial Groups Directive FGD as implemented by the FSA.
Further detail as to the Groups regulatory capital surplus and that of subsidiaries is provided in the Group Finance Directors statement.
As at the date of issue of these financial statements the unaudited pro-forma surplus was estimated to be 2.2 billion 2010: 2.1 billion.
The FGD position will be submitted to the FSA by 30 April 2012. e Currency risk The Group is exposed to effects of fluctuations in the prevailing foreign currency exchange rates on its financial position and cash flows, with currency risk where these are not effectively matched.
The principal foreign currency risk arises from the fact that the Groups presentation currency is pounds sterling, whereas other than for the UK operations the functional currencies of its principal operations are South African rand, US dollar, Swedish krona and euro.
The Group reduces this risk through the use of currency swaps, currency borrowings and forward foreign exchange contracts.
Such risk mitigation techniques are reflected in the currency analyses that follow.
186 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Bermuda shareholder funds and client assets are invested in US dollar denominated bonds, mutual funds, money market securities and cash.
Where selected, Bermuda provides minimum guarantees, also denominated in US dollars.
However, a significant portion of the underlying assets invested in by Bermudas clients are exposed to currencies other than the US dollar.
Bermuda estimates and tracks this exposure on a daily basis and, depending on the hedging strategy employed, seeks to mitigate the exposure to a greater or lesser extent.
There are no direct exposures to the unit linked investments and related policyholder liabilities.
Taking these risk mitigation techniques into account a 10% appreciation in pounds sterling would result in a reduction to equity holders funds in relation to the US dollar of 584 million 2010: 711 million, 37 million in relation to the euro 2010: increase of 8 million, 154 million in relation to the Swedish krona 2010: 124 million and 70 million in relation to the South African rand 2010: 192 million.
A 10% deterioration in the value of the major currencies shown above in relation to pounds sterling as set out in note C2 would have led to a reduction in Profit after tax of 118 million 2010: 90 million.
188 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information E2: Credit risk Overall exposure to credit risk Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligation resulting in financial loss to the Group.
The Group has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties and obtaining sufficient collateral where appropriate, as a means of mitigating the financial loss from defaults.
The Groups exposure and credit rating of its counterparties are continuously monitored and the aggregate value of transactions concluded is spread amongst approved counterparties.
The Group does not have significant credit exposure to any single counterparty or any group of counterparties having similar characteristics.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies.
Nedbanks lending portfolio forms the substantial part of the Groups loans and advances, analysed further in note E3.
Credit risk represents the most significant risk type facing Nedbank, accounting for over 63.1% of its economic capital requirements.
Nedbanks credit risk profile is managed in terms of its credit risk management framework, which encompasses comprehensive credit policy, mandate limits and governance structures, and is approved by the Nedbank Board.
The other major source of credit risk arises predominantly in the Groups insurance operations portfolios of debt and similar securities along with those portfolios of debt instruments held by the banking operations.
Credit risk for these portfolios is managed with reference to established credit rating agencies with limits placed on exposures to below investment grade holdings.
Other than the above, the Group has other limited credit risk exposures in respect of amounts due from policyholders, intermediaries and reinsurers.
None of the life assurance operations cedes significant risk through reinsurance and any loans to policyholders are secured on the surrender value of the relevant policies.
The table below represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk, without taking into account the value of any collateral obtained.
The total credit exposure also includes potential exposure arising from financial guarantees given by the Group and undrawn loan commitments, which are not yet reflected in the Groups statement of financial position.
m At At 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Mandatory reserve deposits with central banks 951 1,079 Reinsurers share of policyholder liabilities 989 1,104 Loans and advances 39,764 51,778 Investments and securities 20,049 28,657 Government and  securities 6,476 9,275 Other debt securities, preference shares and debentures 10,909 15,930 Short-term funds and securities treated as investments 2,536 3,352 Other 128 100 Other assets 3,050 3,844 Derivative financial instruments assets 1,795 2,503 Cash and cash equivalents 3,624 4,132 Financial guarantees and other credit related contingent liabilities 3,030 3,915 Loan commitments and other credit related commitments 5,578 8,330 Non-current assets held for sale 10,852 11,750 89,682 117,092 i Financial collateral The Group takes financial collateral to support exposures in its banking and securities and lending activities.
Collateral held includes cash and debt securities.
Cash collateral is included as part of cash equivalents.
These transactions are entered into under terms and conditions that are standard industry practice to securities borrowing and lending activities.
ii Non-financial collateral The Group takes other physical collateral to recover outstanding lending exposures in the event of the borrower being unable or unwilling to fulfil its obligations.
This includes mortgage over property both residential and commercial, and liens over business assets including, but not limited to plant, vehicles, aircraft, inventories and trade debtors and guarantees from parties other than the borrower.
Should a counterparty be unable to settle its obligations, the Group takes possession of collateral as full or part settlement of such amounts.
In general, the Group seeks to dispose of such property and other assets that are not readily convertible into cash as soon as the market for the relevant asset permits.
A further analysis of credit risk is provided in notes E3, E4, E6 and F5.
Old Mutual plc 189 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued E: Financial assets and liabilities continued E3: Loans and advances a Summary The following table shows an analysis of loans and advances: m At At 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Home loans 11,395 18,924 Commercial mortgages 7,122 8,376 Properties in possession 49 64 Credit cards 690 809 Overdrafts 1,047 1,556 Policyholder loans 256 249 Other loans to clients 5,238 5,332 Preference shares and debentures 1,429 1,994 Net finance leases and instalment debtors 5,664 6,603 Gross investment 5,918 6,976 Unearned finance charges 254 373 Factoring accounts 304 311 Trade, other bills and bankers acceptances 3 14 Term loans 6,206 7,304 Remittances in transit 16 11 Deposits placed under reverse purchase agreements 1,260 1,335 Gross loans and advances 40,679 52,882 Provisions for impairment Specic provisions 696 886 Portfolio provision 219 218 Total net loans and advances 39,764 51,778 Non-performing loans included above had a book value less impairment provisions of 1,096 million 2010: 1,721 million.
Of the loans and advances shown above, 12,471 million 2010: 15,865 million is receivable within one year of the reporting date and is regarded as current.
27,293 million 2010: 35,913 million is regarded as non-current based on the maturity profile of the assets.
Of the gross loans and advances shown above, 40,189 million 2010: 52,341 million relates to balances held by the Groups banking operations.
The table below gives an age analysis of loans and advances representing primarily the exposures of the Groups banking operations.
m At At 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Neither past due nor impaired 35,462 46,584 Past due but not impaired 3,381 3,683 Past due but less than 1 month 2,856 3,075 Past due, greater than 1 month but less than 3 months 493 481 Past due, greater than 3 months but less than 6 months 2 75 Past due, greater than 6 months but less than 1 year 1 24 Past due more than 1 year 29 28 Impaired loans and advances individually impaired 1,836 2,615 Gross loans and advances 40,679 52,882 Provisions for impairment 915 1,104 Total net loans and advances 39,764 51,778 190 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The neither past due nor impaired loans and advances can be further analysed by credit rating as follows: m At 31 December 2011 At 31 December 2010 SubSubInvestment investment Investment investment grade grade Not rated Total grade grade Not rated Total Home loans 779 8,019 443 9,241 923 10,145 4,830 15,898 Commercial mortgages 2,185 4,412 116 6,713 2,153 5,936 20 8,109 Credit cards 111 482 593 121 542 9 672 Overdrafts 182 671 89 942 297 710 261 1,268 Policyholder loans 192 61 253 160 83 243 Other loans to clients 3,620 1,386 86 5,092 3,544 1,332 252 5,128 Preference shares and debentures 1,210 202 14 1,426 1,376 521 14 1,911 Net finance leases and instalment debtors 337 4,125 246 4,708 728 4,601 91 5,420 Factoring accounts 290 290 308 308 Trade, other bills and bankers acceptances 21 3 68 14 Term loans 3,995 880 53 4,928 5,163 934 171 6,268 Remittances in transit 7 6 13 811 10 Deposits placed under reverse purchase agreements 1,257 3 1,260 1,307 28 1,335 Gross loans and advances 13,877 20,468 1,117 35,462 15,786 25,066 5,732 46,584 Collateral is held as security against certain loans and advances detailed above, with this principally consisting of cash, properties and letters of credit.
Movements in provisions for impairment of loans and advances are analysed as follows: m Year ended 31 December 2011 Year ended 31 December 2010 Specific Portfolio Total Specific Portfolio Total impairment impairment impairment impairment impairment impairment Balance at beginning of the year 886 218 1,104 660 172 832 Acquisitions through business combinations 3 8 11 Income statement charge 463 50 513 594 21 615 Recoveries of amounts previously written off 55 55 67 67 Amounts written off against the provision 486 486 484 484 Foreign exchange and other movements 109 41 150 183 25 208 Balance at end of the year 696 219 915 886 218 1,104 The majority of loans and advances are in respect of Nedbank, which believes it has continued to make good progress in improving asset quality.
In local currency terms Nedbank experienced a reduction in the impairment charge for the year driven mostly by its retail division, particularly in the secured portfolios that had lagged the recovery in the unsecured portfolios.
Lower interest rates and the stabilising of job losses contributed to the retail credit loss improving significantly in the year.
Nedbank further strengthened its provisioning by lengthening the emergence periods.
The credit portfolios in Nedbanks Corporate Banking business and Wealth divisions are believed to be of a high quality and credit loss ratios remained within or below the respective target levels.
Impairments for the capital division increased in energy, mining, asset and leverage finance, infrastructure and private equity portfolios.
Further detail on Nedbank is available at www.
During the year under review, the Group recognised collateral of 49 million 2010: 64 million in the statement of financial position.
These amounts are included in the loans and advances above as properties in possession.
Old Mutual plc 191 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued E: Financial assets and liabilities continued E3: Loans and advances continued b Finance lease and instalment debtors m Minimum lease payments Present value of minimum receivable lease payments receivable Amounts receivable under finance leases At 31 December 2011 2010 2011 2010 Within one year 816 987 718 934 In the second to fifth years inclusive 5,094 5,910 4,939 5,594 After five years 8 79 7 75 5,918 6,976 5,664 6,603 Less: unearned finance income 254 373 Present value of minimum lease payments receivable 5,664 6,603 5,664 6,603 The accumulated allowance for uncollectable minimum lease payments receivable is 190 million 2010: 230 million.
E4: Investments and securities m At At 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Government and  securities 6,476 9,275 Other debt securities, preference shares and debentures 10,909 15,930 Listed 7,059 11,356 Unlisted 3,850 4,574 Equity securities 17,505 25,453 Listed 16,639 23,202 Unlisted 866 2,251 Pooled investments 43,699 52,043 Listed 7,301 8,591 Unlisted 36,398 43,452 Short-term funds and securities treated as investments 2,536 3,352 Other 128 100 Total investments and securities 81,253 106,153 Investments and securities are regarded as current and non-current assets based on the intention with which the financial assets are held as well as their contractual maturity profile.
Of the amounts shown above, 45,131 million 2010: 55,650 million is regarded as current and 36,122 million 2010: 50,503 million regarded as non-current.
a Debt instruments and similar securities The following table shows an age analysis of the portfolio of debt instruments and similar securities: m At At 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Neither past due nor impaired 20,039 28,648 Past due but not impaired 10 9 Total debt instruments and similar securities 20,049 28,657 The following table shows an analysis of the carrying values of the Groups portfolio of debt and similar securities according to their credit rating Standard & Poors or equivalent, by investment grade.
192 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information m Government Other debt and securities, governmentpreference Short-term related shares and funds and At 31 December 2011 securities debentures securities Other Total Investment grade AAA to BBB 5,395 6,955 926 13,276 Sub-investment grade BB and lower 56 176 232 Not rated 1,025 3,778 1,610 128 6,541 6,476 10,909 2,536 128 20,049 m Government Other debt and securities, governmentpreference Short-term related shares and funds and At 31 December 2010 securities debentures securities Other Total Investment grade AAA to BBB 7,094 8,429 2,162 6 17,691 Sub-investment grade BB and lower 113 113 Not rated 2,181 7,388 1,190 94 10,853 9,275 15,930 3,352 100 28,657 In general, no collateral is taken in respect of the Groups holdings of debt instruments and similar securities.
E5: Securities lending The Group participates in securities lending where securities holdings are lent to third parties.
The loaned securities are not removed from the Groups consolidated statement of financial position but are retained within the relevant investment classification.
Collateral is held in respect of the loaned securities.
The table below represents the amounts lent and the related collateral received: m At At 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Amounts lent under securities lending Equity 471 700 Debt securities 296 447 767 1,147 Amounts received as collateral for securities lending Cash 695 1,131 Debt securities 72 16 767 1,147 The cash collateral has been recognised in the statement of financial position with a corresponding liability to return the collateral included in other liabilities.
Of the collateral included in the table above, 767 million 2010: 1,147 million can be sold or repledged and nil 2010: nil has been sold or repledged.
In addition the Group has provided nil in cash collateral 2010: 164 million and 114 million in debt securities collateral 2010: nil under repurchase arrangements.
Old Mutual plc 193 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued E: Financial assets and liabilities continued E6: Derivative financial instruments assets and liabilities The Group utilises derivative instruments for both hedging and non-hedging purposes.
The derivative instruments become in-themoney or out-of-the-money as a result of fluctuations in market interest rates, foreign exchange rates or asset prices relative to their terms.
The aggregate contractual or notional amount of derivative financial instruments on hand, the extent to which instruments are in-the-money or out-of-the-money and, therefore, the aggregate fair values of derivative financial assets and liabilities can fluctuate significantly from time to time.
The following tables provide a detailed breakdown of the Groups derivative financial instruments outstanding at year end.
These instruments allow the Group and its customers to transfer, modify or reduce their credit, equity market, foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
The Group undertakes transactions involving derivative financial instruments with other financial institutions.
Management has established limits commensurate with the credit quality of the institutions with which it deals, and manages the resulting exposures such that a default by any individual counterparty is unlikely to have a materially adverse impact on the Group.
m Derivative financial instruments Assets Liabilities At 31 December 2011 2010 2011 2010 Equity derivatives 37 293 46 160 Exchange rate contracts 281 592 293 389 Interest rate contracts 1,070 969 977 857 Credit derivatives 19 173 19 12 Other derivatives 388 476 420 452 Total 1,795 2,503 1,755 1,870 The contractual maturities of the derivative liabilities held are as follows: m More than 3 No Carrying Less than 3 months less Between 1 More than 5 contractual Derivative financial liabilities amount months than 1 year and 5 years years maturity date Total At 31 December 2011 1,755 451 326 515 675 1,967 At 31 December 2010 1,870 570 278 541 538 1,927 In accordance with the Groups hedging strategy the Group has entered into contracts pre and post year end to mitigate the foreign exchange risks attaching to the potential receipt, and subsequent distribution, of proceeds related to the sale of the Nordic businesses.
The net cost of those contracts purchased in 2011 was recognised in the income statement for the year ended 31 December 2011, with the market value not significant at the year end.
On completion of the sale any profits and losses in relation to these contracts will be offset by currency losses or gains on the underlying assets.
E7: Hedge accounting Net investment hedges The Group uses a combination of currency swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts and debt raised in the currency of the exposure to mitigate the translation effect of holding overseas companies.
The following table summarises the Groups open positions with respect to financial instruments utilised for net investment hedging purposes.
There was no ineffectiveness in respect of the net investment hedges during the financial year 2010: nil.
m At 31 December 2011 At 31 December 2010 USD ZAR SEK USD ZAR SEK Open positions Forward contracts 100 164 Currency swaps 62 479 313 391 Debt 32 10 62 100 479 345 174 391 2010 excluded $750 million and 500 million of financial instruments accounted as non-controlling interests or as equity.
194 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information An analysis of amounts in the financial statements relating to derivatives designated as net investment hedges is shown in the table below: m At At 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Fair value of financial instruments designated as net investment hedges at the reporting date ZAR forward foreign exchange contracts 1 11 USD forward foreign exchange contracts 1 300 million cross currency swap 89 500 million cross currency swap 64 750 million cross currency swap 90 200 million cross currency swap 23 85 10 The South African rand forwards are designated as hedges against the foreign currency risk in respect of the Groups investment in its South African operations.
The US dollar forwards are designated as hedges against the foreign currency risk in respect of the Groups investment in its US operations.
The 500 million cross currency swap is used to hedge Swedish krona currency risk on Swedish krona based assets in the Groups net investment in Nordic.
The pounds sterling to US dollar 82 million to $97 million leg of the 200 million cross currency swap is used to hedge US dollar currency risk on the US dollar based assets in the Groups net investment in US operations.
E8: Policyholder liabilities m At 31 December 2011 At 31 December 2010 Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net Life assurance policyholder liabilities Insurance contracts 15,587 94 15,493 19,177 141 19,036 Investment contracts Unit-linked investment contracts and similar contracts 52,081 781 51,300 69,538 821 68,717 Other investment contracts 979 979 1,145 1,145 Discretionary participating investment contracts 7,475 7,475 8,249 8,249 Outstanding claims 228 16 212 522 20 502 76,350 891 75,459 98,631 982 97,649 General insurance liabilities Claims incurred but not reported 47 4 43 61 12 49 Unearned premiums 98 47 51 109 51 58 Outstanding claims 180 47 133 227 59 168 325 98 227 397 122 275 Total policyholder liabilities 76,675 989 75,686 99,028 1,104 97,924 Of the 989 million 2010: 1,104 million included in reinsurers share of life assurance policyholder and general insurance liabilities is an amount of 925 million 2010: 1,051 million which is classified as current, the remainder being non-current.
Old Mutual plc 195 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued E: Financial assets and liabilities continued E8: Policyholder liabilities continued Movements in the amounts outstanding in respect of life assurance policyholder liabilities, other than outstanding claims, are set out below.
a Insurance contracts m At 31 December 2011 At 31 December 2010 Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net Balance at beginning of the year 19,177 141 19,036 27,549 539 27,010 Income Premium income 2,001 81 1,920 1,999 67 1,932 Investment income 682 682 1,989 1,989 Other income 3 3 3 3 Expenses Claims and policy benets 2,507 69 2,438 2,268 70 2,198 Operating expenses 516 516 472 472 Currency translation gain loss 2,620 10 2,610 2,059 6 2,053 Other charges and transfers 242 40 202 601 36 637 Taxation 2 2 1 1 Transfer to operating profit 342 8 334 293 12 305 Transfer to non-current liabilities held for sale 47 1 46 10,787 449 10,338 Balance at end of the year 15,587 94 15,493 19,177 141 19,036 b Unit-linked investment contracts and similar contracts, and other investment contracts m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Balance at beginning of the year 70,683 59,231 New contributions received 10,086 10,250 Maturities 805 701 Withdrawals and surrenders 7,942 6,788 Fair value movements 3,412 6,619 Foreign exchange and other movements 3,775 2,860 Transfer to non-current liabilities held for sale 11,775 788 Balance at end of the year 53,060 70,683 c Discretionary participating investment contracts m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Balance at beginning of the year 8,249 6,639 Income Premium income 975 855 Investment income 459 895 Currency translation gains losses 1,468 1,107 34 2,857 Expenses Claims and policy benefits 996 1,024 Operating expenses 96 85 Other charges and transfers 414 61 Taxation 6 7 684 1,177 Transfer to operating profit 56 70 Balance at end of the year 7,475 8,249 196 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information d Contractual maturity analysis The table below is a maturity analysis of liability cash flows based on contractual maturity dates for investment contract liabilities and discretionary participating financial instruments, and expected claim dates for insurance contracts.
The Group acknowledges that for general insurance the unearned premium provision, which will be recognised as earned premium in the future, will most likely not lead to claim cash outflows equal to this provision.
The Group has however adopted a conservative approach in estimating future cash outflows associated with unearned premiums, by assuming a 100% combined ratio.
m Undiscounted cash flows More than 3 months Carrying Less than less than Between More than At 31 December 2011 amount 3 months 1 year 1 and 5 years 5 years Total Life assurance policyholder liabilities Insurance contracts 15,587 1,418 1,674 7,494 21,707 32,293 Investment contracts Unit-linked investment contracts and similar contracts 52,081 48,063 296 1,110 2,395 51,864 Other investment contracts 979 681 73 217 55 1,026 Discretionary participating investment contracts 7,475 6,155 6,155 Outstanding claims 228 202 2 4 18 226 76,350 56,519 2,045 8,825 24,175 91,564 General insurance liabilities Claims incurred but not reported 47 20 16 11 47 Unearned premium 98 51 46 1 98 Outstanding claims 180 57 54 69 180 325 128 116 81 325 Total policyholder liabilities 76,675 56,647 2,161 8,906 24,175 91,889 m Undiscounted cash flows More than 3 months Carrying Less than less than Between More than At 31 December 2010 amount 3 months 1 year 1 and 5 years 5 years Total Life assurance policyholder liabilities Insurance contracts 19,177 1,572 1,744 9,271 24,658 37,245 Investment contracts Unit-linked investment contracts and similar contracts 69,538 59,173 888 2,227 6,790 69,078 Other investment contracts 1,145 740 77 264 236 1,317 Discretionary participating investment contracts 8,249 7,415 7,415 Outstanding claims 522 406 29 57 31 523 98,631 69,306 2,738 11,819 31,715 115,578 General insurance liabilities Claims incurred but not reported 61 26 30 5 61 Unearned premium 109 56 51 2 109 Outstanding claims 227 88 100 39 227 397 170 181 46 397 Total policyholder liabilities 99,028 69,476 2,919 11,865 31,715 115,975 Old Mutual plc 197 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued E: Financial assets and liabilities continued E8: Policyholder liabilities continued e Insurance risk The Group assumes insurance risk by issuing insurance contracts, under which the Group agrees to compensate the policyholder or other beneficiary if a specified uncertain future event the insured event affecting the policyholder occurs.
Insurance risk includes mortality and morbidity risk in the case of life assurance or risk of loss from fire, accident, or other source in the case of general insurance.
Insurance risk arises through exposure to unfavourable claims experience on life assurance, critical illness and other protection business and exposure to unfavourable operating experience in respect of factors such as persistency levels and management expenses.
Uncertainty in persistency, expenses and mortality & morbidity claim rates, relative to the actuarial assumptions made in the pricing process, may prevent the firm from achieving its profit objectives.
For accounting purposes insurance risk is defined as risk other than financial risk.
Contracts issued by the Group may include both insurance and financial risk: contracts with significant insurance risk are classified as insurance contracts, while contracts with no or insignificant insurance risk are classified as investment contracts.
The Group has developed a risk policy which sets out the practices which are used to manage insurance risk and the management information and stress testing requirements.
The policy is cascaded to all entities across the Group who each have their own risk policy suite aligned to the Group.
As well as management of persistency, expense and claims experience, the risk policy sets requirements and standards on matters such as underwriting and claims management practices, and the use of reinsurance to mitigate insurance risk.
The insurance risk profile and experience is closely monitored to ensure that the exposure remains acceptable.
The financial impact of insurance risk events is examined through stress tests carried out within the MCEV and IFRS sensitivities, ICA and Economic Capital assessment.
Mortality and morbidity Mortality and morbidity risk is the risk that death, critical illness and disability claims are higher than expected within the operations pricing assumptions.
Possible causes are unexpected epidemics of new diseases and widespread changes in lifestyle such as eating, smoking and exercise habits.
Higher than expected levels of claims will cause emerging profit to be lower than expected.
For contracts where survival is the insured risk, the most significant factor is continued improvement in medical science and social conditions that increase longevity.
For unit-linked contracts a risk charge is applied to meet the expected cost of the insured benefit in excess of the unit value.
This risk charge can be altered in the event of significant changes in the expectation for future claims experience, subject to Treating Customers Fairly principles.
The operations manage mortality risks through its underwriting policy and external reinsurance arrangements where its policy is to retain certain types of insurance risks within specified maximum single event loss limits.
Exposures above accepted limits are transferred to reinsurance counterparties.
Persistency Persistency risk is the risk that a policyholder surrenders, transfers or ceases premium payments for their contracts in a volume that has not been expected within the pricing assumptions thereby leading to a reduction in financial profit and an impact on liquidity.
Some insurance contracts can be surrendered before maturity for a cash surrender value.
In order to limit this risk to an acceptable level, charging and commission structures are designed to limit the risk of direct financial loss on surrender.
Persistency statistics are monitored monthly.
Actions may be triggered as a result of higher than expected lapse or withdrawal rates and significant emerging trends.
A detailed persistency analysis at a product level is carried out on an annual basis.
In the short-term, profit is not materially impacted by changes in persistency experience that is reasonably foreseeable.
Expenses Expense risk is the risk that actual expenses exceed expense levels assumed in product pricing.
This may result in emerging profit falling below the Groups profit objectives.
Expense levels are monitored quarterly against budgets and forecasts.
An activity based costing process is used to allocate costs relating to processes and activities to individual product lines.
198 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Some products structures include maintenance charges.
These charges are reviewed annually in light of changes in maintenance expense levels.
This review may result in changes in charge levels, subject to Treating Customers Fairly principles.
Tax Tax risk is the risk that insufficient tax is collected from the policyholders because the projected taxation basis for basic life assurance business is incorrect resulting in contracts being incorrectly priced.
Tax risk also represents potential changes in the interpretation or application of prevailing tax legislation as paid by either policyholders or shareholders, where the detrimental impact is reduced profitability or additional shareholder tax burdens.
The taxation position of the operations is projected annually and tax changes will result in changes to new business pricing models as part of the annual control cycle.
High risk issues and emerging trends are reported internally on a quarterly basis.
Other information on insurance risk More information about i risk management objectives and policies for mitigating insurance risk, ii terms and conditions of long-term insurance businesses, iii management of insurance risks life assurance, iv guarantees and options life assurance, and v general insurance risk, can be found at www.
f Sensitivity analysis life assurance Changes in key assumptions used to value insurance contracts would result in increases or decreases to the insurance contract provisions recorded, with impact on profit loss and or shareholders equity.
The effect of a change in assumption is mitigated by the following factors: Q Offset partial or full to the bonus stabilisation reserve in the case of smoothed bonus products in South Africa: and Q Offset partial or full through DAC amortisation in the case of the Bermuda business.
The net increase or decrease to insurance contract provisions recorded at 31 December 2011 has been estimated as follows: %mmm Emerging Wealth Assumption Change Markets Management Bermuda Mortality and morbidity rates assurance 10 294 3 Mortality rates annuities 10 52 Discontinuance rates 10 11 3 10 Expenses maintenance 10 66 3 1 Emerging Markets The changes in insurance contract liabilities shown are calculated using the specified increase or decrease to the rates, with no change in charges paid by policyholders.
The insurance contract liabilities recorded for the South African business are also impacted by the valuation discount rate assumed.
Lowering this rate by 1% would result in a net increase to the insurance contract liabilities, and decrease to profit, of 113 million 2010: 98 million.
The valuation interest rate sensitivity reflects a change in the valuation interest rates without any corresponding change in investment returns or in the expense inflation rate.
It should be noted that where the assets and liabilities of a product are closely matched e. g. non-profit annuity business, the net effect has been shown since the assets and liabilities move in parallel.
Wealth Management The changes in insurance contract liabilities shown are calculated independently using the specified increase or decrease to the rates, with no change in premiums paid by policyholders.
The assumption changes have no impact on the linked business within Skandia UK.
Whole of Life is the main product group affected by the lapse assumption change.
This is because the policies have the longest duration and represent close to 85% of the reserve.
The main product groups impacted by the expense, mortality and morbidity sensitivities are Whole of Life and Accelerated Critical Illness.
In the Wealth Management business, non-linked liabilities are fairly well matched by gilts so that the net impact of a valuation interest rate change, taking asset and liability movement into account, is negligible.
Old Mutual plc 199 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued E: Financial assets and liabilities continued E8: Policyholder liabilities continued Bermuda The insurance contract liabilities recorded for the Bermuda business are also impacted by the valuation discount rate assumed.
Lowering this rate by 1% would result in a net increase to the insurance contract liabilities, and decrease to profit, of 55 million 2010: 71 million.
Other assumption changes on Bermuda business have counterbalancing effects.
Lapses and partial withdrawals have the largest impact where increased activity reduces future fees and hence impact DAC negatively.
However, such activity helps the guarantee portion of the business since less death and living benefit exposure is expected in the future.
Thus, anti-selective behaviour eg, business with little or no guarantees redeeming at a faster rate presents the bigger challenge but it is accounted for in both the DAC and guarantee reserve calculations and conservation efforts are underway to retain the less risky business.
Mortality plays a much smaller part in Bermuda since all the business is accumulation savings type business.
Increased deaths do accelerate payment of guaranteed minimum death benefits but there is a comparable release of reserve on the maturity guarantee providing an offset about 85% of the variable annuity business has both death living benefits.
g Sensitivity analysis general insurance An increase of 10% in the average cost of claims would require the recognition of an additional loss of 36 million net of reinsurance.
Similarly, an increase of 10% in the ultimate number of claims would result in an additional loss of 36 million net of reinsurance.
The majority of the Groups general insurance contracts are classified as short-tailed, meaning that any claim is settled within a year after the loss date.
This contrasts with the long-tailed classes where the claims costs take longer to materialise and settle.
The Groups long-tailed business is generally limited to personal accident, third party motor liability and some engineering classes.
In total the long-tail business comprises less than 5% of an average years claim costs.
h Reinsurance assets credit risk None of the Groups reinsurance assets are either past due or impaired.
Of the reinsurance assets shown in the statement of financial position all are considered investment grade with the exception of 104 million of unrated exposures 2010: 144 million.
Collateral is not taken against reinsurance assets or deposits held with reinsurers other than in limited circumstances.
E9: Borrowed funds m At At Group 31 December Group 31 December excluding 2011 excluding 2010 Notes Nedbank Nedbank Group Nedbank Nedbank Group Senior debt securities and term loans 507 1,355 1,862 550 1,186 1,736 Floating rate notes E9 a 844 844 32 720 752 Fixed rate notes E9 b 507 511 1,018 516 466 982 Revolving credit facility E9 c Term loan and other loans 2 2 Mortgage backed securities E9 d 7777 112 112 Subordinated debt securities net of Group holdings E9 e 876 841 1,717 1,198 1,158 2,356 Borrowed funds 1,383 2,273 3,656 1,748 2,456 4,204 Other issues treated as equity for accounting purposes US$750 million cumulative preference securities F11 b ii 458 458 500 million perpetual preferred callable securities F10 b 338 338 350 million perpetual preferred callable securities F10 b 350 350 Total: Book value 2,529 2,894 Nominal value of the above 2,666 3,045 200 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The table below is a maturity analysis of liability cash flows based on contractual maturity dates for borrowed funds.
Maturity analysis is undiscounted and based on year end exchange rates.
m At At Group 31 December Group 31 December excluding 2011 excluding 2010 Nedbank Nedbank Group Nedbank Nedbank Group Less than 1 year 272 512 784 498 323 821 Greater than 1 year and less than 5 years 898 1,936 2,834 921 2,164 3,085 Greater than 5 years 998 556 1,554 880 722 1,602 Total 2,168 3,004 5,172 2,299 3,209 5,508 Senior notes a Floating rate notes m At At 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Maturity date Nedbank R1,690 million unsecured senior debt at 3 month JIBAR 1.5% 119 166 September 2012 R1,044 million unsecured senior debt at 3 month JIBAR 2.20% 84 102 September 2015 R1,750 million unsecured senior debt ination linked 3.9% real yield 158 180 March 2013 R98 million unsecured senior debt ination linked 3.8% real yield 9 10 March 2013 R1,552 million unsecured senior debt at 3 month JIBAR 1.48% 125 153 April 2013 R1,027 million unsecured senior debt at 3 month JIBAR 1.75% 83 101 April 2015 R80 million unsecured senior debt JIBAR 2.15% 6 8 April 2020 R837 million unsecured senior debt at 3 month JIBAR 1.05% 79 March 2014 R677 million unsecured senior debt at 3 month JIBAR 1.25% 54 March 2016 R500 million unsecured senior debt at 3 month JIBAR 1% 40 April 2014 R1,075 million unsecured senior debt at 3 month JIBAR 0.94% 87 October 2014 844 720 Group excluding Nedbank US$50 million at 3 month LIBOR plus 0.50% 32 Repaid 32 Total oating rate notes 844 752 All floating rate notes are non-qualifying for the purposes of regulatory tiers of capital.
b Fixed rate notes m At At 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Maturity date Nedbank R130 million unsecured senior debt at zero coupon 14 16 October 2024 R3,244 million unsecured senior debt at 10.55% 265 326 September 2015 R762 million unsecured senior debt at 11.39% 63 77 September 2019 R478 million unsecured senior debt at R157 1.75% 39 47 April 2015 R450 million unsecured senior debt at R206 1.28% 37 March 2014 R1,137 million unsecured senior debt at R157 1.5% 93 March 2016 511 466 Group excluding Nedbank 500 million euro bond at 7.125% 496 496 October 2016 US$16.5 million secured senior debt at 5.23% 11 11 August 2014 R100 million oating rate note repayable February 2011 3 months ZAR-JIBAR-SAFEX plus 4.5% 9Repaid 507 516 Total xed rate notes 1,018 982 Old Mutual plc 201 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued All fixed rate notes are non-qualifying for the purposes of regulatory tiers of capital.
E: Financial assets and liabilities continued E9: Borrowed funds continued c Revolving credit facilities and irrevocable letters of credit In April 2011 the Group signed a new 1,200 million five-year multi-currency revolving credit facility, replacing the 1,232 million facility due to mature in September 2012.
At 31 December 2011 160 million 2010: 499 million of this facility was utilised, nil 2010: nil in the form of drawn debt and 160 million 2010: 499 million in the form of irrevocable letters of credit.
The Group had a SEK1,500 million revolving credit facility with a maturity date of 1 July 2011 which was subsequently extended on similar terms to 1 July 2012 and revised to SEK1,000 million.
At 31 December 2011 this facility was undrawn 2010: undrawn.
On 22 February 2012 the facility was terminated.
d Mortgage backed securities Nedbank m At At 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Tier Maturity date Nedbank R291 million notes class A1 at 11.467% 4 Tier 2 Repaid R1.4 billion notes class A2A at 11.817% 67 96 Tier 2 November 2039 R98 million notes class B note at 12.067% 6 7 Tier 2 November 2039 R76 million notes class C note at 13.317% 4 5 Tier 2 November 2039 Total mortgage backed securities 77 112 202 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information e Subordinated debt securities net of Group holdings m At At 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Tier First call date Maturity date Nedbank R1.5 billion 7.85% 148 Tier 2 Repaid R1.8 billion 9.84% 153 186 Tier 2 September 2013 September 2018 R650 million 9.03% 54 67 Tier 2 February 2012 February 2017 R1.7 billion 8.9% 144 171 Tier 2 February 2014 February 2019 R2.0 billion 3 month JIBAR plus 0.47% 161 198 Tier 2 July 2017 July 2022 R500 million 3 month JIBAR plus 0.45% 40 49 Tier 2 August 2012 August 2017 R1.0 billion 10.54% 87 105 Tier 2 September 2015 September 2020 R500 million 3 month JIBAR plus 0.70% 40 49 Tier 2 December 2012 December 2017 R120 million 10.38% 10 12 Tier 2 December 2012 December 2017 R487 million 15.05% 42 51 Tier 2 November 2018 November 2018 R1,265 million JIBAR plus 4.75% 102 125 Non-core Tier 1 November 2018 November 2018 R300 million JIBAR 2.5% 12 15 Non-core Tier 1 December 2013 December 2013 US$100 million 3 month USD LIBOR 65 65 Tier 2 Secondary March 2017 March 2022 910 1,241 Less: banking subordinated debt securities held by other Group companies 69 83 Banking subordinated debt securities net of Group holdings 841 1,158 Group excluding Nedbank R3.0 billion 8.9% to October 2015, 3 month JIBAR plus 1.59% thereafter 239 293 Lower Tier 2 October 2015 October 2020 300 million 5.0% 296 Lower Tier 2 January 2011 Repaid 200 million 2010: 750 million 4.5% to January 2012 and 6 month EURIBOR plus 0.96% thereafter 166 609 Lower Tier 2 January 2012 January 2017 500 million 8.0% 471 Lower Tier 2 June 2021 876 1,198 Total subordinated debt securities 1,717 2,356 The principal and coupon on the bond were swapped equally into pounds sterling and US dollars with coupons of 6 month LIBOR plus 0.34% and 6 month US LIBOR plus 0.31% respectively.
During the year a 550 million partial repayment, together with settlements of associated currency swaps, was made.
On 18 January 2012 the remaining 200 million was repaid.
The principal and coupon on the bonds were swapped into floating rate of quarterly STIBOR plus 5.46%.
The currency swaps have a five year mandatory break clause.
Old Mutual plc 203 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued E: Financial assets and liabilities continued E10: Amounts owed to bank depositors m More than 3 months Carrying Less than less than Between More than Year ended 31 December 2011 amount 3 months 1 year 1 and 5 years 5 years Total Amounts owed to bank depositors Current accounts 4,117 4,117 4,117 Savings deposits 1,265 1,265 1,265 Other deposits and loan accounts 26,613 20,897 3,242 2,370 299 26,808 Negotiable certicates of deposit 7,787 2,553 4,186 1,610 1 8,350 Deposits received under repurchase agreements 1,196 1,196 1,196 Amounts owed to bank depositors 40,978 30,028 7,428 3,980 300 41,736 m More than Carrying Less than 3 months less Between More than Year ended 31 December 2010 amount 3 months than 1 year 1 and 5 years 5 years Total Amounts owed to bank depositors Current accounts 8,016 8,016 8,016 Savings deposits 3,731 3,731 3,731 Other deposits and loan accounts 29,352 23,484 4,313 1,863 216 29,876 Negotiable certicates of deposit 10,758 2,567 6,553 2,337 2 11,459 Deposits received under repurchase agreements 1,379 1,379 1,379 Amounts owed to bank depositors 53,236 39,177 10,866 4,200 218 54,461 E11: Liquidity Liquidity risk is the risk that cash may not be available to pay obligations when due at a reasonable cost.
Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the Board of Directors, which has built an appropriate liquidity risk management framework for the management of the Groups short, medium and long-term funding and liquidity management requirements.
The Group manages liquidity by maintaining adequate reserves, banking facilities and continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
Individual businesses separately maintain and manage their local liquidity requirements according to their business needs, within the overall liquidity framework established by Old Mutual plc.
The Group continues to meet Group and individual entity capital requirements, and day-to-day liquidity needs, through the Groups available credit facilities.
Given the nature of the Groups investments and securities, generally speaking, liquid resources are readily available, as the Group holds large portfolios of highly marketable securities, for example equities, listed bonds, actively traded pooled investments and cash and cash equivalents.
Whilst most of the Groups policyholder and banking liabilities are generally repayable on demand, the Groups expectation is that policyholders and banking depositors will only require funds on an ongoing basis.
Cash resources and other liquid assets are maintained in the event of a need for additional liquidity.
Information on the nature of the investments and securities held is given in section E4.
The Groups existing revolving credit facility of 1.20 billion 2010: 1.23 billion does not mature until April 2016 2010: September 2012.
Details, together with information on the Groups borrowed funds, are given in section E9.
The key information reviewed by the Groups executive directors and Executive Committee, together with the Groups Capital Management Committee, is a detailed management report on the Groups and holding companys current and planned capital and liquidity position together with summary information on the current and planned liquidity positions of the Groups operating segments.
Forecasts are updated regularly based on new information received, and as part of the Groups annual business planning cycle.
The Group and holding companys liquidity and capital position and forecast are presented to the Old Mutual plc Board of directors on a regular basis.
Group operating segments are required, both in terms of their local requirements and in accordance with direction from the holding company, to establish their own processes for managing their liquidity and capital needs and these are subject to review by their local oversight functions, with representation from the Group.
Further information on liquidity and holding company cash flow is contained in other sections of this annual report, for example the business review and Group Finance Directors statement.
The Group does not have material liquidity exposure to special purpose entities or investment funds.
204 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The contractual maturities of the Groups financial liabilities are set out in the appropriate notes to the financial statements.
F: Other statement of financial position notes F1: Goodwill and other intangible assets m Present value of acquired inforce business Software Other development development intangible Goodwill costs costs assets Total At 31 December 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Cost Balance at beginning of the year 3,286 3,241 2,704 3,029 766 649 896 880 7,652 7,799 Acquisitions through business combinations 4 1 1 1 5 Additions 86 78 8 94 78 Foreign exchange and other movements 144 143 44 10 119 81 12 15 319 249 Disposals or retirements 29 9 2 9 31 Transfer to non-current assets held for sale 260 73 1,184 335 25 40 313 1,782 448 Balance at end of the year 2,882 3,286 1,476 2,704 699 766 580 896 5,637 7,652 Amortisation and impairment losses Balance at beginning of the year 455 512 1,297 1,380 523 427 412 321 2,687 2,640 Amortisation charge for the year 138 214 64 61 88 83 290 358 Impairment losses 264 1 19 264 20 Foreign exchange and other movements 31 15 28 27 72 56 20 8 151 52 Disposals or retirements 2 2 2 2 Transfer to non-current assets held for sale 23 73 603 270 21 38 162 809 381 Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses at end of the year 665 455 804 1,297 492 523 318 412 2,279 2,687 Carrying amount Balance at beginning of the year 2,831 2,729 1,407 1,649 243 222 484 559 4,965 5,159 Balance at end of the year 2,217 2,831 672 1,407 207 243 262 484 3,358 4,965 The present value of acquired in-force business at the year end of 672 million 2010: 1,407 million, of which 568 million was in respect of Nordic operations relates to the Skandia business acquired during 2006 which is due to be amortised over a further 9 to 14 years.
Of other intangible assets, 175 million 2010: 280 million relates to distribution channels and 37 million 2010: 136 million brands associated with the Skandia business.
The remaining periods over which these are being amortised are 4 years and 9 years respectively.
Acquisitions through business combinations comprises 1 million 2010: 1 million in respect of acquisitions by the Groups US Asset Management business and nil 2010: 4 million relating to various other small acquisitions.
Allocation of goodwill to cash generating units CGUs The carrying amount of goodwill accords with the operating segmentation shown in note B, and primarily relates to the Long-Term Savings principally the CGUs of Emerging Markets, Retail Europe and Wealth Management, together with Nedbank and US Asset Management.
The Nordic business unit has been classified as held for sale for the current year as detailed in note A2.
Old Mutual plc 205 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued F: Other statement of financial position notes continued F1: Goodwill and other intangible assets continued An analysis of goodwill by CGU is set out below.
m At At 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Emerging Markets 90 101 Retail Europe 192 198 Wealth Management 656 656 Long-Term Savings 938 955 Nedbank 374 453 US Asset Management 881 1,155 Other 24 25 Nordic 243 Goodwill, net of impairment losses 2,217 2,831 Annual impairment testing of goodwill In accordance with the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, goodwill is tested annually for impairment for each CGU, by comparing the carrying amount of each CGU to its recoverable amount, being the higher of that CGUs value-in-use or fair value less costs to sell.
An impairment charge is recognised when the recoverable amount is less than the carrying value.
Long-Term Savings The CGUs within Long-Term Savings generate revenues through their life assurance and asset management businesses.
The value-in-use calculations for the life assurance operations are determined using the reported embedded value methodology plus a discounted cash flow calculation for the value of new business.
The value of new business represents the present value of future profits from expected new business.
Embedded value represents the shareholders interest in the life assurance business and is calculated in accordance with Market Consistent Embedded Value principles.
The methodology and significant assumptions underlying the determination of embedded value are disclosed in the supplementary information shown on pages 248 to 261.
The differences between the key assumptions applied in the current year and in the prior year are disclosed on pages 264 to 277.
The cash flows attributable to the value of new business are determined with reference to the latest approved three-year business plans.
Projections beyond the plan period are extrapolated using an inflation based growth assumption.
The value-in-use calculations for the asset management operations are similarly determined based on discounted cash flow models derived from the latest approved three-year business plans.
An additional two years projections beyond the plan period are extrapolated using inflation based growth rates.
The cash flows are discounted at economic profit rates applicable to each individual CGU.
The key assumptions used in the value-in-use calculations for the Emerging Markets, Retail Europe and Wealth Management CGUs are as follows: Q The growth rate The rate used is an inflation based growth assumption, which varies by CGU and is based on external market factors particular to that CGU.
Emerging Markets applied the growth rate of 3.4% and 4.2% respectively 2010: nil to both its life assurance business and asset management business in Mexico and Columbia.
Retail Europe, which incorporates a number of European countries, applied a weighted average calculation to determine the growth rate of 2.7% 2010: 2.8% applied to its life assurance business and of 2.0% 2010: 1.8% for its asset management business.
Wealth Management applied 5.2% 2010: 3.7% to both its life assurance business and asset management business in the UK, 3.4% 2010: 1.8% in Italy and 2.3% 2010: 1.7% in France.
Q The discount rate The applied rate used the relevant 10-year government bond rate as a starting point, which was adjusted for an equity market risk premium and other relevant risk adjustments, which were determined using market valuation models and other observable references.
Rates applied were 13.1% 2010: 13.6% for Emerging Markets, 11.7% 2010: 14.5% for Retail Europe and 12.7% 2010: 15.8% for Wealth Management.
The directors are satisfied that any reasonable change in the assumptions would not cause the recoverable amounts of the Emerging Markets, Retail Europe and Wealth Management CGUs to fall below their carrying amounts.
Nedbank The impairment test in respect of the Nedbank CGU has been performed by comparing the CGUs carrying amount to its value-inuse.
The key assumptions used in the value-in-use calculation are the discount rate and growth rate, which are based on market factors relevant to that CGU.
The discount rate applied is approximately 12.7% 2010: 12.9%.
A 5% growth rate was applied to extrapolate cash flows for an additional two years beyond the three-year business plan period.
A terminal value, using the same growth rate, is added for the value of cash flows beyond five years.
206 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information There was no impairment charge recognised for the Nedbank CGU in the current financial year 2010: nil.
The directors are satisfied that a reasonable change in assumptions would not cause the recoverable amount of the goodwill to fall below the carrying amount.
US Asset Management The impairment test in respect of the US Asset Management CGU has been performed by comparing the CGUs carrying amount to its value-in-use determined using a discounted cash flow methodology.
Key assumptions used in the value-in-use calculations include those that support the underlying business plans, the long-term growth rate and risk adjusted discount rate.
Further detail is provided in note A3.
Segmental analysis of goodwill and intangibles The following table shows a segmental analysis of the carrying amounts of goodwill and other intangible assets, together with amortisation and impairment charges, by operating segment: Goodwill and other intangible assets by segment m Goodwill and intangible assets Amortisation Impairment loss At 31 December 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Long-Term Savings 1,860 2,105 151 157 20 Emerging Markets 104 120 5 2 1 Retail Europe 474 522 35 36 Wealth Management 1,282 1,463 111 119 19 Nedbank 557 637 47 50 US Asset Management 904 1,181 8 3 264 Nordic 995 75 143 Other 37 47 9 5 Total 3,358 4,965 290 358 264 20 Goodwill and intangible assets discussed in the table above is net of amortisation and impairment losses.
F2: Property, plant and equipment m Land Buildings Plant and equipment Total Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Gross carrying amount Balance at beginning of the year 111 86 685 558 865 721 1,661 1,365 Additions 15 6 23 31 148 115 186 152 Additions from business combinations 7 34 8 49 Increase arising from revaluation 8 8 31 18 39 26 Disposals 1 19 1 133 56 153 57 Foreign exchange and other movements 25 11 150 85 132 92 307 188 Transfer to non-current assets held for sale 6 20 7 20 13 Balance at end of the year 115 111 604 685 736 865 1,455 1,661 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses Balance at beginning of the year 50 37 596 500 646 537 Depreciation charge for the year 12 16 95 87 107 103 Disposals 19 91 55 110 55 Foreign exchange and other movements 12 3 91 71 103 68 Transfer to non-current assets held for sale 10 7 10 7 Balance at end of the year 31 50 499 596 530 646 Carrying amount Balance at beginning of the year 111 86 635 521 269 221 1,015 828 Balance at end of the year 115 111 573 635 237 269 925 1,015 Old Mutual plc 207 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued F: Other statement of financial position notes continued F2: Property, plant and equipment continued The carrying value of property, plant and equipment leased to third parties under operating leases included in the above is 91million 2010: 130 million and comprises land of 10 million 2010: 15 million and buildings of 81 million 2010: 115 million.
There are no restrictions on property, plant and equipment title as a result of security pledges.
The revaluation of land and buildings relates to Long-Term Savings and to Nedbank.
In 2011 Long-Term Savings made revaluation gains of 3 million on land and 6 million on buildings 2010: gains of 1 million and 3 million respectively, while Nedbank made revaluation gains of 5 million on land and 25 million on buildings 2010: gains of 4 million and 12 million respectively.
For Long-Term Savings, land and buildings are valued as at 31 December each year by internal professional valuers and external valuations are obtained once every three years.
External professional valuers are used for Nedbank.
For both businesses the valuation methodology adopted is dependent upon the nature of the property.
Income generating assets are valued using discounted cash flows and vacant land and property are valued according to sales of comparable properties.
The carrying value that would have been recognised had the land and buildings been carried under the cost model would be 26 million 2010: 7 million and 168 million 2010: 174 million respectively for Long-Term Savings and 22 million 2010: 27 million and 150 million 2010: 167 million respectively for Nedbank.
m Additions and depreciation by segment Long-Term US Asset Year ended 31 December 2011 Savings Nedbank M&F Management Nordic Total Additions 32 142642 186 Depreciation 24 68573 107 m Long-Term US Asset Year ended 31 December 2010 Savings Nedbank M&F Management Nordic Total Additions 19 119437 152 Depreciation 23 63683 103 F3: Investment property m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Balance at beginning of the year 2,040 1,759 Additions 57 162 Additions from business combinations 290 Disposals 6 272 Net loss gain from fair value adjustments 68 30 Foreign exchange and other movements 249 362 Transfer to non-current assets held for sale 1 Balance at end of the year 2,064 2,040 In 2011 additions of 57 million 2010: 162 million related to Long-Term Savings.
Of the net loss gain arising from fair value adjustments on investment properties, a 68 million loss 2010: 30 million gain related to Long-Term Savings.
The fair value of investment property freehold leased to third parties under operating leases is as follows: m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Freehold 2,051 2,040 Long leaseholds 13 2,064 2,040 Rental income from investment property 184 163 Direct operating expense arising from investment property that generated rental income 19 19 165 144 208 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The carrying amount of investment property is the fair value of the property as determined by a registered independent valuer at least every three years, and annually by locally qualified staff, having an appropriate recognised professional qualification and recent experience in the location and category of the property being valued.
Fair values are determined having regard to recent market transactions for similar properties in the same location as the Groups investment property.
The Groups current lease arrangements, which are entered into on an arms length basis and which are comparable to those for similar properties in the same location, are taken into account.
Of the total investment property of 2,064 million 2010: 2,040 million, 1,715 million 2010: 1,699 million is attributable to South Africa and 349 million 2010: 341 million to Europe.
F4: Deferred acquisition costs m Insurance contracts Investment contracts Asset management Total At 31 December 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Balance at beginning of the year 212 1,934 1,187 1,079 135 125 1,534 3,138 New business 8 86 273 276 61 64 342 426 Amortisation 65 308 212 221 57 48 334 577 Impairment losses charged for the year 1 10 1 10 Foreign exchange and other movements 23 186 45 53 4 4 72 129 Transfer to non-current assets held for sale 31 1,314 89 120 1,314 Balance at end of the year 101 212 1,114 1,187 136 135 1,351 1,534 F5: Trade, other receivables and other assets m At At 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Debtors arising from direct insurance operations Amounts owed by policyholders 86 85 Amounts owed by intermediaries 76 89 Other 41 85 Debtors arising from direct insurance operations 203 259 Debtors arising from reinsurance operations 35 39 Outstanding settlements 360 461 Reinsurance treaties 754 974 Other receivables 801 840 Accrued interest and rent 350 400 Trading securities and spot positions 530 506 Prepayments and accrued income 90 145 Other assets 225 310 Total trade, other receivables and other assets 3,348 3,934 Based on the maturity profile of the above assets, 1,800 million 2010: 2,933 million is regarded as current and 1,548 million 2010: 1,001 million as non-current.
All amounts outstanding are short-term in nature.
No significant balances are past due or impaired.
Old Mutual plc 209 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued F: Other statement of financial position notes continued F6: Provisions m Liability for Client long service Provision for Year ended 31 December 2011 compensation leave Restructuring donations Other Total Balance at beginning of the year 39 57 34 89 92 311 Unused amounts reversed 1 14 15 Charge to income statement 33 11 14 58 Utilised during the year 3 30 7 3 43 Foreign exchange and other movements 7 8 1 11 18 31 Transfer to non-current assets held for sale 4 9 13 43 47 37 78 62 267 Post-employment benets 22 Balance at end of the year 43 47 37 78 64 269 m Client Liability for long Provision for Year ended 31 December 2010 compensation service leave Restructuring donations Other Total Balance at beginning of the year 30 49 42 84 90 295 Unused amounts reversed 10 19 29 Charge to income statement 728 9 25 69 Utilised during the year 9 27 4 5 45 Foreign exchange and other movements 11 7 3 5 1 21 39 57 34 89 92 311 Post-employment benefits 51 51 Balance at end of the year 39 57 34 89 41 260 Provisions in relation to client compensation were 43 million 2010: 39 million, primarily relating to possible mis-selling of guarantee contracts in Wealth Management.
1 million 2010: 1 million is estimated to be payable after more than one year.
The liability for long service leave of 47 million 2010: 57 million relates to provision for staff payments for long serving employees, all of which is estimated to be payable in less than one year.
Provisions in relation to restructuring were 37 million 2010: 34 million, primarily in respect of consolidation and related office relocation for elements of Wealth Management.
21 million 2010: 30 million is estimated to be payable after more than one year.
The provision for donations is held by Emerging Markets in respect of South African operations in relation to the payment of charitable donations in future periods to which the Group is committed to use these funds.
The funds were made available on the closure of the Groups unclaimed shares trusts which were set up as part of the demutualisation in 1999 and closed in 2006, with 78 million 2010: 70 million estimated to be payable after more than one year.
Other provisions include provisions for long-term staff benefits and legal fees.
Where material, provisions are discounted at discount rates specific to the risks inherent in the liability.
The timing and final amounts of payments in respect of some of the provisions, particularly those in respect of litigation claims and similar actions against the Group, are uncertain and could result in adjustments to the amounts recorded.
Of the total provisions recorded above, 129 million 2010: 163 million is estimated to be payable after more than one year.
210 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information F7: Deferred revenue m Long-term business Asset management General insurance Total Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Balance at beginning of the year 621 556 98 89 11 9 730 654 Fees and commission income deferred 87 107 46 48 1 133 156 Amortisation 49 39 41 39 90 78 Foreign exchange and other movements 13 21 1 1 2 1 16 23 Transfer to non-current assets held for sale 56 24 1 56 25 Balance at end of the year 590 621 102 98 9 11 701 730 F8: Deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred income taxes are calculated on all temporary differences at the tax rate applicable to the jurisdiction in which the timing differences arise.
a Deferred tax assets The movement on the deferred tax assets account is as follows: m Income Foreign At statement Acquisition exchange and beginning credit Charged disposal of other At end Year ended 31 December 2011 of the year charge to equity subsidiaries movements of the year Insurance funds 2 1 1 Tax losses carried forward 209 14 53 6 164 Accelerated capital allowances 2 1 1 Other temporary differences 234 16 1 36 28 185 Netted against liabilities 214 14 21 3 176 Deferred fee income 187 15 6 166 416 43 1 83 36 339 Includes transferring Nordic into non-current assets held for sale m Income Foreign At statement Charged Acquisition exchange and beginning charge credited disposal of other At end Year ended 31 December 2010 of the year credit to equity subsidiaries movements of the year Insurance funds 286 288 2 Tax losses carried forward 269 30 42 12 209 Accelerated capital allowances 6 4 2 Available-for-sale securities 185 182 7 4 Other temporary differences 265 27 2 66 6 234 Netted against liabilities 624 5 399 6 214 Deferred fee income 183 7 1 2 187 570 5 181 4 26 416 Includes transferring US Life into non-current assets held for sale Old Mutual plc 211 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued F: Other statement of financial position notes continued F8: Deferred tax assets and liabilities continued Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward only to the extent that realisation of the related tax benefit is probable, being where on the basis of all available evidence it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits against which the reversal of the deferred tax asset can be deducted.
The amounts for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised comprise: m 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 Gross amount Tax Gross amount Tax Unrelieved tax losses Expiring in less than a year 49 3 Expiring in the second to fifth years inclusive 197 10 Expiring after five years 1,784 396 2,473 459 Accelerated capital allowances 126 31 117 31 Other timing differences 533 89 296 79 2,689 529 2,886 569 b Deferred tax liabilities The movement on the deferred tax liabilities account is as follows: m Income Foreign statement Acquisition exchange and At beginning credit Credited disposal of other At end Year ended 31 December 2011 of the year charge to equity subsidiaries movements of the year Accelerated tax depreciation 29 2 5 22 Deferred acquisition costs 197 1 14 14 170 Leasing 53 9 7 37 PVIF 197 27 31 2 137 Other acquired intangibles 65 14 13 1 37 Available-for-sale securities 5 1 1 2 3 Other temporary differences 381 130 68 21 162 Policyholder tax 145 7 26 112 Netted against assets 214 14 21 3 176 858 174 1 104 75 504 Includes transferring Nordic into non-current assets held for sale and consolidation of other African businesses m Income Foreign statement Acquisition exchange and At beginning charge Credited disposal of other At end Year ended 31 December 2010 of the year credit to equity subsidiaries movements of the year Accelerated tax depreciation 24 1 1 5 29 Deferred acquisition costs 662 26 115 404 28 197 Leasing 44 9 53 PVIF 224 24 3 197 Other acquired intangibles 86 19 2 65 Available-for-sale securities 2 1 2 5 Other temporary differences 366 38 5 18 381 Policyholder tax 121 4 20 145 Netted against assets 624 5 399 6 214 905 32 115 11 47 858 Included transferring US Life into non-current assets held for sale As the Group is able to control the reversal of temporary differences in respect of investments in subsidiaries and branches, and it is probable that these temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future, there is no need to provide for the associated deferred tax liabilities.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences on which further tax might be due if these temporary differences reversed is estimated at 3.0 billion 2010: 3.4 billion.
212 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information F9: Trade, other payables and other liabilities m At At 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Amounts payable on direct insurance business Funds held under reinsurance business ceded 123 119 Amounts owed to policyholders 397 326 Amounts owed to intermediaries 76 90 Other direct insurance operation creditors 70 60 Amounts payable on direct insurance business 666 595 Accounts payable on reinsurance business 38 35 Accruals and deferred income 526 697 Share-based payments cash-settled scheme liabilities 37 21 Short trading securities, spot positions and other 931 1,598 Trade creditors 305 304 Outstanding settlements 555 503 Total securities sold under agreements to repurchase 89 117 Obligations in relation to collateral holdings 410 995 Other liabilities 686 796 Total trade, other payables and other liabilities 4,243 5,661 Included in the amounts shown above are 3,531 million 2010: 3,885 million that are regarded as current and 712million 2010: 1,776 million as non-current.
F10: Equity a Share capital m At At 31 December 31 December Authorised and issued share capital 2011 2010 Authorised ordinary shares of 10p each 750 750 Issued ordinary shares of 10p each 580 570 b Perpetual preferred callable securities In addition to the Groups senior and subordinated debt, the Group has issued two separate tranches of perpetual preferred callable securities with a total carrying value of 688 million 2010: 688 million at 31 December 2011.
In accordance with IFRS accounting standards these instruments are classified as equity and disclosed within equity shareholders funds as shown on pages 132 and 133.
350 million perpetual preferred callable securities.
These are unsecured and subordinated to the claims of senior creditors and the holders of any priority preference shares.
For an initial period to 24 March 2020 interest is payable at a fixed rate of 6.4% per annum annually in arrears.
From 24 March 2020 interest is reset semi-annually at 2.2% per annum above the sterling inter-bank offer rate for six month sterling deposits, and is payable semi-annually in arrears.
Coupon payments may be deferred at the Groups discretion.
The perpetual preferred callable securities are redeemable at the discretion of the Group at their principal amount from 24 March 2020.
500 million perpetual preferred callable securities Step-up Option B Undated Subordinated Notes issued under a Global Note Programme.
For an initial period to 4 November 2015 the notes pay interest at a fixed rate of 5.0% per annum annually in arrears.
After this date the interest is reset semi-annually at 2.63% per annum above six month EURIBOR and is payable semi-annually in arrears.
The perpetual preferred callable securities are redeemable at the discretion of the Group at their principal amount from 4 November 2015.
F11: Non-controlling interests a Income statement i Ordinary shares The non-controlling interests share of profit for the financial year has been calculated on the basis of the Groups effective ownership of the subsidiaries in which it does not own 100% of the ordinary equity.
The principal subsidiaries where a non-controlling interest exists are the Groups banking business in South Africa and, prior to the acquisition of the non-controlling interest in Mutual & Federal in February 2010 see F11 b, the general insurance business in South Africa.
For the year ended 31 December 2011 the noncontrolling interests attributable to ordinary shares was 238 million 2010: 196 million.
Old Mutual plc 213 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued F: Other statement of financial position notes continued F11: Non-controlling interests continued ii Preferred securities m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 R2,000 million non-cumulative preference shares 14 14 R773 million non-cumulative preference shares 5 5 R355 million non-cumulative preference shares 2 2 US$750 million cumulative preferred securities 37 38 R363 million non-cumulative preference shares 3 3 R92 million non-cumulative preference shares 1 Non-controlling interests preferred securities 62 62 iii Non-controlling interests adjusted operating profit The following table reconciles non-controlling interests share of profit for the financial year to non-controlling interests share of adjusted operating profit: m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Reconciliation of non-controlling interests share of profit for the financial year 2011 2010 The non-controlling interests share is analysed as follows: Non-controlling interests ordinary shares 238 196 Goodwill impairment and impact of acquisition accounting 2 Short-term fluctuations in investment return 1 Income attributable to Black Economic Empowerment trusts of listed subsidiaries 22 22 Fair value gains on Group debt instruments 1 6 Income attributable to US Asset Management non-controlling interests 5 9 Non-controlling interests share of adjusted operating profit 257 217 The Group uses revised weighted average effective ownership interests when calculating the non-controllable interest applicable to the adjusted operating profit of its South Africa banking and, prior to the acquisition of the non-controlling interest in February 2010, general insurance businesses.
This reflects the legal ownership of these businesses following the implementation for Black Economic Empowerment BEE schemes in 2005.
In accordance with IFRS accounting rules the shares issued for BEE purposes are deemed to be, in substance, options.
Therefore the effective ownership interest of the minorities reflected in arriving at profit after tax in the consolidated income statement is lower than that applied in arriving at adjusted operating profit after tax.
In 2011 the increase in adjusted operating profit attributable to non-controlling interests as a result of this was 22 million 2010: 22 million.
b Statement of financial position i Ordinary shares m At At 31 December 31 December Reconciliation of movements in non-controlling interests 2011 2010 Balance at beginning of the year 1,763 1,537 Non-controlling interests share of profit 238 196 Non-controlling interests share of dividends paid 100 88 Net disposal acquisition of interests 61 116 Foreign exchange and other movements 310 234 Balance at end of the year 1,652 1,763 Acquisition of non-controlling interest in Mutual & Federal On 5 February 2010, the Group completed the acquisition of the remaining non-controlling shareholdings in Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Limited, following the fulfilment of all outstanding conditions precedent.
On 8 February 2010, 147,313,449 new Old Mutual plc ordinary shares were issued in exchange for Mutual & Federal shares and listed on the London Stock Exchange, of which 68,378,851 were issued to Black Economic Empowerment trusts and 78,934,598 to other previous holders.
214 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Other acquisitions On 8 February 2010 Nedbank announced that it had obtained regulatory approval for the acquisition of the remaining 49.9% indirect interest in Imperial Bank Limited thereby satisfying all conditions precedent for the acquisition.
The purchase consideration was approximately 162 million 155 million plus a Johannesburg Interbank Agreed Rate JIBAR factor applied up to 5 February 2010 which was settled in four instalments out of existing cash resources of Nedbank Limited.
The total amount, which included interest at the three month JIBAR, amounted to 165 million.
ii Preferred securities m At At 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 1 R2,000 million non-cumulative preference shares 140 140 2 R773 million non-cumulative preference shares 71 71 3 US$750 million cumulative preferred securities 458 458 4 R355 million non-cumulative preference shares 25 25 5 R363 million non-cumulative preference shares 29 29 6 R92 million non-cumulative preference shares 8 50 731 773 Unamortised issue costs 13 13 Total in issue at 31 December 718 760 Preferred securities are held at historic value of consideration received less unamortised issue costs.
200 million R10 preference shares issued by Nedbank Limited Nedbank, the Groups banking subsidiary.
These shares are non-redeemable and noncumulative and pay a cash dividend equivalent to 75% of the prime overdraft interest rate of Nedbank.
Preference shareholders are only entitled to vote during periods when a dividend or any part of it remains unpaid after the due date for payment or when resolutions are proposed that directly affect any rights attaching to the shares or the rights of the holders.
Preference shareholders will be entitled to receive their dividends in priority to any payment of dividends made in respect of any other class of Nedbanks shares.
77.3 million R10 preference shares issued at R10.68 per share by Nedbank on the same terms as the securities described in 1 above.
US$750 million guaranteed cumulative perpetual preference securities issued on 19 May 2003 by Old Mutual Capital Funding L. P. a subsidiary of the Group.
Subject to certain limitations, holders of these securities are entitled to receive preferential cash distributions at a fixed rate of 8.0% per annum payable in arrears on a quarterly basis.
The Group may defer payment of distributions at its sole discretion, but such an act may restrict Old Mutual plc from paying dividends on its ordinary shares for a period of 12 months.
Arrears of distributions are payable quarterly cumulatively only on redemption of the securities or at the Groups option.
The securities are perpetual, but may be redeemed at the discretion of the Group from 22 December 2008.
35 million R10 preference shares issued in 16 April 2007 at R10.27 per share by Nedbank on the same terms as the securities described in 1 above.
36.3 million R10 preference shares issued by Nedbank in seven instalments between September 2009 and December 2009 on the same terms as the securities described in 1 above.
9.2 million R10 preference shares issued by Nedbank on 11 March 2010 on the same terms as the securities described in 1 above.
G: Other notes G1: Post-employment benefits The Group operates a number of pension schemes around the world.
These schemes have been designed and are administered in accordance with local conditions and practices in the countries concerned and include both defined contribution and defined benefit schemes.
The assets of these schemes are held in separate trustee administered funds.
Pension costs and contributions relating to defined benefit schemes are assessed in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries.
Actuarial advice confirms that the current level of contributions payable to each pension scheme, together with existing assets, are adequate to secure members benefits over the remaining service lives of participating employees.
The schemes are reviewed at least on a triennial basis or in accordance with local practice and regulations.
In the intervening years the actuary reviews the continuing appropriateness of the assumptions applied.
The actuarial assumptions used to calculate the projected benefit obligations of the Groups pension schemes vary according to the economic conditions of the countries in which they operate.
Old Mutual plc 215 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued G: Other notes continued G1: Post-employment benefits continued a Liability for defined benefit obligations m Other post-retirement Pension plans benefit schemes Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 2011 2010 Changes in projected benefit obligation Projected benefit obligation at beginning of the year 977 815 270 211 Benets earned during the year 7 9 7 6 Interest cost on benefit obligation 39 50 18 19 Actuarial loss gain 14 53 14 2 Benets paid 29 50 7 3 Transfer to held for sale 388 Foreign exchange and other movements 74 100 56 39 Projected benefit obligation at end of the year 546 977 246 270 Change in plan assets Plan assets at fair value at beginning of the year 1,119 953 218 175 Actual return on plan assets 57 90 13 17 Company contributions 13 12 3 5 Employee contributions 1 1 Benets paid 27 47 7 3 Transfer to held for sale 463 Foreign exchange and other movements 106 110 43 34 Plan assets at fair value at end of the year 594 1,119 178 218 Net asset liability recognised in statement of financial position Funded status of plan 48 142 68 52 Unrecognised assets 4 12 22 10 Other amounts recognised in statement of financial position 1 1 1 Unrecognised actuarial losses gains 10 23 9 12 Net amount recognised in statement of financial position 54 106 56 55 b Expense income recognised in the income statement m Other post-retirement Pension plans benefit schemes 2010 Year ended 31 December 2011 Restated 2011 2010 Current service costs 4 2 7 8 Interest cost 28 27 18 19 Expected return on plan assets 38 40 15 15 Net actuarial losses recognised in the year 3 8 Other benefit retirement plans Total included in staff costs 3 3 10 12 Actuarial assumptions used in calculating the projected benefit obligation are based on mortality estimates relevant to the economic countries in which they operate, with a specific allowance made for future improvements in mortality which is broadly in line with that adopted for the 92 series of mortality tables prepared by the Continuous Mortality Investigation Bureau of the Institute of Actuaries.
The expected returns on plan assets have been determined on the basis of long-term expectations, the carrying value of the assets and the market conditions at the reporting date specific to the relevant locations.
The effect to the Groups obligation of a 1% increase and 1% decrease in the assumed health cost trend rates would be an increase of 19 million and decrease of 15 million 2010: increase of 22 million and decrease of 17 million respectively.
The detailed actuarial assumptions can be viewed on the Groups website at www.
com 216 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information c Plan asset allocation % Other post-retirement Pension plans benefit schemes At 31 December 2011 2010 2011 2010 Equity securities 32.2 37.8 35.3 36.5 Debt securities 42.4 41.7 26.3 26.3 Property 4.1 7.0 4.7 4.4 Cash 2.0 1.0 23.5 23.5 Annuities and other 19.3 12.5 10.2 9.3 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Pension and other retirement benefit plan assets include ordinary shares issued by the Company with a fair value of nil 2010: nil.
d Summary of Group pension plans m At 31 December 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Present value of dened benefit obligations 546 977 815 778 675 Fair value of plan assets 594 1,119 953 828 855 Surplus 48 142 138 50 180 Experience losses arising on dened benefit plan liabilities: Amount 11 4 8 2 5 As a percentage of plan liabilities 2.0 % 0.4% 1.0 % 0.0% 0.7% Experience gains arising on dened benefit plan assets: Amount 11 11 8 69 39 As a percentage of plan assets 1.9 % 1.0 % 0.8 % 8.3 % 4.3% Total contributions expected to be paid to the Group pension plans for the year ending 31 December 2012 are 13 million subject to any reassessments to be completed in the year.
G2: Share-based payments a Reconciliation of movements in options During the year ended 31 December 2011, the Group had a number of share-based payment arrangements.
The movement in the options outstanding under these arrangements during the year is detailed below: Year ended 31 December 2011 Year ended 31 December 2010 Weighted Weighted average average Number of exercise Number of exercise Options over shares in Old Mutual plc London Stock Exchange options price options price Outstanding at beginning of the year 63,745,407 0.61 77,490,352 0.66 Granted during the year 1,742,700 1.10 4,720,010 1.12 Forfeited during the year 1,424,629 0.47 7,162,357 0.87 Exercised during the year 4,444,580 0.89 5,362,778 0.76 Expired during the year 7,556,947 1.05 5,939,820 1.21 Outstanding at end of the year 52,061,951 0.53 63,745,407 0.61 Exercisable at 31 December 1,722,807 0.74 1,767,384 1.31 The options outstanding at 31 December 2011 have an exercise price in the range of 0.35 to 1.53 2010: 0.35 to 1.63 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 0.7 years 2010: 1.7 years.
The weighted average share price at date of exercise for options exercised during the year was 1.28 2010: 1.19.
Old Mutual plc 217 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued G: Other notes continued G2: Share-based payments continued Year ended 31 December 2011 Year ended 31 December 2010 Weighted Weighted average average Number of exercise Number of exercise Options over shares in Old Mutual plc Johannesburg Stock Exchange options price options price Outstanding at beginning of the year 73,997,737 R11.57 63,770,329 R12.45 Conversion from options over shares in Mutual & Federal see below 9,060,754 R9.48 Granted during the year 16,000,162 R15.78 15,736,775 R13.87 Forfeited during the year 13,107,564 R17.51 8,645,294 R18.94 Exercised during the year 10,093,503 R112.05 3,443,611 R10.97 Expired during the year 1,971,258 R13.77 2,481,216 R14.43 Outstanding at end of the year 64,825,574 R11.41 73,997,737 R11.57 Exercisable at 31 December 2,277,440 R11.52 10,673,737 R12.72 The options outstanding at 31 December 2011 have an exercise price in the range of R1.45 to R19.10 2010: R1.45 to R19.10 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 4.1 years 2010: 3.9 years.
The weighted average share price at date of exercise for options exercised during the year was R14.34 2010: R13.92.
Year ended 31 December 2011 Year ended 31 December 2010 Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average Options over shares in Nedbank Group Ltd options exercise price options exercise price Outstanding at beginning of the year 25,879,278 R126.71 36,950,389 R124.86 Granted during the year 921,526 R132.06 1,486,893 R125.36 Forfeited during the year 508,771 R113.07 1,286,772 R105.23 Exercised during the year 12,205,562 R101.09 5,943,004 R94.47 Expired during the year 49,629 R118.56 5,328,228 R140.67 Outstanding at end of the year 14,036,842 R149.94 25,879,278 R126.71 Exercisable at 31 December 865,712 R98.92 1,890,932 R100.75 The options outstanding at 31 December 2011 have an exercise price in the range of R108 to R282.58 2010: R78 to R282.58 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 3.7 years 2010: 2.5 years.
The weighted average share price at date of exercise for options exercised during the year was R129.61 2010: R131.17.
In February 2010 the Group completed the acquisition of the remaining non-controlling interests in Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Ltd, with new Old Mutual plc shares issued in exchange for Mutual & Federal shares.
In conjunction with the acquisition, options previously held over shares in Mutual & Federal were converted into options over shares in Old Mutual plc, being converted at a rate consistent with the acquisition terms.
b Measurements and assumptions The fair value of services received in return for share options granted is measured by reference to the fair value of share options granted.
The estimate of the fair value of share options granted is measured using a Black-Scholes option pricing model.
Share options are granted under a service and non-market based performance condition.
Such conditions are not taken into account in the grant date fair value measurement of the share options granted.
There are no market conditions associated with the share option grants.
The grant date for the UK and South African Share Option and Deferred Delivery Plan annual awards is deemed to be 1 January in the year prior to the date of issue.
As such the Group is required to estimate, at the reporting date, the number and fair value of the options that will be granted in the following year.
The fair value of awards expected to be granted in 2012 which will have an IFRS 2 grant date of 1 January 2011, is shown separately below.
The grant date for all other awards is the award issue date.
c Share-based payment arrangements relating to US Asset Management During the year ended 31 December 2011, US Asset Management had the following share-based payment arrangements: Acadian Asset Management AAM Class B equity interests in AAM acquired by employees during 2007 entitled the participating employees to 28.57% of the earnings of AAM in excess of $120 million, and to a liquidation preference proportionate to their shareholding.
In consideration for the equity 218 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information acquired, the participating employees agreed to forego a portion of existing long-term incentive payments owed.
The difference between the carrying amount of this consideration and the fair value of the interest acquired was treated as a share-based compensation expense in 2007.
Fair value was determined based on the discounted projected future cash flows of AAM.
During 2011, the AAM plan was modified such that the threshold above which key employees participate in earnings was reduced to $75 million, and a feature was added such that participating employees may sell their equity back to Old Mutual at a fixed multiple of prior year earnings, subject to certain restrictions.
Participants are required to remain employed until 31 March 2013 to benefit from these amendments.
The difference in fair value between the modified AAM plan and the original AAM plan was $21 million at 31 December 2011, and the vested portion of $8 million has been recognised as a compensation expense during the year.
There were no instruments purchased or granted by the AAM plan in the year 2010: nil.
IPO Incentive Plan During 2011, a stock-based compensation plan was implemented for certain key employees of US Asset Management in connection with the potential initial public offering IPO of the business.
The plan is designed to reward participants for achieving strategic objectives and metrics and value creation over the period leading up to an initial IPO, should one proceed.
The awards consist of a mix of cash, payable at completion of an IPO, and restricted shares in the newly-listed US entity, which would be granted upon completion of an IPO and vest over three years from that date.
Should an IPO not proceed during the maximum term of the plan, the awards will be paid out in cash.
The value and quantity of the cash and share portions of the awards will be dependent on the achievement of performance objectives, financial targets and potential IPO proceeds.
The awards are accounted for as a sharebased payment liability and recognised over the vesting period and revalued at each period end based on projected results of the performance conditions, with fair value measured using a Monte-Carlo simulation.
The expense recognised during 2011 in relation to this plan was $1.3 million.
OMAM Affiliate Equity Plan Equity granted during the year to employees of firms participating in the OMAM Affiliate Equity Plan vests 3 to 5 years from the date of grant, conditional upon continued employment over this period.
Fair value was determined based on a multiple of prior year earnings.
Under the terms of the arrangements, participating employees may sell their equity back to Old Mutual which acts as a buyer of last resort at a fixed multiple of prior year earnings, subject to certain restrictions.
Accordingly, the schemes are accounted for as cash-settled share-based payments, despite the fact the initial purchase and or grants of equity are settled in equity instruments.
The following summarises the instruments purchased from and granted by US Asset Management during the year: Total Affiliate shares non-controlling Affiliate share Affiliate share forfeited interest in Instruments granted and purchased during the year purchases grants bought back affiliate OMAM Afliate Equity Plan Percentage of afliate equity 2011 0.07% 3.88% 0.11 % 3.84% 2010 1.64% 2.89% 0.14 % 4.39% 1 Fair value of instruments $USm 2011 $31m $31m 2010 $18.1m $18.1m 1.
Represents fair value in excess of consideration granted for affiliate share purchases.
US Asset Management annual bonus awards The OMAM Affiliate Equity Plans are incorporated into annual bonus awards of employees at participating firms, which are to be settled partly in cash, and partly in equity.
The level of bonus is contingent upon current year financial and individual performance, therefore the vesting period for bonus equity to be granted during 2012 in respect of the 2011 financial year has been determined to commence from 1 January 2011.
It is anticipated that instruments with a fair value of US$15.8 million 2010: US$7.9 million and 2009: US$8.7 million will be granted during 2012 to firms participating in the OMAM Affiliate Equity Plan based on 2011 financial performance.
Old Mutual plc 219 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued G: Other notes continued G2: Share-based payments continued d Restricted share grants The following summarises the fair value of restricted shares granted by the Group during the year: Restricted shares issued Weighted on buy-out of Number average fair M&F minorities granted value Shares in Old Mutual plc London Stock Exchange 2011 13,429,616 1.44 2010 17,500,337 1.20 Shares in Old Mutual plc Johannesburg Stock Exchange 2011 18,961,207 R15.49 2010 14,506,095 R13.90 Shares in Nedbank Group Ltd 2011 4,806,015 R134.64 2010 Shares in Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Ltd 2011 5,147,317 R13.98 2010 19,418,697 1,052,601 R10.82 The share price at measurement date was used to determine the fair value of the restricted shares.
Expected dividends were not incorporated into the measurement of fair value where the holder of the restricted share is entitled to dividends throughout the vesting period.
e Annual bonus awards The UK and South Africa Share Option and Deferred Delivery Plans give rise to annual bonus awards.
The level of annual bonus awards is contingent upon the satisfactory completion of individual and company performance targets, measured over the financial year prior to the date the employees receive the award.
The accounting grant date for the South African and UK annual bonus plans other than the new joiner and newly qualified grants has therefore been determined as 1 January in the year prior to the date of issue of the grants.
The Group anticipates awards under the South African scheme of nil options 2010: 21,954,975 options and 15,983,524 restricted shares 2010: 18,612,145 restricted shares.
The options have been valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, using an at the money option assumption.
The restricted shares have been valued using a share price of R17.04 2010: R12.99.
The Group estimate of the total fair value of the annual bonus expected to be paid in the form of options and restricted shares under the UK Share Option and Deferred Delivery Plan is outlined below.
The fair value is determined by making an estimate of the level of bonus to be paid out following the attainment of personal and company performance conditions.
Year ended 31 December 2011 Year ended 31 December 2010 Total Total fair fair value, Vesting value, m period m Vesting period Old Mutual plc performance share plans restricted shares 12 4.2 years 6 4.2 years Old Mutual plc performance share plans options 3 4.2 years f Financial impact m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Expense arising from equity settled share and share option plans 24 13 Expense arising from cash settled share and share option plans 37 7 61 20 Closing balance of liability for cash settled share awards 37 21 Total intrinsic value liability for vested benefits 220 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information G3: Related parties The Group provides certain pension fund, insurance, banking and financial services to related parties.
These are conducted on an arms length basis and are not material to the Groups results.
a Transactions with key management personnel, remuneration and other compensation Key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly, including any director whether executive or otherwise of the Group.
Details of the compensation paid to the Board of directors as well as their shareholdings in the Company are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on page 119 and Corporate Governance report on page 100 respectively.
b Key management personnel remuneration and other compensation Year ended 31 December 2011 Year ended 31 December 2010 Number of Number of personnel Value 000s personnel Value 000s Directors fees 12 1,638 12 1,510 Remuneration 25,176 22,819 Cash remuneration 17 5,969 18 6,675 Short-term employee benets 17 8,751 18 7,660 Post-employment benets 14 1,296 10 451 Other long-term benets 512 714 Share-based payments 13 9,148 17 8,019 26,814 24,329 Year ended 31 December 2011 Year ended 31 December 2010 Number of options Number of Number of shares Number of options shares Share options personnel 000s personnel 000s Outstanding at beginning of the year 13 14,499 11 15,613 Leavers 1 70 2 482 New appointments 1274 4704 Granted during the year 193 425 Exercised during the year 2,079 966 Lapsed during the year 1,335 795 Outstanding at end of the year 11 11,482 13 14,499 Year ended 31 December 2011 Year ended 31 December 2010 Number of options Number of Number of shares Number of options shares Restricted shares personnel 000s personnel 000s Outstanding at beginning of the year 14 19,142 10 7,832 Leavers 1 641 2 1,565 New appointments 21,580 61,314 Granted during the year 7,111 12,282 Lapsed during the year 2,270 151 Released during the year 3,270 570 Outstanding at end of the year 14 21,652 14 19,142 Old Mutual plc 221 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued G: Other notes continued G3: Related parties c Key management personnel transactions Key management personnel and members of their close family have undertaken transactions with Old Mutual plc and its subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associated undertakings in the normal course of business, details of which are given below.
For current accounts positive values indicate assets of the individual whilst for credit cards and mortgages positive values indicate liabilities of the individual.
Year ended 31 December 2011 Year ended 31 December 2010 Number of Value Number of Value personnel 000s personnel 000s Current accounts Balance at beginning of the year 8672 7265 Net movement during the year 348 407 Balance at end of the year 5324 8672 Credit cards Balance at beginning of the year 529 422 Net movement during the year 3 7 Balance at end of the year 526 529 Mortgages Balance at beginning of the year 51,791 53,028 Net movement during the year 627 1,125 Interest charged 49 86 Less repayments 778 334 Foreign exchange movements 186 136 Balance at end of the year 4621 51,791 General insurance contracts Total premium paid during the year 315 318 Claims paid during the year 11 11 Life insurance products Total sum assured value of investment at end of the year 10 16,029 13 23,501 Pensions, termination benefits paid Value of pension plan as at end of the year 10 5,700 13 6,714 Various members of key management personnel hold, and or have at various times during the year held, investments managed by asset management businesses of the Group.
These include unit trusts, mutual funds and hedge funds.
None of the amounts concerned are material in the context of the funds managed by the Group business concerned, and all of the investments have been made by the individuals concerned either on terms which are the same as those available to external clients generally or, where that is not the case, on the same preferential terms as were available to employees of the business generally.
d Skandia Liv  Skandia publ Skandia Liv, is a related party to the Old Mutual Group.
Skandia Liv is a wholly owned subsidiary of Skandia and its business is conducted on a mutual basis.
For the reasons given in the accounting policies Skandia Livs result is not consolidated in these financial statements.
222 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Material transactions between the Group and the Skandia Liv group in the year ended 31 December 2011 were as follows: Q Agreement in principle and framework agreement on co-operation covering market related functions and certain staff functions this involves distribution and distribution support, customer service, market communication, administration of group insurance products, and staff and service functions.
Skandia Liv paid 90 million 2010: 88 million for services rendered under this agreement.
Q Premises the Group rented office premises from Skandia Liv.
The Group paid market rents of 1 million 2010: 16 million for these premises.
Q Occupational pensions Skandia Liv provides occupational pensions for the employees of the Group, for which the Group paid 17 million 2010: 15 million.
Q Agreement on IT services the Group provides IT services to Skandia Liv.
The amount charged to Skandia Liv was 7 million 2010: 7 million.
Q Settlement with Skandia Liv regarding the arbitration settlement in a ruling issue on 2 October 2008, the arbitration board ruled that the going rate level of compensation in the market pursuant to the 2002 Asset Management Agreement is a maximum of ten basis points including value added tax, and that Skandia for the time from 1 July 2008 and onward is obligated to pay an amount to Skandia Liv that corresponds to the share of asset management fees received that exceed ten basis points including value added tax.
A reserve to cover asset management fees for the time after 1 July 2008 was charged to the income statement.
On 21 July 2009, an agreement was reached between Skandia and Skandia Liv, under which Skandia will pay a fixed amount per quarter until the end of 2013.
The total remaining amount to be paid to Skandia Liv is less than the reserve provision booked as per July 2009 with the difference resolved in 2009.
The remaining provision of 10 million is shown as a liability to Skandia Liv in the statement of financial position.
Q Currency derivatives Skandia Liv hedge their currency position with forward contracts with Skandia Group at the prices prevailing on the foreign exchange market.
Skandia Liv paid 7 million 2010: 27 million for forward contracts during the year.
Q Capital Contribution during the year, Skandia Liv made a group contribution of 154 million to the Skandia Group.
Unrelieved tax losses have been used to offset the entire tax charge on this transaction.
Simultaneously, the Skandia Group made a capital injection of 110 million back to Skandia Liv, corresponding to the group contribution net of tax relief.
Q On 15 December 2011 it was announced that the Group has agreed to sell the Nordic business unit to Skandia Liv.
The balance outstanding at 31 December 2011 due from Skandia Liv was 17 million 2010: 13 million.
Various other arrangements exist between the Group and Skandia Liv, principally in respect of provision of accounting, legal and treasury functions, all of which are transacted on an arms length basis.
Old Mutual plc 223 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued G: Other notes continued G4: Principal subsidiaries and Group enterprises The following table lists the principal Group undertakings whose results are included in the consolidated financial statements.
All shares held are ordinary shares and, except for OM Group UK Ltd, are held indirectly by the Company.
Name Nature of business Percentage holding Country of incorporation Old Mutual South Africa Ltd Holding company 100 Republic of South Africa Old Mutual Africa Holdings Pty Ltd Holding company 100 Republic of South Africa Old Mutual Life Assurance Company South Africa Ltd Life assurance 100 Republic of South Africa Old Mutual Investment Group South Africa Pty Ltd Asset management 100 Republic of South Africa Nedbank Group Ltd Banking 58 Republic of South Africa Nedbank Ltd Banking 58 Republic of South Africa Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Ltd General insurance 100 Republic of South Africa Old Mutual Life Assurance Company Namibia Ltd Life assurance 100 Namibia Old Mutual US Holdings, Inc Holding company 100 Delaware, USA Dwight Asset Management Company Asset management 100 Delaware, USA Old Mutual Bermuda Ltd Life assurance 100 Bermuda 1 Acadian Asset Management LLC Asset management 100 Delaware, USA Barrow, Hanley, Mewhinney & Strauss LLC Asset management 100 Delaware, USA OM Group UK Ltd Holding company 100 England and Wales Old Mutual Wealth Management Limited Holding company 100 England and Wales Skandia Europe and Latin America Holdings Ltd Holding company 100 England and Wales Skandia Life Assurance Company Ltd Life assurance 100 England and Wales  Skandia Life assurance 100 Sweden Skandiabanken AB Banking 100 Sweden Old Mutual Netherlands B. V. Holding company 100 Netherlands 1.
The Group holds 100% Class A shares and 71.43% Class B shares in Acadian Asset Management.
The remaining 28.57% Class B shares are held by the employees as described in note G2 e. A complete list of subsidiaries is filed with the UK Registrar of Companies with the annual return.
All the above companies have a year end of 31 December.
As described in the accounting policies Skandia Liv is not consolidated in these financial statements.
Skandia Livs unaudited capital and reserves are summarised as follows: m unaudited At At 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Capital and reserves 32 31 Loss profit after tax 2 2 224 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information G5: Investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures a Investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures The Groups investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures accounted for under the equity method are as follows: m Group share % interest Carrying of profit At 31 December 2011 Country of operation held value loss Visigro Investments Pty Ltd Republic of South Africa 30% 6 Odyssey Developments Pty Ltd Republic of South Africa 49% 8 Old Mutual Finance Pty Ltd Republic of South Africa 50%67 Kotak Mahindra Old Mutual Life Insurance Ltd India 26% 26 6 Old MutualGuodian Life Insurance Company Ltd China 50% 12 4 All other associated undertakings 53 1 111 10 All of the above investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures are unlisted.
All investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures are equity accounted using financial information as at 31 December 2011. m Group share of profit loss At 31 December 2010 Country of operation % interest held Carrying value Restated Clidet No.
638 Pty Ltd Republic of South Africa 49% 29 Visigro Investments Pty Ltd Republic of South Africa 30% 8 Odyssey Developments Pty Ltd Republic of South Africa 49% 10 Old Mutual Finance Pty Ltd Republic of South Africa 50% 5 4 Kotak Mahindra Old Mutual Life Insurance Ltd India 26% 13 2 Old MutualGuodian Life Insurance Company Ltd China 50% 12 4 All other associated undertakings 85 3 162 5 b Aggregate financial information of investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures The aggregate financial information for all investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures is as follows: m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Restated Total assets 2,172 2,032 Total liabilities 1,947 1,857 Total revenues 607 653 Net profit after tax 10 5 c Aggregate Group investment in associated undertakings and joint ventures The aggregate amounts for the Groups investment in associated undertakings and joint ventures are as follows: m Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Balance at beginning of the year 162 135 Net disposals additions of investment in associated undertakings and joint ventures 7 11 Share of profit after tax 10 7 Dividends paid 4 Foreign exchange and other movements 50 9 Balance at end of the year 111 162 The Group has no significant investments in which it owns less than 20% of the ordinary share capital that it accounts for using the equity method.
Old Mutual plc 225 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued G: Other notes continued G5: Investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures continued d Contingent liabilities The Group is severally liable for the contingent liabilities relating to investments in associated undertakings of nil 2010: 1 million.
e Other Group holdings The above does not include companies whereby the Group has a holding of more than 20%, but does not have significant influence over these companies by virtue of the Group not having any direct involvement in decision making or the other owners possessing veto rights.
G6: Contingent liabilities m At At 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Guarantees and assets pledged as collateral security 2,251 2,883 Irrevocable letters of credit 193 207 Secured lending 515 775 Other contingent liabilities 72 55 The Group has pledged debt securities amounting to 1,196 million 2010: 1,379 million as collateral for deposits received under re-purchase agreements.
These amounts represent assets that have been transferred but do not qualify for derecognition under IAS 39.
These transactions are entered into under terms and conditions that are standard industry practice for securities borrowing and lending activities.
Contingent liabilities tax The Revenue authorities in the principle jurisdictions in which the Group operates South Africa and the United Kingdom are reviewing certain historic transactions undertaken and tax law interpretations made by the Group.
More generally the Group is also experiencing increased review by fiscal authorities of routine matters.
Whilst provisions are made for liabilities which might reasonably be expected to materialise, and whether or not legal proceedings will be required to resolve them, the outcome is uncertain at this stage.
Further detail is provided in note A3 e. Nedbank structured financing Historically the Groups South African banking business entered into structured finance transactions with third parties using the tax base of these companies.
Pursuant to the terms of the majority of these transactions, the underlying third-party has contractually agreed to accept the risk of any tax being imposed by the South African Revenue Service SARS, although the obligation to pay in the first instance rests with the Group.
It is only in limited cases where, for example, the credit quality of a client becomes doubtful, or where the client has specifically contracted out of the re-pricing of additional taxes, that the recovery from a client could be less than the liability that could arise on assessment, in which case provisions are made.
SARS has examined the tax aspects of some of these types of structures and SARS could assess these structures in a manner different to that initially envisaged by the contracting parties.
As a result the Group could be obliged to pay additional amounts to SARS and recover these from clients under the applicable contractual arrangements.
Nedbank litigation There are a number of legal or potential claims against Nedbank and its subsidiary companies, the outcome of which cannot at present be foreseen.
The largest of these potential actions is a claim in the High Court for R1.3 billion against Nedbank by certain shareholders in Pinnacle Point Group Limited, alleging that Nedbank had a legal duty of care to them arising from a share swap transaction.
During 2011 further actions were instituted against Nedbank by other stakeholders relating to this same issue.
Nedbank and its legal advisers remain of the opinion that the claims are extremely ambitious and that the claimants will have great difficulty succeeding.
Nedbank securitisations The Group through Nedbank uses securitisation primarily as a funding diversification tool and to add flexibility in mitigating structural liquidity risk.
Nedbank currently has two active traditional securitisation transactions: Q Synthesis Funding Limited Synthesis, an assetbacked commercial paper ABCP programme launched in 2004: and Q GreenHouse Funding Pty Limited, Series 1 GreenHouse, a residential mortgage-backed securitisation programme launched in December 2007.
During October 2011 Octane ABS 1 Pty Limited Octane, a securitisation of motor vehicle loans launched in 2007, exercised its clean up call option.
The remaining portfolio of securitised motor vehicle loans were acquired by Nedbank at fair value and the proceeds used by Octane to fully redeem all outstanding notes.
226 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Synthesis primarily invests in long-term rated bonds and offers capital market funding to South African corporates.
These assets are funded through the issuance of short-dated investment-grade commercial paper to institutional investors.
All the commercial paper issued by Synthesis is assigned the highest short-term RSA local-currency credit rating by Fitch, and is listed on JSE Limited.
Under GreenHouse Series 1, R2 billion of residential mortgages originated by Nedbank were securitised.
The commercial paper issued by GreenHouse has been assigned credit ratings by both Fitch and Moodys and is listed on JSE Limited.
Fitch placed the GreenHouse commercial paper on rating watch negative as a result of changes it is effecting to its rating criteria for South African residential mortgage backed securities transactions.
As the GreenHouse transaction was undertaken for funding and liquidity purposes, only the senior notes were placed with third party investors and the junior notes and subordinated loans to the special purpose entity were retained by Nedbank.
The assets transferred to the special purpose entity have continued to be recognised as financial assets.
GreenHouse continues to direct all capital repayments it receives on the residential mortgage portfolio to noteholders as a result of the stop purchase activated by a breach of the arrear trigger in 2010.
The GreenHouse commercial paper is scheduled to be redeemed in November 2012.
The following table shows the carrying amount of securitised assets, stated at the amount of the Groups continuing involvement where appropriate, together with the associated liabilities, for each category of asset in the statement of financial position: m Carrying amount of assets Associated liabilities At 31 December 2011 2010 2011 2010 Loans and advances to customers Residential mortgage loans 116 165 132 171 Motor vehicle financing 59 78 Other financial assets Corporate and bank paper 116 155 Other securities 199 327 Commercial paper 320 484 Total 431 706 452 733 This table presents the gross balances within the securitisation schemes and does not reflect any eliminations of intercompany and cash balances held by the various securitisation vehicles.
The value of any derivative instruments taken out to hedge any financial asset or liability is adjusted against such instrument in this disclosure.
G7: Commitments Capital commitments The Groups capital commitments are detailed in the table below.
The Groups management is confident that future net revenues and funding will be sufficient to cover these commitments.
m At At 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Investment property 85 118 Property, plant and equipment 70 95 Commitments to extend credit to customers The following table presents the contractual amounts of the Groups financial instruments not included in the statement of financial position that commit it to extend credit to customers.
m At At 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Original term to maturity of one year or less 2,057 4,294 Original term to maturity of more than one year 1,396 1,885 Other commitments, note issuance facilities and revolving underwriting facilities 2,093 1,367 Assets are pledged as collateral under repurchase agreements with other banks and for security deposits relating to local futures, options and stock exchange memberships.
Mandatory reserve deposits are also held with local Central Banks in accordance with statutory requirements.
These deposits are not available to finance the Groups day-to-day operations.
Commitments under the Groups operating lease arrangements are described in note G8.
Old Mutual plc 227 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued G: Other notes continued G8: Operating lease arrangements a The Group as lessee m At 31 December 2011 At 31 December 2010 Outstanding commitments under noncancellable operating leases fall due as follows: Banking Non-banking Total Banking Non-banking Total Within one year 67 15 82 68 35 103 In the second to fifth years inclusive 173 52 225 233 97 330 After five years 210 39 249 292 70 362 450 106 556 593 202 795 b The Group as lessor m At At 31 December 31 December Assets subject to operating leases 2011 2010 Land 10 15 Buildings 81 115 Investment property 2,064 2,040 2,155 2,170 m At At 31 December 31 December Future minimum lease payments of contracts with tenants 2011 2010 Within one year 61 59 In the second to fifth years inclusive 159 142 After five years 90 76 310 277 G9: Fiduciary activities The Group provides custody, trustee, corporate administration, and investment management and advisory services to third parties that involve the Group making allocation and purchase and sale decisions in relation to a wide range of financial instruments.
Those assets that are held in a fiduciary capacity are not included in these financial statements.
Some of these arrangements involve the Group accepting targets for benchmark levels of returns for the assets under the Groups care.
These services give rise to the risk that the Group will be accused of misadministration or under-performance.
G10: Events after the reporting date On 18 January 2012 the Group redeemed the remaining 200 million of the 750 million Lower Tier 2 Bond which had not been repaid during 2011.
On 3 February 2012 the Group issued a circular in respect of the proposed disposal of the Nordic business unit.
Additional details have been provided in notes A2, H1 and H2.
On 7 February 2012 the Group announced that it had sold Dwight Asset Management subject to certain conditions.
On 22 February 2012 the Group announced that a preliminary non-binding offer had been accepted by Ecobank Transnational Incorporated for the acquisition of Oceanic Life.
In March 2012 Bermuda enhanced its hedging strategy by implementing an option based hedging arrangement, with further detail provided in note A3 a.
On 8 March 2012 final regulatory approval was received in respect of the disposal of the Nordic business unit.
H: Discontinued operations and held for sale operations H1: Discontinued operations The results of the Groups Swedish, Danish and Norwegian life businesses, collectively Nordic, and United States life business, US Life, are shown as discontinued operations in these financial statements.
At 31 December 2011 the Group had entered into an agreement to dispose of the controlling interest in Nordic to Skandia Liv, which remains subject to shareholder approval for the sale.
The disposal of US Life was completed on 7 April 2011 following regulatory approval, and has been reported up until that date.
228 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Analysis of the results is given below.
a Income statement from discontinued operations m Nordic US Life Total For the year ended 31 December 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Revenue 421 1,779 342 1,608 79 3,387 Expenses 541 1,729 330 1,557 211 3,286 profit before tax from discontinued operations 120 50 12 51 132 101 Impairment on remeasurement to fair value less costs to sell 827 827 Loss on disposal 29 29 Realised available-for-sale investment gains and exchange differences on disposal 133 133 profit loss before tax 120 50 116 776 236 726 Income tax charge credit 52 65 14 63 38 2 profit loss from discontinued operations after tax 68 15 130 713 198 728 b Statement of comprehensive income from discontinued operations m Nordic US Life Total For the year ended 31 December 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 profit loss after tax for the financial year 68 15 130 713 198 728 Other comprehensive income for the financial year Fair value gains losses Available-for-sale investments Fair value gains losses 3 5 48 530 51 525 Recycled to the income statement 5 12 5 12 Realised on disposal 157 157 Exchange differences realised on disposal 24 24 Shadow accounting 43 334 43 334 Currency translation differences exchange differences on translating foreign operations 43 157 29 43 186 Other movements 10 14 34 10 20 Aggregate tax on transfers from equity 1 3 67 2 67 Total other comprehensive loss income for the financial year 31 166 130 112 161 278 Total comprehensive income loss for the financial year 37 151 601 37 450 Attributable to Equity holders of the parent 37 151 601 37 450 c Net cash flows from discontinued operations m Nordic US Life Total For the year ended 31 December 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Operating activities 1,609 144 2 167 1,611 23 Investing activities 1,411 404 146 63 1,265 341 Net cash ows from discontinued operations 198 260 148 104 346 364 Old Mutual plc 229 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued H: Discontinued operations and held for sale operations continued H2: Disposal groups held for sale The assets and liabilities of the Groups Nordic business, Skandia Insurance Company Ltd publ Nordic, comprising Old Mutuals long-term savings and banking operations in Sweden, Denmark and Norway operating under the Skandia brand, are shown as held for sale in these financial statements.
The Group has entered into an agreement to dispose of the controlling interest in Nordic to Skandia Liv which remains subject to shareholder approval for the sale.
On 8 March 2012 final regulatory approval was received.
In addition to the above the Group has agreed to sell the Finnish branch of Skandia Life Assurance Company Ltd, a part of Wealth Management, to OP-Pohjola osk and as a result of this the assets and liabilities of the Finnish branch have been classified as held for sale.
a Statement of financial position Assets directly associated with disposal groups held for sale m Finnish At 31 December 2011 Nordic branch Total Assets Goodwill and other intangible assets 901 72 973 Property, plant and equipment 10 10 Deferred tax assets 87 87 Investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures 5 5 Deferred acquisition costs 75 45 120 Reinsurers share of life assurance policyholder liabilities 17 17 Loans and advances 5,194 5,194 Investments and securities 14,127 1,034 15,161 Current tax receivable 3 3 Trade, other receivables and other assets 240 1 241 Derivative financial instruments assets 10 10 Cash and cash equivalents 291 4 295 Total assets 20,960 1,156 22,116 Liabilities Life assurance policyholder liabilities 10,889 1,034 11,923 Third-party interests in consolidated funds 1,383 1,383 Borrowed funds 2 2 Provisions 54 54 Deferred revenue 15556 Deferred tax liabilities 103 26 129 Current tax payable 9 9 Trade, other payables and other liabilities 388 4 392 Amounts owed to bank depositors 6,552 6,552 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 16 16 Total liabilities 19,289 1,119 20,408 Of the financial assets and liabilities included within disposal groups held for sale, namely the Nordic business and the Finnish branch, all are level one or level two in respect of the fair value hierarchy.
In addition to the disposal groups held for sale, the Group had additional non-current assets held for sale of 22 million 2010: 7 million and non-current liabilities of 9 million 2010: nil.
Included within investments and securities is 185 million of short-term cash balances.
230 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information b Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent directly associated with disposal groups held for sale m Finnish At 31 December 2011 Nordic branch Total Retained earnings 1,667 37 1,704 Available-for-sale investment reserve 2 2 Share-based payment reserve 2 2 1,671 37 1,708 At 31 December 2010 the assets and liabilities of the Groups United States life business, US Life, were shown as held for sale in the financial statements, being 12,384 million and 12,219 million respectively.
The disposal of US Life was completed on 7 April 2011 following US regulatory approval.
At the time of disposal the assets directly associated with US Life consisted of 10,518 million of investments and securities and 1,412 million of other assets, with liabilities at this time being 11,494 million of long-term policyholder liabilities and 235 million of other liabilities.
Included within investments and liabilities was 565 million of short-term cash balances.
H3: Contingent liabilities in respect of the disposal of US Life Following completion of the disposal of US Life to the Harbinger group Harbinger on 7 April 2011, the Group has retained certain residual commitments and contingent liabilities.
These relate to sale warranties and indemnities that are typical in transactions of this nature including in respect of litigation including class actions and regulatory enforcement actions arising from events occurring before completion.
The specific conditions are in effect for varying periods of time, the longest dated of which will expire on 31 December 2015.
The main elements are summarised below: Q Harbinger intends to establish certain internal reinsurance arrangements which are subject to regulatory approval.
In the event that regulatory approval of the full amount of reinsurance is not forthcoming there is potential for a reduction in the purchase price, up to a maximum of US$50 million.
Q US statutory regulations require reserving on a worst case scenario basis for deferred annuity policies that permit free partial withdrawals CARVM Reserves.
As such there is redundancy when comparing the worst case scenario and the economic scenarios.
These CARVM redundant reserves are currently reinsured from US Life to Old Mutual Reassurance until no later than the end of 2015.
Old Mutual plc provides a $255 million letter of credit to back these redundant reserves.
In the event that this letter of credit is drawn upon Harbinger are obligated to fully reimburse Old Mutual plc.
Old Mutual plc 231 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
