Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Notes to the accounts for the year ended 30 September 2011 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION The Paragon Group of Companies PLC is a company domiciled in the United Kingdom and incorporated in England and Wales under the Companies Act 2006 with company number 2336032.
The address of the registered ofce is given on page 46.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Directors Report on pages 16 to 19.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the currency of the economic environment in which the Group operates.
ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED REPORTING STANDARDS In the preparation of these financial statements the only reporting standard being applied for the first time is the amendment to IAS 17 - Leases in respect of accounting for leases of land included in the IASB Improvements to IFRSs issued in April 2009.
As a result of the retrospective adoption of the amendment to IAS 17, as required by the Standard, one lease of land held in the Company which has been previously accounted for as an operating lease is now accounted for as a finance lease.
The changes in the consolidated and company financial statement line items as a result of the change in policy are as follows: 30 Sept 2011 30 Sept 2010 30 Sept 2009 m m m Balance sheets Fixed assets 1.5 1.8 2.0 Finance lease liability Current 0.2 0.2 0.2 Non-current 1.6 1.9 2.1 Equity 0.3 0.3 0.3 Cash flow statements Net cash generated by operating activities 0.2 0.2 Net cash utilised by nancing activities 0.2 0.2 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents - - The change in policy caused no change in the amounts reported on the face of the income statement, although the analysis of operating expenses given in note 12 is amended.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements the following International Financial Reporting Standards and Interpretations, which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities Notes to the accounts 53 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement IAS 24 Revised Related Party Disclosures IAS 27 Revised Separate Financial Statements IAS 28 Revised Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Amendment to IAS 19 Employee benets Amendment to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement The adoption of IFRS 9, as currently in issue, would not be anticipated to have a material impact on the accounting of the Group although the International Accounting Standards Board IASB has announced its intention to expand this Standard in such a way that would require changes to the valuation and income recognition methods relating to the Groups Loans to Customers, Borrowings and derivative assets and liabilities.
This Standard is currently intended to come into force for the financial year ending 30 September 2014, if the Standard is endorsed by the European Union.
However, the IASB has proposed that the implementation date should be delayed, meaning that the Standard would first apply to the Groups accounts for the year ending 30 September 2016.
The European Union has declined to consider the endorsement of IFRS 9 until a complete version is issued by the IASB.
The Group has yet to conduct a full assessment of its potential impact, pending further information on endorsement from the European Union.
IFRS 10, 11 and 12 and the revised IAS 27 and 28 form the new IFRS regime for consolidation.
The directors do not expect that the entities included within the consolidated accounts will differ under the new standards from those presently consolidated, nor that the consolidated results will be changed, although the disclosures provided under the new standards may differ.
These standards, if endorsed by the European Union, are expected to be applied for the first time in the Groups accounts for the year ending 30 September 2014.
IFRS 13, which, if endorsed by the European Union is expected to apply to the Groups accounts from the year ending 30 September 2014 sets out new guidance on the establishment of fair value for accounting purposes and enhanced disclosures.
It will apply to all amounts in the Groups financial statements presented at fair value, but is unlikely, in the view of the directors, to have a material impact on the Groups results or financial position.
The revision to IAS 19, which, if endorsed by the European Union, is expected to apply to the Groups accounts for the year ending 30 September 2014, will change the amounts presented in the income statement in respect of the Groups pension plan, without affecting the surplus or deficit shown in the balance sheet.
If that Standard had been in force for the financial year ended 30 September 2011 it is estimated that the effect would be to reduce profit before tax by 0.6m.
The directors anticipate that the adoption of the other Standards and Interpretations listed above in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
Other Standards and interpretations in issue but not effective do not address matters relevant to the Groups accounting and reporting.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as endorsed by the European Union.
The particular policies adopted are described below.
a Accounting convention The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except as required in the valuation of certain financial instruments which are carried at fair value.
54 Notes to the accounts Annual Report & Accounts 2011 b Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements deal with the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries made up to 30 September 2011.
Subsidiaries comprise all those entities over which the Group has control.
The results of businesses acquired are dealt with in the consolidated accounts from the date of acquisition.
In accordance with SIC 12 Consolidation: Special Purpose Entities companies owned by charitable trusts into which loans originated by Mortgage Trust Limited were sold as part of its securitisation programme, where the Group enjoys the benets of ownership, are treated as subsidiaries.
Similarly, trusts set up to hold shares in conjunction with the Groups employee share ownership arrangements are also treated as subsidiaries.
c Going Concern The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
The directors reasons for the adoption of this basis are given in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 43. d Goodwill Goodwill arising from the purchase of subsidiary undertakings, representing the excess of the fair value of the purchase consideration over the fair values of acquired assets, including intangible assets, is held on the balance sheet and reviewed annually to determine whether any impairment has occurred.
Negative goodwill is written off as it arises.
As permitted by IFRS 1, the Group has elected not to apply IFRS 3 Business Combinations to combinations taking place before its transition date to IFRS 1 October 2004.
Therefore any goodwill which was written off to reserves under UK GAAP will not be charged or credited to the profit and loss account on any future disposal of the business to which it relates.
e Intangible assets Intangible assets comprise purchased computer software and other intangible assets acquired in business combinations.
Purchased computer software is capitalised where it has a sufciently enduring nature and is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation is provided in equal instalments at a rate of 25% per annum.
Other intangible assets acquired in business combinations include brands and business networks and are capitalised in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
Such assets are stated at attributed cost less accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation is provided in equal instalments at a rate of 6.67% per annum.
f Leases Leases are accounted for as operating or finance leases in accordance with IAS 17 Leases.
A finance lease is deemed to be one which transfers substantially all of the risks and rewards of the ownership of the asset concerned.
Any other lease is an operating lease.
Rental income and costs under operating leases are credited or charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the period of the leases.
Notes to the accounts 55 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC g Contract hire Motor vehicles acquired in connection with contract hire arrangements are sold to finance houses, who lease them to customers for a pre-determined period.
The Group has undertaken to repurchase these vehicles at the end of the lease term.
In accordance with the requirements of IAS 17, the assets are not derecognised on the sale to the finance house and remain as the Groups assets and the consideration received is spread over the customers lease term.
h Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Cost for property held under a sale and leaseback transaction represents the sale value.
Depreciation is provided on cost in equal annual instalments over the lives of the assets.
The rates of depreciation are as follows: Freehold premises 2% per annum Short leasehold premises over the term of the lease Computer hardware 25% per annum Furniture, xtures and ofce equipment 15% per annum Company motor vehicles 25% per annum Motor vehicles subject to contract hire arrangements over the term of the lease i Investments in subsidiaries The Companys investments in subsidiary undertakings are valued at cost less provision for impairment.
j Loans to customers Loans to customers are considered to be loans and receivables as dened by IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
They are therefore accounted for on the amortised cost basis.
Loans advanced are valued at inception at the initial advance amount, which is the fair value at that time, inclusive of procuration fees paid to brokers or other business providers and less initial fees paid by the customer.
Loans acquired from third parties are initially valued at the purchase consideration paid or payable.
Thereafter, all loans to customers are valued at this initial amount less the cumulative amortisation calculated using the Effective Interest Rate EIR method.
The loan balances are then reduced where necessary by a provision for balances which are considered to be impaired.
The EIR method spreads the expected net income arising from a loan over its expected life.
The EIR is that rate of interest which, at inception, exactly discounts the future cash payments and receipts arising from the loan to the initial carrying amount.
The Groups policy is to hedge against any exposure to xed rate loan assets.
56 Notes to the accounts Annual Report & Accounts 2011 k Finance lease receivables Finance lease receivables are included within Loans to Customers at the total amount receivable less interest not yet accrued, unamortised commissions and provision for doubtful debts.
Income from finance lease contracts is accounted for on the actuarial basis.
l Impairment of loans and receivables Loans and receivables are reviewed for indications of possible impairment throughout the year and at each balance sheet date, in accordance with IAS 39.
Where loans exhibit objective evidence of impairment, the carrying value of the loans is reduced to the net present value of their expected future cash ows, including the value of the potential realisation of any security, discounted at the original EIR.
Loans are assessed collectively, grouped by risk characteristics and account is taken of any impairment arising due to events which are believed to have taken place but have not been specically identied at the balance sheet date.
For financial accounting purposes provisions for impairments of loans to customers are held in an allowance account.
These balances are offset against the gross value of the loan when it is written off on the administration system.
After this point a salvage balance may be held in respect of any further recoveries expected on the loan.
m Investments in securities Investments in securities are intended to be held to maturity and are therefore accounted for on the amortised cost basis.
The return from such investments is calculated on the EIR basis.
n Amounts owed by or to group companies In the accounts of the Company balances owed by or to other group companies are carried at the current amount outstanding less any provision.
Where balances owing between group companies fall within the denition of either financial assets or financial liabilities given in IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation they are classied as Loans and Receivables or Other financial liabilities, respectively.
o Cash and cash equivalents Balances shown as cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise demand deposits and short-term deposits with banks with initial maturities of not more than 90 days.
p Own shares Shares in The Paragon Group of Companies PLC held in treasury or by the trustees of the Groups employee share ownership plans are shown on the balance sheet as a deduction in arriving at total equity.
Own shares are stated at cost.
q Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the period and takes into account taxation deferred because of temporary differences.
Temporary differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from those in which they are included in financial statements.
Tax relating to items taken directly to equity is also taken directly to equity.
Notes to the accounts 57 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC r Borrowings Borrowings are carried in the balance sheet on the amortised cost basis.
The initial value recognised includes the principal amount received less any discount on issue or costs of issuance.
Interest and all other costs of the funding are expensed to the income statement as interest payable over the term of the borrowing on an Effective Interest Rate basis.
Gains on the purchase of the Groups Floating Rate Notes or corporate bonds are recognised as income at the time of the transaction.
s Finance lease payables Balances due on the lease arising from the sale and leaseback of a Group property are recognised in creditors at the total amount payable less interest not yet accrued.
Interest is accrued on the actuarial basis.
The profit which arose on the sale and leaseback transaction is held within deferred income and is being credited to profit over the lease term on a straight line basis.
t Derivative financial instruments Derivative instruments utilised by the Group comprise currency swap, interest rate swap and interest rate option agreements.
All such instruments are used for hedging purposes to alter the risk prole of the existing underlying exposure of the Group in line with the Groups risk management policies.
The Group does not enter into speculative derivative contracts.
All derivatives are carried in the balance sheet at fair value, as assets where the value is positive or as liabilities where the value is negative.
Fair value is based on market prices, where a market exists.
If there is no active market, fair value is calculated using present value models which incorporate assumptions based on market conditions and are consistent with accepted economic methodologies for pricing financial instruments.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recognised in the income statement, except where such amounts are permitted to be taken to equity as part of the accounting for a cash ow hedge.
u Hedging For all hedges, the Group documents, at inception, the relationship between the hedging instruments and the hedged items, as well as its risk management strategy and objectives for undertaking the transaction.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the hedging arrangements put in place are considered to be highly effective as dened by IAS 39.
For a fair value hedge, as long as the hedging relationship is deemed highly effective and meets the hedging requirements of IAS 39, any gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in income can be offset against the fair value loss or gain arising from the hedged item for the hedged risk.
For macro hedges hedges of interest rate risk for a portfolio of loan assets this fair value adjustment is disclosed in the balance sheet alongside the hedged item, for other hedges the adjustment is made to the carrying value of the hedged asset or liability.
Only the net ineffectiveness of the hedge is charged or credited to income.
Where a fair value hedge relationship is terminated, or deemed ineffective, the fair value adjustment is amortised over the remaining term of the underlying item.
Where a derivative is used to hedge the variability of cash ows of an asset or liability, it may be designated as a cash ow hedge so long as this relationship meets the hedging requirements of IAS 39.
For such an instrument the effective portion of the change in the fair value of the derivative is taken initially to equity, with the ineffective part taken to profit or loss.
The amount taken to equity is released to the income statement at the same time as the hedged item affects the income statement.
Where a cash ow hedge relationship is terminated, or deemed ineffective, the amount taken to equity will remain there until the hedged transaction is recognised, or is no longer highly probable.
58 Notes to the accounts Annual Report & Accounts 2011 v Deferred taxation Deferred taxation is provided in full on temporary differences that result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise based on current tax rates and law.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as probable that they will be recovered.
As required by IAS 12 Income Taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted to take account of the expected timing of realisation.
w Retirement benefit obligations The expected cost of providing pensions within the funded dened benefit scheme, determined on the basis of annual valuations by professionally qualied actuaries using the projected unit method, is charged to the income statement.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur and do not form part of the result for the period, being recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the dened benefit obligation, as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets at the balance sheet date.
Both the return on investment expected in the period and the expected nancing cost of the liability, as estimated at the beginning of the period are recognised in the result for the period.
Any variances against these estimates in the year form part of the actuarial gain or loss.
The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Group in an independently administered fund.
The charge to the income statement for providing pensions under dened contribution pension schemes is equal to the contributions payable to such schemes for the year.
x Provisions Provisions are recognised where there is a present obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that this obligation will result in an outow of resources and this outow can be reliably quantied.
Provisions are discounted where this effect is material.
y Revenue The revenue of the Group comprises interest receivable and similar charges and other income.
The accounting policy for the recognition of each element of revenue is described separately within these accounting policies.
z Fee and commission income Other income includes administration fees charged to borrowers, which are credited when the related service is performed, fees charged to third parties for account administration services, which are credited as those services are performed, and commissions receivable on the sale of insurances, which are taken to profit at the point at which the Group becomes unconditionally entitled to the income.
Notes to the accounts 59 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC aa Share-based payments In accordance with IFRS 2 Share based payments, the fair value at the date of grant of awards to be made in respect of options and shares granted under the terms of the Groups various share-based employee incentive arrangements is charged to the profit and loss account over the period between the date of grant and the vesting date.
As permitted by IFRS 1, only those options and awards granted after 7 November 2002 and not vested at 1 January 2005 have been restated on transition to IFRS.
National Insurance on share-based payments is accrued over the vesting period, based on the share price at the balance sheet date.
Where the allowable cost of share-based awards for tax purposes is greater than the cost determined in accordance with IFRS 2, the tax effect of the excess is taken to reserves.
bb Dividends In accordance with IAS 10 Events after the balance sheet date, dividends payable on ordinary shares are recognised in equity once they are appropriately authorised and are no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Dividends declared after the balance sheet date, but before the authorisation of the financial statements remain within shareholders funds.
cc Foreign currency Foreign currency transactions, assets and liabilities are accounted for in accordance with IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.
The functional currency of the Group is the pound sterling.
Transactions which are not denominated in sterling are translated into sterling at the spot rate of exchange on the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities which are not denominated in sterling are translated at the closing rate on the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses on retranslation are included in interest payable or interest receivable depending on whether the underlying instrument is an asset or a liability, except where deferred in equity in accordance with the cash ow hedging provisions of IAS 39. dd Segmental reporting The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as those described above for the Group as a whole.
Costs attributed to each segment represent the direct costs incurred by the segment operations and an allocation of the costs of areas of the business which serve all segments.
Such allocations are weighted by the value of loan assets in each segment, adjusted for the relative effort involved in the administration of each asset class.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Certain of the balances reported in the financial statements are based wholly or in part on estimates or assumptions made by the directors.
There is, therefore, a potential risk that they may be subject to change in future periods.
The most significant of these are: a Impairment losses on loans to customers Impairment losses on loans are calculated based on statistical models.
The key assumptions revolve around estimates of future cash ows from customers accounts, their timing and, for secured accounts, the expected proceeds from the realisation of the property.
These key assumptions are based on observed data from historical patterns and are updated regularly based on new data as it becomes available.
In addition the directors consider how appropriate past trends and patterns might be in the current economic situation and make any adjustments they believe are necessary to reect the current conditions.
60 Notes to the accounts Annual Report & Accounts 2011 The accuracy of the impairment calculations would therefore be affected by unexpected changes to the economic situation, variances between the models used and the actual results, or assumptions which differ from the actual outcomes.
In particular, if the impact of economic factors such as employment levels on customers is worse than is implicit in the model, then the number of accounts requiring provision might be greater than suggested by the model, while falls in house prices, over and above any assumed by the model might increase the provision required in respect of accounts currently provided.
b Effective interest rates In order to determine the effective interest rate applicable to loans an estimate must be made of the expected life of each loan and hence the cash ows relating thereto.
These estimates are based on historical data and reviewed regularly.
The accuracy of the effective interest rate applied would therefore be compromised by any differences between actual borrower behaviour and that predicted.
c Fair values Where financial assets and liabilities are carried at fair value, in the majority of cases this can be derived by reference to quoted market prices.
Where such a quoted price is not available the valuation is based on cash ow models based, where possible, on independently sourced parameters.
The accuracy of the calculation would therefore be affected by unexpected market movements or other variances in the operation of the models or the assumptions used.
d Retirement benefits The present value of the retirement benefit obligation is derived from an actuarial calculation which rests on a number of assumptions.
Where actual conditions differ from those assumed the ultimate value of the obligation would be different.
e Goodwill and intangible assets arising on acquisition The value of goodwill and intangible assets recognised on the Groups acquisition of TBMC was derived from the projected cash ows for that business at the time of acquisition, based on management forecasts.
The accuracy of this valuation would therefore be compromised by any differences between these forecasts and the levels of business activity that the entity might actually have been able to generate in the absence of the acquisition.
This valuation will also be affected by the accuracy of the discount factor used.
The carrying value of the goodwill and intangible assets is dependent on the accuracy of the inputs into the impairment test described in note 25.
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT The Groups objectives in managing capital are: To safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, so that it can continue to provide returns to shareholders and benets for other stakeholders: and To provide an adequate return to shareholders by pricing products and services commensurately with the level of risk.
The Group sets the amount of capital in proportion to risk, availability and cost.
The Group manages the capital structure and makes adjustments to it in the light of changes in economic conditions and the risk characteristics of the underlying assets, having particular regard to the relative costs and availability of debt and equity finance at any given time.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares, issue or redeem other capital instruments, such as corporate bonds, or sell assets to reduce debt.
The Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.
Notes to the accounts 61 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Board of Directors regularly review the proportion of working capital represented by debt and equity.
Net debt is calculated as total debt, other than securitised and warehouse debt, valued at principal value, less free cash up to a maximum of the total debt.
Adjusted equity comprises all components of equity i. e. share capital, share premium, minority interest, retained earnings, and revaluation surplus other than amounts recognised in equity relating to cash ow hedges.
The debt and equity amounts at 30 September 2011 and at 30 September 2010 were as follows: 2011 2010 restated m m Debt Corporate bond 110.0 110.0 Bank overdraft 0.6 0.1 Less: Applicable free cash 110.6 110.1 Net debt - - Equity Total equity 742.0 692.0 Less: cash ow hedging reserve 1.8 1.4 Adjusted equity 740.2 690.6 Total working capital 740.2 690.6 Debt - - Equity 100.0% 100.0% Total working capital 100.0% 100.0% In addition the Group held 84.4m of free cash in excess of that shown above 2010: 37.7m.
Comparative gures above are restated as described in note 2.
The increased proportion of working capital represented by equity during 2011 resulted primarily from the operation of the policy described above.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The principal financial risks arising from the Groups normal business activities are credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk and currency risk.
The Board operates through the Credit Committee and the Asset and Liability Committee to review and agree policies for managing each of these risks, as described in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 39 to 43, and they are summarised below.
These policies have remained unchanged throughout the year and since the year end.
The position disclosed below is materially similar to that existing throughout the year.
Use of derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments for risk management purposes.
Such instruments are used only to limit the exposure of the Group to movements in market interest or exchange rates.
It is, and has been throughout the year under review, the Groups policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken, and hence all of the Groups derivative financial instruments are for commercial hedging purposes only.
These are used to protect the Group from exposures principally arising from xed rate lending or borrowing and borrowings denominated in foreign currencies.
Hedge accounting is applied where appropriate, though it should be noted that some derivatives, while forming part of an economic hedge 62 Notes to the accounts Annual Report & Accounts 2011 relationship, do not qualify for this accounting treatment under the IAS 39 rules, while in other cases hedge accounting has not been adopted either because natural accounting offsets are expected or because complying with the IAS 39 hedge accounting rules would be especially onerous.
The Group has designated a number of derivatives as fair value hedges for accounting purposes.
In particular this treatment is used for: a hedging the interest rate risk of groups of xed rate pre-payable loan assets with interest rate derivatives on a portfolio basis.
The Group believes this solution is the most appropriate as it is consistent with the economic hedging approach taken by the Group to these assets.
b hedging the interest rate risk of xed rate corporate bond borrowings with a designated xed to oating interest rate swap, which was taken out for this specic purpose.
The Group has also designated cash ow hedging relationships, principally arising from currency borrowings, where a specified foreign exchange basis swap, set up as part of the terms of the borrowing is used.
The only derivative financial instrument held by the Company is the swap related to the xed rate corporate bond borrowing described above.
Credit risk The Groups business objectives rely on maintaining a high-quality customer base and place strong emphasis on good credit management, both at the time of acquiring or underwriting a new loan, where strict lending criteria are applied, and in the collections process.
Primary responsibility for credit risk management across the Group lies with the Credit Committee.
The Credit Committee is made up of four senior members of staff, headed by the Finance Director.
Its key responsibilities include setting and reviewing credit policy, controlling applicant quality, tracking account performance against targets, agreeing product criteria and lending guidelines and monitoring performance and trends.
The assets of the Group and the Company which are subject to credit risk are set out below: Note The Group The Company 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m Loans to customers 32 8,724.2 8,911.2 - - Investments in securities 35 11.8 - - - Derivative financial assets 36 1,151.8 1,160.3 4.0 8.0 Amounts owed by Group companies 38 - - 79.9 125.2 Accrued interest 38 0.5 0.5 0.1 0.6 Cash 39 571.6 536.7 189.2 143.6 Maximum exposure to credit risk 10,459.9 10,608.7 273.2 277.4 The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its loans to customers.
While this maximum exposure represents the potential loss which might have to be accounted for by the Group, the terms on which the Groups loan assets are funded, described under Liquidity Risk below, limit the amount of principal repayments on the Groups securitised and warehouse borrowings in cases of capital losses on assets, signicantly reducing the effective shareholder value at risk.
Notes to the accounts 63 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Groups loan assets at 30 September 2011 are analysed as follows: 2011 2011 2010 2010 m % m % Buy-to-let mortgages 8,231.7 94.3% 8,323.9 93.4% Owner occupied mortgages 128.7 1.5% 151.7 1.7% Total first mortgages 8,360.4 95.8% 8,475.6 95.1% Secured loans 340.1 3.9% 391.9 4.4% Loans secured on property 8,700.5 99.7% 8,867.5 99.5% Car loans 7.5 0.1% 21.0 0.2% Retail finance loans 2.9 - 4.8 0.1% Other loans 13.3 0.2% 17.9 0.2% Total loans to customers 8,724.2 100.0% 8,911.2 100.0% There are no significant concentrations of credit risk due to the large number of customers included in the portfolios.
The Groups underwriting philosophy is based on a combination of sophisticated individual credit assessment and the automated efficiencies of a scored decision making process.
Information on each applicant is combined with data taken from a credit reference bureau to provide a complete credit picture of the applicant and the borrowing requested.
Key information is validated through a combination of documentation and statistical data which collectively provides evidence of the applicants ability and willingness to pay the amount contracted under the loan agreement.
First mortgages and secured loans are secured by charges over residential properties in England and Wales, or similar Scottish or Northern Irish securities.
Car loans are effectively secured by the nanced vehicle.
Despite this security, in assessing credit risk, an applicants ability and propensity to repay the loan remain the principal factors in the decision to lend.
In considering whether to acquire loan assets, the Group reviews documentary and statistical evidence to achieve a level of confidence that the Groups investment will be recovered similar to that provided by the underwriting process.
Investments in securities represent the Groups contribution made to special purpose vehicle SPV companies established and controlled by third parties to purchase pools of loan assets.
All such investments are denominated in sterling and the underlying loans are made to United Kingdom borrowers.
Cash generated by the assets is distributed to investors in accordance with a specified priority of payments.
The Group has no obligation to make further contributions to the SPV companies concerned.
The management has considered the position of the underlying assets and concluded that they will generate sufficient cash ows to repay the amount of the investment.
In order to control credit risk relating to counterparties to the Groups derivative financial instruments and cash deposits, the Asset and Liability Committee determines which counterparties the Group will deal with, establishes limits for each counterparty and monitors compliance with those limits.
Such counterparties are typically highly rated banks and, for all cash deposits and derivative positions held within the Groups securitisation structures, must comply with criteria set out in the nancing arrangements.
Where a derivative counterparty fails to meet the required criteria they are obliged under the terms of the instruments to set aside a cash collateral deposit.
The amounts of these cash collateral deposits, which do not form part of the Groups cash position, are given in note 36.
The Groups cash balances are held in sterling at London banks in current accounts and as short xed term deposits.
Credit risk on these balances, and the interest accrued thereon, is considered to be immaterial.
An analysis of the indexed loan-to-value ratio for those loan accounts secured on property by value at 30 September 2011 is set out below.
For acquired accounts the effect of any discount on purchase is allowed for.
64 Notes to the accounts Annual Report & Accounts 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 First Secured First Secured Mortgages Loans Mortgages Loans % % % % Loan to value ratio Less than 70% 23.2 28.2 23.8 29.3 70% to 80% 21.6 14.8 23.0 15.2 80% to 90% 29.7 15.0 30.1 14.5 90% to 100% 21.0 13.9 19.2 14.2 Over 100% 4.5 28.1 3.9 26.8 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Average loan to value ratio 80.2 88.4 79.2 86.1 The number of accounts in arrears by asset class, based on the most commonly quoted denition of arrears for the type of asset, at 30 September 2011 and 30 September 2010, compared to the industry averages at those dates published by the Council of Mortgage Lenders CML and the Finance and Leasing Association FLA, was: 2011 2010 % % First mortgages Accounts more than three months in arrears Buy-to-Let accounts including receiver of rent cases 0.63 0.94 Buy-to-Let accounts excluding receiver of rent cases 0.10 0.21 Owner-Occupied accounts 4.24 4.00 CML data for mortgage accounts more than three months in arrears Buy-to-Let accounts including receiver of rent cases 1.91 2.45 Buy-to-Let accounts excluding receiver of rent cases 1.45 1.71 Owner-Occupied accounts 2.14 2.21 All mortgages 2.05 2.15 Secured loans Accounts more than 2 months in arrears 12.96 10.83 FLA data for secured loans 19.30 18.80 Car loans Accounts more than 2 months in arrears 8.11 5.85 FLA data for all personal loans 9.30 9.90 Other loans Accounts more than 2 months in arrears 75.09 59.75 No published industry data for asset classes comparable to the Groups other books has been identied.
Where revised data at 30 September 2010 has been published by the FLA or CML, the comparative industry gures above have been amended.
The portfolio of buy-to-let mortgage assets acquired on 30 September 2010 which was not included in arrears statistics at 30 September 2010 originally published has been integrated into the Group gures above, as the administration of the portfolio has been integrated with the other mortgage assets of the Group.
The comparative has been amended accordingly.
The portfolio of secured loan assets acquired in August 2011 has not been included above.
This portfolio was acquired at a discount to the total of its current balances and was only brought within the Groups collections processes at the end of September 2011, so its performance is not directly comparable to the Groups other secured loan assets.
88.71% of these assets were more than two months in arrears at the year end.
The number of accounts in arrears will be higher for closed books such as the owner-occupied mortgage book and the car finance, retail finance and unsecured loan books than for comparable active ones, as performing accounts pay off their balances.
Notes to the accounts 65 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The payment status of the carrying balances of the Groups loan assets, before provision for impairment, at 30 September 2011 and at 30 September 2010 split between those accounts considered as performing and those included in the population for impairment testing, is shown below.
First Mortgages 2011 2010 m m Not past due 7,941.5 8,024.9 Arrears less than 3 months 325.7 323.4 Performing accounts 8,267.2 8,348.3 Arrears 3 to 6 months 11.5 22.6 Arrears 6 to 12 months 17.2 27.2 Arrears over 12 months 43.6 52.5 Possessions and similar cases 43.4 49.6 Impairment population 115.7 151.9 8,382.9 8,500.2 Consumer Finance Secured Car Retail Total loans loans finance loans m m m m 30 September 2011 Not past due 252.7 5.6 0.9 259.2 Arrears less than 2 months 33.6 0.8 - 34.4 Performing accounts 286.3 6.4 0.9 293.6 Arrears 2 to 6 months 25.6 0.2 0.1 25.9 Arrears 6 to 9 months 8.7 0.1 0.1 8.9 Arrears 9 to 12 months 6.3 - 0.1 6.4 Arrears over 12 months 20.9 0.7 2.7 24.3 Impairment population 61.5 1.0 3.0 65.5 347.8 7.4 3.9 359.1 30 September 2010 Not past due 299.3 17.3 1.9 318.5 Arrears less than 2 months 48.9 1.3 0.1 50.3 Performing accounts 348.2 18.6 2.0 368.8 Arrears 2 to 6 months 26.0 0.3 0.1 26.4 Arrears 6 to 9 months 7.3 - 0.2 7.5 Arrears 9 to 12 months 5.0 0.1 0.2 5.3 Arrears over 12 months 8.4 0.9 2.7 12.0 Impairment population 46.7 1.3 3.2 51.2 394.9 19.9 5.2 420.0 66 Notes to the accounts Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Other loans 2011 2010 m m Not past due 3.3 5.1 Arrears less than 1 month 0.1 0.3 Performing accounts 3.4 5.4 Arrears 1 to 3 months 0.1 0.2 Arrears 3 to 6 months 0.3 0.4 Arrears 6 to 12 months 1.0 1.1 Arrears over 12 months 41.9 45.4 Impairment population 43.3 47.1 46.7 52.5 In the accounts for the year ended 30 September 2010 an analysis of current balances by arrears band was provided, but the directors believe that, with the increased value represented by acquired balances, the alternative measure is more informative.
Amounts above for 2010 are presented on the new basis.
Liquidity risk The Group uses securitisation to mitigate its exposure to liquidity risk, ensuring, as far as possible, that the maturities of assets and liabilities are matched.
The Groups loan assets are principally nanced by asset backed loan notes Notes issued through the securitisation process.
In a securitisation deal a Group company, referred to as a Special Purpose Vehicle SPV will issue Notes secured on a pool of mortgage or other loan assets owned by the SPV.
The Notes have a maturity date later than the final repayment date for any asset in the pool, typically over 30 years from the issue date.
The noteholders are entitled to receive repayment of the Note principal out of principal funds generated by the loan assets from time to time, but their right to the repayment of principal is limited to the cash available in the SPV.
Similarly, payment of accrued interest to the noteholders is limited to cash generated within the SPV.
There is no requirement for any Group company other than the issuing SPV to make principal or interest payments in respect of the Notes.
This matching of the maturities of the assets and the related funding substantially reduces the Groups exposure to liquidity risk.
Details of Notes in issue are given in note 50 and the assets backing the Notes are shown in notes 30 and 31.
In the Groups consumer finance SPVs, principal cash was not required to be repaid to noteholders during an initial period, but instead could be used to acquire new loans from the Group, subject to underwriting conditions being met.
Following the completion of this initial period, principal cash is repaid in the same way as for other SPVs.
The Group also provides funding to the SPV at inception, subordinated to the Notes, which means that credit risk on the pool assets is retained within the Group.
The Group receives the residual income generated by the assets.
These factors mean that the risks and rewards of ownership of the assets remain with the Group, and hence the loans remain on the Groups balance sheet.
Cash received in each SPV is held until the next interest payment date, after which the remaining balances become available to the Group.
Cash balances are also held within each SPV to provide credit enhancement for the particular securitisation, allowing principal payments to be made even if loans default.
In order to provide further credit enhancement in certain of the SPVs there exist specic economic trigger events which cause additional cash to be retained in the SPV, rather than being transferred to the Group.
While the Group can, if it chooses, contribute additional cash to cover these requirements, it is under no obligation to do so.
No such trigger event has occurred to date in any of the Groups SPVs and whether one arises in the future will depend on the performance of the general economy and its impact on mortgage and loan arrears.
However, if such trigger events occurred in all of the SPVs, a total of 66.0m of additional cash would be retained in those companies 2010: 65.7m.
The cash balances of the SPV companies are included within the restricted cash balances disclosed in note 39.
Notes to the accounts 67 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Newly originated mortgage loans are initially funded by a revolving loan facility or warehouse from the point of their origination until their inclusion in a securitisation deal.
A warehouse functions in a similar way to an SPV, except that funds are drawn down as advances are made and repaid when loans are securitised.
On 29 February 2008 the warehouse facility provided to Paragon Second Funding Limited ceased to be available for new drawings, although assets held within it at that time continued to be funded.
Repayment of the principal on these assets is not required unless amounts are realised from them.
The final repayment date of the facility is later than the final due date of the assets it is used to fund.
On 27 September 2010 Macquarie Bank and Paragon Fourth Funding Limited signed a new warehouse facility agreement.
This warehouse is available for drawing and redrawing until 13 December 2012 and is used to fund new first charge mortgage loans.
After that date the loan has a further two year period for the assets funded to be sold or renanced.
Repayment of the principal drawn in respect of assets is not required unless amounts are realised from them either through repayment, securitisation or asset sales, even after the two year period.
There is no further recourse to other assets of the Group in respect of either interest or principal on the borrowing.
As with the SPVs, the Group provides subordinated funding to the warehouse companies and restricted cash balances are held within them.
Further details of the warehouse facilities are given in note 50 and details of the loan assets within the warehouses are given in note 30.
Between 29 February 2008 and 4 October 2010 the only advances made by the Group were consumer loans and further advances on existing mortgage accounts, which were funded from existing drawings in the SPV companies.
The provision of new consumer loans ceased on 9 April 2009, except for further advances on existing accounts, when the period over which new loans could be sold to the consumer finance SPVs ended.
New first mortgage lending commenced on 5 October 2010.
The securitisation process and the terms of the warehouse facilities effectively limit liquidity risk from the funding of the Groups loan assets.
It remains to ensure that sufficient funding is available to fund the Groups participation in the SPVs, provide capital support for new loans and working capital for the Group.
This responsibility rests with the Asset and Liability Committee which sets the Groups liquidity policy and uses detailed cash ow projections to ensure that an adequate level of liquidity is available at all times.
The final repayment date for all of the securitisation borrowings and the old warehouse borrowing is more than five years from the balance sheet date, the earliest falling due in 2033 and the latest in 2050.
The equivalent sterling principal amount outstanding at 30 September 2011 under the SPV and warehouse arrangements, allowing for the effect of the cross currency basis swaps, described under currency risk below, which are net settled with the loan payments, was 8,404.4m 2010: 8,598.3m.
The total sterling amount payable under these arrangements, were these principal amounts to remain outstanding until the final repayment date would be 17,947.4m 2010: 19,550.9m.
As the principal will, as discussed above, reduce as customers repay or redeem their accounts, the cash ow will in practice be far less than this amount.
The total undiscounted amounts, inclusive of estimated interest, which would be payable in respect of the Groups other borrowings, should those balances remain outstanding until the contracted repayment date, together with amounts payable in respect of the other accruals shown in note 56 are shown below.
Corporate Other Total bond accruals m m m 30 September 2011 Payable in less than one year 7.7 11.7 19.4 Payable in one to two years 7.8 0.1 7.9 Payable in two to five years 23.1 - 23.1 Payable in over five years 117.7 - 117.7 156.3 11.8 168.1 30 September 2010 Payable in less than one year 7.7 10.1 17.8 Payable in one to two years 7.7 0.1 7.8 Payable in two to five years 23.2 - 23.2 Payable in over five years 125.4 - 125.4 164.0 10.2 174.2 68 Notes to the accounts Annual Report & Accounts 2011 The cash ows described above will include those for interest on borrowings accrued at 30 September 2011 disclosed in note 56.
The cash ows which are expected to arise from derivative contracts in place at the year end, estimating future oating rate payments and receipts on the basis of the yield curve at the balance sheet date are as follows: 2011 2010 Total cash Total cash outflow outow inflow inow m m On derivative liabilities Payable in less than one year 2.5 7.5 Payable in one to two years 2.3 4.0 Payable in two to five years 1.6 5.0 Payable in over five years 5.9 14.6 12.3 31.1 On derivative assets Payable in less than one year 5.0 6.1 Payable in one to two years 4.6 5.8 Payable in two to five years 11.5 12.3 Payable in over five years 8.2 17.8 29.3 42.0 17.0 10.9 Interest rate risk The Group manages interest rate risk, the risk that margins will be adversely affected by movements in market interest rates, by maintaining oating rate liabilities and matching these with oating rate assets, hedging xed rate assets and liabilities by the use of interest rate swap or cap agreements.
The rates of interest payable on the loan facilities and on asset backed loan notes issued in the securitisation process are reset quarterly on the basis of LIBOR.
Where asset backed loan notes are issued in foreign currencies, cross-currency basis swaps are put in place converting the reference interest rate to a sterling LIBOR basis.
The Groups loan assets predominantly bear LIBOR linked interest rates or are hedged xed rate assets.
The interest rates charged on the Groups variable rate loan assets are determined by reference to, inter alia, the Groups funding costs and the rates being charged on similar products in the market.
Generally this ensures the matching of changes in interest rates on the Groups loan assets and borrowings and any exposure arising on the interest rate resets is relatively short term.
Forward rate agreements may be used to hedge against any perceived risk of temporary increases in LIBOR rates at month ends.
The return to the Group from its investments in securities is primarily attributable to the cash generation of the underlying portfolio.
There is no direct exposure to market interest rate risk.
The xed rate corporate bond is hedged by use of a long-term interest rate swap agreement, of notional principal equal to the principal amount of the bond.
This swap is in place until the optional repayment date in 2012 and converts the interest payable to a LIBOR-linked oating rate basis.
The Group has entered into various interest rate basis swap arrangements to alter the effective basis of interest payments on certain borrowings to match the underlying assets, though due to their nature and the low notional value of these swaps, they do not have a significant impact on the Groups results.
The Asset and Liability Committee monitors the interest rate risk exposure on the Groups loan assets and asset backed loan notes and ensures compliance with the requirements of the trustees in respect of the Groups securitisations.
Notes to the accounts 69 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC To assess the Groups exposure to interest rate movements the notional impact of a 1% change in UK interest rates on the equity of the Group at 30 September 2011, and the notional annualised impact of such a change on the operating profit of the Group, based on the year-end balance sheet have been calculated.
On this basis a 1% increase in UK interest rates would reduce the Groups equity at 30 September 2011 by 4.2m 2010: 4.3m and increase profit before tax by 7.0m 2010: 5.1m.
This calculation allows only for the direct effects of any change in UK interest rates.
In practice such a change might have wider economic consequences which would themselves potentially effect the Groups business and results.
Although certain of the Groups borrowings have interest rates dependant on US Dollar and Euro LIBOR rates, the effect of the cross currency basis swaps is such that the Groups results have no material exposure to movements in these rates.
The effects of independent 1% increases in US or Euro interest rates would be to increase the Groups equity by 1.4m 2010: 1.4m and 2.3m 2010: 2.4m respectively.
The only interest rate risk in the Company arises from the corporate bond described above which is a xed rate instrument, until its maturity in 2017, which is fully hedged.
Assets and liabilities with other group companies bear interest at oating rates based on LIBOR which reset within three months of the balance sheet date.
The finance lease bears notional interest only: all other balances are non-interest bearing.
Currency risk All of the Groups assets and liabilities are denominated in sterling with the exception of the asset backed loan notes denominated in US dollars and euros, which are described in note 50.
Although IAS 39 requires that they be accounted for as currency liabilities and valued at their spot rates, it was a condition of the issue of these notes that interest rate and currency swaps were put in place for the duration of the borrowing, having the effect of converting the liability to a LIBOR linked oating rate sterling borrowing.
As a result the Group has no material exposure to foreign currency risk, and no sensitivity analysis is presented for currency risk.
The equivalent sterling principal amounts of notes in issue under these arrangements, and their carrying values at 30 September 2011 and 30 September 2010 are: 2011 2011 2010 2010 Equivalent Carrying Equivalent Carrying sterling value sterling value principal principal m m m m US dollar notes 2,956.0 3,573.7 3,054.8 3,652.3 Euro notes 2,038.5 2,571.6 2,108.2 2,663.9 4,994.5 6,145.3 5,163.0 6,316.2 Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities Fair values have been determined for all derivatives, listed securities and any other financial assets and liabilities for which an active and liquid market exists.
Derivative financial instruments are stated at their fair values in the accounts.
The Group uses a number of techniques to determine the fair values of its derivative assets and liabilities, for which observable prices in active markets are not available.
These are principally present value calculations based on estimated future cash ows arising from the instruments, discounted using a risk adjusted interest rate.
The principal inputs to these valuation models are LIBOR benchmark interest rates for the currencies in which the instruments are denominated, sterling, euros and dollars.
The cross currency basis swaps have a notional principal related to the outstanding currency borrowings and therefore the estimated rate of repayment of these notes also affects the valuation of the swaps.
In order to determine the fair values the management applies valuation adjustments to observed data where that data would not fully reect the attributes of the instrument being valued.
The management reviews the models used on an ongoing basis to ensure that the valuations produced are reasonable and reect all relevant factors.
70 Notes to the accounts Annual Report & Accounts 2011 For assets and liabilities carried at fair value IFRS 7 requires that the measurements should be classied using a fair value hierarchy reecting the inputs used, and defines three levels.
Level 1 measurements are unadjusted market prices, level 2 measurements are derived from observable data, such as market prices or rates, while level 3 measurements rely on significant inputs which are not derived from observable data.
As described above the valuations of the Groups derivatives are based on market information and they are therefore classied as level 2 measurements.
Details of these assets are given in note 36.
The Group had no financial assets or liabilities in the year ended 30 September 2011 or the year ended 30 September 2010 valued using level 1 or level 3 measurements.
The fair values of cash and cash equivalents, bank loans and overdrafts and asset backed loan notes, which are carried at amortised cost, are not materially different from their book values because all the assets mature within three months of the year end and the interest rates charged on financial liabilities reset on a quarterly basis.
While the Groups asset backed loan notes are listed, the quoted prices for an individual note may not be indicative of the fair value of the issue as a whole, due to the specialised nature of the market in such instruments and the limited number of investors participating in it.
In the absence of a liquid market in loan assets the directors have considered the estimated cash ows expected to arise from the Groups investments in its loans to customers and have concluded that the carrying value of these assets, determined on the amortised cost basis, is not signicantly different from the fair value of the assets derived on a discounted cash ow basis.
SEGMENTAL RESULTS For internal reporting purposes the Group is organised into two major operating divisions, First Mortgages and Consumer Finance.
These divisions are the basis on which the Group reports segmental information.
The revenue generated by the First Mortgages segment includes interest and fees generated by the buy-to-let and owner-occupied mortgage assets and other income derived from first charge mortgages.
Consumer Finance revenue includes interest and fees generated by second charge loans, the residual car, retail finance and unsecured loan assets, and other sources of income derived from consumer loans.
Both of these divisions include assets originated internally and assets acquired from third parties.
All of the Groups operations are conducted in the United Kingdom, all revenues arise from external customers and there are no inter-segment revenues.
No customer contributes more than 10% of the revenue of the Group.
Financial information about these business segments is shown below.
Year ended 30 September 2011 First Consumer Total Mortgages Finance m m m Interest receivable 214.7 43.3 258.0 Interest payable 114.0 8.2 122.2 Net interest income 100.7 35.1 135.8 Other operating income 7.0 8.1 15.1 Total operating income 107.7 43.2 150.9 Operating expenses 34.8 10.6 45.4 Provisions for losses 5.6 18.8 24.4 67.3 13.8 81.1 Gains on debt repurchases - - - Fair value net losses gains 0.2 0.1 0.3 Operating profit 67.1 13.7 80.8 Tax charge 21.2 profit after tax 59.6 Notes to the accounts 71 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Year ended 30 September 2010 First Consumer Total Mortgages Finance m m m Interest receivable 228.4 47.2 275.6 Interest payable 133.6 8.6 142.2 Net interest income 94.8 38.6 133.4 Other operating income 6.5 8.0 14.5 Total operating income 101.3 46.6 147.9 Operating expenses 32.1 10.5 42.6 Provisions for losses 18.6 20.6 39.2 50.6 15.5 66.1 Gains on debt repurchases 5.7 - 5.7 Fair value net losses gains 0.2 0.2 - Operating profit 56.1 15.7 71.8 Tax charge 17.9 profit after tax 53.9 The assets and liabilities attributable to each of the segments at 30 September 2011, 30 September 2010 and 30 September 2009 were: First Consumer Total Mortgages Finance m m m 30 September 2011 Segment assets 10,009.3 478.9 10,488.2 Segment liabilities 9,400.2 346.0 9,746.2 609.1 132.9 742.0 30 September 2010 restated Segment assets 10,083.0 562.6 10,645.6 Segment liabilities 9,531.6 422.0 9,953.6 551.4 140.6 692.0 30 September 2009 restated Segment assets 10,445.3 711.0 11,156.3 Segment liabilities 9,931.8 574.0 10,505.8 513.5 137.0 650.5 Comparative amounts above have been restated as described in note 2.
All of the assets shown above were located in the United Kingdom.
72 Notes to the accounts Annual Report & Accounts 2011 The total additions to non-current assets, excluding financial instruments and deferred tax assets, attributable to each segment during the years ended 30 September 2011 and 30 September 2010 was: First Consumer Total Mortgages Finance m m m 2011 2.9 0.1 3.0 2010 1.2 0.1 1.3 Being: Intangible Property, Total Assets Plant and Equipment Note 24 Note 26 m m m 2011 1.0 2.0 3.0 2010 0.3 1.0 1.3 8.
REVENUE 2011 2010 m m Interest receivable 258.0 275.6 Other income 15.1 14.5 Total revenue 273.1 290.1 Arising from: First Mortgages 221.7 234.9 Consumer Finance 51.4 55.2 Total revenue 273.1 290.1 9.
INTEREST RECEIVABLE 2011 2010 m m Interest on loans to customers 250.9 269.1 Other interest receivable 2.8 2.9 Income from investments in securities 0.7 - Total interest on financial assets 254.4 272.0 Return on pension scheme assets 3.6 3.6 258.0 275.6 Interest on loans to customers includes 10.7m 2010: 11.7m charged on accounts where an impairment provision has been made.
Notes to the accounts 73 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 10.
INTEREST PAYABLE AND SIMILIAR CHARGES 2011 2010 m m On asset backed loan notes 90.6 110.3 On corporate bond 3.6 3.4 On bank loans and overdrafts 22.8 22.6 Total interest on financial liabilities 117.0 136.3 On pension scheme liability 3.8 3.6 On finance leases 1.1 1.1 Other finance costs 0.3 1.2 122.2 142.2 11.
OTHER OPERATING INCOME 2011 2010 m m Loan account fee income 5.7 6.5 Insurance income 1.9 0.7 Third party servicing 5.8 5.6 Other income 1.7 1.7 15.1 14.5 12.
OPERATING EXPENSES Note 2011 2010 restated m m Employment costs 13 27.9 26.2 Auditor remuneration 16 0.9 0.7 Amortisation of intangible assets 24 0.9 0.7 Depreciation 26 2.0 2.5 Operating lease rentals 60 2.5 3.0 Other administrative costs 11.2 9.5 45.4 42.6 Comparative amounts above have been restated as described in note 2.
74 Notes to the accounts Annual Report & Accounts 2011 13.
EMPLOYEES The average number of persons including directors employed by the Group during the year was 651 2010: 611.
The number of employees at the end of the year was 691 2010: 636.
Staff costs incurred during the year in respect of these employees were: 2011 2011 2010 2010 m m m m Share based remuneration 2.0 1.4 Other wages and salaries 22.4 20.4 Total wages and salaries 24.4 21.8 National Insurance on share based remuneration 0.5 0.9 Other social security costs 1.9 1.7 Total social security costs 2.4 2.6 Dened benefit pension cost 0.9 1.6 Other pension costs 0.2 0.2 Total pension costs 1.1 1.8 Total staff costs 27.9 26.2 Details of the pension schemes operated by the Group are given in note 52 The Company has no employees.
Details of the directors remuneration are given in note 14.
KEY MANAGEMENT REMUNERATION The remuneration of the directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group and the Company, is set out below in aggregate in accordance with IAS 24 Related Party Transactions.
Further information about the remuneration of individual directors is provided in the Report of the Board to the Shareholders on Directors Remuneration on pages 30 to 35.
2011 2010 m m Short-term employee benets 2.8 2.7 Post-employment benets 0.4 0.4 Termination benets - - Share based payment 1.2 1.0 4.4 4.1 Notes to the accounts 75 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 15.
SHARE BASED REMUNERATION During the year the Group had various share based payment arrangements with employees.
They are accounted for by the Group and the Company as shown below.
The effect of the share based payment arrangements on the Groups profit is shown in note 13.
Further details of share based payment arrangements are given in the Report of the Board to the Shareholders on Directors Remuneration on pages 30 to 35. a Share option schemes Options under the Executive Share Option Executive schemes have been granted to directors and senior employees from time to time, on the basis of performance and at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
These options vest so long as the grantee is still employed by the Group at the end of the vesting period and, where applicable, performance criteria have been satisfied.
The Executive schemes are no longer available for the grant of further awards.
The Group also operates an All Employee Share Option Sharesave scheme.
Grants under this scheme vest after the completion of the appropriate service period and subject to a savings requirement.
A reconciliation of movements in the number and weighted average exercise price of options over 1 ordinary shares during the year ended 30 September 2011 and the year ended 30 September 2010 is shown below.
The weighted average market price at exercise for share options exercised in the year was 150.29p 2010: 138.50p.
A number of the above options were granted to former employees whose rights terminate at the later of 12 months following redundancy or 42 months after the issue of the options.
The fair value of options granted is determined using a Binomial model.
No awards were made in the year ended 30 September 2011.
Details of the awards over 1 ordinary shares made in the year ended 30 September 2010, which were all made under the Sharesave scheme, are shown below.
Grant date 20 07 10 20 07 10 Number of awards granted 516,673 196,196 Market price at date of grant 120.0p 120.0p Contractual life years 3.0 5.0 Fair value per share at date of grant 57.88p 57.16p Inputs to valuation model Expected volatility 86.87% 86.87% Expected life at grant date years 3.41 5.43 Risk-free interest rate 1.71% 1.71% Expected dividend yield 2.82% 2.82% Expected annual departures 5.00% 5.00% The expected volatility of the share price used in determining the fair value is based on the annualised standard deviation of daily changes in price over the six years preceding the grant date.
Notes to the accounts 77 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC b Paragon Performance Share Plan Awards under this plan comprise a right to acquire ordinary shares in the Company for nil or nominal payment and will vest on the third anniversary of their granting, to the extent that the applicable performance criteria have been satisfied, if the holder is still employed by the Group.
The awards will lapse to the extent that the performance condition has not been satisfied on the third anniversary.
The receipt of these shares is subject to a performance condition comparing the rank of the Companys TSR against a comparator group of companies comprising the constituents of the FTSE-250 on the date of grant over the three years commencing on the date of grant.
25% of the awards will vest for median performance, increasing on a straight line basis to full vesting for upper quartile performance.
The number of share options outstanding and the exercise price under each of the arrangements shown above which were outstanding at the time of the share consolidation on 29 January 2008 and the rights issue on 21 February 2008 were adjusted in accordance with the respective scheme rules.
During the year ended 30 September 2010 the outstanding awards were modied so that awards vesting would be exercisable for a period of seven years after the vesting date rather than six months.
This change had no incremental effect on the fair value of the awards, as it implied no changes in any of the assumptions used in the valuations.
The fair value of awards granted under the Performance Share Plan is determined using a Monte Carlo simulation model, to take account of the effect of the market based condition.
Details of the awards over 1 ordinary shares made in the year ended 30 September 2011 and the year ended 30 September 2010 are shown below: Grant date 17 12 10 02 09 10 04 01 10 Number of awards granted 1,907,443 141,844 1,903,737 Market price at date of grant 182.00p 140.00p 135.20p Fair value per share at date of grant 123.86p 103.35p 99.36p Inputs to valuation model Expected volatility 72.58% 85.51% 84.76% Risk-free interest rate 1.98% 1.51% 2.04% Expected dividend yield 1.69% 2.43% 2.44% For all of the above grants the contractual life and expected life at grant date is three years and no departures are expected.
78 Notes to the accounts Annual Report & Accounts 2011 For awards granted before 18 July 2008 the expected volatility of the share price used in determining the fair value was based on the annualised standard deviation of daily changes in price over the previous year from the grant date.
The expected volatility for awards granted between this date and 30 September 2008 is calculated using the same method but using daily changes in price over the six years preceding the grant date.
The expected volatility for awards granted after this date is calculated using the same method but using daily changes in price over the three years preceding the grant date.
c Deferred Bonus awards Awards under this scheme comprise a right to acquire ordinary shares in the Company for nil or nominal payment and will vest on the third anniversary of their granting.
The conditional entitlements outstanding under this scheme at 30 September 2011 and 30 September 2010 were: Grant Transfer Number Number date date 2011 2010 28 12 2007 01 10 2010 - 21,120 05 01 2010 01 10 2012 169,287 169,287 11 01 2011 01 10 2013 215,654 - 384,941 190,407 The shares awarded will be transferred to the scheme participants as soon as is reasonably practicable after the transfer date.
The number of share options outstanding and the exercise price under the arrangement shown above which was outstanding at the time of the share consolidation on 29 January 2008 and the rights issue on 21 February 2008 were adjusted in accordance with the applicable scheme rules.
The fair value of Deferred Bonus awards issued in the year was determined using a Black-Scholes Merton model.
Details of the awards over 1 ordinary shares made in the year ended 30 September 2011 and the year ended 30 September 2010 are shown below.
Grant date 11 01 11 05 01 10 Number of awards granted 215,654 169,287 Market price at date of grant 188.50p 133.40p Fair value per share at date of grant 178.00p 124.64p Inputs to valuation model Risk-free interest rate 2.16% 2.04% Expected dividend yield 1.91% 2.47% Notes to the accounts 79 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC d Matching Share Plan Awards under this plan comprise a right to acquire ordinary shares in the Company for nil or nominal payment and will vest on the third anniversary of their granting to the extent that the applicable performance criteria have been satisfied, if the holder is still employed by the Group.
The conditional entitlements outstanding under this scheme at 30 September 2011 and at 30 September 2010 were: Grant Transfer Number Number date date 2011 2010 09 01 2007 09 01 2010 5,625 5,625 02 01 2008 02 01 2011 22,329 56,680 05 01 2010 05 01 2013 142,347 142,347 170,301 204,652 These awards, which were conditional on the achievement of performance based criteria, have now vested.
The numbers of share options outstanding and the exercise prices under each of the arrangements shown above which was outstanding at the time of the share consolidation on 29 January 2008 and the rights issue on 21 February 2008 were adjusted in accordance with the respective scheme rules.
The fair value of awards granted under the Matching Share Plan is determined using a Monte Carlo simulation model, to take account of the effect of the market-based condition.
Details of the awards over 1 ordinary shares made in the year ended 30 September 2010 are shown below.
Grant date 05 01 10 Number of awards granted 142,347 Market price at date of grant 133.40p Fair value per share at date of grant 97.96p Inputs to valuation model Expected volatility 84.76% Risk-free interest rate 2.04% Expected dividend yield 2.47% For all of the above grants the contractual life and expected life at grant date is three years and no departures are expected.
For awards granted before 18 July 2008 the expected volatility of the share price used in determining the fair value was based on the annualised standard deviation of daily changes in price over the previous year from the grant date.
80 Notes to the accounts Annual Report & Accounts 2011 16.
AUDITOR REMUNERATION The analysis of fees payable to the Groups auditors, excluding irrecoverable VAT, required by the Companies Disclosure of Auditor Remuneration Regulations 2005 is set out below.
This analysis includes amounts charged to the profit and loss account or included within the issue costs of debt and equity in respect of fees paid to the Group auditors and their associates.
2011 2011 2010 2010 000 000 Group audit fee 157 21% 157 25% Other services Audit of associated undertakings pursuant to legislation Subsidiary audit fees 293 39% 230 36% Total audit fees 450 60% 387 61% Other services pursuant to legislation Interim review 40 5% 40 6% Other 10 2% - - 50 7% 40 6% Other services related to taxation Compliance services 130 17% 116 18% Advisory services 120 16% 96 15% 250 33% 212 33% Total fees 750 100% 639 100% Irrecoverable VAT 141 110 Total cost to the Group note 12 891 749 In addition to the amounts above, the auditors received fees of 7,000 2010: 7,000, excluding VAT, in respect of the audit of the Group pension scheme.
PROVISIONS FOR LOSSES 2011 2010 m m Impairment of financial assets note 33 First mortgage loans 5.6 18.6 Other secured loans 11.1 7.6 Finance lease receivables 1.3 3.5 Retail finance loans 0.2 0.5 Other loans 6.2 9.0 24.4 39.2 Notes to the accounts 81 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 18.
GAINS ON DEBT REPURCHASE 2011 2010 m m On asset backed loan notes - 5.7 On corporate bond - - - 5.7 These gains have arisen on the repurchase by the Group, on the open market, of its debt securities at less than their carrying value.
The cash consideration paid on these purchases, including transaction costs of nil 2009: 0.3m was: 2011 2010 m m On asset backed loan notes - 8.3 On corporate bond - - - 8.3 Despite the gains made on the repurchase of these debt instruments, the directors consider that the carrying values of the remaining borrowings are not materially different from their fair values.
The directors currently expect that these borrowings will be repaid in full and the present values of such cash ows will not be materially different to the carrying value.
The gains described above have been made on purchases in a market with a very low level of activity, where the prices which can be achieved in one-off transactions will not necessarily be representative of the fair value of the liabilities concerned.
FAIR VALUE NET LOSSES GAINS 2011 2010 m m Net gain on derivatives designated as fair value hedges 5.2 30.3 Fair value adjustments from hedge accounting 5.2 30.4 Ineffectiveness of fair value hedges - 0.1 Ineffectiveness of cash ow hedges - - Net losses gains on other derivatives 0.3 0.1 0.3 - The fair value net gain loss represents the accounting volatility on derivative instruments which are matching risk exposure on an economic basis generated by the requirements of IAS 39.
Some accounting volatility arises on these items due to accounting ineffectiveness on designated hedges, or because hedge accounting has not been adopted or is not achievable on certain items.
The losses and gains are primarily due to timing differences in income recognition between the derivative instruments and the economically hedged assets and liabilities.
Such differences will reverse over time and have no impact on the cash ows of the Group.
82 Notes to the accounts Annual Report & Accounts 2011 20.
TAX CHARGE ON PROFIT ON ORDINARY ACTIVITIES a Analysis of charge in the year 2011 2010 m m Current tax UK Corporation Tax on profits of the period 14.6 16.1 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 0.3 1.1 Total current tax 14.9 15.0 Deferred tax 6.3 2.9 Tax charge on profit on ordinary activities 21.2 17.9 b Deferred tax charge for the year The deferred tax charge in the income statement comprises the following temporary differences: 2011 2010 m m Accelerated tax depreciation 0.2 0.2 Retirement benefit obligations 0.6 0.2 Impairment and other provisions 1.0 0.2 Utilisation of tax losses 6.1 3.2 Other timing differences 0.8 0.9 Deferred tax charge for the year 7.1 4.7 Recognition of asset not previously recognised - 1.6 Change in tax rate 0.8 0.2 Deferred tax charge note 53 6.3 2.9 During the year ended 30 September 2010 the United Kingdom Government enacted provisions reducing the standard rate of corporation tax from 28% to 27% with effect from 1 April 2011.
During the year ended 30 September 2011 it enacted further provisions reducing the rate to 26% with effect from 1 April 2011 and 25% from 1 April 2012.
Therefore, the standard rate of corporation tax applicable to the Group for the year ended 30 September 2011 is 27% and the rate is expected to be 25.5% in the year ending 30 September 2012 and 25% thereafter.
The expected impact of the change to 27% on the values at which deferred tax amounts are expected to crystallise was accounted for in the year ended 30 September 2010, while the expected impacts of the changes to 26% and 25% have been accounted for in the year ended 30 September 2011.
The Government has announced its intention to make further reductions in the rate of corporation tax in future years.
The effect of any such changes on deferred tax balances will be accounted for in the period in which any such changes are enacted.
Notes to the accounts 83 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC c Factors affecting tax charge for the year The tax assessed for the year is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the United Kingdom of 27% 2010: 28%.
The differences are explained below: 2011 2010 m m profit on ordinary activities before taxation 80.8 71.8 profit on ordinary activities multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 27% 2010: 28% 21.8 20.1 Effects of: Permanent differences 0.1 0.7 Share-based payments - - Recognition of deferred tax asset not previously recognised - 0.3 Change in rate of taxation on deferred tax assets and liabilities 0.8 0.2 Other movements in unprovided deferred taxation - 0.5 Prior year charge credit 0.3 2.9 Tax charge for the year 21.2 17.9 21.
PROFIT ATTRIBUTABLE TO MEMBERS OF THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC The Companys profit after tax for the financial year amounted to 61.9m 2010: 43.2m.
A separate income statement has not been prepared for the Company under the provisions of Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company has no other items of comprehensive income for the years ended 30 September 2011 or 30 September 2010.
EARNINGS PER SHARE Earnings per ordinary share is calculated as follows: 2011 2010 profit for the year m 59.6 53.9 Basic weighted average number of ordinary shares ranking for dividend during the year million 295.3 295.3 Dilutive effect of the weighted average number of share options and incentive plans in issue during the year million 8.2 8.3 Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares ranking for dividend during the year million 303.5 303.6 Earnings per ordinary share - basic 20.2p 18.3p - diluted 19.6p 17.8p 84 Notes to the accounts Annual Report & Accounts 2011 23.
TAX CHARGED TO EQUITY The Group The Company 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m On actuarial loss on pension scheme note 52 0.3 1.4 - - On gains on cash ow hedges note 44 - 0.1 - - Tax on items taken to equity 0.3 1.3 - - On share based payment note 45 0.1 0.3 - - Total tax credited to equity 0.2 1.6 - - Of which: Current tax - - - - Deferred tax note 53 0.2 1.6 - - 0.2 1.6 - - Included in tax charged to equity in the year ended 30 September 2011 is 0.4m 2010: 0.2m in respect of the effect of the changes in corporation tax rates described in note 20 on deferred tax assets.
Notes to the accounts 85 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 24.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS Goodwill Computer Other Total note 25 Software intangible assets m m m m Cost At 1 October 2009 7.6 2.3 8.1 18.0 Additions - 0.3 - 0.3 Disposals - - - - At 30 September 2010 7.6 2.6 8.1 18.3 Additions - 1.0 - 1.0 Disposals - 0.3 - 0.3 At 30 September 2011 7.6 3.3 8.1 19.0 Accumulated amortisation At 1 October 2009 6.0 2.0 0.4 8.4 Amortisation charge for the year - 0.2 0.5 0.7 On disposals - - - - At 30 September 2010 6.0 2.2 0.9 9.1 Amortisation charge for the year - 0.3 0.6 0.9 On disposals - 0.3 - 0.3 At 30 September 2011 6.0 2.2 1.5 9.7 Net book value At 30 September 2011 1.6 1.1 6.6 9.3 At 30 September 2010 1.6 0.4 7.2 9.2 At 30 September 2009 1.6 0.3 7.7 9.6 Other intangible assets comprise brands and the benefit of business networks recognised on the acquisition of subsidiary companies.
GOODWILL The goodwill carried in the accounts was recognised on the acquisition of The Business Mortgage Company and its subsidiaries TBMC in December 2008.
The cash generating unit to which this goodwill was attributed for impairment testing purposes was TBMC, which is the lowest level within the Group at which this goodwill is currently monitored, though the operations of the acquired entity will, in time, be integrated with those of the First Mortgage division.
An impairment review undertaken at 30 September 2009 indicated a write down of 6.0m which was charged to the profit and loss account.
Further reviews were undertaken at 30 September 2010 and 30 September 2011, which indicated no further impairment.
The recoverable amount of TBMC used in this impairment testing is determined on a value in use basis using cash ow projections based on financial budgets approved by the Board covering a four year period.
The discount rate applied to the cash ow projection is 6.62% and cash ows beyond the four year budget are extrapolated using a 2.40% growth rate, being the average long term growth rate in the United Kingdom economy over a 20 year period.
86 Notes to the accounts Annual Report & Accounts 2011 The key assumptions underlying the value in use calculation for the TBMC business are: Level of business activity, based on management expectations.
Management have concluded that the levels of activity assumed for the purpose of this forecast are reasonable, based on past experience and the current economic environment.
Discount rate, which is based on the Groups cost of capital.
The directors believe that no reasonable possible change in any of the key assumptions above would cause the carrying value of the unit to exceed its recoverable amount.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT a The Group Land and Plant and Total Buildings Machinery m m m Cost At 1 October 2009 restated 23.6 13.8 37.4 Additions 0.7 0.3 1.0 Disposals - 4.3 4.3 At 30 September 2010 restated 24.3 9.8 34.1 Additions 0.4 1.6 2.0 Disposals 0.4 4.3 4.7 At 30 September 2011 24.3 7.1 31.4 Accumulated depreciation At 1 October 2009 restated 12.9 9.0 21.9 Charge for the year restated 1.2 1.3 2.5 On disposals - 2.5 2.5 At 30 September 2010 restated 14.1 7.8 21.9 Charge for the year 1.2 0.8 2.0 On disposals 0.4 3.5 3.9 At 30 September 2011 14.9 5.1 20.0 Net book value At 30 September 2011 9.4 2.0 11.4 At 30 September 2010 restated 10.2 2.0 12.2 At 30 September 2009 restated 10.7 4.8 15.5 The net book value of land and buildings includes 7.7m in respect of land and buildings held under finance leases 2010: 8.8m restated, 2009: 9.9m restated.
Comparative amounts above have been restated as described in note 2.
Notes to the accounts 87 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC b The Company Land and Buildings m Cost At 1 October 2009, 30 September 2010 restated and 30 September 2011 20.8 Accumulated depreciation At 1 October 2009 restated 10.9 Charge for the year restated 1.1 At 30 September 2010 restated 12.0 Charge for the year 1.1 At 30 September 2011 13.1 Net book value At 30 September 2011 7.7 At 30 September 2010 restated 8.8 At 30 September 2009 restated 9.9 The net book value of land and buildings represents buildings held under finance leases.
INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS Shares in Loans to Loans to Total Group Group ESOP companies companies Trusts m m m m At 1 October 2009 252.2 513.5 4.2 769.9 Loans advanced - 15.0 0.2 15.2 Loans repaid - 19.0 - 19.0 Provision movements 0.3 1.8 0.2 1.7 At 30 September 2010 252.5 507.7 4.2 764.4 Loans advanced - 17.4 1.5 18.9 Loans repaid - 34.9 - 34.9 Provision movements 0.2 - 1.3 1.5 At 30 September 2011 252.3 490.2 4.4 746.9 During the year ended 30 September 2010 the Company received 54.8m in dividend income from its subsidiaries 2010: 27.7m and 31.7m of interest on loans to Group companies 2010: 30.3m.
The principal operating subsidiaries, and the nature of the Groups interest in them, are shown in note 28.
88 Notes to the accounts Annual Report & Accounts 2011 28.
PRINCIPAL OPERATING SUBSIDIARIES Principal operating subsidiaries where the share capital is held within the Group comprise: Holding Principal activity Direct subsidiaries of The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Paragon Finance PLC 100% Residential mortgages and asset administration Mortgage Trust Limited 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages Limited 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages 2010 Limited 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Vehicle Contracts Limited 100% Vehicle eet management Paragon Car Finance Limited 100% Vehicle finance Paragon Personal Finance Limited 100% Unsecured lending Moorgate Servicing Limited 100% Intermediate holding company Redbrick Real Estate Services Limited 100% Property services Idem Capital Limited 100% Asset investment Idem Jersey No.
1 Limited 100% Asset investment Paragon Fourth Funding Limited 100% Residential mortgages The Business Mortgage Company Limited 100% Mortgage broker Paragon Mortgages No.
7 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
8 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
9 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
10 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
11 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
12 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
13 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
14 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
15 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Personal and Auto Finance No.
3 PLC 100% Loan and vehicle finance Paragon Secured Finance No.
1 PLC 100% Loan finance First Flexible No.
7 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Subsidiary of Paragon Mortgages Limited Paragon Second Funding Limited 100% Residential mortgages and loan and vehicle finance Subsidiaries of Mortgage Trust Limited Mortgage Trust Services plc 100% Residential mortgages and asset administration First Flexible No.
6 PLC 74% Residential mortgages Subsidiaries of Moorgate Servicing Limited Redbrick Survey and Valuation Limited 100% Surveyors and property consulting Moorgate Loan Servicing Limited 100% Asset administration Subsidiaries of Idem Capital Limited Idem No.
1 Limited 100% Asset investment Idem No.
3 Limited 100% Asset investment Idem Capital Securities Limited 100% Asset investment The holdings shown above are those held by the Group.
The shareholdings of the Company are the same as those held by the parent company identied above, except that for the shareholdings marked the parent company holds only 74% of the share capital, the remainder being held by other group companies.
The financial year end of all of the Groups subsidiary companies is 30 September, with the exception of The Business Mortgage Company Limited, the year end of which is 31 December.
They are all registered in England and Wales, except Idem Jersey No.
1 Limited, which is registered in the Bailiwick of Jersey, and they all operate in the United Kingdom.
The issued share capital of all subsidiaries consists of ordinary share capital, except that First Flexible No.
6 PLC has additional preference share capital held by the Group.
The non-controlling interest in this company is not material.
Notes to the accounts 89 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC In addition, prior to its acquisition by the Group, certain loans originated by Mortgage Trust Limited had been sold to special purpose entity companies, ultimately beneficially owned by charitable trusts, which had raised non-recourse finance to fund these purchases.
The Group is considered to control these entities, as dened by SIC-12 Special Purpose Entities and hence they are considered to be subsidiaries of the Group.
The principal companies party to these arrangements are First Flexible No.
4 plc and First Flexible No.
The principal activity of both of these companies is residential mortgages.
LOANS AND RECEIVABLES Loans and receivables at 30 September 2011, 30 September 2010 and 30 September 2009, which are all denominated and payable in sterling, were: 2011 2010 2009 m m m First mortgage loans 8,360.4 8,475.6 8,764.3 Secured loans 340.1 391.9 467.4 Retail finance loans 2.9 4.8 9.0 Other unsecured loans 13.3 17.9 25.3 8,716.7 8,890.2 9,266.0 90 Notes to the accounts Annual Report & Accounts 2011 First mortgages are secured on residential property within the United Kingdom: secured loans enjoy second charges on residential property.
Retail finance loans are unsecured.
The estimated value of the security held against those loans above which are considered to be impaired or past due, representing the lesser of the outstanding balance and the estimated valuation of the property for each such account was: 2011 2010 m m First mortgage loans 83.1 113.3 Secured loans 46.2 32.6 129.3 145.9 Mortgage loans have a contractual term of up to thirty years, secured loans up to twenty five years, retail finance loans up to ten years and other unsecured loans up to ten years.
In all cases the borrower is entitled to settle the loan at any point and in most cases early settlement does take place.
All borrowers are required to make monthly payments, except where an initial deferred period is included in the contractual terms.
Under the terms of certain first mortgage products, the customer has the right to draw down further funds.
At 30 September 2011 the Groups commitment in respect of such facilities was 37.0m 2010: 43.3m.
The loans shown above pledged as collateral for the liabilities described in note 51 at 30 September 2011 and 30 September 2010 were: First Consumer Total Mortgages Finance m m m 30 September 2011 In respect of: Asset backed loan notes 6,714.0 333.9 7,047.9 Warehouse facilities 1,604.1 - 1,604.1 Total pledged as collateral 8,318.1 333.9 8,652.0 Not pledged as collateral 42.3 22.4 64.7 8,360.4 356.3 8,716.7 30 September 2010 In respect of: Asset backed loan notes 6,915.5 397.6 7,313.1 Warehouse facilities 1,514.0 - 1,514.0 Total pledged as collateral 8,429.5 397.6 8,827.1 Not pledged as collateral 46.1 17.0 63.1 8,475.6 414.6 8,890.2 On 27 October 2011 the Group acquired an additional portfolio of unsecured consumer loans from Royal Bank of Scotland PLC.
The consideration for the purchase was 43.2 million.
The acquisition was nanced from the Groups cash.
Notes to the accounts 91 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 31.
FINANCE LEASE RECEIVABLES The Groups finance lease receivables are car finance loans.
The average contractual life of such loans is 56 months 2010: 56 months, but it is likely that a significant proportion of customers will choose to settle their obligations early.
The minimum lease payments due under these loan agreements are: 2011 2010 2009 m m m Amounts receivable Within one year 5.2 12.4 21.8 Within two to five years 3.0 9.5 28.8 After five years 0.2 0.7 1.7 8.4 22.6 52.3 Less: future finance income 0.5 1.4 4.6 Present value 7.9 21.2 47.7 The present values of those payments, net of provisions for impairment, carried in the accounts are: 2011 2010 2009 m m m Amounts receivable Within one year 4.9 11.6 19.9 Within two to five years 2.8 8.9 26.3 After five years 0.2 0.7 1.5 7.9 21.2 47.7 Allowance for uncollectible amounts 1.4 1.8 2.4 Provision for recoveries 1.0 1.6 3.0 7.5 21.0 48.3 The Group considers that the fair value of its finance lease receivables is not signicantly different to their carrying values.
Whilst the Group has the benefit of the underlying vehicle as security on these loans, no account of this is taken in the allowance for uncollectible amounts shown above.
The Group has insufficient information on the current condition of finance leased vehicles to derive a reliable estimate of the value which could be realised from vehicles to offset against arrears accounts.
Accordingly, no such disclosure is provided.
The loans shown above pledged as collateral for liabilities at 30 September 2011 and 30 September 2010 were: 2011 2010 m m In respect of: Asset backed loan notes 6.4 19.3 Warehouse facilities - - Total pledged as collateral 6.4 19.3 Not pledged as collateral 1.1 1.7 7.5 21.0 92 Notes to the accounts Annual Report & Accounts 2011 32.
LOANS TO CUSTOMERS The movements in the Groups investment in loans to customers in the year ended 30 September 2011 and the year ended 30 September 2010 were: 2011 2010 m m Cost At 1 October 2010 8,911.2 9,314.3 Additions 151.7 52.5 Effective Interest Rate EIR adjustments 17.3 22.5 Other debits 279.2 296.7 Provision charge note 33 24.4 39.2 Repayments and redemptions 576.2 690.6 At 30 September 2011 8,724.2 8,911.2 Other debits includes primarily interest and fees charged to customers on loans outstanding.
The fair value of loans to customers is considered to be not materially different to the amortised cost value at which they are disclosed.
IMPAIRMENT PROVISIONS ON LOANS TO CUSTOMERS The following amounts in respect of impairment provisions, net of allowances for recoveries of written off assets, have been deducted from the appropriate assets in the balance sheet.
FAIR VALUE ADJUSTMENTS FROM PORTFOLIO HEDGING The Group applies fair value hedge accounting in respect of portfolios of loan assets where the appropriate criteria are met.
In these circumstances the change in the fair value of the hedged items attributable to the hedged risk is shown under this heading.
Notes to the accounts 93 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 35.
INVESTMENT IN SECURITIES Investments in securities represent the Groups contribution made to special purpose vehicle SPV companies established and controlled by unrelated third parties to purchase pools of loan assets.
All such investments are denominated in sterling, unlisted and are considered to be debt investments as dened by IFRS.
The underlying loans are unsecured loans made to United Kingdom borrowers.
The movements in the Groups investment in securities in the year ended 30 September 2011 and the year ended 30 September 2010 were: 2011 2010 m m Cost At 1 October 2010 - - Additions 11.7 - Effective Interest Rate EIR income 0.7 - Payments received 0.6 - At 30 September 2011 11.8 - The fair values of investments in securities are considered to be not materially different to the amortised cost value at which they are disclosed.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES All of the Groups financial derivatives are held for economic hedging purposes, although not all may be designated for hedge accounting in accordance with the provisions of IAS 39.
The analysis below therefore, splits derivatives between those accounted for as hedges and those which, while representing an economic hedge, do not qualify for this treatment.
All of the financial derivatives shown are valued using methodologies where the principal inputs are directly or indirectly derived from market data and are therefore classied within level two of the fair value hierarchy laid down by IFRS 7.
The Groups securitisation borrowings are denominated in sterling, euros and US dollars.
All currency borrowings are swapped at inception so that they have the effect of sterling borrowings.
These swaps provide an effective hedge against exchange rate movements, but the requirement to carry them at fair value leads, when exchange rates have moved signicantly since the issue of the notes, to large balances for the swaps being carried in the balance sheet.
This is currently the case with both euro and US dollar swaps, although the debit balance is compensated for by retranslating the borrowings at the current exchange rate.
Derivative financial assets and liabilities are included within Financial Assets note 29 and Financial Liabilities note 49 respectively.
94 Notes to the accounts Annual Report & Accounts 2011 a The Group 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 Notional Assets Liabilities Notional Assets Liabilities Amount Amount m m m m m m Derivatives in accounting hedge relationships Fair value hedges Interest rate swaps 209.6 4.0 3.8 410.0 8.0 9.8 209.6 4.0 3.8 410.0 8.0 9.8 Cash ow hedges Foreign exchange basis swaps 4,994.5 1,145.8 - 5,163.0 1,148.7 - Interest rate swaps 0.6 - - 4.9 - 0.1 4,995.1 1,145.8 - 5,167.9 1,148.7 0.1 5,204.7 1,149.8 3.8 5,577.9 1,156.7 9.9 Other derivatives Interest rate swaps 178.2 2.0 5.3 283.5 3.5 7.4 Interest rate caps 15.8 - - 48.7 0.1 - Interest rate oors - - - 10.5 - - 194.0 2.0 5.3 342.7 3.6 7.4 Total recognised derivative assets liabilities 5,398.7 1,151.8 9.1 5,920.6 1,160.3 17.3 At 30 September 2011 cash deposits of 146.0m had been pledged as collateral in respect of swaps shown above by the respective swap counterparties 2010: 145.9m as described in note 6. b The Company 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 Notional Assets Liabilities Notional Assets Liabilities Amount Amount m m m m m m Derivatives in accounting hedge relationships Fair value hedges Interest rate swaps 110.0 4.0 - 110.0 8.0 - 110.0 4.0 - 110.0 8.0 - Total recognised derivative assets 110.0 4.0 - 110.0 8.0 - Of the interest rate swap agreements used for fair value hedging, swaps of a notional value of 110.0m 2010: 110.0m, recognised as assets of 4.0m 2010: assets of 8.0m in both the Group and the Company relate to the hedging of the Corporate Bond borrowings.
All other fair value hedging items relate to the hedging of the Groups loan assets on a portfolio basis.
Notes to the accounts 95 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 37.
OTHER RECEIVABLES a The Group 2011 2010 2009 m m m Current assets Accrued interest income 0.5 0.5 0.5 Prepayments 1.0 1.0 1.4 Other debtors 3.2 4.4 3.6 4.7 5.9 5.5 Accrued interest income and other debtors fall within the denition of financial assets given in IAS 32.
The fair values of the above items are not considered to be materially different to their carrying values.
b The Company 2011 2010 2009 m m m Current assets Amounts owed by Group companies 79.9 125.2 88.5 Accrued interest income 0.1 0.6 - 80.0 125.8 88.5 Accrued interest income and other debtors fall within the denition of financial assets given in IAS 32.
96 Notes to the accounts Annual Report & Accounts 2011 39.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Only Free Cash is unrestrictedly available for the Groups general purposes.
Cash received in respect of loan assets is not immediately available, due to the terms of the warehouse facilities and the securitisations.
Cash and Cash Equivalents also includes balances held by the Trustees of the Paragon Employee Share Ownership Plans which may only be used to invest in the shares of the Company, pursuant to the aims of those plans.
The total consolidated Cash and Cash Equivalents balance may be analysed as shown below: 2011 2010 2009 m m m Free cash 195.0 147.8 84.0 Securitisation cash 374.1 387.2 394.7 ESOP cash 2.5 1.7 1.7 571.6 536.7 480.4 All Cash and Cash Equivalents shown in the Company balance sheet are included in free cash.
Cash and Cash Equivalents includes current bank balances and xed rate sterling term deposits with London banks.
CALLED-UP SHARE CAPITAL The share capital of the Company consists of a single class of 1 ordinary shares.
Movements in the issued share capital in the year were: 2011 2010 Number Number Ordinary shares of 1 each At 1 October 2010 299,454,078 299,159,605 Shares issued 291,367 294,473 At 30 September 2011 299,745,445 299,454,078 During the year the Company issued 291,367 shares at par 2010: 294,473 to the trustees of its ESOP Trusts in order that they could full their obligations under the Groups share based award arrangements.
Notes to the accounts 97 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 41.
RESERVES a The Group Note 2011 2010 2009 restated restated m m m Share premium account 42 64.1 64.1 64.1 Merger reserve 43 70.2 70.2 70.2 Cash ow hedging reserve 44 1.8 1.4 1.2 profit and loss account 45 495.0 450.5 413.0 490.7 445.8 408.1 Comparative amounts above have been restated as described in note 2. b The Company Note 2011 2010 2009 restated restated m m m Share premium account 42 64.1 64.1 64.1 Merger reserve 43 23.7 23.7 23.7 profit and loss account 45 281.8 229.0 194.4 322.2 269.4 234.8 Comparative amounts above have been restated as described in note 2.
MERGER RESERVE The Group The Company 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m Balance at 1 October 2009 70.2 70.2 23.7 23.7 Balance at 30 September 2010 70.2 70.2 23.7 23.7 The merger reserve arose, due to the provisions of UK company law at the time, on a group restructuring on 12 May 1989 when the Company became the parent entity of the Group.
98 Notes to the accounts Annual Report & Accounts 2011 44.
CASHFLOW HEDGING RESERVE The Group The Company 2011 2010 2011 2010 Note m m m m At 1 October 2010 1.4 1.2 - - Movement in fair value of hedging derivatives 0.4 0.3 - - Deferred tax thereon 23 - 0.1 - - At 30 September 2011 1.8 1.4 - - The cash ows to which these amounts relate are expected to take place, and to affect profit, over the next 33 years 2010: 34 years.
The majority of the balance relates to the cross currency basis swaps described in note 6.
Cash ows in respect of these swaps will continue for as long as the related notes remain outstanding.
Foreign exchange gains of 3.2m on asset backed loan notes denominated in US dollars and euros 2010: gains of 124.8m have been taken to the cash ow hedging reserve together with equal and opposite movements on the cross currency basis swaps used to hedge these liabilities.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT The Group The Company 2011 2010 2011 2010 restated restated Note m m m m At 1 October 2010 450.5 413.0 229.0 194.4 Dividends paid 46 11.1 10.0 11.1 10.0 Share options exercised 47 5.5 3.8 - - Charge for share based remuneration 13 2.0 1.4 2.0 1.4 Tax on share based remuneration 23 0.1 0.3 - - Actuarial loss on retirement benefit obligation 52 0.6 4.3 - - profit for the year 59.6 53.9 61.9 43.2 At 30 September 2011 495.0 450.5 281.8 229.0 Comparative amounts above have been restated as described in note 2.
Notes to the accounts 99 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 46.
EQUITY DIVIDEND Amounts recognised as distributions to equity shareholders in the period: 2011 2010 2011 2010 Per share Per share m m Equity dividends on ordinary shares Final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2010 2.40p 2.20p 7.1 6.5 Interim dividend for the year ended 30 September 2011 1.35p 1.20p 4.0 3.5 3.75p 3.40p 11.1 10.0 Amounts paid and proposed in respect of the year: 2011 2010 2011 2010 Per share Per share m m Interim dividend for the year ended 30 September 2011 1.35p 1.20p 4.0 3.5 Proposed final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2011 2.65p 2.40p 7.9 7.1 4.00p 3.60p 11.9 10.6 Dividends of 0.0m 2010: 0.0m were paid by the Company in respect of shares held by ESOP trusts on which dividends had not been waived.
The proposed final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2011 will be paid on 13 February 2012, subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, with a record date of 13 January 2012.
The dividend will be recognised in the accounts when it is paid.
TRANSACTIONS IN SHARES The Group The Company 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m Awards from ESOP schemes Proceeds 0.8 - - - Cost of shares transferred note 48 6.3 3.8 - - deficit on exercise note 45 5.5 3.8 - - Shares issued Nominal value note 40 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 Premium on issue note 42 - - - - Proceeds of issue 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 deficit surplus on transactions in own shares 5.2 3.5 0.3 0.3 100 Notes to the accounts Annual Report & Accounts 2011 48.
The dividends on these shares have been waived.
The ESOP shares are held in trust for the benefit of employees exercising their options under the Companys share option schemes and awards under the Paragon Performance Share Plan, Matching Share Plan and Deferred Bonus Scheme.
The trustees costs are included in the operating expenses of the Group.
Options, or other share-based awards, were outstanding against 2,487,688 of these shares at 30 September 2011 2010: 3,366,361.
The dividends on 2,078,613 of these shares have been waived 2010: 2,821,549.
Notes to the accounts 101 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 49.
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES a The Group Note 2011 2010 2009 restated restated m m m Current liabilities Finance lease liability 51 1.2 1.1 1.0 Bank loans and overdrafts 0.6 0.1 0.3 1.8 1.2 1.3 Non-current liabilities Asset backed loan notes 8,049.7 8,336.2 8,819.2 Corporate bond 112.0 115.8 116.8 Finance lease liability 51 11.6 12.8 13.9 Bank loans and overdrafts 1,492.1 1,403.6 1,453.1 Derivative financial instruments 36 9.1 17.3 56.6 9,674.5 9,885.7 10,459.6 A maturity analysis of the above borrowings and further details of asset backed loan notes and bank loans are given in note 50.
Comparative amounts above have been restated as described in note 2. b The Company Note 2011 2010 2009 restated restated m m m Current liabilities Finance lease liability 51 1.2 1.1 1.0 Non-current liabilities Corporate bond 112.0 115.8 126.8 Finance lease liability 51 11.6 12.8 13.9 Derivative financial instruments 36 - - - 123.6 128.6 140.7 A maturity analysis of the above borrowings is given in note 50.
102 Notes to the accounts Annual Report & Accounts 2011 50.
BORROWINGS Set out below is the contractual maturity prole of the Groups borrowings at 30 September 2011 and 30 September 2010: Financial liabilities falling due: In one year In more than In more than In more than Total or less, or one year, but two years, but five years on demand not more than not more than two years five years m m m m m 30 September 2011 Bank overdrafts 0.6 - - - 0.6 Bank loans - - 121.3 1,370.8 1,492.1 Corporate bond - - - 112.0 112.0 Asset backed loan notes - - - 8,049.7 8,049.7 0.6 - 121.3 9,532.5 9,654.4 30 September 2010 Bank overdrafts 0.1 - - - 0.1 Bank loans - - - 1,403.6 1,403.6 Corporate bond - - - 115.8 115.8 Asset backed loan notes - - - 8,336.2 8,336.2 0.1 - - 9,855.6 9,855.7 The fair values of borrowings are not considered to be signicantly different to their carrying values and the effective interest rates are not materially different to the rates charged.
a Asset backed loan notes The asset backed loan notes are secured on portfolios comprising variable and xed rate mortgages or personal, retail and car loans, and are redeemable in part from time to time, but such redemptions are limited to the net capital received from borrowers in respect of the underlying assets.
There is no requirement for the Group to make good any shortfall out of general funds.
The maturity date of the notes matches the maturity date of the underlying assets.
It is likely that a substantial proportion of these notes will be repaid within five years.
In each issue there exists an option for the Group to repay all of the notes at an earlier date the call date, at the outstanding principal amount.
Interest is payable at a xed margin above: the London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR on notes denominated in sterling: the Euro Interbank Offered Rate EURIBOR on notes denominated in euros: and the London Interbank Offered Rate US Dollar LIBOR on notes denominated in US dollars.
All payments in respect of the notes are required to be made in the currency in which they are denominated.
The notes outstanding at 30 September 2011 comprised 7,681.7m 2010: 7,877.8m, 2009: 8,225.9m in respect of mortgage backed notes and 368.0m 2010: 458.4m, 2009: 593.3m in respect of notes backed by other loan assets.
The details of the assets backing these securities are given in notes 30 and 31.
A more detailed description of the securitisation structure under which these notes are issued is given in note 6.
Notes to the accounts 103 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Notes in issue at 30 September 2011 and 30 September 2010 were: Issuer Maturity Call date Principal Average Interest date Outstanding Margin 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m % % Sterling notes Paragon Mortgages No.
3 PLC 15 04 36 15 04 09 159.8 206.0 0.84 0.79 104 Notes to the accounts Annual Report & Accounts 2011 During the year, Group companies issued nil 2010: nil of mortgage backed oating rate notes at par and nil 2010: nil of asset backed oating rate notes at par.
On 10 November 2011 a Group company, Paragon Mortgages No.
16 PLC, issued 131.7m of AAA rated, sterling mortgage backed oating rate notes at par.
The interest margin above LIBOR on the notes was 2.75% and the proceeds were used to pay down existing warehouse debt.
b Bank borrowings Prior to the recent difficulties in the capital markets, assets were typically securitised within 12 months of origination.
New loans were funded by a bank facility the old warehouse facility.
This was drawn down to fund completions and repaid when assets were securitised.
More information on this process is given in note 6.
The old warehouse facility was available for further drawings until 29 February 2008 at which point it converted automatically to a term loan and no further drawings were allowed.
The old warehouse facility is provided by a committed sterling facility provided to Paragon Second Funding Limited by a consortium of banks.
This facility is secured on all the assets of Paragon Second Funding Limited, Paragon Car Finance No.
1 Limited and Paragon Personal Finance No.
1 Limited and although its final repayment date is 28 February 2050 it is likely that substantial repayments will be made within the next five years.
Interest on this loan is payable monthly in sterling at 0.675% above LIBOR 2010: 0.675% above LIBOR.
The principal amount outstanding on the facility at 30 September 2011, which was also the maximum available amount, was 1,370.8m 2010: 1,403.6m.
The carrying value of the borrowing in the balance sheet was 1,370.8m 2010: 1,403.6m.
Details of assets held within the old warehouse are given in note 30.
As with the asset backed loan notes, repayments of this facility before the final repayment date are restricted to the amount of principal cash realised from the funded assets.
In order to provide funding for new lending, on 27 September 2010 the Group entered into a 200.0m committed sterling facility provided to Paragon Fourth Funding Limited by Macquarie Bank plc the new warehouse.
This facility is secured on all the assets of Paragon Fourth Funding Limited and is available for drawing for a period of two years and has a term of four years.
Loans originated in the new warehouse are renanced in the mortgage backed securitisation market from time to time when appropriate.
Interest on this loan is payable monthly in sterling at 2.875% above LIBOR.
The facility has a renewal process that allows the Group to agree a new two year commitment period prior to the expiry of the existing commitment period.
The principal amount outstanding on the facility at 30 September 2011 was 123.0m 2010: nil.
The maximum available drawing at that date was 77.0m 2010: 200.0m and the carrying value of the borrowing in the balance sheet was 121.3m 2010: nil.
As with the old warehouse, repayments on the new warehouse are limited to principal cash received from the funded assets.
The Group additionally has entered into 64.1m 2010: 64.8m of sterling revolving credit facilities to fund, where necessary, the purchase of mortgage redraws in certain subsidiary companies.
At 30 September 2011 nil 2010: nil had been drawn down under these facilities.
The weighted average margin above LIBOR on bank borrowings at 30 September 2011 was 0.856% 2010: 0.675%.
c Corporate bond On 20 April 2005 the Company issued 120.0m of 7% Callable Subordinated Notes at an issue price of 99.347% to provide long term capital for the Group.
These bonds bear interest at a xed rate of 7% per annum and are repayable on 20 April 2017, but may be repaid on 20 April 2012 at the Companys option.
They are unsecured and subordinated to any other creditors of the Company.
At 30 September 2011 112.0m 2010: 115.8m, 2009: 126.8m was included within the financial liabilities of the Company in respect of these bonds.
At 30 September 2009 bonds to the principal value of 10.0m were held by other group companies and hence the value included within the financial liabilities of the Group in respect of these bonds was 116.8m.
During the year ended 30 September 2010 these notes were cancelled, realising a profit of 10.0m in the Company, and at 30 September 2010 and 30 September 2011 none of the bonds were held by other entities within the Group and therefore the value included within the financial liabilities of the Group in respect of the bonds at 30 September 2011 and 30 September 2010 was the same as that for the Company.
Notes to the accounts 105 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 51.
OBLIGATIONS UNDER FINANCE LEASES The finance lease obligations recorded in the accounts arise from a sale and leaseback transaction of the Groups former head ofce building in 1997 which falls to be treated as a finance lease under IAS 17 - Leases.
The lease expires in 2019 and is subject to five yearly rent reviews, with guaranteed minimum rent increases.
The minimum lease payments payable under this lease are: 2011 2010 2009 restated restated m m m Amounts payable Within one year 2.2 2.2 2.2 Within two to five years 9.5 9.3 9.1 After five years 5.4 7.8 10.2 17.1 19.3 21.5 Less: future finance charges 4.3 5.4 6.6 Present value of lease obligations 12.8 13.9 14.9 The present value of these payments recognised in the financial statements is: 2011 2010 2009 restated restated m m m Amounts payable Within one year 1.2 1.1 1.0 Within two to five years 6.7 6.0 5.3 After five years 4.9 6.8 8.6 12.8 13.9 14.9 The fair value of the lease obligation is not considered to be materially different to the present value of the future obligations shown above.
The interest rate implicit in the lease is 7.99% 2010: 7.99% At 30 September 2011 the minimum amount of payments expected to be received in respect of non-cancellable sub-leases in respect of this building was 400,000 2010: 1,100,000.
106 Notes to the accounts Annual Report & Accounts 2011 52.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS The Group operates a funded dened benefit pension scheme in the UK the Plan.
A full actuarial valuation was carried out at 31 March 2010 and updated to 30 September 2011 by a qualied independent actuary.
The liabilities of the Plan are measured by discounting the best estimate of future cash ows to be paid out by the scheme using the Projected Unit method.
This amount is reected in the liability in the balance sheet.
The Projected Unit method is an accrued benets valuation method in which the technical provisions are calculated based on service up until the valuation date allowing for future salary growth until the date of retirement, withdrawal or death, as appropriate.
The future service rate is then calculated as the contribution rate required to fund the service accruing over the control period again allowing for future salary growth.
As a result of the Plan being closed to new entrants, the service cost as a percentage of pensionable salaries is expected to increase as the members of the Plan approach retirement.
However, the membership is expected to reduce so that the service charge in monetary terms will gradually reduce.
The major weighted average assumptions used by the actuary were in nominal terms : 30 September 30 September 30 September 2011 2010 2009 In determining net pension cost for the year Discount rate 5.20% 5.70% 6.50% Expected long term rate of return on scheme assets 6.30% 6.60% 7.70% Rate of compensation increase 4.00% 4.20% 4.35% Rate of increase of pensions in payment accrued before 6 April 2006 3.00% 3.20% 3.35% in payment accrued after 5 April 2006 3.00% 2.50% 2.50% in deferment 3.00% 3.20% 3.35% In determining benefit obligations Discount rate 5.25% 5.20% 5.70% Rate of compensation increase 4.10% 4.00% 4.20% Rate of increase of pensions in payment accrued before 6 April 2006 3.10% 3.00% 3.20% in payment accrued after 5 April 2006 3.10% 2.50% 2.50% in deferment 3.00% 3.00% 3.20% Further life expectancy at age 60 Pensioner male 30 30 30 Pensioner female 32 33 33 Non-retired member male 32 31 31 Non-retired member female 34 35 35 The assets in the Plan at 30 September 2011, 30 September 2010 and 30 September 2009 and the expected rates of return were: At 30 September 2011 At 30 September 2010 At 30 September 2009 Long term Value Long term Value Long term Value rate of return rate of return rate of return expected m expected m expected m Equities 6.75% 34.0 7.25% 35.2 7.60% 33.0 Bonds 4.65% 19.3 4.40% 16.8 4.80% 13.7 Other 5.30% 5.8 5.80% 5.2 4.80% 5.3 Total market value of assets 5.90% 59.1 6.28% 57.2 6.90% 52.0 Present value of scheme liabilities 73.5 73.7 63.5 deficit in the scheme 14.4 16.5 11.5 Notes to the accounts 107 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Plan assets are held in a separate trustee-administered fund to meet long-term pension liabilities to past and present employees.
The trustees of the Plan are required to act in the best interests of the Plans beneciaries.
The appointment of trustees to the Plan is determined by the schemes trust documentation.
The Group has a policy that one third of all trustees should be nominated by active and pensioner members of the Plan.
At 30 September 2011 the Plan assets were invested in a diversied portfolio that consisted primarily of equity and gilt investments.
The majority of the equities held by the Plan are in developed markets.
The target asset allocations for the year ending 30 September 2012 are 50% equities, 30% bonds and 20% other assets.
In conjunction with the trustees, the Group has continued to conduct asset-liability reviews of the Plan.
These studies are used to assist the trustees and the Group to determine the optimal long-term asset allocation with regard to the structure of liabilities within the Plan.
The results of the studies are used to assist the trustees in managing the volatility in the underlying investment performance and risk of a significant increase in the scheme deficit by providing information used to determine the investment strategy of the Plan.
Following the 2010 actuarial valuation, the trustees put in place a recovery plan.
The trustees recovery plan aims to meet the statutory funding objective within seven years and three months from the date of valuation, i. e. by 30 June 2017.
The rate of return expected on scheme assets is based on the current level of expected returns on risk free investments primarily government bonds, the historical level of the risk premium associated with other asset classes in which the portfolio is invested and the expectations for future returns of each asset class.
The expected return for each asset class was then weighted based on the asset allocation to develop the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption for the portfolio.
The movement in the market value of the scheme assets during the year was as follows: 2011 2010 m m At 1 October 2010 57.2 52.0 Movement in year Contributions by the Group 3.5 2.3 Contributions by scheme members 0.3 0.3 Benets paid 1.1 1.4 Expected return on scheme assets 3.6 3.6 Actuarial loss gain 4.4 0.4 At 30 September 2011 59.1 57.2 The actual return on scheme assets in the year ended 30 September 2011 was 0.8 m 2010: 4.0m.
The movement in the present value of the scheme liabilities during the year was as follows: 2011 2010 m m At 1 October 2010 73.7 63.5 Movement in year Current service cost 1.6 1.6 Past service costs - - Contributions by scheme members 0.3 0.3 Plan curtailments 0.7 - Benets paid 1.1 1.4 Finance cost 3.8 3.6 Actuarial gain loss 4.1 6.1 At 30 September 2011 73.5 73.7 108 Notes to the accounts Annual Report & Accounts 2011 The most recent valuation of the scheme liabilities on a buy-out basis obtained by the trustees in accordance with section 224 of the Pensions Act 2004 was calculated at 31 March 2010, when the valuation on that basis was 85.6m.
The sensitivity of the valuation of the scheme liabilities to the principal assumptions disclosed above at 30 September 2011 is as follows: Assumption Increase in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities Discount rate 0.1% p. a.
Decrease by 2.6% Rate of ination 0.1% p. a.
Increase by 2.1% Rate of salary growth 0.1% p. a.
Increase by 0.5% Rates of mortality 1 year of life expectancy Increase by 1.8% maintaining a 1% real increase in salary growth The duration of the schemes liabilities are shown in the table below: 2011 2010 Years Years Category of member Active members 28 28 Deferred pensioners 29 27 Current pensioners 15 14 All members 28 27 The agreed rate of employer contributions was 27.4% of gross salaries for participating employees up to and including 26 June 2011.
With effect from 27 June 2011, the employer contribution rate decreased to 26.6% of gross salaries, following the nalisation of the 31 March 2010 actuarial valuation.
Since 1 July 2008 an additional contribution of 500,000 per annum has been paid by monthly instalments.
During the year this was increased to 1,500,000 per annum, backdated to 1 July 2010.
The present best estimate of the contributions to be made to the plan by the Group in the year ending 30 September 2012 is 3.0m.
The amounts charged in the income statement in respect of the pension scheme are: Note 2011 2010 m m Current service cost 1.6 1.6 Past service cost - - Plan curtailments 0.7 - Included within operating expenses 13 0.9 1.6 Expected return on scheme assets 9 3.6 3.6 Funding cost of scheme liability 10 3.8 3.6 Total expense recognised in profit 1.1 1.6 Notes to the accounts 109 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The actuarial losses and gains in the statement of comprehensive income in respect of the pension scheme are: Note 2011 2010 m m Loss gain on scheme assets 4.4 0.4 Gain loss on scheme liabilities 4.1 6.1 Total actuarial loss 0.3 5.7 Tax thereon 23 0.3 1.4 Net actuarial loss 45 0.6 4.3 The tax shown above is disproportionate to the actuarial losses recorded in the periods due to the effect on deferred tax of the changes in tax rate described in note 20.
The cumulative value of actuarial losses charged through reserves to the profit and loss account since 1 October 2001, the first date on which a valuation of the scheme assets and liabilities on a basis consistent with IAS 19 was carried out is 33.7m 2010: 33.4m.
The five year history of experience adjustments on the scheme is as shown below: 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 m m m m m Fair value of scheme assets 59.1 57.2 52.0 43.9 49.2 Present value of scheme obligations 73.5 73.7 63.5 48.9 45.0 deficit surplus in the scheme 14.4 16.5 11.5 5.0 4.2 Experience adjustments on scheme assets: Amount m 4.4 0.4 2.8 10.4 0.9 Percentage of scheme assets 7.5 % 0.6% 5.3% 23.8 % 1.8% Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities: Amount m 2.8 - - 0.2 2.5 Percentage of scheme liabilities 3.8% 0.0% 0.0% 0.4% 5.6% In addition to the Group Pension Scheme, the Group operates a dened contribution Stakeholder pension scheme.
Contributions made by the Group to this scheme in the year ended 30 September 2011 were 0.2m 2010: 0.2m.
110 Notes to the accounts Annual Report & Accounts 2011 53.
DEFERRED TAX a The Group The movements in the net deferred tax liability asset are as follows: Note 2011 2010 2009 m m m Net asset at 1 October 2010 1.5 2.8 10.3 Acquisition - - 0.8 Income statement charge 20 6.3 2.9 11.3 Charge credit to equity 23 0.2 1.6 3.0 Net liability asset at 30 September 2011 5.0 1.5 2.8 The net deferred tax liability asset for which provision has been made is analysed as follows: 2011 2010 2009 m m m Accelerated tax depreciation 1.0 1.4 1.7 Retirement benefit obligations 3.6 4.5 3.2 Impairment and other provisions 16.2 16.5 17.0 Tax losses 6.6 13.2 16.8 Other timing differences - 1.1 1.9 Net deferred tax liability asset 5.0 1.5 2.8 b The Company No provision for deferred tax was required in the Company at 30 September 2011, 30 September 2010 or 30 September 2009.
CURRENT TAX LIABILITIES a The Group 2011 2010 2009 m m m UK Corporation Tax 10.7 16.2 - 10.7 16.2 - b The Company 2011 2010 2009 m m m UK Corporation Tax 3.3 1.5 1.0 3.3 1.5 1.0 Notes to the accounts 111 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 55.
PROVISIONS 2011 2010 m m Provision at 1 October 2010 - 0.5 Utilised in the year - 0.5 Provision at 30 September 2011 - - Provisions at 1 October 2010 included committed future lease costs for properties no longer occupied by the Group, and were expected to be settled within one year of that date.
OTHER LIABILITIES a The Group 2011 2010 2009 m m m Current liabilities Accrued interest 25.4 21.1 17.8 Deferred income 0.3 0.4 0.9 Other accruals 11.7 10.1 10.9 Other taxation and social security 0.9 0.8 0.8 38.3 32.4 30.4 Non-current liabilities Deferred income 1.4 1.5 1.9 Other accruals 0.1 0.1 0.6 1.5 1.6 2.5 Accrued interest and other accruals fall within the denition of other financial liabilities set out in IAS 32 and IAS 39 and their fair values are not considered to be materially different to their carrying values.
112 Notes to the accounts Annual Report & Accounts 2011 b The Company 2011 2010 2009 m m m Current liabilities Amounts owed to Group companies 312.9 385.6 313.7 Accrued interest 3.5 3.5 3.8 Deferred income 0.1 0.1 0.1 316.5 389.2 317.6 Non-current liabilities Deferred income 0.8 0.9 1.1 0.8 0.9 1.1 Accrued interest and other accruals fall within the denition of other financial liabilities set out in IAS 32 and IAS 39 and their fair values are not considered to be materially different to their carrying values.
NET CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES a The Group 2011 2010 restated m m Profit before tax 80.8 71.8 Non-cash items included in profit and other adjustments: Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 2.0 2.5 Amortisation of intangible assets 0.9 0.7 profit on repurchase of debt - 5.7 Foreign exchange movement on borrowings 3.2 124.8 Other non-cash movements on borrowings 1.2 0.6 Impairment losses on loans to customers 24.4 39.2 Charge for share based remuneration 2.0 1.4 profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.2 Net decrease increase in operating assets: Loans to customers 150.8 363.9 Derivative financial instruments 8.5 127.2 Fair value of portfolio hedges 5.2 30.4 Other receivables 1.2 0.4 Net decrease increase in operating liabilities: Derivative financial instruments 8.2 39.3 Other liabilities 3.4 0.1 Cash generated by operations 266.5 467.6 Income taxes paid received 20.4 2.9 246.1 470.5 Comparative amounts above have been restated as described in note 2.
Notes to the accounts 113 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC b The Company 2011 2010 restated m m Profit before tax 65.1 45.8 Non-cash items included in profit and other adjustments: Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 1.1 1.1 Non-cash movements on borrowings 3.8 1.0 Impairment losses on investments in subsidiaries 1.5 1.7 Cancellation of debt note 50 - 10.0 Charge for share based remuneration 2.0 1.4 Net increase decrease in operating assets: Other receivables 45.8 37.3 Derivative financial instruments 4.0 0.7 Net increase decrease in operating liabilities: Derivative financial instruments - - Other liabilities 72.8 71.4 Cash generated by operations 42.9 73.8 Income taxes paid 1.4 2.1 41.5 71.7 Comparative amounts above have been restated as described in note 2.
NET CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES The Group The Company 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.9 1.6 - - Purchases of property, plant and equipment 2.0 1.0 - - Purchases of intangible assets 1.0 0.3 - - Investment in subsidiary undertakings - - 16.0 3.8 Net cash utilised generated by investing activities 2.1 0.3 16.0 3.8 114 Notes to the accounts Annual Report & Accounts 2011 59.
NET CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES The Group The Company 2011 2010 2011 2010 restated restated m m m m Shares issues - - 0.3 0.3 Dividends paid note 46 11.1 10.0 11.1 10.0 Repayment of asset backed oating rate notes 284.1 345.5 - - Repurchase of debt note 18 - 8.3 - - Capital element of finance lease payments 1.1 1.0 1.1 1.0 Movement on bank facilities 87.1 49.5 - - Purchase of shares note 48 1.2 - - - Sale of shares note 48 0.8 - - - Net cash utilised by nancing activities 209.6 414.3 11.9 10.7 Comparative amounts above have been restated as described in note 2.
OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS a As lessee The Group The Company 2011 2010 2011 2010 restated restated m m m m Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in income for the year Ofce buildings 2.3 3.0 - - Motor vehicles 0.2 - - - 2.5 3.0 - - At 30 September 2011 the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: The Group The Company 2011 2010 2011 2010 restated restated m m m m Amounts falling due: Within one year 2.6 2.2 - - Between two and five years 7.3 7.1 - - After more than five years 2.0 3.1 - - 11.9 12.4 - - Operating lease payments represent rents payable by the Group in respect of certain of its ofce premises and lease payments on company vehicles.
The average term of the current building leases is 11 years 2010 restated : 12 years with rents subject to review every five years, while the average term of the vehicle leases is three years 2010: no leases in place.
Notes to the accounts 115 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC b As lessor Certain of the Groups ofce premises which are not currently required by the Group have been sub-let.
Rental income from these premises during the year ended 30 September 2011 was: The Group The Company 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m Rental income 1.2 1.7 1.2 1.3 At 30 September 2011 the Group had received outstanding commitments from tenants for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: The Group The Company 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m Amounts receivable: Within one year 0.4 0.7 0.4 0.7 Between two and five years - 0.4 - 0.4 0.4 1.1 0.4 1.1 61.
CAPITAL COMMITMENTS At 30 September 2011 the Group had commitments in respect of 0.9m of capital expenditure contracted but not provided for 2010: nil.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS a The Group On 27 May 2010, Mr A K Fletcher, an independent Non-Executive Director of the Company, was appointed as a trustee of the Group Pension Plan.
In respect of this appointment he was paid 10,000 in the year ended 30 September 2011 by Paragon Finance plc, the sponsoring company of the Plan 2010: 3,000.
The Group had no other transactions with related parties other than the key management compensation disclosed in note 14. b The Company During the year the parent company entered into transactions with its subsidiaries, which are related parties.
Management services were provided to the Company by one of its subsidiaries and the Company granted awards under the share-based payment arrangements described in note 15 to employees of subsidiary undertakings.
The Company also issued shares to the trustees of its ESOP trusts, as described in note 40.
Details of the Companys investments in subsidiaries and the income derived from them are shown in notes 27 and 28.
Outstanding current account balances with subsidiaries are shown in notes 38 and 56.
During the year the Company incurred interest costs of 15.4m in respect of borrowings from its subsidiaries 2010: 16.6m.
116 Notes to the accounts Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Appendicies to the Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2011 A.
COST : INCOME RATIO Cost : income ratio is derived as follows: 2011 2010 m m Cost - operating expenses 45.4 42.6 Total operating income 150.9 147.9 Cost Income 30.1% 28.8% B.
UNDERLYING PROFIT Underlying profit is determined by excluding from the operating result certain costs of a one off nature, which do not reect the underlying business performance of the Group, gains on the repurchase of debt which result from the illiquidity of the credit markets rather than the fair value of the security and fair value accounting adjustments arising from the Groups hedging arrangements.
2011 2010 m m First Mortgages profit before tax for the period note 7 67.1 56.1 Less: Gain on debt repurchase - 5.7 Fair value losses gains 0.2 0.2 67.3 50.6 Consumer Finance profit before tax for the period note 7 13.7 15.7 Less: Gain on debt repurchase - - Fair value losses gains 0.1 0.2 13.8 15.5 Total profit before tax for the period note 7 80.8 71.8 Less: Gain on debt repurchase - 5.7 Fair value losses gains 0.3 - 81.1 66.1 Appendicies to the Annual Report 117 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC C. NET ASSET VALUE PER SHARE Net asset value per share is derived as follows: Note 2011 2010 restated Total equity m 742.0 692.0 Outstanding issued shares m 40 299.7 299.5 Treasury shares m 48 0.7 0.7 Shares held by ESOP schemes m 48 2.5 3.4 296.5 295.4 Net asset value per 1 ordinary share 250p 234p Comparative gures above are restated as described in note 2.
118 Appendicies to the Annual Report By Carbon Balancing the material used to produce this publication we have: Saved ?
The estimated carbon impact of this publication comes from a calculator developed by the Edinburgh Centre of Carbon Management ECCM.
It is derived from data supplied by the paper mill or, where this is not available, generic industry factors as determined by ECCM.
The estimated carbon impacts are measured with the point of delivery being the printers doorstep.
What is Carbon Balanced Paper?
Carbon Balanced, put simply, is where the carbon impact of a productor service has been estimated and an equivalent amount of carbon dioxide is either prevented from being released or is absorbed from the atmosphere.
Carbon Balancing is facilitated by the World Land Trust, an ecological charity which ensures a companys peace of mind regarding the credibility and integrity of how carbon impacts are balanced offset.
Carbon Balancing is achieved through land purchase of ecologically important standing forests, under imminent threat of clearance, where carbon is locked that would otherwise be released.
These protected forests are then able to continue absorbing carbon from the atmosphere.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC St Catherine's Court Herbert Road Solihull West Midlands B91 3QE Telephone: 0121 712 2323 www.
