GROSVENOR A302 E V A R. R 14 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The shares of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Financial Calendar Trust plc the Company are quoted on the London The Company publishes information according to the Stock Exchange.
following calendar: Savings Plan and ISA Announcements Annual Results June The Company is a member of the Invesco Perpetual Half-yearly Results November Investment Trust Savings Scheme and the Invesco Interim Management Statements July October Perpetual Investment Trust ISA.
The Companys Ordinary and Subscription shares can be purchased and sold via Annual General Meeting July these two schemes.
Year End 31 March Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust Savings Ordinary Share Dividend Timetable Scheme 1st interim payable September The Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust Savings Scheme 2nd interim payable December allows an investor to make monthly purchases from 3rd interim payable March 20 per month or through lump sum investments of 4th interim payable June 500 or above in the shares of the Company in a straightforward and low cost way.
Location of AGM Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust ISA The Lanesborough, Hyde Park Corner, London SW1X 7TA on 19 July 2011 at 11.30 am.
The Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust ISA allows investments up to 10,680 in the shares of the Company in each tax year.
Investors can also choose to make lump sum investments from 500, or regular investments from 20 per month.
GREEN PARK For full details of these schemes please contact Invesco Perpetuals Investor Services team free on 0800 085 8677.
BUCKINGHAM PALACE GDNS Share Price Listings The price of your shares can be found in The Financial Times, Daily Telegraph, The Times, The Independent and The Evening Standard.
In addition, share price information can be found under the following: Subscription Shares Reuters Base cost for the calculation of taxation on capital ordinary shares PLI.
L Trading in the subscription shares issued by the Bloomberg Company to qualifying shareholders commenced on ordinary shares PLI:LN 31 May 2005.
Further to the details outlined in the subscription shares PLIS:LN prospectus, for the purposes of UK taxation, the issue of subscription shares is treated as a reorganisation of Internet addresses the Companys share capital.
Whereas such Trust Net www.
com reorganisations do not trigger a chargeable disposal for Interactive Investor www.
co. uk the purposes of capital gains, they do require Association of www.
co. uk shareholders to reallocate the base costs of their Investment Companies ordinary shares between ordinary shares and subscription shares acquired under the bonus issue.
NAV Publication At the close of business on 31 May 2005, the middle The NAV is published daily in The Daily Telegraph and market prices of the Companys ordinary shares and The Financial Times and notified to the London Stock subscription shares were as follows: Exchange the next business day.
All London Stock Exchange announcements appear on the Managers Ordinary Shares 190.25p website.
Subscription Shares 34.50p Accordingly, an individual investor who, on 27 May 2005, Managers Website held ten ordinary shares or a multiple thereof would The Managers website can be located at have received a bonus issue of one subscription share www.
co. uk investmenttrusts or the relevant multiple thereof and would apportion the base cost of such holding 98.22% to the ten ordinary The contents of websites referred to in this document, shares and 1.78% to the subscription shares.
or accessible from links within those websites, are not incorporated into, nor do they form part of this annual If you need tax advice, you should contact a qualified financial report.
