22 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Gearing Whilst the use of borrowings by the Company should enhance the total return on the ordinary shares where the return on the Companys underlying securities is rising and exceeds the cost of borrowing, it will have the opposite effect where the underlying return is falling.
As at 31 March 2011, gearing was provided by a bank overdraft of up to 75 million and the 30 million debenture.
Since the year end, the Board have approved an increase in the bank overdraft of up to 100 million.
Regulatory The Company is subject to various laws and regulations by virtue of its status as a public limited company registered under the Act, as an investment trust, and its listing on the London Stock Exchange.
A breach of Sections 1158-1165 CTA could lead to the Company being subject to capital gains tax on the sale of its investments.
A serious breach of other regulatory rules may lead to suspension from the London Stock Exchange, a fine or a qualified Audit Report.
Other control failures, either by the Manager or any other of the Companys service providers, may result in operational or reputational problems, erroneous disclosures or loss of assets through fraud, as well as breaches of regulations.
The Manager reviews the level of compliance with Sections 1158-1165 CTA and other financial regulatory requirements on a daily basis.
All transactions, income and expenditure are reported to the Board.
The Board regularly considers all risks, the measures in place to control them and the possibility of any other risks that could arise.
The Board ensures that satisfactory assurances are received from service providers.
The Managers Compliance and Internal Audit Officers produce regular reports for review by the Companys Audit Committee.
If, under UK law or accounting rules and standards applicable to the Company, there were to be a change to the basis on which dividends could be paid by companies, this could have a negative effect on the Companys ability to pay dividends and, accordingly, capital returns.
Further details of risks and risk management policies as they relate to the financial assets and liabilities of the Company are detailed in note 19 to the financial statements.
Reliance on Third Party Service Providers The Company has no employees and the Directors have all been appointed on a non-executive basis.
The Company is therefore reliant upon the performance of third party service providers for its executive function.
In particular, the Manager performs services which are integral to the operation of the Company.
Failure by any service provider to carry out its obligations to the Company in accordance with the terms of its appointment could have a materially detrimental impact on the operation of the Company and could affect the ability of the Company to successfully pursue its Investment Policy.
The Manager may be exposed to the risk that litigation, misconduct, operational failures, negative publicity and press speculation, whether or not it is valid, will harm its reputation.
Any damage to the reputation of the Manager could result in potential counterparties and third parties being unwilling to deal with the Manager and by extension the Company.
This could have an adverse impact on the ability of the Company to successfully pursue its Investment Policy.
Financial Position Assets and Liabilities At 31 March 2011, the Companys net assets were 545 million 2010: 488 million.
These comprised a portfolio of equity investments, non-equity investments, cash and other net current liabilities.
The Company had a 75 million overdraft facility increased to 100 million after the year end of which 74.0 million 2010: 69.9 million was drawn at the year end.
The Company has additional long-term gearing provided by a 30 million 6.125% debenture with amortised cost at the year end of 29.8 million 2010: 29.8 million.
Due to the readily realisable nature of the Companys assets, cash flow does not have the same significance as for an industrial or commercial company.
The Companys principal cash flows arise from the purchase and sale of investments and the income from investments against which must be set off the costs of borrowing and management expenses.
During the year the Company received 445,777
