26 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued The Directors have declared any potential conflicts of interest to the Company.
Any potential conflicts of interest are entered into the Companys register of potential conflicts, which is reviewed regularly by the Board.
The register of potential conflicts of interest is kept at the Registered Office of the Company.
The Directors will advise the Company Secretary as soon as they become aware of any potential conflicts of interest.
Deed of Indemnity Under the terms of a Deed of Indemnity between the Directors and the Company, a Director may be indemnified out of the assets of the Company against all costs, charges, expenses, losses and liabilities which he may sustain or incur in or about the discharge of his duties or the exercise of his powers or discretions as a Director of the Company.
This includes any liability incurred by a Director in disputing, defending, investigating or providing evidence in connection with any actual or threatened or alleged claims, demands, investigations or proceedings whether civil or criminal, and any settlement thereof.
A Director may also receive funding of any expenditure incurred in connection with any such liability.
A Director will continue to be indemnified under the terms of the indemnity notwithstanding that he may have ceased to be a Director of the Company.
However, a Director will not be entitled to be indemnified for any liability to the Company, for fines payable to regulatory authorities, for defending any criminal proceedings in which he is convicted or in defending any civil proceedings bought by the Company in which judgment is given against him.
The indemnity does not apply to the extent that a liability is recoverable from any insurers, if it is prohibited by the Act or otherwise prohibited by law, if it relates to tax payable on remuneration or other benefits received, or if a liability arises from an act or omission of the Director which is shown to have been in bad faith.
The Deed of Indemnity is available for inspection at the AGM and at the Registered Office at any time.
Directors and Officers Liability Insurance The Company maintains a Directors and Officers liability insurance policy.
Creditor Payment Policy It is the Companys policy to obtain the best terms for all business including purchases of investments, and to abide by those agreed terms.
There were no trade creditors at 31 March 2011 2010: nil.
Going Concern The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
As previously explained, an ordinary resolution is proposed at this years AGM to release the Directors from their obligation to convene a meeting in 2011 at which a special resolution for the reconstruction of the Company would be proposed.
After making enquiries, the Directors have no reason to believe that such a resolution will not receive shareholder approval.
The Directors further consider this is the appropriate basis as they have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
In reaching this conclusion, the Directors took into account the Companys investment objective, its risk management policies see note 19 to the financial statements, the diversified portfolio of readily realisable securities which can be used to meet funding commitments, the overdraft which can be used for both long-term and short-term funding requirements, the liquidity of the investments which could be used to repay the overdraft in the event that the facility could not be renewed or replaced, and the ability of the Company to meet all of its liabilities, including the 30 million debenture, and ongoing expenses.
AGM Shareholders will find on pages 56 to 58 the notice of the forthcoming AGM of the Company to be held on 19 July 2011 at 11.30 am, an explanation of which can be found in the Chairmans Statement on page6.
