PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 31 Internal Financial and Non-Financial Controls The Directors acknowledge that they are responsible for ensuring that the Company maintains a sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders investment and the Companys assets.
The Board reviews, at least annually, the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance and risk management systems.
The Companys system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to adhere to the Companys Investment Policy, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board confirms that the necessary actions are taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified from their review.
There are no significant failings or weaknesses that have occurred throughout the year ended 31 March 2011 and up to the date of this annual financial report.
The Board meets regularly, at least four times a year, and reviews financial reports and performance against revenue forecasts, stock market indices and the Companys peer group.
In addition, the Manager and Custodian maintain their own systems of internal controls and the Board and Audit Committee receive regular reports from the Internal Audit and Compliance teams of the Manager.
Formal reports are also produced on the internal controls and procedures in place for custodial, company secretarial, investment management and accounting activities, and these are reviewed annually by the Board.
The Directors consider that the Companys procedures enable it to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
Internal Audit Function The Directors have reviewed the need for the Company to establish an internal audit function but, in view of the extent of the Managers executive responsibilities and, given that the Manager has an internal audit function, consider that such a function is not necessary for the Company.
Auditors Non-audit Services During the financial year ended 31 March 2011, the Companys Auditor, Deloitte LLP, provided non-audit services to the Company in relation to compliance with the covenants in the debenture trust deed, which amounted to 4,000 2010: 4,000 excluding VAT, and for advice relating to the suspended B Share issue of 4,000 excluding VAT.
The Directors do not consider that the provision of these services impaired the Auditors independence.
It is the Companys policy not to seek substantial non-audit services from its Auditor.
The scope for non-audit services is reviewed by the Audit Committee and approved prior to the Auditors engagement.
In particular, the Audit Committee considers whether the skills and experience of the Auditor make it a suitable supplier of the non-audit service and whether there are appropriate safeguards in place to ensure that there is no threat to objectivity and independence in the conduct of the audit resulting from the provision of such services by the Auditor.
Audit Engagement Partner Deloitte LLP, as the Companys Auditor is responsible for establishing policies and procedures to monitor the length of time that the Companys audit engagement partner serves as a member of the Companys audit engagement team.
Where the audit engagement partner has a long association with the Companys audit, Deloitte LLP will assess the threats to his her objectivity and independence and apply safeguards to reduce the threats to an acceptable level.
One of these safeguards relates to the rotation of the Companys audit engagement partner every five years.
Any audit engagement partner who has acted for the Company for a period of five years, will not subsequently participate in the Companys audit engagement until a further period of five years has elapsed.
Relations with Shareholders Shareholder relations are given high priority by both the Board and the Manager.
The prime medium by which the Company communicates with shareholders is through the annual and half-yearly financial reports, which aim to provide shareholders with a full understanding of the Companys activities and its results.
This information is supplemented by the publication of interim management statements, monthly factsheets and information on the daily calculation of the NAV of the Companys ordinary shares, which is published via the London Stock Exchange and the Managers website.
