THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in 56 any doubt as to what action to take, you should consult your stockbroker, solicitor, accountant or other appropriate independent professional adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your shares in Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc, please forward this document and the accompanying Form of Proxy to the person through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING NOTICE IS GIVEN that the Annual General Meeting AGM of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc will be held at The Lanesborough, Hyde Park Corner, London SW1X 7TA on 19 July 2011 at 11.30 am for the following purposes: Ordinary Business 1.
To receive and adopt the Annual Accounts and Reports for the year ended 31 March 2011.
To re-elect Bill Alexander a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Vivian Bazalgette a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Sir Martyn Arbib a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Antony Hardy a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Bob Yerbury a Director of the Company.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2011.
To re-appoint the Auditor and authorise the Directors to determine its remuneration.
Biographies of Directors seeking re-election are shown on page 12 of the annual financial report.
Special Business To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions of which resolutions 9, 13 and 14 will be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions and resolutions 10, 11 and 12 will be proposed as Special Resolutions: 9.
THAT: the Directors be generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 as amended from time to time prior to the date of the passing of this resolution the Act to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined in that section up to an aggregate nominal amount within the meaning of Sections 551 3 and 6 of the Act of 7,038,350, such authority to expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company or the date fifteen months after the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but so that this authority shall allow the Company to make offers or agreements before the expiry of this authority which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
THAT: the Directors be and they are hereby empowered, in accordance with Sections 570 and 573 of the Companies Act 2006 as amended from time to time prior to the date of the passing of this resolution the Act to allot equity securities for cash, either pursuant to the authority given by resolution 9 set out above or if such allotment constitutes the sale of relevant shares which, immediately before the sale, were held by the Company as treasury shares otherwise, as if Section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited: a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue in favour of all holders of a class of equity securities where the equity securities attributable respectively to the interests of all holders of securities of such class are either proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of relevant equity securities held by them or are otherwise allotted in accordance with the rights attaching to such equity securities subject in either case to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws of, or the requirements of, any regulatory body or any stock exchange in any territory or otherwise : and b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to a rights issue of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,111,505.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 57 and this power shall expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company or the date fifteen months after the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but so that this power shall allow the Company to make offers or agreements before the expiry as if the power conferred by this resolution had not expired: and so that words and expressions defined in or for the purposes of Part 17 of the Act shall bear the same meanings in this resolution.
THAT: the Company be generally and subject as hereinafter appears unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 4 of the Act of its issued ordinary shares of 10p each in the capital of the Company Shares PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT: i the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 31,651,461: ii the minimum price which may be paid for a Share shall be 10p: iii the maximum price which may be paid for a Share shall be an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for a Share taken from and calculated by reference to the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Share is purchased: iv any purchase of Shares will be made in the market for cash at prices below the prevailing net asset value per Share as determined by the Directors : v the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company or, if earlier, on the expiry of 15 months from the passing of this resolution unless the authority is renewed at any other general meeting prior to such time: and vi the Company may make a contract to purchase Shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of Shares pursuant to any such contract.
THAT: the period of notice required for general meetings of the Company other than AGMs shall be not less than 14 clear days notice.
Explanatory Note to Resolution 12 Notice of period for general meetings This resolution is required as the EU Shareholder Rights Directive requires that the notice period for general meetings of companies be 21 days unless certain conditions are met in which case it may be 14 days notice.
In particular, a shareholder resolution reducing the period of notice to not less than 14 days must have been passed at the immediately preceding AGM.
It is intended that this flexibility will be used only for non-routine business and where it is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
THAT: the following be approved and adopted as the Companys Investment Policy: Investment Policy Investment Objective The Companys investment objective is to provide shareholders with capital growth and real growth in dividends over the medium to longer term from a portfolio of securities listed mainly in the UK equity and fixed interest markets.
Investment Policy and Risk The Company invests mainly in UK equities and equity-related securities of UK-listed companies.
The manager seeks to identify and invest in companies that offer a combination of good capital growth prospects with the ability to increase dividends over time.
The Manager may also invest up to 10% of gross assets in fixed income securities and up to 20% of gross assets in non-UK listed securities.
58 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING continued The Manager manages a portfolio that reflects his convictions and best ideas.
The Manager does not set out to manage the risk characteristics of the portfolio relative to the FTSE All-Share Index benchmark index and the investment process may result in potentially very significant over or underweight positions in individual sectors versus the benchmark index.
The size of weightings will reflect the Managers view of the attractiveness of a security and the degree of conviction.
If a security is not considered to be a good investment, then the Company will not own it, irrespective of its weight in the benchmark index.
The Manager controls the stock-specific risk of individual securities by ensuring that the portfolio is always appropriately diversified.
In-depth and continual analysis of the fundamentals of investee companies allows the Manager to assess the financial risks associated with any particular security.
The Directors believe that the use of borrowings gearing can enhance returns to shareholders and the Company will use borrowings in pursuing its investment objective.
Investment Limits The Board has prescribed limits on the Investment Policy, the most significant of which are the following: the Company will not invest more than 12% of its gross assets in any single investment: the Company will not invest more than 15% of its gross assets in other listed investment companies: the Company will not invest more than 20% of its gross assets in non-UK listed securities: the Company will not invest more than 10% of its gross assets in fixed interest securities: and gearing may be used to raise equity exposure up to a maximum of 25% of net assets at the time of purchase where it is appropriate.
All of the above investment limits are taken at the time of acquisition.
THAT: in accordance with Article 158 of the Articles of Association of the Company, the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby released from their obligation pursuant to such Article to convene an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company to be held before 19 November 2011 at which a special resolution for the reconstruction of the Company be proposed.
Such a reconstruction would offer shareholders to elect either to continue their investment in a closed-ended company or receive a cash alternative.
Dated this 10 June 2011 By order of the Board Invesco Asset Management Limited Company Secretary PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 59 Notes: 1.
A form of appointment of proxy accompanies this annual financial report.
A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the AGM is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and vote in his stead.
Where more than one proxy is appointed, each proxy must be appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
In order to be valid an appointment of proxy must be returned by one of the following methods: via Capita Registrars website www.
com: or in hard copy form by post, by courier or by hand to the Companys Registrars, Capita Registrars, PXS, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU: or in the case of CREST members, by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service in accordance with the procedures set out below.
and in each case to be received by the Company not less than 48 hours before the time of the AGM.
The appointment of a proxy whether by completion of a form of appointment of proxy, or other instrument appointing a proxy or any CREST proxy instruction does not prevent a shareholder from attending and voting at the AGM.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by utilising the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it relates to the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy, must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in this document.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s, such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
A person entered on the Register of Shareholders at close of business on 17 July 2011 is entitled to attend and vote at the AGM pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Any changes to the Register of Shareholders after such time and date shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and or vote at the AGM.
If the AGM is adjourned, entitlement to attend and vote at the adjourned meeting, and the number of votes which may be cast thereat, will be determined by reference to the Companys Register of Shareholders 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting.
The Register of Directors Interests, the schedule of matters for the Board, the terms of reference of the Board committees and the letters of appointment for Directors will be available for inspection for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the Companys AGM.
A copy of the Companys Articles of Association is available for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company during normal business hours until the close of the AGM and will also be available at the AGM for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
Any person to whom this Notice is sent who is a person nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may have a right, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may have a right, under such an agreement, to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the above rights of the shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies does not apply to Nominated Persons.
Those rights can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
60 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING continued 7.
Any corporation which is a shareholder can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a shareholder provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
Any shareholder attending the AGM has the right to ask questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the AGM but no such answer need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the AGM or involve the disclosure of confidential information, b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the AGM that the question be answered.
You may not use any electronic address any address or number for the purposes of sending or receiving documents or information by electronic means provided in this Notice or in any related documents including the proxy form to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
As at 10 June 2011 being the last practicable day prior to the publication of this Notice the Companys issued share capital consists of 211,150,504 ordinary shares of 10p each carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at that date are 211,150,504.
A copy of this notice contained within the 2011 annual financial report, and other information required by Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found at www.
Shareholders should note that it is possible that, pursuant to requests made by shareholders of the Company under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, the Company may be required to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys annual accounts and reports including the Auditors Report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM for the financial year beginning on 1 April 2010: or ii any circumstance connected with the Auditor of the Company appointed for the financial year beginning on 1 April 2010 ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual financial reports were laid in accordance with Section 437 of the Act in each case that the shareholders propose to raise at the relevant AGM.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with Sections 527 or 528 of the Act.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under Section 527 of the Act, it must forward the statement to the Companys Auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been required under Section 527 of the Act to publish on a website.
