64 SPECIALIST FUNDS MANAGED BY INVESCO PERPETUAL Investing for Income, Income Growth and Capital Growth from equities, fixed interest securities or property City Merchants High Yield Trust plc Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Managed Liquidity Share Portfolio Aims to generate a high level of income from a variety of fixed income instruments combined with a degree of security.
The Company is Aims to generate a high level of income from a variety of fixed income geared by bank debt.
instruments combined with a high degree of security.
The Companys investment objective is to seek to obtain both high Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc UK Equity Share Portfolio income and capital growth from investment predominantly in Portfolio aims to generate long-term capital and income growth with high-yielding fixed-interest securities.
real growth in dividends from investment, primarily in the UK equity market.
The portfolio is geared by bank debt.
The Company seeks to provide a high level of dividend income relative to prevailing interest rates through investment in fixed-interest Invesco Property Income Trust Limited securities, various equity-like securities within fixed-income markets and The Company is a closed-ended investment company with limited equity-linked securities such as convertible bonds and in direct equities liability incorporated in Jersey.
The objective is to provide ordinary that have a high income yield.
It seeks also to enhance total returns shareholders with an attractive level of income together with the through capital appreciation generated by investments which have prospect of income and capital growth from investing in commercial equity-related characteristics.
properties in the UK and Continental Europe.
The Company is geared Invesco Income Growth Trust plc by bank debt.
Aims to provide shareholders with a long-term growth in capital and Keystone Investment Trust plc real, long-term growth in dividends from an above-average yielding Aims to provide shareholders with long-term growth of capital mainly portfolio comprising mainly UK equities and equity-related securities.
The Company is geared by way of debenture Seeks to achieve a total return in excess of the FTSE All-Share Index.
The Company is geared by bank debt.
Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc Invesco Leveraged High Yield Fund Limited Aims to generate capital growth with a higher than average income A Jersey-incorporated closed-ended Company that aims to provide from investment, primarily in the UK equity market.
It is intended that a high level of income, paid gross to UK investors, whilst seeking the Company will provide shareholders with real dividend growth over to maximise total return through investing, primarily in a diversified the medium-term by investing mainly in above-average yielding portfolio of high-yielding corporate and government bonds.
However, investments are also made in companies with lower Company seeks to balance the attraction of high-yield securities with initial yields which are considered to have good potential for income the need for protection of capital and to manage volatility.
The Company is geared by a debenture stock and bank debt.
The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Invesco Perpetual Recovery Trust 2011 plc Invests in UK securities with long term objective of achieving: A split-capital investment trust company with ordinary income shares, 1. an increase in the Net Asset Value per share by more than the zero dividend preference shares and units a combination of the two.
growth in the FTSE All-Share Index: and Aims to meet the capital entitlements of the zero dividend preference shares and to maximise the capital and income returns of the ordinary 2. growth in dividends per share by more than the rate of UK income shares by investing primarily in equities but also debt securities inflation.
which are considered to offer recovery prospects.
Returns to ordinary The portfolio is geared by way of two debenture stocks.
income shareholders are geared by the prior charge of the ZDP shares.
The Company has an initial life projected to end in 2011.
Investing in Smaller Companies Invesco Perpetual UK Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc Aims to achieve long-term total return for its shareholders via an investment vehicle which gives access to a broad cross-section of small to medium size UK-quoted companies.
The Company may gear by bank debt.
Investing Internationally Invesco Asia Trust plc Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Global Equity Share Portfolio Aims to provide long-term capital growth by investing in a diversified Aims to produce long-term capital growth from a sensibly diversified portfolio of Asian and Australasian securities.
The Company aims to portfolio of international equities including the UK.
The portfolio achieve growth in its net asset value in excess of the Morgan Stanley comprises the best ideas of a number of Invesco Perpetuals Capital International All Country Asia Pacific ex Japan Index, investment managers.
Investing for Absolute Returns Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Hedge Fund Share Portfolio Aims to achieve an absolute return of 3-month sterling LIBOR plus 6% per annum over a rolling 5-year period, coupled with low volatility.
Investing in Multiple Asset Classes Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc A choice of asset classes within one investment trust with the freedom to switch between them, twice a year, free from capital gains tax UK Equity Share Portfolio liability.
Global Equity Share Portfolio Managed Liquidity Share Portfolio Hedge Fund Share Portfolio Please contact our Investor Services Team on 0800 085 8677 if you would like more information about the investment trusts or other specialist funds listed above.
Further details are also available on the following website: www.
