30 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Company Secretary The Board has direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, Invesco Asset Management Limited, which is responsible for ensuring that the Board and Committee procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for advising the Board through the Chairman on all governance matters.
The appointment and ongoing assessment and review of the Company Secretary are matters for the Board as a whole.
The Company Secretary makes a significant contribution to the efficiency and effectiveness of the Board, and the smooth running of the Company.
To fulfil the role, the Company Secretary keeps up-todate with relevant legal, statutory and regulatory requirements and is also able to provide impartial advice and support to the Directors.
The Company Secretary also acts as a primary point of contact for institutional and other shareholders, especially with regard to matters of corporate governance.
The Management Engagement Committee The Management Engagement Committee comprises Antony Hardy, Bill Alexander and Vivian Bazalgette, all of whom are independent Directors.
The Chairman of the Management Engagement Committee is Bill Alexander.
The Management Engagement Committee has written terms of reference which clearly define its responsibilities and duties.
The terms of reference are reviewed as and when appropriate to ensure compliance with the latest regulatory requirements, best practice and the AIC Code.
They will be available for inspection at the AGM, the Registered Office of the Company and on the Managerss website.
The Management Engagement Committee meets annually to review the investment management agreement with the Companys Manager and to review the services provided by the Manager and Company Secretary.
A statement of IAMLs responsibilities as Manager, Administrator and Company Secretary of the Company and the assessment of the Manager and Company Secretary by the Management Engagement Committee can be found on pages 23 and 24.
Accountability and Audit The Directors responsibilities for the Companys accounting records and financial statements are set out on page 33.
The Independent Auditors Report appears on pages 36 and 37.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is composed of Antony Hardy, Bill Alexander and Vivian Bazalgette, all of whom are independent Directors.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee is Antony Hardy.
Audit Committee members consider that collectively they are appropriately experienced to fulfil the role required.
The Audit Committee has written terms of reference which are reviewed as and when appropriate and clearly define its responsibilities.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, including its role and authority, are available for inspection at the AGM, at the Registered Office of the Company and on the Managers website.
The Audit Committee meets at least twice each year to review the internal financial and non-financial controls, to approve the contents of the draft annual and half-yearly financial reports and to review the Companys accounting policies.
In addition, the Audit Committee reviews the Auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness, the quality of the services of all the service providers to the Company and, together with the Manager, reviews the Companys compliance with financial reporting and regulatory requirements.
The Audit Committee considers the likelihood of a withdrawal of the Auditor from the market and noted that there are no contractual obligations to restrict the choice of external auditor.
At each meeting, representatives of the Managers Internal Audit and Compliance teams are present.
Representatives of Deloitte LLP, the Companys Auditor, attend the Audit Committee meeting at which the draft annual financial report is reviewed.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be present at the AGM to deal with questions relating to this annual financial report.
The Audit Committee reviewed its effectiveness during the year.
The review was carried out internally as part of the Board Committee and Directors performance appraisal process a report on which can be found on page29.
