32 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued A presentation is made by the Manager following the main business of the AGM each year.
Shareholders have the opportunity to communicate directly with the Board, Chairman of the Company and the Chairmen of the Committees of the Board at the AGM.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM.
It is the intention of the Board that the annual financial report and the notice of the AGM be issued to shareholders so as to provide twenty working days notice of the AGM.
Shareholders wishing to lodge questions in advance of the AGM are invited to do so, either on the reverse of the proxy card, via the Managers website or in writing to the Company Secretary at the address given on page 13.
At other times the Company responds to queries from shareholders on a range of issues.
There is a regular dialogue with individual major shareholders to discuss aspects of investment performance, governance and strategy and to listen to shareholder views in order to develop a balanced understanding of their issues and concerns.
General presentations to both institutional shareholders and analysts follow the publication of the annual financial results.
All meetings between the Manager and institutional shareholders are reported to the Board.
Shareholders can visit the Managers website in order to contact the Directors, Manager and Company Secretary, access copies of annual and half-yearly financial reports, interim management statements, shareholder circulars, Company factsheets, Stock Exchange announcements, schedule of matters reserved for the Board, terms of reference of Board Committees, Directors letters of appointment, the Companys share price and any proxy voting results.
Stewardship The Board has delegated the Companys stewardship to the Manager.
The Manager, Invesco Asset Management Limited, has adopted a clear and considered policy towards its responsibility as a shareholder on behalf of the Company.
As part of this policy, the Manager takes steps to satisfy itself about the extent to which the companies in which it invests look after shareholders value and comply with local recommendations and practices, such as the UK Corporate Governance Code.
A copy of the Managers Policy on Corporate Governance and stewardship can be found at www.
The Manager has a responsibility to optimise returns to shareholders of the Company.
As a core part of the investment process, the Manager endeavours to establish a dialogue with management to promote company decision making that is in the best interests of shareholders, and is in accordance with good corporate governance principles.
The Manager believes that, being a major shareholder in a company is more than simply expecting to benefit in its future earnings streams, but is also about helping to provide the capital it needs to grow: being actively involved in its strategy: and helping to ensure that shareholder interests are always at the forefront of managements thoughts.
The Manager considers that shareholder activism is fundamental to good corporate governance.
Although this does not entail intervening in daily management decisions, it does involve supporting general standards for corporate activity and, where necessary, taking the initiative to ensure those standards are met, with a view to protecting and enhancing value for the Companys shareholders.
Engagement is proportionate and reflects the size of holdings, length of holding period and liquidity of the underlying company shares.
One important means of putting shareholder responsibility into practice is via the exercising of voting rights.
In deciding whether to vote shares, the Manager will take into account such factors as the likely impact of voting on management activity, and where expressed, the preference of the Board of the Company.
As a result of these two factors, the Manager will tend to vote on all shares held within the Companys portfolio.
Voting rights will be exercised on an informed and independent basis, and will not simply be passed back to the company concerned for discretionary voting by the chairman.
By order of the Board Invesco Asset Management Limited Company Secretary 30 Finsbury Square London EC2A 1AG 10 June 2011
