PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 29 Directors Remuneration The Board as a whole reviews Directors remuneration on a regular basis.
Details of the Companys policy on Directors remuneration and of payments to Directors are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 34 and 35.
Board, Committee and Directors Performance Appraisal The Company has in place a system of performance evaluation which is undertaken by the Board annually.
Since the year end, the Directors have undergone an appraisal process to evaluate the performance of the Board as a whole, of the respective Committees of the Board and of individual Directors.
The results of the appraisal process were satisfactory and the Board confirms that the performance of the Directors continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role and responsibilities.
Board Responsibilities The Directors have a duty to promote the success of the Company taking into consideration the likely consequences of any decision in the long-term: the need to foster the Companys business relationships with its Manager and advisers: the impact of the Companys operations on the community and the environment: the desirability of the Company maintaining a reputation for high standards of business conduct: and the need to act fairly as between stakeholders of the Company.
In order to promote the success of the Company, the Board directs and supervises its affairs within a framework of effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
A formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board has been established.
The schedule of matters is reviewed annually to ensure compliance with the latest regulatory requirements, best practice and the AIC Code.
It is available at the AGM, at the Registered Office of the Company and on the Managers website.
The main responsibilities of the Board include: setting policies and standards: ensuring that the Companys obligations to shareholders and others are understood and complied with: approving accounting and dividend policies: managing the capital structure: setting long-term objectives and strategy: assessing risk: reviewing investment performance: approving loans and borrowing: approving recommendations presented by the Companys respective Board Committees: controlling risks: and the ongoing assessment of the Manager.
The Board also seeks to ensure that shareholders are provided with sufficient information in order to understand the risk reward balance to which they are exposed by holding their shares, through the portfolio details given in the annual and half-yearly financial reports, interim management statements, fact sheets and daily NAV disclosures.
The Board as a whole undertakes periodically the responsibilities which would otherwise be assumed by remuneration and nomination committees, having agreed that separate remuneration and nomination committees are not appropriate for a company of this size and nature.
There is currently an agreed procedure for Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take legal advice at the Companys expense up to an initial cost of 5,000, having first consulted with the Chairman.
Supply of Information To enable the Directors to fulfil their roles, the Manager and Company Secretary ensure that they have timely access to all relevant management, financial and regulatory information to enable informed decisions to be made.
The Board meets on a regular basis at least four times each year and additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Regular contact is maintained between the Manager and Company Secretary and the Board between formal meetings.
Board meetings follow a formal agenda, which includes a review of the investment portfolio with a report from the Manager or Company Secretary on the current investment position and outlook: strategic direction, performance against stock market indices and the Companys peer group, asset allocation, gearing policy, cash management, revenue forecasts for the financial year, marketing and shareholder relations, corporate governance: and industry and other issues.
On being appointed to the Board, Directors are fully briefed as to their responsibilities and are continually updated throughout their term in office on industry and regulatory matters.
The Manager and the Board have formulated a programme of induction training for newly appointed Directors.
They have also put arrangements in place to address ongoing training requirements of Directors which include briefings from key members of the Managers staff and which ensure that Directors can keep up to date with new legislation and changing risks.
