Financial Statements notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 65 p Segmental Reporting Under IFRS 8, Operating Segments, operating segments are considered to be the components of an entity about which separate financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance.
The chief operating decision maker has been identified as the Manager with oversight from the board.
The Directors are of the opinion that the Group has two business segments, being the parent Company, Polar Capital Technology Trust plc, which has the objective of maximising capital growth for its shareholders through investing in a diversified portfolio of technology companies around the world, and its wholly owned subsidiary, PCT Finance Limited, which trades in securities to enhance Group returns.
An analysis of Financial results and balances by business segment is set out in note 30.
The amounts presented for each segment are based on the accounting policies adopted in the Group accounts.
Discrete financial information for these segments is reviewed regularly by the Manager who allocate resources, and the Board who overseas the Managers performance.
In line with IFRS 8, additional disclosure by geographical segment has been provided in note 30.
Further analyses of expenses, investment gains or losses, profit and other assets and liabilities by country have not been given by country have not been given as either it is not possible to prepare such information in a meaningful way or the results are not considered to be significant.
q Key Estimates and Assumptions Estimates and assumptions used in preparing the financial statements are reviewed on an ongoing basis and are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The results of these estimates and assumptions form the basis of making judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The only estimates and assumptions that may cause material adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities relate to the valuation of unquoted investments and investments for which there is an inactive market.
These are valued in accordance with the techniques set out in note 1 g. At the year end, unquoted investments represent 0.2% of net assets.
r Accounting Standards a Standards, amendments and interpretations becoming effective in the year to 30 April 2011: IFRS 1 Amendment, First Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards simplified the structure of IFRS 1 without making any technical changes.
No impact on the Groups Financial Statements.
IFRS 3 Revised, Business Combinations harmonised business combination accounting with US GAAP.
Not currently relevant to the Group and therefore has no impact on the Financial Statements.
IFRS 5 Amendment, Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations as part of Improvements to IFRSs issued in 2009.
IAS 27 Revised, Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements introduced changes to the accounting for transactions with non-controlling interests in consolidated financial statements.
Adoption did not have any impact on the Groups Financial Statements.
IAS 32 Amendment, Financial Instruments: Presentation amendments relating to classification of rights issues.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2011 FinAnCiAL STATeMenTS 66 Financial Statements notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued For the year ended 30 April 2011 2.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued IAS 39 Amendment, Eligible Hedged Items.
The amendment prohibits designating inflation as a hedgeable component of a fixed debt, and in a hedge of a one-sided risk with options, prohibits including time value in the hedged risk.
Not currently relevant to the Group therefore no impact on the Financial Statements.
IFRIC 15, Agreements for Construction of Real Estate.
Not relevant to the Group.
IFRIC 16, Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation.
Provides clarification to net investment hedging issues.
IFRIC 17, Distributions of Non Cash Assets to Owners clarifies how an entity should measure distributions of assets other than cash made as a dividend to its owners.
IFRIC 18 Transfer of Assets from Customers.
Improvements to IFRS issued in 2009 comprised numerous other minor amendments to IFRS, resulting in accounting changes for presentation, recognition or measurement purposes as well as terminology or editorial amendments.
These amendments had no impact on the Groups Financial Statements.
b Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards becoming effective in future accounting periods and have not been adopted early by the Group or Company: IFRS 9, Financial Instruments effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
Simplifies accounting for financial assets, replacing the current multiple measurement categories with a single principle-based approach to classification.
All financial assets to be measured at either amortised cost or fair value.
The Group will apply IFRS 9 to all business combinations from 1 May 2013, subject to endorsement by the EU.
IAS 24 revised, Related Party Disclosures effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011, subject to EU endorsement.
Revises definition of related parties.
Unlikely to have a significant effect.
c The following standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards becoming effective in future accounting periods, but are not relevant for the Groups operations: IFRS 1 amendment, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRIC 19, Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments IFRIC 14 Amendment, IAS 19 - The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2011
