82 Financial Statements notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued For the year ended 30 April 2011 31 DERIVATIVES AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Risk management policies and procedures The Group comprises of an investment trust and a wholly owned subsidiary.
The Group invests in equities and other financial instruments for the long term to further the investment objective set out on page 33.
This exposes the Group to a range of financial risks that could impact on the assets or performance of the Group.
The main risks arising from the Groups pursuit of its investment objective are market risk, liquidity risk and credit risk and the Directors approach to the management of them is set out below.
The risks have remained unchanged since the beginning of the year to which the accounts relate.
The Groups exposure to financial instruments comprise: Equity and non-equity shares and fixed interest securities which are held in the investment portfolio in accordance with the Groups investment objective.
Term loans and bank overdrafts, the main purpose of which is to raise finance for the Groups operations Cash, liquid resources and short-term receivables and payables that arise directly from the Groups operations Derivative transactions which the Group enters into may include equity or index options, index future contracts, and forward foreign exchange contracts.
The purpose of these is to manage the market price risks and foreign exchange risks arising from the Groups investment activities, or to enhance capital returns.
The overall management of the risks is determined by the Board and its approach to each risk identified is set out below.
The Board and the investment manager co-ordinate the risk management and the investment manager assesses the exposure to market risk when making each investment decision.
a Market Risk Market risk comprises three types of risk: market price risk see note 31 a i, currency risk see note 31 a ii, and interest rate risk see note 31 a iii.
i Market Price Risk The Company is an investment company and as such its performance is dependent on its valuation of its investments.
Consequently market price risk is the most significant risk that the Group faces.
Market price risk arises mainly from uncertainty about future prices of financial instruments used in the Groups operations.
It represents the potential loss the Group might suffer through holding market positions in the face of price movements.
A detailed breakdown of the investment portfolio is given on pages 24 to 29.
Investments are valued in accordance with the Groups accounting policies as stated in Note 2 g. At the the year end, the Companys portfolio included two derivative instruments, a Nokia Call option and Yahoo Call Option.
Both options will mature in September 2011 and are tradeable securities.
Management of the risk In order to manage this risk it is the Boards policy to hold an appropriate spread of investments in the portfolio in order to reduce both the statistical risk and the risk arising from factors specific to a particular technology sector.
The allocation of assets to international markets, together with stock selection covering small, medium and large companies, and the use of index options, are other factors which act to reduce price risk.
The investment manager actively monitors market prices throughout the year and reports to the Board, which meets regularly in order to consider investment strategy.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2011
