Financial Statements notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 63 Investment trusts which have approval as such under section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 are not liable for taxation on capital gains.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
g Investments Held at Fair Value Through Profit or loss When a purchase or sale is made under contract, the terms of which require delivery within the timeframe of the relevant market, the investments concerned are recognised or derecognised on the trade date and are initially measured at fair value.
On initial recognition the Group has designated all of its investments as held at fair value through profit or loss as defined by IFRS.
All investments are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value, which is either the bid price or the last traded price, depending on the convention of the exchange on which the investment is quoted.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated in the Companys accounts at fair value.
Investments in unit trusts or OEICs are valued at the closing price, the bid price or the single price as appropriate, released by the relevant investment manager.
Fair values for unquoted investments, or for investments for which there is only an inactive market, are established by using various valuation techniques.
These may include recent arms length market transactions, the current fair value of another instrument that is substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis and option pricing models.
Where there is a valuation technique commonly used by market participants to price the instrument and that technique has been demonstrated to provide reliable estimates of prices obtained in actual market transactions, that technique is utilised.
Where no reliable fair value can be estimated for such instruments, they are carried at cost, subject to any provision for impairment.
Changes in fair value of all investments held at fair value and realised gains and losses on disposal are recognised in the capital return column of the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
h Other Receivables Other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Other receivables do not carry any interest and are short-term in nature and are accordingly stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
i Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash comprises cash on hand and demand deposits.
Cash equivalents are short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash.
j Other Payables Other payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Other payables are not interest-bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
k Bank Loans All bank loans are initially recognised at cost, being the fair value of the consideration received, less issue costs where applicable.
After initial recognition these loans are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on settlement.
The amounts falling due for repayment within one year are included under current liabilities in the Balance Sheet.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2011 FinAnCiAL STATeMenTS
