96 Shareholder information Subscription shares Shareholder information S SU UBS BSC CR RI IP PTI TION ON S SH HA AR RE ES S Polar Capital Technology Trust plc issued, as a bonus Exercise of subscription rights issue, free of cost, subscription shares on 11 February 2011 Each Subscription Share gives the holder the right, but to its qualifying shareholders.
The subscription shares not the obligation, to subscribe for an ordinary share on were admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange the last business day of each calendar month during the on 14February 2011. exercise period from the last business day of March 2011 to the last business day of March 2014 both dates inclusive.
Subscription shares offer the right to subscribe for ordinary shares of the Company at pre-determined dates After the last business day of March 2014, the right to at pre-determined prices and can be bought and sold convert subscription shares will lapse.
Within seven independently of the ordinary shares on the London days following the last Business Day of March 2014 the Stock Exchange.
The subscription prices are Company will appoint a trustee who provided that in its opinion the net proceeds of sale will exceed the costs of if exercised on any day between and including the last exercising the subscription rights, will either: Business Day in March 2011 and the last Business Day in March 2012, 401p per Ordinary share: and i e xercise all the subscription rights which have not been exercised on the terms prevailing on the final if exercised on any day between and including subscription date and sell the resulting ordinary 1April2012 and the last Business Day in March 2014, shares in the market: or 478p per Ordinary share.
ii if it appears to the trustee that doing so is likely The subscription prices were set by reference to the to realise greater net proceeds for subscription unaudited Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share as at shareholders accept any offer available to close of business on 9 February 2011 of 381.87p, plus a subscription shareholders for the purchase of the 5% premium in the first 12 months and a 25% premium outstanding subscription shares.
for the remainder of their life, rounded up to the nearest whole penny.
The trustee will then distribute the net proceeds pro rata to the subscription shareholders, provided that The subscription shares were issued to qualifying entitlements of under 5.00 will be retained for the shareholders whose names were on the share register as benefit of the Company.
If the trustee shall not exercise at the close of business on the 10 February 2011 on the the subscription rights within 14 days following the final terms and conditions set out in Part IV of the Prospectus subscription date all subscription rights shall lapse.
which was published by the Company on 18 January 2011.
Given restrictions on the issuance of shares applying to The new ordinary shares arising from the exercise of certain jurisdictions, shareholders who are not resident subscription rights will be allotted within ten business in the EEA, Isle of Man or the Channel Isles overseas days of the first business day of the following month.
shareholders did not receive the subscription shares.
If immediately after any subscription date subscription However, the Company allotted any subscription rights have been exercised or cancelled in respect of 75 shares due to them to a market maker who sold these per cent.
or more of the subscription shares originally subscription shares at 28p each and the proceeds of the issued subject to the adjustments in accordance with the sale were then paid to the overseas shareholders entitled Companys Articles, the Company may give notice in writing to them save that entitlements of less than 5.00 per to all outstanding subscription shareholders that a final overseas shareholder were retained by the Company.
subscription date will take place earlier than March 2014.
Fractions of subscription shares were not issued or allotted and entitlements were rounded down to the nearest whole number of subscription shares.
Subscription shares are qualifying investments for the stocks and shares component of an ISA, and are eligible for inclusion in a UK SIPP.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2011 Shareholder information Subscription shares 97 Subscription share conversion certificated form Tax implications Holders wishing to convert their subscription shares, For the purposes of UK capital gains tax and corporation in whole or in part, who hold their shares in the form tax on chargeable gains, the issue of Subscription of a subscription share certificate, should refer to the Shares pursuant to the Bonus Issue should be treated instructions on the reverse of their certificate.
The as a reorganisation of the Companys share capital.
subscription shareholder must lodge a completed For qualifying shareholders subject to UK taxation, subscription notice on the reverse of the certificate at subscription shares will be treated on receipt as the office of the registrars for the Company Equiniti by part of a single asset comprised of the subscription not later than 5.00 p. m. on the last business day of the shares and that shareholders existing ordinary share relevant month, accompanied by a remittance for the holding.
The tax base cost of that single asset will be subscription price for the ordinary shares.
the consideration given for the existing holding of Ordinary Shares.
While qualifying shareholders should Subscription share conversion through CREST not be treated as making a disposal of all or part of their Holders wishing to convert their subscription shares, in existing holdings of ordinary shares by reason of the whole or in part, who hold their shares through CREST, bonus Issue, for the purpose of calculating chargeable should submit an Uncertificated Subscription Notice gains or allocating losses on future disposals of to be received by no later than 5.00 p. m. on the last subscription shares and or ordinary shares, qualifying business day of the relevant month and a remittance for shareholders must apportion the base costs of the the aggregate subscription price for the ordinary shares deemed single assets between their existing Ordinary in respect of which the subscription rights are being Shares and any Subscription Shares received.
The following participant and member account IDs should be used when processing their applications: The base cost for UK tax purposes of the subscription shares acquired pursuant to the bonus Issue will be a CREST Participant ID 6RA67 proportion of the original base cost of your ordinary CREST Member Account ID RA172707 shares.
The apportionment is made by reference to the respective market values of the ordinary shares Subscription share conversion through BNP Paribas and subscription shares at the close of business on Savings Scheme and ISA 14February 2011, the day the Subscription Shares were Holders wishing to convert their subscription shares, admitted to trading.
The middle market prices of the in whole or in part, who hold their shares in the BNP Companys Ordinary Shares and Subscription Shares Paribas Savings Scheme and ISA should complete the were as follows: subscription notice sent to them on notification of their allocation of subscription shares in February 2011.
If a ordinary shares 390.0p replacement subscription notice is required this can be subscription shares 33.5p obtained from BNP Paribas or downloaded from the Companys website.
The subscription shareholder must Accordingly an individual investor who on 10 February lodge a completed notice with BNP Paribas at least 2011 held five ordinary shares or a multiple thereof seven business days before the last business day of the would have re-ceived one subscription share or the month in which they wish the conversion to take place relevant multiple thereof pursuant to the bonus issue accompanied by a remittance for the subscription price and would apportion the base cost of such holding for the ordinary shares.
98.31% to the five ordinary shares and 1.69% to the subscription shares.
If you exercise the subscription rights attaching to your subscription shares on any subscription date, the resulting ordinary shares will be treated for UK tax purposes as the same asset as the subscription shares in respect of which the subscription rights are exercised.
The base cost for UK tax purposes of the resulting ordinary shares will be the base cost attributed to the exercised subscription shares, increased by the amount of subscription monies paid.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2011 ShARehoLDeR inFoRMATion 98 Shareholder information Subscription shares SUBSCRIPTION SHARES continued ISAs Investments held in ISAs are free of UK tax on income and gains.
Receipt of subscription shares and any subsequent disposal of subscription shares held in an ISA at a gain should not be a chargeable event for UK capital gains tax purposes.
As an ISA holder, you may subscribe for ordinary shares pursuant to your subscription rights on any subscription date.
However, any new monies paid into your ISA to convert your subscription shares will contribute towards your annual ISA limit in the year in which you exercise your subscription rights and must not exceed the ISA allowance for that tax year.
Any subscription shares you convert to ordinary shares cannot be added retrospectively to previous ISAs.
They must be added to the current tax years ISA allowance.
The information provided on Tax is a summary only of certain UK tax matters relevant to the Bonus issue.
if you need tax advice you should contact a qualified tax professional.
investors who are resident or otherwise subject to taxation outside the UK should, in particular, consult a professional adviser on the tax implications of the Bonus issue.
Please note this is a summary of some of the information contained in the Prospectus issued by the Company on 18January 2011 the Prospectus in connection with the bonus issue of the Subscription Shares the Bonus issue and should be read as such.
Full details of the subscription shares, their issue and conversion are set out in the Prospectus and reference should be made to that document for a complete and full understanding of the matters terms of the subscription shares.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2011
