64 Financial Statements notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued For the year ended 30 April 2011 2.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued l Rates of Exchange Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rate of exchange ruling on the date of each transaction.
Monetary assets, monetary liabilities and equity investments in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling on that date.
Realised profits or losses on exchange, together with differences arising on the translation of foreign currency assets or liabilities, are taken to the capital return column of the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Foreign exchange gains and losses arising on investments held at fair value are included within changes in fair value.
m Share Capital Represents the nominal value of authorised and allotted, called up and fully paid shares issued.
n Capital Reserves Capital reserves gains losses on disposal includes: gains losses on disposal of investments exchange differences on currency balances and on settlement of loan balances cost of own shares bought back other capital charges and credits charged to this account in accordance with the accounting policies above Capital reserve - revaluation on investments held includes: increases and decreases in the valuation of investments and loans held at the year end.
All of the above are accounted for in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income except the cost of own shares bought back which is accounted for in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
o Derivative Financial Instruments The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in market prices, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
Derivative transactions which the Group may enter into comprise forward exchange contracts, the purpose of which is to manage the currency risks arising from the Groups investing activities, quoted options on shares, or on indices appropriate to sections of the portfolio, the purpose of which is to provide protection against falls in capital values of the holdings or to enhance capital and hedging risk.
The Group does not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies as approved by the Board, which has set written principles for the use of financial derivatives.
A derivative instrument is considered to be used for hedging purposes when it alters the market risk profile of an existing underlying exposure of the Group.
The use of financial derivatives by the Group does not qualify for hedge accounting under IFRS.
As a result changes in the fair value of derivative instruments are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income as they arise.
If capital in nature, associated change in value is presented in the capital return column of the Consolidated Statement of Consolidated Income.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2011
