D Di ir re ec ct to or rs s R Re ep po or rt ts s B Bu us si ine fines ss s R Re ev vi ie ew w a an nd d t the he R Re ep po or rt t o on n C Co or rp po or ra ate te G Go ov five er rn na an nce ce 47 47 Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Mr Dicks, the Senior Independent Director.
Mr Moule and Mr Montagu were elected Committee members from April 2007.
The Committee meets at least annually and is responsible for recommending the framework for the remuneration of Directors.
The Committee reviews the ongoing appropriateness of the remuneration policy and the individual remuneration of Directors based on their contributions.
The fees paid to Directors are detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 52.
Directors professional development When a new Director is appointed he or she is offered an induction course provided by the Investment Manager.
Directors are also provided on a regular basis with key information on the Companys policies, regulatory and statutory obligations and internal controls.
Changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise.
Directors also regularly participate in professional and industry seminars.
Performance Evaluation The Board The evaluation of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors is normally carried out annually by the Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
The process involves the Chairman speaking to each Director and the Chairmans review being conducted by the Senior Independent Director.
These reviews are reported to the Nomination Committee.
In evaluating each Director they are assessed on their relevant experience, their strengths and weaknesses in relation to the overall requirements of the Board and their commitment to the Company in terms of time by regular attendance of Board meetings.
The process is constructed to assess the contribution of individual Directors to the overall operation of the Board and its Committees.
In 2009 the Board commissioned a third party to undertake an independent review of the effectiveness of the Board.
This process involved Directors completing a confidential questionnaire to elicit open and frank responses on areas that are critical to the proper functioning of the Board.
The results of the questionnaire were supplemented by telephone interviews held with each director.
The report and its conclusions were made available to the whole Board and discussed.
The Nomination Committee has overseen the performance evaluation process and the process a programme designed to replace gradually the longest serving Directors.
The Investment Manager The Board reviews the performance of the Investment Manager at each Board meeting and the Companys performance against the market and a peer group of investment companies and funds with similar investment objectives.
The investment team provided by the Investment Manager, led by Mr Rogoff, has long experience of investment in technology.
In addition, the Investment Manager has other investment resources which support the investment team and experience in managing and administering other investment trust companies.
The Management Engagement Committee regularly reviews the terms of the contract with the Investment Manager.
The Board also monitors through the Investment Manager the performance of its other service providers including the custodian and registrar.
Accountability and audit The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Accounts is set out on pages 53 and 54 and the Independent Auditors Report is on pages 55 and 56.
Internal controls The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Company has no employees as its operational functions are carried out by third parties and the Audit Committee does not consider it necessary for the Company to establish its own internal audit function.
Contracts with each of these parties were entered into after full and proper consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of the services offered, including the control systems in operation in so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2011 D Di iR Re eC CT To oR RS S R Re eP Po oR RT T 48 48 D Di ir re ec ct to or rs s R Re ep po or rt ts s B Bu us si ine fines ss s R Re ev vi ie ew w a an nd d t the he R Re ep po or rt t o on n C Co or rp po or ra ate te G Go ov five er rn na an nce ce DIRECTORS REPORT INCLUDING THE BUSINESS REVIEW AND THE REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued The Investment Manager is responsible for the day to day investment management decisions on behalf of the Group and for the provision of accounting and administrative services including company secretarial and accounting.
The Investment Manager has an internal control framework to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance on the effectiveness of the internal controls operated on behalf of its clients.
The Investment Manager is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority and its compliance department monitors compliance with the FSA rules.
The Board has established a process for identifying, evaluating and managing any major risks faced by the Company.
The process is documented through the use of a Risk Map which is subject to regular review by the Board and accords with the Turnbull guidance.
The controls are embedded within the business and aim to ensure that identified risks are managed and systems are in place to report on such risks.
The internal controls seek to ensure the assets of the Company are safeguarded, proper accounting records are maintained and the financial information used in the Group and for publication is reliable.
Controls covering the risks identified, including financial, operational, compliance and risk management are monitored by a series of regular reports covering investment performance, attribution analysis, reports from various third parties and from the Investment Manager including risks not directly the responsibility of the Investment Manager.
The process was active throughout the year and up to the date of approval of this annual report.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate risks of failure to achieve the Companys business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has received formal reports from the Investment Manager with details of any known internal control failures.
The Board considers reports on the Investment Managers internal controls and systems operated by other third party suppliers.
The Board also receives and considers ad hoc reports from the Investment Manager and information is supplied to the Board as required.
The Board also examined the risks and controls operated by the Investment Manager when placing investment trades with third parties.
The Investment Manager has delegated the provision of accounting, portfolio valuation and trade processing to HSBC Securities Services UK Limited but remains responsible to the Company for these functions and provided the Board with information on these services.
The Board, assisted by the Investment Manager, undertakes an annual review of the Companys system of internal control where the Risk Map is reviewed and control processes considered.
The Board will continue to monitor the system of internal controls in order to provide assurance that they operate as intended.
The Board, assisted by the Investment Manager, has conducted an annual review of the risk map and the effectiveness of the system of internal controls taking into account any issues, none of which were considered significant, which arose during the course of the year ended 30 April 2011 and up to the date of this report.
Relations with shareholders The Board and the Investment Manager consider maintaining good communications with shareholders and engaging with larger shareholders through meetings and presentations a key priority.
Shareholders are kept informed by the publication of annual and interim reports which include financial statements.
These reports are supplemented by interim management statements, the daily release of the net asset value per share to the London Stock Exchange and the publication by the Investment Manager of a monthly factsheet.
All this information together with the Investment Managers presentations is available from the Companys website at www.
The Board is also keen that the AGM be a participative event for all shareholders who attend.
The Investment Managers make a presentation and shareholders are encouraged to attend.
The Chairmen of the Board and of the Committees attend the AGM and are available to respond to queries and concerns from shareholders.
Twenty working days notice of the AGM has been given to shareholders and separate resolutions are proposed in relation to each substantive issue.
Where the vote is decided on a show of hands, the proxy votes received are relayed to the meeting and subsequently published on the Companys website.
Proxy forms have a vote withheld option.
The Notice of Meeting sets out the business of the AGM together with the full text of any special resolutions.
Shareholders may submit questions for the AGM in advance of the meeting or make general enquiries of the Company via the company secretary at the registered office of the Company.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2011
