Shareholder information Warning to Shareholders 99 WARNINGS TO SHAREHOLDERS Share Prices Forward Looking Statements Investors should be aware that the value of the Companys Certain statements included in this Annual Report shares may reflect the greater relative volatility of and Accounts contain forward-looking information technology shares.
Technology shares are subject to the concerning the Companys strategy, operations, financial risks of developing technologies, competitive pressures performance or condition, outlook, growth opportunities and other factors including the acceptance by business or circumstances in the countries, sectors or markets in and consumers of new technologies.
Many companies which the Company operates.
By their nature, forwardin the technology sector are smaller companies and are looking statements involve uncertainty because they therefore also subject to the risks attendant on investing depend on future circumstances, and relate to events, in smaller capitalisation businesses.
not all of which are within the Companys control or can Boiler Room Scams be predicted by the Company.
Although the Company Over the last year, many companies have become aware believes that the expectations reflected in such forwardthat their shareholders have received unsolicited phone looking statements are reasonable, no assurance can calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
be given that such expectations will prove to have been These are typically from overseas based brokers who correct.
Actual results could differ materially from those target UK shareholders, offering to sell them what often set out in the forward-looking statements.
For a detailed turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK analysis of the factors that may affect our business, investments.
These operations are commonly known as financial performance or results of operations, we urge boiler rooms.
These brokers can be very persistent and you to look at the principal risks and uncertainties extremely persuasive, and a 2006 survey by the Financial included in the Business Review on pages 32 to 37 of this Services Authority FSA has reported that the average Annual Report and Accounts.
No part of these results amount lost by investors is around 20,000. constitutes, or shall be taken to constitute, an invitation or inducement to invest in Polar Capital Technology Trust It is not just the novice investor that has been duped plc or any other entity, and must not be relied upon in in this way: many of the victims had been successfully any way in connection with any investment decision.
Shareholders are advised The Company undertakes no obligation to update any to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy forward-looking statements.
shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved by visiting www.
uk register Report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0845 606 1234 or visiting www.
uk If the calls persist, hang up If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The FSA can be contacted by completing an online form at www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts overseas.
Details of any share dealing facilities that the company endorses will be included in company mailings.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the FSA website www.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2011 ShARehoLDeR inFoRMATion
