90 Financial Statements notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued For the year ended 30 April 2011 31 DERIVATIVES AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued d Gearing risk The Groups Companys policy is to increase its exposure to equity markets through the judicious use of borrowings.
When borrowings are invested in such markets, the effect is to magnify the impact on Shareholders funds of changes, both positive and negative, in the value of the portfolio.
Management of the risk The Group Company uses short-term loans to manage gearing risk, details of which can be found in note 19.
Gearing risk exposure The loans are valued at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method in the financial statements.
The Board regulates the overall level of gearing by raising or lowering cash balances.
e Capital Management Policies and Procedures The Companys capital, or equity, is represented by its net assets which are managed to achieve the Companys investment objective set out on page 33.
The Board monitors and reviews the broad structure of the Companys capital on an ongoing basis.
This review includes: i the planned level of gearing through the Companys fixed rate loan facility and ii the need to issue or buy back equity shares for cancellation, which takes account of the difference between the net asset value per share and the share price ie the level of share price discount or premium.
The Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing capital are unchanged from the preceding accounting period.
The Company is subject to externally imposed capital requirements through the Companies Act with respect to its status as a public company.
In addition in order to pay dividends out of profits available for distribution by way of dividend, the Company has to be able to meet one of the two capital restriction tests imposed on investment companies by company law.
The Company is also subject to externally imposed capital requirements through the loan covenants set out in the loan facility.
These requirements are unchanged since the previous year end and the Company has complied with them.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2011
