Financial Statements notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 61 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 30 April 2011 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, which comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and International Accounting Standards Committee IASC, as adopted by the European Union.
The Companys presentational currency is pounds sterling.
Pounds sterling is also the functional currency because it is the currency which is most relevant to the majority of the Companys shareholders and payables and the currency in which the majority of the Companys operating expenses are paid.
The principal accounting policies followed are set out below: 2.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES a Basis of Preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of investments and derivative financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
Where presentational guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP for investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment Companies AIC in January 2009 is consistent with the requirements of IFRS, the directors have sought to prepare the financial statements on a basis compliant with the recommendations of the SORP.
The financial position of the Group as at 30 April 2011 is shown in the balance sheet on page 59.
As at 30 April2011 the Groups total assets exceeded its total liabilities by a multiple of over 11.
The assets of the Group consist mainly of securities that are held in accordance with the Companys investment policy, as set out on page 33 and these securities are readily realisable.
The Directors consider that the Company has adequate financial resources to enable it to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Groups accounts.
b Basis of Consolidation The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its wholly owned subsidiary undertaking, PCT Finance Limited made up to 30 April each year.
In the financial statements of the parent company, investment in the subsidiary is recognised as fair value.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
The Statement of Comprehensive Income is only presented in consolidated form, as provided by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. c Presentation of Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income In order to better reflect the activities of an investment trust company and in accordance with the guidance set out by the AIC, supplementary information which analyses the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income between items of a revenue and capital nature has been presented alongside the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
In accordance with the Companys status as a UK Investment company under section 833 of the Companies Act 2006, net capital returns may not be distributed by way of dividend.
Additionally, the net revenue is the measure the directors believe appropriate in assessing the Groups compliance with certain requirements set out in section 1158 of the Corporation Taxes Act 2010.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2011 FinAnCiAL STATeMenTS
