92 Shareholder information Polar Capital Technology Trust plc profile POLAR CAPITAL TECHNOLOGY TRUST PLC PROFILE Polar Capital Technology Trust plc was launched on Management 16December 1996 under the name Henderson Technology Polar Capital LLP has been the appointed Investment Trust PLC, with the issue of ordinary shares plus one Manager throughout the year.
Mr Ben Rogoff, the warrant attached to every five shares.
The original appointed fund manager, has been responsible for the subscription price for each share was 1.
Mr Craig Mercer is deputy fund manager and along with Mr Ben Rogoff On 30 September 2005 the warrants reached their final is supported by a team of technology specialists.
exercise date and were converted into ordinary shares of the Company.
Fees The Company pays both a basic management fee as On 14 February 2011 the Company had a bonus issue of well as a performance fee if performance is above a subscription shares to qualifying shareholders on the share predetermined level.
Further details are given in the register on 10 February 2011.
One subscription shares was Directors Report.
issued for every five ordinary shares.
The details of the subscription shares are set out in the Directors Report on Information on the Company can be accessed at: page 33 and further information can be found on page 96. www.
co. uk and further shareholder information is given at the back of this report.
In 2010, the shareholders voted to continue the life of the Company and they will have in 2015 and every five Share Price and Net Asset Value years thereafter the right to approve, or otherwise, the The Companys Net Asset Value NAV is released daily, continued existence of the Company.
on the next working day, following the calculation date, to the London Stock Exchange.
Objective The investment objective is to maximise long-term capital The mid-market price of the ordinary shares is published growth through investing in a diversified portfolio of daily in the Financial Times in the Companies and Markets technology companies around the world.
The investment section under the heading Investment Companies.
policy is set out in full in the Directors Report.
Share price information is also available from The London Benchmark Stock Exchange Website www.
The Company has a benchmark of the Dow Jones World co. uk PCT, Bloomberg PCT.
LN, Datastream PCT, Technology Index total return, sterling adjusted against Lipper 71000395 and Reuters PCT.
L. which NAV performance is measured for the purpose of The SEDOL code for the ordinary shares is 0422002 and assessing performance fees.
Rationale The SEDOL code for the subscription shares is B615W32 Over the last three decades the technology industry and the ISIN is GB00B615W327.
has been one of the most vibrant, dynamic and rapidly growing segments of the global economy.
Technology Portfolio Details companies offer the potential for substantially faster Portfolio information is provided to the AIC earnings growth than the broad market, reflecting the for its monthly statistical information service long-term secular uptrend in technology spending.
co. uk and monthly fact sheets, as well as previous copies of annual report and accounts, Investment Approach are available on the Companys website Stocks are selected for their potential for shareholder www.
co. uk returns, not on the basis of technology for its own sake.
The Investment Manager believes in rigorous fundamental analysis and focus on: management quality the identification of new growth markets the globalisation of major technology trends and exploiting international valuation anomalies and sector volatility Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2011
