D Di ir re ec ct to or rs s R Re ep po or rt ts s B Bu us si ine fines ss s R Re ev vi ie ew w a an nd d t the he R Re ep po or rt t o on n C Co or rp po or ra ate te G Go ov five er rn na an nce ce 49 49 The Company has made arrangements for a share savings scheme and ISA to be available to investors and for these shareholders to receive all Company communications and have the ability to direct the casting of their votes.
The Company has also made arrangements with its registrar for shareholders, who own their shares direct rather than through a nominee or share scheme, to view their account over the Internet at www.
Other services are also available via this service.
The Company has adopted a nominee shareholder code which is set out on page 94.
The Board monitors the share register of the Company: it also reviews correspondence from shareholders at each meeting and maintains regular contact with major shareholders.
Shareholders who wish to raise matters with a Director may do so by writing to them at the registered office of the Company.
Corporate Responsibility Socially responsible investing and exercise of voting powers The Board has instructed the Investment Manager to take into account the published corporate governance policy and the environmental practices and policies of the companies in which they invest on behalf of the Company.
The Company has also considered the Investment Managers Stewardship Code and Proxy Voting Policy.
The Voting Policy is for the Investment Manager to vote at all general meetings of UK companies in favour of resolutions proposed by the management where it believes that the proposals are in the interests of shareholders.
However, in exceptional cases, where it believes that a resolution could be detrimental to the interests of shareholders or the financial performance of the company, appropriate notification will be given and abstentions or a vote against will be lodged.
The Investment Manager reports to the Board, when requested, on the application of the Stewardship Code and Voting Policy.
The Investment Managers Stewardship Code and Voting Policy can be found on the Companys website in the Corporate Governance section.
Environment The Companys core activities are undertaken by its Investment Manager which seeks to limit the use of nonrenewable resources and reducing waste where possible.
Statement of Compliance The AIC Code comprises 21 principles to which the Board attaches great importance.
The Board consider for the year under review the Directors, Board and Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code in so far as they apply to the Companys business and with the relevant provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and in the preamble to the Combined Code, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the position of the Company, being an externally managed investment company.
As all Directors are non executive and day to day management has been contracted to third parties the Company does not have a separate role for a Chief Executive from that of Chairman of the Board As there are no executive Directors it does not comply with the Combined Code in respect of executive directors remuneration The Company does not have an internal audit function as it relies on the systems of control operated by third party suppliers in particular those of the Investment Manager By order of the Board N P Taylor FCIS Polar Capital Secretarial Services Limited Company Secretary 15 June 2011 Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2011 D Di iR Re eC CT To oR RS S R Re eP Po oR RT T
