170 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements A:Backgroundand accountingpolicies A1:Natureofoperations Prudential plc the Company together with its subsidiaries collectively, the Group or Prudential is an international financial services group with its principal operations in Asia, the US and the UK.
Prudential offers a wide range of retail financial products and services and asset management services throughout these territories.
The retail financial products and services principally include life insurance, pensions and annuities as well as collective investment schemes.
In Asia, the Group has operations in Hong Kong, Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia and other Asian countries.
The life insurance products offered by the Groups operations in Asia include with-profits participating and non-participating term, whole life and endowment and unit-linked policies.
In Asia, unit-linked policies are usually sold with insurance riders such as health covers.
In the US, the Groups principal subsidiary is Jackson National Life Insurance Company Jackson.
The principal products written by Jackson are fixed annuities interest-sensitive, fixed indexed and immediate annuities, variable annuities VA, life insurance and institutional products.
The Group operates in the UK through its subsidiaries, primarily The Prudential Assurance Company Limited PAC, Prudential Annuities Limited PAL, Prudential Retirement Income Limited PRIL and M&G Investment Management Limited.
Long-term business products written in the UK are principally with-profits deposit administration, other conventional and unitised with-profits policies and non-participating pension annuities in the course of payment.
Long-term business written in the UK also includes unit-linked products.
Prudential plc is a public limited company incorporated and registered in England and Wales.
The registered office is: Laurence Pountney Hill London EC4R 0HH UK Companies House registered number: 1397169 A2:Basisofpreparation The consolidated financial statements consolidate the Group and the Groups interest in associates and jointly-controlled entities.
The parent company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about the Group.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and as endorsed by the European Union EU as required by EU law IAS regulation EC 1606 2032.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice GAAP.
These are presented on pages 371 to 382.
A reconciliation to IFRS has also been provided for shareholders equity and profit for the year of the parent company.
The Group has applied all IFRS standards and interpretations adopted by the EU that are effective for financial years commencing on or before 1 January 2011.
The Group has applied the same accounting policies in preparing the 2011 results as for 2010 except for the adoption of the new accounting pronouncements effective in 2011.
Further details on the new accounting pronouncements and accounting policy changes are provided in note A5.
A3:,  a Critical accounting policies Prudentials discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based upon Prudentials consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB and as endorsed by the EU.
EU-endorsed IFRS may differ from IFRS as issued by the IASB if, at any point in time, new or amended IFRSs have not been endorsed by the EU.
As at 31 December 2011, there were no unendorsed standards effective for the two years ended 31 December 2011 affecting the consolidated financial information of Prudential and there were no differences between IFRSs endorsed by the EU and IFRSs issued by the IASB in terms of their application to Prudential.
Accordingly, Prudentials financial information for the two years ended 31 December 2011 is prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
Prudential adopts mandatory requirements of new or altered EU-adopted IFRS standards where required, and may consider earlier adoption where permitted and appropriate in the circumstances.
The preparation of these financial statements requires Prudential to make estimates and judgements that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, and revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
On an ongoing basis, Prudential evaluates its estimates, including those related to long-term business provisioning, the fair value of assets and the declaration of bonus rates.
Prudential bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgements about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.
Critical accounting policies are defined as those that are reflective of significant judgements and uncertainties, and potentially give rise to different results under different assumptions and conditions.
Prudential believes that its critical accounting policies are limited to those described below.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 A: Background and Financial statements accounting policies 171 The critical accounting policies in respect of the items discussed below are critical for the Groups results insofar as they relate to the Groups shareholder-financed business.
In particular this applies for Jackson which is the largest shareholder-backed business in the Group.
The policies are not critical in respect of the Groups with-profits business.
This distinction reflects the basis of recognition of profit and accounting treatment of unallocated surplus of with-profits funds as a liability.
Additional explanation is provided later in this note and cross-referenced notes as to why the distinction between with-profits business and shareholder-backed business is relevant.
The items discussed below and in cross-referenced notes explain the effect of changes in estimates and the effect of reasonably likely changes in the key assumptions underlying these estimates as of the latest statement of financial position date so as to provide analysis that recognises the different accounting effects on profit and loss or equity.
In order to provide relevant analysis that is appropriate to the circumstances applicable to the Groups businesses, the explanations refer to types of business, fund structure, the relationship between asset and policyholder liability measurement, and the differences in the method of accounting permitted under IFRS 4, Insurance Contracts for accounting for insurance contract assets, policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of the Groups with-profits funds.
Insurance contract accounting With the exception of certain contracts described in note D1, the contracts issued by the Groups life assurance business are classified as insurance contracts and investment contracts with discretionary participating features.
As permitted by IFRS 4, assets and liabilities of these contracts are accounted for under previously applied GAAP.
Accordingly, except as described below, the modified statutory basis MSB of reporting as set out in the revised Statement of Recommended Practice SORP issued by the Association of British Insurers ABI has been applied.
In 2005, the Group elected to improve its IFRS accounting for UK regulated with-profits funds by the voluntary application of the UK accounting standard FRS 27, Life Assurance.
Under this standard, the main accounting changes that were required for UK with-profits funds were: derecognition of deferred acquisition costs and related deferred tax, and replacement of MSB liabilities with adjusted realistic basis liabilities.
The results included in the financial statements for 2011 and 2010 reflect this basis.
Unallocated surplus represents the excess of assets over policyholder liabilities for the Groups with-profits funds that have yet to be appropriated between policyholders and shareholders.
The Group has elected to account for unallocated surplus wholly as a liability with no allocation to equity.
This treatment reflects the fact that shareholders participation in the cost of bonuses arises only on distribution.
Shareholder profits on with-profits business reflect one-ninth of the cost of declared bonus.
For Jackson, applying the MSB as applicable to overseas operations which permits the application of local GAAP in some circumstances, the assets and liabilities of insurance contracts are accounted for under insurance accounting prescribed by US GAAP.
For the assets and liabilities of insurance contracts of Asian operations, the local GAAP is applied with adjustments, where necessary, to comply with UK GAAP.
For the operations in India, Japan, Taiwan and Vietnam, countries where local GAAP is not appropriate in the context of the previously applied MSB, accounting for insurance contracts is based on US GAAP.
For participating business, the liabilities include provisions for the policyholders interest in realised investment gains and other surpluses that, where appropriate, have yet to be declared as bonuses.
The usage of these bases of accounting has varying effects on the way in which product options and guarantees are measured.
For UK regulated with-profits funds, options and guarantees are valued on a market consistent basis.
The basis is described in note D2 g ii.
For other operations, a market consistent basis is not applied under the accounting basis described in note A4.
Details of the guarantees, basis of setting assumptions, and sensitivity to altered assumptions are described in notes D3 and D4.
Valuation and accounting presentation of fair value movements of derivatives and debt securities of Jackson Under IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, derivatives are required to be carried at fair value.
Unless net investment hedge accounting is applied, value movements on derivatives are recognised in the income statement.
For derivative instruments of Jackson, the Group has considered whether it is appropriate to undertake the necessary operational changes to qualify for hedge accounting so as to achieve matching of value movements in hedging instruments and hedged items in the performance statements.
In reaching the decision a number of factors were particularly relevant.
These were: IAS 39 hedging criteria have been designed primarily in the context of hedging and hedging instruments that are assessable as financial instruments that are either stand-alone or separable from host contracts, rather than, for example, duration characteristics of insurance contracts: the high hurdle levels under IAS 39 of ensuring hedge effectiveness at the level of individual hedge transactions: the difficulties in applying the macro hedge provisions under IAS 39 which are more suited to banking arrangements to Jacksons derivative book, the complexity of asset and liability matching of US life insurers such as those with Jacksons product range: and whether it is possible or desirable, without an unacceptable level of costs and constraint on commercial activity, to achieve the accounting hedge effectiveness required under IAS 39.
172 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements A:Backgroundand accountingpolicies continued A3:,  Taking account of these considerations the Group has decided that, except for certain minor categories of derivatives, it is not appropriate to seek to achieve hedge accounting under IAS 39.
As a result of this decision the total income statement results are more volatile as the movements in the value of Jacksons derivatives are reflected within it.
Under IAS 39, unless carried at amortised cost subject to impairment provisions where appropriate under the held-to-maturity category, debt securities are also carried at fair value.
The Group has chosen not to classify any financial assets as held-to-maturity.
Debt securities of Jackson are designated as available-for-sale with value movements, unless impaired, being recorded as movements within other comprehensive income.
Impairments are recorded in the income statement.
Presentation of results before tax The total tax charge for the Group reflects tax that in addition to relating to shareholders profits is also attributable to policyholders and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds and unit-linked policies.
This is explained in more detail in note F5.
However, pre-tax profits are determined after transfers to or from unallocated surplus of with-profits funds.
These transfers are in turn determined after taking account of tax borne by with-profits funds.
Consequently reported profit before the total tax charge is not representative of pre-tax profits attributable to shareholders.
In order to provide a measure of pre-tax profits attributable to shareholders the Group has chosen to adopt an income statement presentation of the tax charge and pre-tax results that distinguishes between policyholder and shareholder components.
Segmental analysis of results and earnings attributable to shareholders The Group uses operating profit based on longer-term investment returns as the segmental measure of its results.
The basis of calculation is disclosed in note A4 d. For shareholder-backed business, with the exception of debt securities held by Jackson and assets classified as loans and receivables, all financial investments and investment property are designated as assets at fair value through profit and loss.
Short-term fluctuations in investment returns on such assets held by with-profits funds, do not affect directly reported shareholder results.
This is because i the unallocated surplus of with-profits funds is accounted for as liabilities and ii excess or deficits of income and expenditure of the funds over the required surplus for distribution are transferred to or from unallocated surplus.
However, for shareholder-backed businesses the short-term fluctuations affect the result for the year and the Group provides additional analysis of results before and after short-term fluctuations in investment returns.
b Critical accounting estimates and judgements Investments Determining the fair value of financial investments when the markets are not active The Group holds certain financial investments for which the markets are not active.
These can include financial investments which are not quoted on active markets and financial investments for which markets are no longer active as a result of market conditions eg market illiquidity.
When the markets are not active, there is generally no or limited observable market data to account for financial investments at fair value.
The determination of whether an active market exists for a financial investment requires managements judgement.
If the market for a financial investment of the Group is not active, the fair value is determined by using valuation techniques.
The Group establishes fair value for these financial investments by using quotations from independent third-parties, such as brokers or pricing services or by using internally developed pricing models.
Priority is given to publicly available prices from independent sources when available, but overall the source of pricing and or the valuation technique is chosen with the objective of arriving at a fair value measurement which reflects the price at which an orderly transaction would take place between market participants on the measurement date.
The valuation techniques include the use of recent arms length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis, option adjusted spread models and, if applicable, enterprise valuation and may include a number of assumptions relating to variables such as credit risk and interest rates.
Changes in assumptions relating to these variables could positively or negatively impact the reported fair value of these financial investments.
The financial investments measured at fair value are classified into the following three level hierarchy on the basis of the lowest level of inputs that is significant to the fair value measurement of the financial investment concerned: Level 1: Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets and liabilities: Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable either directly or indirectly ie derived from prices : and Level 3: Significant inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
At 31 December 2011, 4,565 million 2010: 4,573 million of the financial investments net of derivative liabilities valued at fair value were classified as level 3.
Of these 800 million 2010: 866 million are held to back shareholder non-linked business and so changes to these valuations will directly impact shareholders equity.
Further details of the classification of financial instruments are given in note G1.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 A: Background and Financial statements accounting policies 173 Determining impairments relating to financial assets  Financial investments carried on an available-for-sale basis are represented by Jacksons debt securities portfolio.
The consideration of evidence of impairment requires managements judgement.
In making this determination the factors considered include, for example: Whether the decline of the financial investments fair value is substantial: A substantial decline in fair value might be indicative of a credit loss event that would lead to a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows: The impact of the duration of the security on the calculation of the revised estimated cash flows: The duration of a security to maturity helps to inform whether assessments of estimated future cash flows that are higher than market value are reasonable: The duration and extent to which the amortised cost exceeds fair value: This factor provides an indication of how the contractual cash flows and effective interest rate of a financial asset compares with the implicit market estimate of cash flows and the risk attaching to a fair value measurement.
The length of time for which that level of difference has been in place may also provide further evidence as to whether the market assessment implies an impairment loss has arisen: and The financial condition and prospects of the issuer or other observable conditions that indicate the investment may be impaired.
If a loss event that will have a detrimental effect on cash flows is identified an impairment loss in the income statement is recognised.
The loss recognised is determined as the difference between the book cost and the fair value of the relevant impaired securities.
This loss comprises the effect of the expected loss of contractual cash flows and any additional market-price-driven temporary reductions in values.
For Jacksons residential mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, all of which are classified as available-for-sale, the model used to analyse cash flows, begins with the current delinquency experience of the underlying collateral pool for the structure, by applying assumptions about how much of the currently delinquent loans will eventually default, and multiplying this by an assumed loss severity.
Additional factors are applied to anticipate ageing effect.
After applying a cash flow simulation an indication is obtained as to whether or not the security has suffered, or is anticipated to suffer, contractual principal or interest payment shortfall.
If a shortfall applies an impairment charge is recorded.
The difference between the fair value and book cost for unimpaired securities designated as available-for-sale, is accounted for as unrealised gains or losses, with the movements in the accounting period being included in other comprehensive income.
The Groups review of fair value involves several criteria, including economic conditions, credit loss experience, other issuer-specific developments and future cash flows.
These assessments are based on the best available information at the time.
Factors such as market liquidity, the widening of bid ask spreads and a change in cash flow assumptions can contribute to future price volatility.
If actual experience differs negatively from the assumptions and other considerations used in the consolidated financial statements, unrealised losses currently in equity may be recognised in the income statement in future periods.
The preceding note in this section provides explanation on how fair value is determined when the markets for the financial investments are not active.
Further, additional details on the impairments of the available-for-sale securities of Jackson are described in notes D3 and G5.
 Financial assets classified as loans and receivables under IAS 39 are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Certain mortgage loans of the UK insurance operations have been designated at fair value through profit and loss as this loan portfolio is managed and evaluated on a fair value basis and these are included within loans in the balance sheet.
The loans and receivables include loans collateralised by mortgages, deposits and loans to policyholders.
In estimating future cash flows, the Group looks at the expected cash flows of the assets and applies historical loss experience of assets with similar credit risks that has been adjusted for conditions in the historical loss experience which no longer exist or for conditions that are expected to arise.
The estimated future cash flows are discounted using the financial assets original or variable effective interest rate and exclude credit losses that have not yet been incurred.
The risks inherent in reviewing the impairment of any investment include: the risk that market results may differ from expectations, facts and circumstances may change in the future and differ from estimates and assumptions, or the Group may later decide to sell the asset as a result of changed circumstances.
Insurance contracts Product classification IFRS 4 requires contracts written by insurers to be classified as either insurance contracts or investment contracts depending on the level of insurance risk transferred.
Insurance risk is a pre-existing risk, other than financial risk, transferred from the contract holder to the contract issuer.
If significant insurance risk is transferred by the contract then it is classified as an insurance contract.
Contracts that transfer financial risk but not significant insurance risk are termed investment contracts.
Furthermore, some contracts, both insurance and investment, contain discretionary participating features representing the contractual right to receive additional benefits as a supplement to guaranteed benefits: a that are likely to be a significant portion of the total contract benefits, b whose amount or timing is contractually at the discretion of the insurer, and c that are contractually based on asset or fund performance, as discussed in IFRS 4.
174 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements A:Backgroundand accountingpolicies continued A3:,  Accordingly, insurers must perform a product classification exercise across their portfolio of contracts issued to determine the allocation to these various categories.
IFRS 4 permits the continued usage of previously applied GAAP for insurance contracts and investment contracts with discretionary participating features.
Except for UK regulated with-profits funds, as described subsequently in section A4 b, this basis has been applied by the Group.
For investment contracts that do not contain discretionary participating features, IAS 39 and, where the contract includes an investment management element, IAS 18, Revenue, apply measurement principles to assets and liabilities attaching to the contract.
Valuation assumptions  The Groups with-profits funds write with-profits and other protection type policies classified as insurance contracts and investment contracts with discretionary participating features.
For UK regulated with-profits funds, the contract liabilities are valued by reference to the UK Financial Services Authoritys FSA realistic basis as described in section A4 b.
In aggregate, this basis has the effect of placing a value on the liabilities of UK with-profits contracts, which reflects the amounts expected to be paid based on the current value of investments held by the with-profits funds and current circumstances.
The basis of determining liabilities for the Groups with-profits business has little or no effect on the results attributable to shareholders.
This is because movements on liabilities of the with-profits funds are absorbed by the unallocated surplus.
Except through indirect effects, or in remote circumstances as described below, changes to liability assumptions are therefore reflected in the carrying value of the unallocated surplus, which is accounted for as a liability rather than shareholders equity.
A detailed explanation of the basis of liability measurement is contained in note D2 g ii.
The Groups other with-profits contracts are written in with-profits funds that operate in some of the Groups Asian operations.
The liabilities for these contracts and those of Prudential Annuities Limited, which is a subsidiary company of the PAC with-profits fund, are determined differently.
For these contracts the liabilities are estimated using actuarial methods based on assumptions relating to premiums, interest rates, investment returns, expenses, mortality and surrenders.
The assumptions to which the estimation of these reserves is particularly sensitive are the interest rate used to discount the provision and the assumed future mortality experience of policyholders.
For liabilities determined using the basis described above for UK regulated with-profits funds, and the other liabilities described in the preceding paragraph, changes in estimates arising from the likely range of possible changes in underlying key assumptions have no direct impact on the reported profit.
This lack of sensitivity reflects the with-profits fund structure, basis of distribution, and the application of previous GAAP to the unallocated surplus of with-profits funds as permitted by IFRS 4.
Changes in liabilities of these contracts that are caused by altered estimates are absorbed by the unallocated surplus of the with-profits funds with no direct effect on shareholders equity.
The Companys obligations and more detail on such circumstances are described in note H14.
iiOthercontracts Contracts, other than those of with-profits funds, are written in shareholder-backed operations of the Group.
The significant shareholder-backed product groupings and the factors that may significantly affect IFRS results due to experience against assumptions or changes of assumptions vary significantly between business units.
For some types of business the effect of changes in assumptions may be significant, whilst for others, due to the nature of the product, assumption setting may be of less significance.
The nature of the products and the significance of assumptions are discussed in notes D2, D3 and D4.
From the perspective of shareholder results the key sensitivity relates to the assumption for allowance for credit risk for UK annuity business, as described in note D2 g iii.
Jackson Jackson offers individual fixed annuities, fixed index annuities, immediate annuities, variable annuities, individual and variable life insurance and institutional products.
With the exception of institutional products and an incidental amount of business for annuity certain contracts, which are accounted for as investment contracts under IAS 39, all of Jacksons contracts are accounted for under IFRS 4 as insurance contracts by applying US GAAP, the previous GAAP used before IFRS adoption.
The accounting requirements under these standards and the effect of changes in valuation assumptions are considered below for fixed annuity, variable annuity and traditional life insurance contracts.
Fixed annuity contracts, which are investment contracts under US GAAP terminology, are accounted for by applying in the first instance a retrospective deposit method to determine the liability for policyholder benefits.
This is then augmented by potentially three additional amounts, namely deferred income, any amounts previously assessed against policyholders that are refundable on termination of the contract, and any premium deficiency, ie, any probable future loss on the contract.
These types of contracts contain considerable interest rate guarantee features.
Notwithstanding the accompanying market risk exposure, except in the circumstances of interest rate scenarios where the guarantee rates included in contract terms are higher than crediting rates that can be supported from assets held to cover liabilities, the accounting measurement of Jacksons fixed annuity products is not generally sensitive to interest rate risk.
This position derives from the nature of the products and the US GAAP basis of measurement.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 A: Background and Financial statements accounting policies 175 Variable annuity contracts written by Jackson may provide for guaranteed minimum death, income, or withdrawal benefit features.
In general terms, liabilities for these benefits are accounted for under US GAAP by using estimates of future benefits and fees under best estimate assumptions.
For variable annuity business the key assumption is the investment return from the separate accounts, which for all years included was 8.4 per cent per annum after deduction of external fund management fees determined using a mean reversion methodology.
Under the mean reversion methodology, projected returns over the next five years are flexed subject to capping so that, combined with the actual rates of return for the current and the previous two years the 8.4 per cent rate is maintained.
The projected rates of return are capped at no more than 15 per cent for each of the next five years.
Further details are explained in note D3 g. These returns affect the level of future expected profits through their effects on the fee income with consequential impact on the amortisation of deferred acquisition costs as described below and the required level of provision for guaranteed minimum death benefit claims.
For traditional life insurance contracts, provisions for future policy benefits are determined using the net level premium method and assumptions as of the issue date as to mortality, interest, policy lapses and expenses plus provisions for adverse deviation.
Except to the extent of mortality experience, which primarily affects profits through variations in claim payments and the guaranteed minimum death benefit reserves, the profits of Jackson are relatively insensitive to changes in insurance risk.
This reflects the principally spread and fee-based nature of Jacksons business.
Asian operations The insurance products written in the Groups Asian operations principally cover with-profits business, unit-linked business, and other non-participating business.
The results of with-profits business are relatively insensitive to changes in estimates and assumptions that affect the measurement of policyholder liabilities.
As for the UK business, this feature arises because unallocated surplus is accounted for by the Group as a liability.
The results of Asian unit-linked business are also relatively insensitive to changes in estimates or assumptions.
The remaining non-participating business in Asia has some limited sensitivity to interest rates.
Further details are provided in D4 j.
Deferred acquisition costs Significant costs are incurred in connection with acquiring new insurance business.
Except for acquisition costs of with-profits contracts of the UK regulated with-profits funds, which are accounted for under the realistic FSA regimes as described in note A4, these costs are accounted for in a way that is consistent with the principles of the ABI SORP with deferral and amortisation against margins in future revenues on the related insurance policies.
In general, this deferral is presentationally shown by an explicit carrying value for deferred acquisition costs DAC in the balance sheet.
However, in some Asian operations the deferral is implicit through the reserving methodology.
The recoverability of the explicitly and implicitly deferred acquisition costs is measured and are deemed impaired if the projected margins are less than the carrying value.
To the extent that the future margins differ from those anticipated, then an adjustment to the carrying value will be necessary.
The deferral and amortisation of acquisition costs is of most relevance to the Groups results for shareholder-financed long-term business of Jackson and Asian operations.
The majority of the UK shareholder-backed business is individual and group annuity business where the incidence of acquisition costs is negligible.
Jackson For term business, acquisition costs are deferred and amortised in line with expected premiums.
For annuity business, acquisition costs are deferred and amortised in line with expected gross profits on the relevant contracts.
For interest-sensitive business, the key assumption is the long-term spread between the earned rate and the rate credited to policyholders, which is based on the annual spread analysis.
In addition, expected gross profits depend on mortality assumptions, assumed unit costs and terminations other than deaths including the related charges, all of which are based on a combination of Jacksons actual industry experience and future expectations.
A detailed analysis of actual experience is measured by internally developed mortality studies.
For variable annuity business, the key assumption is the expected long-term level of equity market returns as described above.
The level of acquisition costs carried in the statement of financial position is also sensitive to unrealised valuation movements on debt securities held to back the liabilities and solvency capital.
Further details are explained in notes D3 g and H1.
Asian operations For those territories applying US GAAP to insurance assets and liabilities, as permitted by the ABI SORP, principles similar to those set out in the Jackson paragraph above are applied to the deferral and amortisation of acquisition costs.
For other Asian territories, the general principles of the ABI SORP are applied with, as described above, deferral of acquisition costs being either explicit or implicit through the reserving basis.
176 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements A:Backgroundand accountingpolicies continued A3:,  Pensions The Group applies the requirements of IAS 19, Employee benefits and associated interpretations including IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction, to its defined benefit pension schemes.
The principal defined benefit pension scheme is the Prudential Staff Pension Scheme PSPS.
For PSPS the terms of the trust deed restrict shareholders access to any underlying surplus.
Accordingly, applying the interpretation of IFRIC 14, any underlying IAS 19 basis surplus is not recognised for IFRS reporting.
The financial position for PSPS recorded in the IFRS financial statements reflects the higher of any underlying IAS 19 deficit and any obligation for deficit funding.
The economic participation in the surplus or deficits attaching to the PSPS and the smaller Scottish Amicable Pensions Scheme SAPS are shared between the PAC with-profits sub-fund WPSF and shareholder operations.
The economic interest reflects the source of contributions over the scheme life, which in turn reflects the activity of the members during their employment.
In the case of PSPS, movements in the apportionment of the financial position for PSPS between the WPSF and shareholders funds in 2011 reflect the 70 30 ratio applied to the base deficit position as at 31 December 2005 but with service cost and contributions for ongoing service apportioned by reference to the cost allocation for activity of current employees.
For SAPS the ratio is estimated to be approximately 50 50 between the WPSF and shareholders funds.
Due to the inclusion of actuarial gains and losses in the income statement rather than being recognised in other comprehensive income, the results of the Group are affected by changes in interest rates for corporate bonds that affect the rate applied to discount projected pension payments, changes in mortality assumptions and changes in inflation assumptions.
Deferred tax Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable, that is to the extent that, on the basis of all the available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits against which the losses can be relieved.
The taxation regimes applicable across the Group apply separate rules to trading and capital profits and losses.
The distinction between temporary differences that arise from items of either a capital or trading nature may affect the recognition of deferred tax assets.
The judgements made, and uncertainties considered, in arriving at deferred tax balances in the financial statements are discussed in note H4.
Goodwill Goodwill impairment testing requires the exercise of judgement by management as to prospective future cash flows.
Further information is disclosed in note H1.
A4: a Financial instruments other than financial instruments classified as long-term business contracts Investment classification Under IAS 39, subject to specific criteria, financial instruments should be accounted for under one of the following categories: financial investments at fair value through profit and loss, financial investments held on an available-for-sale basis, financial investments held-to-maturity or loans and receivables.
Upon initial recognition, financial investments are measured at fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset or financial liability not at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the financial asset or financial liability.
These IAS 39 classifications have been changed by IFRS 9 Financial Investments: Classification and Measurement which is not required to be adopted until 2015 and is still subject to EU endorsement.
This standard has not been adopted by the Group in 2011.
The Group holds financial investments on the following bases: i Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit and loss this comprises assets and liabilities designated by management as fair value through profit and loss on inception and derivatives that are held for trading.
These investments are measured at fair value with all changes thereon being recognised in investment income: ii F inancial investments on an available-for-sale basis this comprises assets that are designated by management and or do not fall into any of the other categories.
Available-for-sale financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus attributable transaction costs.
For available-for-sale debt securities, the difference between their cost and par value is amortised to the income statement using the effective interest rate.
Available-for-sale financial assets are subsequently measured at fair value.
Interest income is recognised on an effective interest basis in the income statement.
Except for foreign exchange gains and losses on debt securities, not in functional currency, which are included in the income statement, unrealised gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income ie outside of the income statement.
Upon disposal or impairment, accumulated unrealised gains and losses are transferred from other comprehensive income to the income statement as realised gains or losses: and iii Loans and receivables this comprises non-quoted investments that have fixed or determinable payments and are not designated as fair value through profit and loss or available-for-sale.
These investments include loans collateralised by mortgages, deposits, loans to policyholders and other unsecured loans and receivables.
These investments are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs.
Subsequently, these investments are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 A: Background and Financial statements accounting policies 177 As permitted under IAS 39 the Group has designated certain financial assets as fair value through profit and loss as these assets are managed and their performance is evaluated on a fair value basis.
These assets represent all of the Groups financial assets other than the majority of loans and receivables and debt securities held by Jackson.
Debt securities held by Jackson are accounted for on an available-for-sale basis.
The use of the fair value option is consistent with the Groups risk management and investment strategies.
The Group uses the trade date method to account for regular purchases and sales of financial assets.
Use of fair values The Group uses current bid prices to value its investments with quoted prices.
Actively traded investments without quoted prices are valued using prices provided by third parties.
If there is no active established market for an investment, the Group applies an appropriate valuation technique such as a discounted cash flow technique.
Additional details are provided in note G1.
Impairments The Group assesses at each statement of financial position date, whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets not held at fair value through profit and loss is impaired.
A financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired and impairment losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that have occurred after the initial recognition of the asset a loss event and that a loss event or events has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
Objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired includes observable data that comes to the attention of the Group.
For assets designated as available-for-sale, the initial impairment is the cumulative loss which is removed from the available-for-sale reserve within equity and recognised in the income statement.
Any subsequent impairment loss is measured as the cumulative loss, less any impairment loss previously recognised.
For loans and receivables carried at amortised cost, the impairment amount is the difference between carrying value and the present value of the expected cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate.
If, in subsequent periods, an impaired debt security held on an available-for-sale basis or an impaired loan or receivable recovers in value in part or in full, and this recovery can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment, then the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed through the income statement in part or in full.
Derivatives and hedge accounting Derivative financial instruments are used to reduce or manage investment, interest rate and currency exposures, to facilitate efficient portfolio management and for investment purposes.
The Group may designate certain derivatives as hedges.
This includes fair value hedges, cash flow hedges and hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
If the criteria for hedge accounting are met then the following accounting treatments are applied from the date at which the designation is made and the accompanying requisite documentation is in place: i Hedges of net investments in foreign operations the effective portion of any change in fair value of derivatives or other financial instruments designated as net investment hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income ie outside of the income statement.
The ineffective portion of changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument is recorded in the income statement.
The gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised directly in other comprehensive income, is recognised in the income statement on disposal of the foreign operation: ii Fair value hedges movements in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognised in the income statement: and iii Cash flow hedges the effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income ie outside of the income statement.
Movements in fair value relating to the ineffective portion are booked in the income statement.
Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income are recorded in the income statement in the periods in which the hedged item affects profit or loss.
All derivatives that do not meet the relevant hedging criteria are carried at fair value with movements in fair value being recorded in the income statement.
The primary areas of the Groups continuing operations where derivative instruments are held are the UK with-profits funds and annuity business, and Jackson.
For the Groups continuing operations, hedge accounting under IAS 39 is not usually applied.
The exceptions, where hedge accounting has been applied in 2011 and 2010, are summarised in note G3.
Where the hedge relationship has been fide-designated and re-designated, the fair value adjustment to the hedged item up to the point of fide-designation continues to be reported as part of the basis of the hedged item and is amortised to the income statement based on a recalculated effective interest rate over the residual period to the first break clause date of the perpetual subordinated capital securities.
For UK with-profits funds the derivative programme is undertaken as part of the efficient management of the portfolio as a whole.
As noted in note D2 value movements on the with-profits funds investments are reflected in changes in asset-share liabilities to policyholders or the liability for unallocated surplus.
Shareholders profit and equity are not affected directly by value movements on the derivatives held.
178 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements A:Backgroundand accountingpolicies continued A4: For shareholder-backed UK annuity business the derivatives are held to contribute to the matching as far as practical, of asset returns and duration with those of liabilities to policyholders.
The carrying value of these liabilities is sensitive to the return on the matching financial assets including derivatives held.
Except for the extent of minor mismatching, value movements on derivatives held for this purpose do not affect shareholders profit or equity.
For Jackson an extensive derivative programme is maintained.
Value movements on the derivatives held can be very significant in their effect on shareholder results.
The Group has chosen generally not to seek to construct the Jackson derivative programme so as to facilitate hedge accounting where theoretically possible, under IAS 39.
Further details on this aspect of the Groups financial reporting are described in note A3.
Embedded derivatives Embedded derivatives are present in host contracts issued by various Group companies, in particular for Jackson.
They are embedded within other non-derivative host financial instruments and insurance contracts to create hybrid instruments.
Embedded derivatives meeting the definition of an insurance contract are accounted for under IFRS 4.
Where economic characteristics and risks of the embedded derivatives are not closely related to the economic characteristics and risks of the host instrument, and where the hybrid instrument is not measured at fair value with the changes in fair value recognised in the income statement, the embedded derivative is bifurcated and carried at fair value as a derivative in accordance with IAS 39.
In addition, the Group applies the requirement of IFRS 4 to not separate and fair value surrender options embedded in host contracts and with-profits investment contracts whose strike price is either a fixed amount or a fixed amount plus interest.
Further details on the valuation basis for embedded derivatives attaching to Jacksons life assurance contracts are provided in note D3 g. Securities lending including repurchase agreements The Group is party to various securities lending agreements under which securities are loaned to third-parties on a short-term basis.
The loaned securities are not derecognised: rather, they continue to be recognised within the appropriate investment classification.
The Groups policy is that collateral in excess of 100 per cent of the fair value of securities loaned is required from all securities borrowers and typically consists of cash, debt securities, equity securities or letters of credit.
In cases where the Group takes possession of the collateral under its securities lending programme, the collateral, and corresponding obligation to return such collateral, are recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities The Groups policy is to derecognise financial assets when it is deemed that substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred.
The Group also derecognises a financial asset when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial asset expire.
Where the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, the Group will derecognise the financial asset where it is deemed that the Group has not retained control of the financial asset.
Where the transfer does not result in the Group transferring the right to receive the cash flows of the financial assets, but does result in the Group assuming a corresponding obligation to pay the cash flows to another recipient, the financial assets are also accordingly derecognised providing all of the following conditions are met: the Group has no obligation to pay amounts to the eventual recipients unless it collects the equivalent amounts from the original asset, the Group is prohibited by the terms of the transfer contract from selling or pledging the original asset, and t he Group has an obligation to remit any cash flows it collects on behalf of the eventual recipients without material delay.
The Group derecognises financial liabilities only when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or has expired.
Borrowings Although initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs, borrowings, excluding liabilities of consolidated collateralised debt obligations, are subsequently accounted for on an amortised cost basis using the effective interest method.
Under the effective interest method, the difference between the redemption value of the borrowing and the initial proceeds net of related issue costs is amortised through the income statement to the date of maturity or for hybrid debt, over the expected life of the instrument.
Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit and loss Consistent with the Groups risk management and investment strategy and the nature of the products concerned, the Group has designated under IAS 39 classification certain financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss as these instruments are managed and their performance evaluated on a fair value basis.
These instruments include liabilities related to consolidated collateralised debt obligations and net assets attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 A: Background and Financial statements accounting policies 179 b Long-term business contracts Income statement treatment Premiums and claims Premium and annuity considerations for conventional with-profits policies and other protection type insurance policies are recognised as revenue when due.
Premiums and annuity considerations for linked policies, unitised with-profits and other investment type policies are recognised as revenue when received or, in the case of unitised or unit-linked policies, when units are issued.
These amounts exclude UK premium taxes and similar duties where Prudential collects and settles taxes borne by the customer.
Policy fees charged on linked and unitised with-profits policies for mortality, asset management and policy administration are recognised as revenue when related services are provided.
Claims paid include maturities, annuities, surrenders and deaths.
Maturity claims are recorded as charges on the policy maturity date.
Annuity claims are recorded when each annuity instalment becomes due for payment.
Surrenders are charged to the income statement when paid and death claims are recorded when notified.
For investment contracts which do not contain discretionary participating features, the accounting is carried out in accordance with IAS 39 to reflect the deposit nature of the arrangement, with premiums and claims reflected as deposits and withdrawals and taken directly to the statement of financial position as movements in the financial liability balance.
Acquisition costs With the exception of costs incurred in respect of with-profits contracts valued on a realistic basis, costs of acquiring new insurance business, principally commissions, marketing and advertising costs and certain other costs associated with policy issuance and underwriting that are not reimbursed by policy charges, are specifically identified and capitalised as part of deferred acquisition costs DAC, which are included as an asset in the statement of financial position.
The DAC asset in respect of insurance contracts is amortised against margins in future revenues on the related insurance policies, to the extent that the amounts are recoverable out of the margins.
Recoverability of the unamortised DAC asset is assessed at the time of policy issue and reviewed if profit margins have declined.
Under IFRS, investment contracts excluding those with discretionary participation features accounted for as financial liabilities in accordance with IAS 39 which also offer investment management services, require the application of IAS 18 for the revenue attached to these services.
The Groups investment contracts primarily comprise certain unit-linked savings contracts in the UK and Asia and contracts with fixed and guaranteed terms in the US such as guaranteed investment contracts and annuity-certains all of which offer an investment service.
Incremental, directly attributable acquisition costs relating to the investment management element of these contracts are capitalised and amortised in line with the related revenue.
If the contracts involve up-front charges, this income is also deferred and amortised through the income statement in line with contractual service provision.
UK regulated with-profits funds Prudentials long-term business written in the UK comprises predominantly life insurance policies with discretionary participating features under which the policyholders are entitled to participate in the returns of the funds supporting these policies.
Business similar to this type is also written in certain of the Groups Asian operations subject to local market and regulatory conditions.
Such policies are called with-profits policies.
Prudential maintains with-profits funds within the Groups long-term business funds, which segregate the assets and liabilities and accumulate the returns related to that with-profits business.
The amounts accumulated in these with-profits funds are available to provide for future policyholder benefit provisions and for bonuses to be distributed to with-profits policyholders.
The bonuses, both annual and final, reflect the right of the with-profits policyholders to participate in the financial performance of the with-profits funds.
Shareholders profits with respect to bonuses declared on with-profits business correspond to the shareholders share of the cost of bonuses as declared by the Board of directors.
The shareholders share currently represents one-ninth of the cost of bonuses declared for with-profits policies.
Annual bonuses are declared and credited each year to with-profits policies.
The annual bonuses increase policy benefits and, once credited, become guaranteed.
Annual bonuses are charged to the profit and loss account in the year declared.
Final bonuses are declared each year and accrued for all policies scheduled to mature and for death benefits expected to be paid during the next financial year.
Final bonuses are not guaranteed and are only paid on policies that result from claims through the death of the policyholder or maturity of the policy within the period of declaration or by concession on surrender.
No policyholder benefit provisions are recorded for future annual or final bonus declarations.
The policyholders liabilities of the regulated with-profits funds are accounted for under FRS 27.
Under FRS 27 for the UK with-profits funds: no deferred acquisition costs and related deferred tax are recognised, and adjusted realistic basis liabilities instead of MSB liabilities are recognised.
FRS 27 realistic basis liabilities are underpinned by the FSAs Peak 2 basis of reporting.
This Peak 2 basis requires the value of liabilities to be calculated as: a with-profits benefits reserve WPBR, plus future policy related liabilities FPRL, plus the realistic current liabilities of the fund.
180 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements A:Backgroundand accountingpolicies continued A4: The WPBR is primarily based on the retrospective calculation of accumulated asset shares but is adjusted to reflect future policyholder benefits and other outgoings.
The FPRL must include a market consistent valuation of costs of guarantees, options and smoothing, less any related charges, and this amount is determined using either a stochastic approach, hedging costs or a series of deterministic projections with attributed probabilities.
The assumptions used in the stochastic models are calibrated to produce risk-free returns on each asset class.
Volatilities of, and correlations between, investment returns from different asset classes are as determined by the Groups Portfolio Management Group on a market consistent basis.
The cost of guarantees, options and smoothing is very sensitive to the bonus, market value reduction MVR and investment policies the Group employs and therefore the stochastic modelling incorporates a range of management actions that would help to protect the fund in adverse scenarios.
Substantial flexibility has been included in the modelled management actions in order to reflect the discretion that the Group retains in adverse investment conditions, thereby avoiding the creation of unreasonable minimum capital requirements.
The management actions assumed are consistent with managements policy for with-profits funds and the disclosures made in the publicly available Principles and Practices of Financial Management.
The realistic basis liabilities representing the Peak 2 basis realistic liabilities for with-profits business included in Form 19 of the FSA regulatory returns include the element for the shareholders share of the future bonuses.
For accounting purposes under FRS 27, this latter item is reversed because, consistent with the current basis of financial reporting, shareholder transfers are recognised only on declaration.
Unallocated surplus The unallocated surplus represents the excess of assets over policyholder liabilities for the Groups with-profits funds.
As allowed under IFRS 4, the Group has opted to continue to record unallocated surplus of with-profits funds wholly as a liability.
The annual excess shortfall of income over expenditure of the with-profits funds, after declaration and attribution of the cost of bonuses to policyholders and shareholders, is transferred to from the unallocated surplus each year through a charge credit to the income statement.
The balance retained in the unallocated surplus represents cumulative income arising on the with-profits business that has not been allocated to policyholders or shareholders.
The balance of the unallocated surplus is determined after full provision for deferred tax on unrealised appreciation on investments.
Other insurance contracts ie contracts which contain significant insurance risk as defined under IFRS 4 For these contracts UK GAAP has been applied, which reflects the MSB.
Under this basis the following approach applies: i Other UK insurance contracts Other UK insurance contracts that contain significant insurance risk include unit-linked, annuity and other non-profit business.
For the purposes of local regulations, segregated accounts are established for linked business for which policyholder benefits are wholly or partly determined by reference to specific investments or to an investment-related index.
The interest rates used in establishing policyholder benefit provisions for pension annuities in the course of payment are adjusted each year.
Mortality rates used in establishing policyholder benefits are based on published mortality tables adjusted to reflect actual experience.
ii Overseas subsidiaries The assets and liabilities of insurance contracts of overseas subsidiaries are determined initially using local GAAP bases of accounting with subsequent adjustments where necessary to comply with the Groups accounting policies.
Jackson The future policyholder benefit provisions for Jacksons conventional protection-type policies are determined using the net level premium method under US GAAP principles and the locked in assumptions as to mortality, interest, policy lapses and expenses plus provisions for adverse deviations.
For non-conventional protection-type policies, the policyholder benefit provision included within policyholder liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial position is the policyholder account balance.
For the business of Jackson, the determination of the expected emergence of margins, against which the amortisation profile of the DAC asset is established, is dependent on certain key assumptions.
For single premium deferred annuity business, the key assumption is the expected long-term spread between the earned rate and the rate credited to policyholders.
For variable annuity business, the key assumption is the expected long-term level of separate account returns, which for 2011 and 2010 was 8.4 per cent.
The impact of using this return is reflected in two principal ways, namely: i Through the projected expected gross profits which are used to determine the amortisation of deferred acquisition costs.
This is applied through the use of a mean reversion technique which is described in more detail in note D3: and ii T he required level of provision for guaranteed minimum death benefit claims.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 A: Background and Financial statements accounting policies 181 Jackson accounts for the majority of its investment portfolio on an available-for-sale basis see investment policies above whereby unrealised gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income.
As permitted by IFRS 4, Jackson has used shadow accounting.
Under shadow accounting, to the extent that recognition of unrealised gains or losses on available-for-sale securities causes adjustments to the carrying value and amortisation patterns of DAC and deferred income, these adjustments are recognised in other comprehensive income to be consistent with the treatment of the gains or losses on the securities.
More precisely, shadow DAC adjustments reflect the change in DAC that would have arisen if the assets held in the statement of financial position had been sold, crystallising unrealised gains or losses, and the proceeds reinvested at the yields currently available in the market.
Asian operations Except for the operations in India, Japan, Taiwan and Vietnam, the future policyholder benefit provisions for Asian businesses are determined in accordance with methods prescribed by local GAAP adjusted to comply, where necessary, with UK GAAP.
For the Hong Kong business, which is a branch of the PAC, and the Singapore and Malaysian operations, the valuation principles and sensitivities to changes of assumptions of conventional with-profits and other protection-type policies are similar to those described above for equivalent products written by the UK operations.
Refinements to the local reserving methodology are generally treated as change in estimates, dependent on the nature of the change.
For the operations in India, Japan, Taiwan and Vietnam countries where local GAAP is not appropriate in the context of the previously applied MSB, accounting for insurance contracts is based on US GAAP.
For these operations the business written is primarily non-participating linked and participating business.
The future policyholder benefit provisions for non-linked business are determined using the net level premium method, with an allowance for surrenders, maintenance and claim expenses.
Rates of interest used in establishing the policyholder benefit provisions vary by operation depending on the circumstances attaching to each block of business.
Where appropriate, liabilities for participating business for these three operations include provisions for the policyholders interest in realised investment gains and other surpluses that have yet to be declared as bonuses.
Although the basis of valuation of Prudentials overseas operations is in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and ABI SORP, the valuation of policyholder benefit provisions for these businesses may differ from that determined on a UK MSB for UK operations with the same features.
These differences are permitted under IFRS 4.
Liability adequacy The Group performs liability adequacy testing on its insurance provisions to ensure that the carrying amounts of provisions less related DAC and present value of in-force business see policy on business acquisitions and disposals is sufficient to cover current estimates of future cash flows.
When performing the liability adequacy test, the Group discounts all contractual cash flows and compares this amount to the carrying value of the liability.
Any deficiency is immediately charged to the income statement.
Reinsurance In the normal course of business, the Group seeks to reduce loss exposure by reinsuring certain levels of risk in various areas of exposure with other insurance companies or reinsurers.
An asset or liability is recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position representing premiums due to, or payments due from reinsurers and the share of benefits and claims recoverable from reinsurers.
The measurement of reinsurance assets is consistent with the measurement of the underlying direct insurance contracts.
The treatment of any gains or losses arising on the purchase of reinsurance contracts is dependent on the underlying accounting basis of the entity concerned amongst other things.
Investment contracts contracts which do not contain significant insurance risk as defined under IFRS 4 For investment contracts with discretionary participation features, the accounting basis is consistent with the accounting for similar with-profits insurance contracts.
Other investment contracts are accounted for on a basis that reflects the hybrid nature of the arrangements whereby part is accounted for as a financial instrument under IAS 39 and the investment management service component is accounted for under IAS 18.
For those investment contracts in the US with fixed and guaranteed terms, the Group uses the amortised cost model to measure the liability.
On contract inception, the liability is measured at fair value less incremental, directly attributable acquisition costs.
Remeasurement at future reporting dates is on an amortised cost basis utilising an effective interest rate methodology whereby the interest rate utilised discounts to the net carrying amount of the financial liability.
Those investment contracts without fixed and guaranteed terms are designated at fair value through profit and loss because the resulting liabilities are managed and their performance is evaluated on a fair value basis.
Fair value is based upon the fair value of the underlying assets of the fund.
Where the contract includes a surrender option its carrying value is subject to a minimum carrying value equal to its surrender value.
182 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements A:Backgroundand accountingpolicies continued A4: c Other assets, liabilities, income and expenditure Basis of consolidation The Group consolidates those entities it is deemed to control.
The degree of control is determined by the ability of the Group to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity in order to obtain benefits.
Consideration is given to other factors such as potential voting rights.
The Group has consolidated special purpose entities SPEs, such as funds holding collateralised debt obligations CDOs, where evaluation of the substance of the relationship between the SPE and the Group indicates that the Group is deemed to control the SPE under IFRS.
The Group holds investments in internally and externally managed open-ended investment companies OEICs and unit trusts.
These are consolidated where the Groups percentage ownership level is 50 per cent or greater.
The Groups percentage ownership levels in these entities can fluctuate from day to day according to changes in the Groups and third-party participation in the funds.
In instances where the Groups ownership of internally managed funds declines marginally below 50 per cent and, based on historical analysis and future expectations the decline in ownership is expected to be temporary, the funds continue to be consolidated as subsidiaries under IAS 27, Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements.
Where the Group exercises significant influence or has the power to exercise significant influence over an entity, generally through ownership of 20 per cent or more of the entitys voting rights, but does not control the entity, then this is considered to be an investment in an associate.
With the exception of those referred to below, the Groups investments in associates are recorded at the Groups share of the associates net assets including any goodwill and intangibles arising upon initial acquisition.
The carrying value of investments in associates is adjusted each year for the Groups share of the entities profit or loss.
This does not apply to investments in associates held by the Groups insurance or investment funds including the venture capital business or mutual funds and unit trusts, which as permitted by IAS 28, Investments in Associates, are carried at fair value through profit and loss.
The Groups investments in joint ventures are recognised using proportional consolidation whereby the Groups share of an entitys individual balances are combined line-by-line with similar items into the Group financial statements.
Other interests in entities, where significant influence is not exercised, are carried as investments at fair value through profit and loss.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group include the assets, liabilities and results of the Company and subsidiary undertakings in which Prudential has a controlling interest, using accounts drawn up to 31 December 2011 except where entities have non-coterminous year ends.
In such cases, the information consolidated is based on the accounting period of these entities and is adjusted for material changes up to 31 December.
Accordingly, the information consolidated is deemed to cover the same period for all entities throughout the Group.
The results of subsidiaries are included in the financial statements from the date control commences to the date control ceases.
All inter-company transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
Results of asset management activities include those for managing internal funds.
Investment properties Investments in leasehold and freehold properties not for occupation by the Group, including properties under development for future use as investment properties, are carried at fair value, with changes in fair value included in the income statement.
Properties are valued annually either by the Groups qualified surveyors or by taking into consideration the advice of professional external valuers using the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors RICS guidelines.
The RICS guidelines apply separate assumptions to the value of the land, buildings and tenancy associated with each property.
Each property is externally valued at least once every three years.
The cost of additions and renovations is capitalised and considered when estimating fair value.
Fair value is based on active market prices, adjusted, if necessary, for any difference in the nature, location or condition of the specific property.
If this information is not available, the Group uses alternative valuation methods such as discounted cash flow projections or recent prices in less active markets.
Leases of investment property where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases leasehold property.
Finance leases are capitalised at the leases inception at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Where a lease has a contingent rent element, the rent is calculated in accordance with individual lease terms and charged as an expense as incurred.
Pension schemes The Group operates a number of pension schemes around the world.
The largest of these schemes is the PSPS, a defined benefit scheme.
The Group also operates defined contribution schemes.
Defined contribution schemes are schemes where the Company pays contributions into a fund and the Company has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions should the assets of that fund be insufficient to pay the employee benefits relating to employee service in both current and prior periods.
Defined benefit schemes are post-employment benefit plans that are not defined contribution schemes.
For the Groups defined benefit schemes, if the present value of the defined benefit obligation exceeds the fair value of the scheme assets, then a liability is recorded in the Groups statement of financial position.
By contrast, if the fair value of the assets exceeds the present value of the defined benefit obligation then the surplus will only be recognised if the nature of the arrangements under the trust deed, and funding arrangements between the Trustee and the Company support the availability of refunds or recoverability through agreed reductions in future contributions.
In addition, if there is a constructive obligation for the Company to pay deficit funding, this is also recognised.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 A: Background and Financial statements accounting policies 183 The Group utilises the projected unit credit method to calculate the defined benefit obligation.
Estimated future cash flows are then discounted at a high-quality corporate bond rate, adjusted to allow for the difference in duration between the bond index and the pension liabilities where appropriate, to determine its present value.
These calculations are performed by independent actuaries.
The plan assets of the Groups pension schemes exclude several insurance contracts that have been issued by the Group.
These assets are excluded from plan assets in determining the pension obligation recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position.
The aggregate of the actuarially determined service costs of the currently employed personnel and the unwind of discount on liabilities at the start of the period, less the expected investment return on scheme assets at the start of the period, is charged to the income statement.
Actuarial gains and losses as a result of changes in assumptions or experience variances are also charged or credited to the income statement.
Contributions to the Groups defined contribution schemes are expensed when due.
Once paid, the Group has no further payment obligations.
Any prepayments are reflected as an asset on the statement of financial position.
Share-based payments The Group offers share award and option plans for certain key employees and a Save As You Earn SAYE plan for all UK and certain overseas employees.
The arrangements for distribution to employees of shares held in trust relating to share award plans and for entitlement to dividends depend upon the particular terms of each plan.
Shares held in trust relating to these plans are conditionally gifted to employees.
The compensation expense charged to the income statement is primarily based upon the fair value of the options granted, the vesting period and the vesting conditions.
Vesting conditions exclude the ability of an employee to voluntarily exit a scheme and such exits are treated as an acceleration of vesting and hence a shortening of the period over which the expense is charged.
The Group revises its estimate of the number of options likely to be exercised at each statement of financial position date and adjusts the charge to the income statement accordingly.
Where the share-based payment depends upon vesting outcomes attaching to market-based performance conditions, additional modelling is performed to estimate the fair value of the awards.
No subsequent adjustment is then made to the fair value charge for awards that do not vest on account of these performance conditions not being met.
The Company has established trusts to facilitate the delivery of Prudential plc shares under employee incentive plans and savings-related share option schemes.
None of the trusts that hold shares for employee incentive and savings plans continue to hold these shares once they are issued to employees.
The cost to the Company of acquiring these treasury shares held in trusts is shown as a deduction from shareholders equity.
Tax The Groups UK subsidiaries each file separate tax returns.
Jackson and other foreign subsidiaries, where permitted, file consolidated income tax returns.
In accordance with UK tax legislation, where one domestic UK company is a 75 per cent owned subsidiary of another UK company or both are 75 per cent owned subsidiaries of a common parent, the companies are considered to be within the same UK tax group.
For companies within the same tax group, trading profits and losses arising in the same accounting period may be offset for purposes of determining current and deferred taxes.
Current tax expense is charged or credited to operations based upon amounts estimated to be payable or recoverable as a result of taxable operations for the current year.
To the extent that losses of an individual UK company are not offset in any one year, they can be carried back for one year or carried forward indefinitely to be offset against profits arising from the same company.
Deferred taxes are provided under the liability method for all relevant temporary differences, being the difference between the carrying amount of an asset or liability in the statement of financial position and its value for tax purposes.
IAS 12, Income Taxes does not require all temporary differences to be provided for, in particular, the Group does not provide for deferred tax on undistributed earnings of subsidiaries where the Group is able to control the timing of the distribution and the temporary difference created is not expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.
The tax effects of losses available for carry forward are recognised as an asset.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised when it is more likely than not, that future taxable profits will be available against which these losses can be utilised.
Deferred tax related to charges or credits taken to other comprehensive income is also credited or charged to other comprehensive income and is subsequently recognised in the income statement together with the deferred gain or loss.
The tax charge for long-term business includes tax expense on with-profits funds attributable to both the policyholders and the shareholders.
Different tax rules apply under UK law depending upon whether the business is life insurance or pension business.
Tax on the life insurance business is based on investment returns less expenses attributable to that business.
Tax on the pension business is based on the shareholders profits or losses attributable to that business.
The shareholders portion of the long-term business is taxed at the shareholders rate with the remaining portion taxed at rates applicable to the policyholders.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability settled, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or are substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period.
184 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements A:Backgroundand accountingpolicies continued A4:  Tax charges in the income statement reflect the aggregate of the shareholder tax on the long-term business result and on the Groups other results.
Under UK Listing Authority rules, profit before tax is required to be presented.
This requirement, coupled with the fact that IFRS does not contemplate tax charges which are attributable to policyholders and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds and unit-linked policies, necessitates the reporting of total tax charges within the presented results.
The result before all taxes ie profit before tax as shown in the income statement represents income net of post-tax transfers to unallocated surplus of with-profits funds, before tax attributable to policyholders and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds, unit-linked policies and shareholders.
Separately within the income statement, profit before tax attributable to shareholders is shown after deduction of taxes attributable to policyholders and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds and unit-linked policies.
Tax charges on this measure of profit reflect the tax charges attributable to shareholders.
In determining the tax charges attributable to shareholders, the Group has applied a methodology consistent with that previously applied under UK GAAP reflecting the broad principles underlying the tax legislation of life assurance companies.
Property, plant and equipment All property, plant and equipment such as owner occupied property, computer equipment and furniture and fixtures, are carried at depreciated cost.
Costs including expenditure directly attributable to the acquisition of the assets are capitalised.
Depreciation is calculated and charged on a straight-line basis over an assets estimated useful life.
The residual values and useful lives are reviewed at each statement of financial position date.
If the carrying amount of an asset is greater than its recoverable amount then its carrying value is written down to that recoverable amount.
Leasehold improvements to owner occupied property are depreciated over the shorter of the economic life and the life of the lease.
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised at their fair value.
Business acquisitions and disposals Business acquisitions are accounted for by applying the purchase method of accounting, which adjusts the net assets of the acquired company to fair value at the date of purchase.
The excess of the acquisition consideration over the fair value of the assets and liabilities of the acquired entity is recorded as goodwill.
Expenses related to acquiring new subsidiaries are expensed in the period in which they are incurred.
Should the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the entity exceed the acquisition consideration then this amount is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Income and expenses of acquired entities are included in the income statement from the date of acquisition.
Income and expenses of entities sold during the period are included in the income statement up to the date of disposal.
The gain or loss on disposal is calculated as the difference between sale proceeds, net of selling costs, less the net assets of the entity at the date of disposal.
For life insurance company acquisitions, the adjusted net assets include an identifiable intangible asset for the present value of in-force business which represents the profits that are expected to emerge from the acquired insurance business.
The present value of in-force business is calculated using best estimate actuarial assumptions for interest, mortality, persistency and expenses and is amortised over the anticipated lives of the related contracts in the portfolio.
The net carrying amount of insurance liabilities acquired less the value of in-force business, represents the fair value of the insurance liabilities acquired.
An intangible asset may also be recognised in respect of acquired investment management contracts representing the fair value of contractual rights acquired under these contracts.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses is capitalised and carried on the Group statement of financial position as an intangible asset at initial value less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill impairment testing is conducted annually and when there is an indication of impairment.
For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to cash generating units.
These cash generating units reflect the smallest group of assets that includes the goodwill and generates cash flows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other groups of assets.
If the carrying amount of the cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount then the goodwill is considered impaired.
Impairment losses are recognised immediately in the income statement and may not be reversed in future periods.
Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired on the purchase of a subsidiary or portfolio of contracts are fair valued at acquisition.
Other intangible assets, such as software, are valued at the price paid to acquire them.
Intangible assets are carried at cost less amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Amortisation calculated is charged on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the assets.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 A: Background and Financial statements accounting policies 185 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and in hand, deposits held at call with banks, treasury bills and other short-term highly liquid investments with less than 90 days maturity from the date of acquisition.
Rights of offset Assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements are only reported on a net basis when there is a legally enforceable right to offset and there is an intention to settle on a net basis.
Segments Under IFRS 8, Operating Segments, the Group determines and presents operating segments based on the information that is internally provided to the Group Executive Committee GEC, which is the Groups chief operating decision maker.
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Groups other components.
An operating segments operating results are reviewed regularly by the GEC to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance, and for which discrete financial information is available.
The operating segments identified by the Group reflect the Groups organisational structure, which is by both geography Asia, US and UK and by product line insurance operations and asset management.
Insurance operations principally comprise of products that contain both significant and insignificant elements of insurance risk.
The products are managed together and there is no distinction between these two categories other than for accounting purposes.
This segment also includes the commission earned on general insurance business and investment subsidiaries held to support the Groups insurance operations.
Asset management comprises both internal and third-party asset management services, inclusive of portfolio and mutual fund management, where the Group acts as an advisor, and broker-dealer activities.
The nature of the products and the managing of the business differ from the risks inherent in the insurance operations segments, and the regulatory environment of the asset management industry differs from that of the insurance operations segments.
The Groups operating segments determined in accordance with IFRS 8, are as follows: Insuranceoperations Asia US Jackson UK  M&G including Prudential Capital Eastspring investments the new brand name for Asian asset management US broker-dealer and asset management including Curian The Groups operating segments are also its reportable segments with the exception of Prudential Capital which has been incorporated into the M&G operating segment for the purposes of segment reporting.
The performance measure of operating segments utilised by the Company is IFRS operating profit attributable to shareholders based on longer-term investment returns.
This measure excludes the recurrent items of short-term fluctuations in investment returns and the shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes.
In addition for 2010 this measure excluded costs associated with the terminated AIA transaction and gain arising upon the dilution of the Groups holding in PruHealth.
Operating earnings per share is based on operating profit based on longer-term investment returns, after tax and non-controlling interests.
Further details on the determination of the performance measure of operating profit based on longer-term investment returns is provided below in note A4 d. Segment results that are reported to the Group Executive Committee include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Unallocated items are mainly in relation to the Group Head Office and the Asian Regional Head Office.
Shareholders dividends Interim dividends are recorded in the period in which they are paid.
Final dividends are recorded in the period in which they are approved by shareholders.
Share capital Where there is no obligation to transfer assets, shares are classified as equity.
The difference between the proceeds received on issue of the shares, net of share issue costs, and the nominal value of the shares issued, is credited to share premium.
Where the Company purchases shares for the purposes of employee incentive plans, the consideration paid, net of issue costs, is deducted from retained earnings.
Upon issue or sale any consideration received is credited to retained earnings net of related costs.
186 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements A:Backgroundand accountingpolicies continued A4: Foreign exchange The Groups consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, the Groups presentation currency.
Accordingly, the results and financial position of foreign subsidiaries must be translated into the presentation currency of the Group from their functional currencies, ie the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates.
All assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are converted at year end exchange rates whilst all income and expenses are converted at average exchange rates where this is a reasonable approximation of the rates prevailing on transaction dates.
The impact of these currency translations is recorded as a separate component in the Statement of comprehensive income.
Foreign currency borrowings that are used to provide a hedge against Group equity investments in overseas subsidiaries are translated at year end exchange rates and movements recognised in other comprehensive income.
Other foreign currency monetary items are translated at year end exchange rates with changes recognised in the income statement.
Foreign currency transactions are translated at the spot rate prevailing at the time.
d Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns The Group provides supplementary analysis of profit before tax attributable to shareholders that distinguishes operating profit based on longer-term investment returns from other constituent elements of the total profit.
Except in the case of the assets backing the UK annuity business, unit-linked and US variable annuity separate account liabilities, operating profit based on longer-term investment returns for shareholder-financed business is determined on the basis of expected longer-term investment returns.
In the case of assets backing the UK annuity business, unit-linked and US variable annuity separate account liabilities, the basis of determining operating profit based on longer-term investment returns is as follows: Assets backing UK annuity business liabilities.
For UK annuity business, policyholder liabilities are determined by reference to current interest rates.
The value movements of the assets covering liabilities are closely correlated with the related change in liabilities.
Accordingly, asset value movements are recorded within the operating results based on longer-term investment returns.
Policyholder liabilities include a margin for credit risk.
Variations between actual and best estimate expected impairments are recorded as a component of short-term fluctuations in investment returns: and A ssets backing unit-linked and US variable annuity business separate account liabilities.
For such business, the policyholder unit liabilities are directly reflective of the asset value movements.
Accordingly, the operating results based on longer-term investment returns reflect the current period value movements in unit liabilities and the backing assets.
In the case of other shareholder-financed business, the measurement of operating profit based on longer-term investment returns reflects the particular features of long-term insurance business where assets and liabilities are held for the long-term and for which the accounting basis for insurance liabilities under current IFRS is not generally conducive to demonstrating trends in underlying performance of life businesses exclusive of the effects of short-term fluctuations in market conditions.
In determining the profit on this basis, the following key elements are applied to the results of the Groups shareholder-financed operations as reflected in the segment results shown in note B1.
i Debt and equity-type securities Longer-term investment returns for both debt and equity-type securities comprise longer-term actual income receivable for the period interest dividend income and longer-term capital returns.
In principle, for debt securities, the longer-term capital returns comprise two elements.
The first element is a risk margin reserve RMR based charge for the expected level of defaults for the period, which is determined by reference to the credit quality of the portfolio.
The difference between impairment losses in the reporting period and the RMR charge to the operating result is reflected in short-term fluctuations in investment returns.
The second element is for the amortisation of interest-related realised gains and losses to operating results based on longer-term investment returns to the date when sold bonds would have otherwise matured.
The shareholder-backed operation for which the distinction between impairment losses and interest-related realised gains and losses is in practice relevant to a significant extent is Jackson.
Jackson has used the ratings by Nationally Recognised Statistical Ratings Organisations NRSRO or ratings resulting from the regulatory ratings detail issued by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners NAIC developed by external third parties such as PIMCO or Black Rock Solutions to determine the average annual RMR.
Further details of the RMR charge, as well as the amortisation of interest related realised gains and losses, for Jackson are shown in note B1 iv of the financial statements.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 A: Background and Financial statements accounting policies 187 For debt securities backing non-linked shareholder-financed business of the UK insurance operations other than the annuity business and of the Asian insurance operations, the realised gains and losses are principally interest related.
Accordingly, all realised gains and losses to date for these operations are being amortised over the period to the date those securities would otherwise have matured, with no explicit RMR charge.
At 31 December 2011 the level of unamortised interest-related realised gains and losses related to previously sold bonds for the Group was a net gain of 462 million 31 December 2010: 373 million.
For equity-type securities, the longer-term rates of return are estimates of the long-term trend investment return for income and capital having regard to past performance, current trends and future expectations.
Equity-type securities held for shareholder-financed operations other than the UK annuity business, unit-linked and US variable annuity are of significance for the US and Asian insurance operations.
Different rates apply to different categories of equity-type securities.
As at 31 December 2011, the equity-type securities for US insurance non-separate account operations amounted to 902 million 31 December 2010: 852 million.
For these operations, the longer term rates of return for income and capital applied in 2011 ranged from 5.9 per cent to 7.5 per cent for equity-type securities such as common and preferred stock and portfolio holdings in mutual funds and from 7.9 per cent to 9.5 per cent for certain other equity-type securities such as investments in limited partnerships and private equity funds 2010: 6.5 per cent to 7.9 per cent and 8.5 per cent to 9.9 per cent, respectively.
For Asian insurance operations, investments in equity securities held for non-linked shareholder-financed operations amounted to 590 million as at 31 December 2011 31 December 2010: 506 million.
Of this balance, 88 million 31 December 2010: 101 million related to the Groups 7.37 per cent 31 December 2010: 8.66 per cent stake in China Life Insurance Company of Taiwan.
This 88 million 31 December 2010: 101 million investment is in the nature of a trade investment for which the determination of longer-term investment returns is on the basis as described in note e below.
For the investments representing the other equity securities which had year end balances of 502 million 31 December 2010: 405 million, the rates of return applied in the years 2011 and 2010 ranged from 1.7 per cent to 13.8 per cent with the rates applied varying by territory.
The longer-term rates of return discussed above for equity-type securities are determined after consideration by the Groups in-house economists of long-term expected real government bond returns, equity risk premium and long-term inflation.
These rates are broadly stable from period to period but may be different between countries, reflecting, for example, differing expectations of inflation in each territory.
The assumptions are for returns expected to apply in equilibrium conditions.
The assumed rates of return do not reflect any cyclical variability in economic performance and are not set by reference to prevailing asset valuations.
ii US variable and fixed index annuity business The following value movements for Jacksons variable and fixed index annuity business are excluded from operating profit based on longer-term investment returns: Fair value movements for equity-based derivatives: Fair value movements for embedded derivatives for Guaranteed Minimum Withdrawal Benefit GMWB not for life and fixed index annuity business, and Guaranteed Minimum Income Benefit GMIB reinsurance see note : Movements in accounts carrying value of Guaranteed Minimum Death Benefit GMDB and GMWB for life liabilities, for which, under the grandfathered US GAAP applied under IFRS, for Jackson insurance assets and liabilities the measurement basis gives rise to a muted impact of current period market movements: Fee assessments and claim payments, in respect of guarantee liabilities: and Related changes to amortisation of deferred acquisition costs for each of the above items.
Note: US operations Embedded derivatives for variable annuity guarantee features The GMIB liability, which is fully reinsured, subject to a deductible and annual claim limits, is accounted for in accordance with FASB ASC Subtopic 944-80 Financial Services Insurance Separate Accounts formerly SOP 03-1 under IFRS using grandfathered US GAAP.
As the corresponding reinsurance asset is net settled, it is considered to be a derivative under IAS 39 and the asset is therefore recognised at fair value.
As the GMIB benefit is economically reinsured the mark to market element of the reinsurance asset is included as a component of short-term fluctuations in investment returns.
iii Other derivative value movements Generally, derivative value movements are excluded from operating results based on longer-term investment returns unless those derivative value movements broadly offset changes in the accounting value of other assets and liabilities included in operating profit.
The principal example of non-equity based derivatives for example interest rate swaps and swaptions whose value movements are excluded from operating profit arises in Jackson.
Non-equity based derivatives are primarily held by Jackson as part of a broadly-based hedging programme for features of Jacksons bond portfolio for which value movements are booked in the statement of comprehensive income rather than the income statement, product liabilities for which US GAAP accounting as grandfathered under IFRS 4 does not fully reflect the economic features being hedged, and the interest rate exposure attaching to equity based embedded derivatives.
188 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements A:Backgroundand accountingpolicies continued A4: iv Other liabilities to policyholders and embedded derivatives for product guarantees Under IFRS, the degree to which the carrying values of liabilities to policyholders are sensitive to current market conditions varies between territories depending upon the nature of the grandfathered measurement basis.
In general, in those instances where the liabilities are particularly sensitive to routine changes in market conditions, the accounting basis is such that the impact of market movements on the assets and liabilities is broadly equivalent in the income statement, and operating profit based on longer-term investments returns is not distorted.
In these circumstances, there is no need for the movement in the liability to be bifurcated between the elements that relate to longer-term market conditions and short-term effects.
However, for some types of business movements in liabilities do require bifurcation to ensure that at the net level ie after allocated investment return and change for policyholder benefits the operating result reflects longer-term market returns.
Examples where such bifurcation is necessary are: aAsia i Vietnamese participating business For the participating business in Vietnam the liabilities include policyholders interest in investment appreciation and other surplus.
Bonuses paid in a reporting period and accrued policyholders interest in investment appreciation and other surpluses primarily reflect the level of realised investment gains above contract specific hurdle levels.
For this business, operating profit based on longer-term investment returns includes the aggregate of longer-term returns on the relevant investments, a credit or charge equal to movements on the liability for the policyholders interest in realised investment gains net of any recovery of prior deficits on the participating pool, less amortisation over five years of current and prior movements on such credits or charges.
The overall purpose of these adjustments is to ensure that investment returns included in operating results equal longer-term returns but that in any one reporting period movements on liabilities to policyholders caused by investment returns are substantially matched in the presentation of the supplementary analysis of profit before tax attributable to policyholders.
ii Guaranteed Minimum Death Benefit GMDB product features For unhedged GMDB liabilities accounted for under IFRS using grandfathered US GAAP, such as in the Japanese business, the change in carrying value is determined under FASB ASC subtopic 944-80, Financial Services Insurance Separate Accounts formerly SOP 03-1, which partially reflects changes in market conditions.
Under the companys segmental basis of reporting the operating profit reflects the change in liability based on longer-term market conditions with the difference between the charge to the operating result and the movement reflected in the total result included in short-term fluctuations in investment returns.
 With one exception, the operating result based on longer-term investment returns reflects the impact of all value movements on policyholder liabilities for annuity business in PRIL and the PAC non-profit sub-fund.
The exception is for the impact on credit risk provisioning of actual downgrades during the period.
As this feature arises due to short-term market conditions, the effect of downgrades, if any, in a particular period, on the overall provisions for credit risk is included in the category of short-term fluctuations in investment returns.
The effects of other changes to credit risk provisioning are included in the operating result, as is the net effect of changes to the valuation rate of interest due to portfolio rebalancing to align more closely with the Groups internal benchmark.
v Fund management and other non-insurance businesses For these businesses it is inappropriate to include returns in the operating result on the basis described above.
Instead, it is appropriate to generally include realised gains and losses including impairments in the operating result with unrealised gains and losses being included in short-term fluctuations.
For this purpose impairments are calculated as the credit loss determined by comparing the projected cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate to the carrying value.
In some instances it may also be appropriate to amortise realised gains and losses on derivatives and other financial instruments to operating results over a time period that reflects the underlying economic substance of the arrangements.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 A: Background and Financial statements accounting policies 189 A5: The following standards, interpretations and amendments have either been adopted for the first time in 2011 or have been issued but are not yet effective in 2011, including those which have not yet been adopted in the EU.
This is not intended to be a complete list as only those standards, interpretations and amendments that could have an impact upon the Groups financial statements have been discussed.
The accounting policies applied by the Group in determining the IFRS basis results in this report are the same as those previously applied in the Groups consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010, except for the adoption of the new accounting pronouncements in 2011 as described below.
a Accounting pronouncements adopted in 2011 Improvements to IFRSs 2010 The 2010 annual improvements include minor changes to seven IFRSs.
Amongst others, these include changes to the measurement of non-controlling interests under IFRS 3, Business combinations and clarification on the required level of disclosure around credit risk and collateral held in IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosure.
The Group has reviewed and adopted these changes in 2011 with no significant impact on the Groups results and financial position.
Amendments to IAS 24, Related party disclosures The main revisions relate to exemption for government-related entities and are therefore not applicable to the Group.
The amendment also clarifies and simplifies the definition of a related party albeit the nature of the change is minor.
The adoption of these revisions did not have a significant impact on the Groups related party disclosures.
Amendment to IFRIC 14, Prepayment of a minimum funding requirement This amendment removes an unintended consequence of IFRIC 14 relating to voluntary pension pre-payments when there is a minimum funding requirement.
IFRIC 14 was amended to require an asset to be recognised for any surplus arising from voluntary pre-payment of minimum funding contributions in respect of future service.
The adoption of this amendment did not have an impact on the Groups financial statements.
IFRIC 19, Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments In November 2009, the IFRIC issued guidance on how to account for the extinguishment of a financial liability by the issue of equity instruments.
The adoption of this interpretation did not have a material effect on the Groups financial statements.
b Adoption of altered US GAAP requirements for Group IFRS reporting in 2012 In October 2010, the Emerging Issues Task Force of the US Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Update No 2010-26 on Accounting for Costs Associated with Acquiring or Renewing Insurance Contracts.
The update was issued to address perceived diversity by companies preparing financial statements in accordance with US GAAP as regards the types of acquisition costs being deferred.
Under US GAAP, costs that can be deferred and amortised are those that vary with and are primarily related to the acquisition of insurance contracts.
The Update requires insurers to capitalise only those incremental costs directly related to acquiring a contract for financial statements for reporting periods starting after 15 December 2011.
All other indirect acquisition expenses are required to be charged to the income statement as incurred expenses.
Accordingly, the main impact of the Update is to disallow insurers from deferring costs that are not directly related to successful sales.
Under the Groups IFRS reporting, Prudential has the option to either continue with its current basis of measurement or improve its accounting policy under IFRS 4 to acknowledge the issuance of the Update.
Prudential has chosen to continue with its current basis of measurement for reporting of its 2011 results and improve its policy in 2012 to apply the US GAAP update on the retrospective basis to the results of its US insurance operation Jackson National Life.
The reason and timing for the change is to achieve consistency with the basis expected to be applied by peer competitor companies in the US market in their US GAAP financial statements.
To ensure consistency it is also intended to make the change on the retrospective basis in 2012 for the Asian operations that historically have effectively applied US GAAP for measuring insurance assets and liabilities.
190 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements A:Backgroundand accountingpolicies continued A5: The effect of the change is as follows:   As reported Under new As reported Under new under current Effect of policy from under current Effect of policy from policy change 1 Jan 2012 policy change 1 Jan 2012 Profit after tax and non controlling interests 1,490 75 1,415 1,431 125 1,306 Shareholders equity 9,117 553 8,564 8,031 510 7,521 For further information, please refer to note D3 g and the additional unaudited financial information note III a. c Accounting pronouncements endorsed by the EU but not yet effective The following accounting pronouncements potentially relevant to the Group have been issued and endorsed for use in the EU but are not mandatory for adoption for the 31 December 2011 year end.
Amendments to IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures Transfers of financial assets The amendments, which were issued in October 2010 and are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012, introduce new disclosure requirements about transfers of financial assets.
These include disclosures for financial assets that are not derecognised in their entirety and financial assets that are derecognised in their entity but for which the entity retains continuing involvement.
The Group is evaluating the implications of the amendments but they are not expected to have a significant impact on the Groups disclosures.
Amendments to IAS 12, Income taxes On 20 December 2010, the IASB published amendments to IAS 12.
The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012.
The amendments require the measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities arising from investment properties and plant, property and equipment valued at fair value on the presumption that the carrying amount of the asset will be, normally, recovered through sale.
These amendments are not expected to have a material effect on the Groups financial statements.
d Accounting pronouncements not yet endorsed by the EU The following accounting pronouncements potentially relevant to the Group have been issued but not yet endorsed for use in the EU.
IFRS 9, Financial instruments: Classification and measurement In November 2009, the IASB issued a new standard which altered the classification and measurement of financial assets.
Under the new standard only two possible classifications arise, rather than the four existing classifications currently available under IAS 39, and will result in all financial assets being valued at amortised cost or fair value through profit and loss.
In October 2010, the IASB issued requirements on the accounting for financial liabilities.
These requirements maintain the existing amortised cost measurement for most liabilities but will require changes in fair value due to changes in the entitys own credit risk to be recognised in the other comprehensive income OCI section of the comprehensive income statement, rather than within profit or loss for liabilities measured at fair value.
In December 2011, the IASB issued Mandatory Effective Date and Transition Disclosures Amendments to IFRS 9 and IFRS 7, which amended the effective date of IFRS 9 to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015 from the previous 1 January 2013, and modified the relief from restating comparative periods and the associated disclosures in IFRS 7.
The Group is still assessing the full impact of this standard.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 A: Background and Financial statements accounting policies 191 Standards on consolidation, joint arrangements and disclosures: IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements, IFRS 11, Joint arrangements, IFRS 12, Disclosure of interests in other entities, IAS 27, Consolidated and separate financial statements, and IAS 28, Investments in associates and joint ventures In May 2011, the IASB issued a package of five new standards as listed above to address the scope of the consolidation reporting standards.
IFRS 10 replaces all of the guidance on control and consolidation in IAS 27 and SIC 12, Consolidation Special purpose entities.
IAS 27 was amended to deal only with requirements on separate financial statements, which have been carried forward largely unchanged.
IFRS 10 provides a single consolidation model.
The key changes include revised definition of control so that the same criteria which focus on the need to have both power and variable returns are applied to all entities.
The remaining standards of IFRS 11, IFRS 12 and consequential amendments to IAS 28 include replacement of the previous guidance on interests in joint ventures and on the disclosure requirements.
IFRS 11 includes a new definition of joint ventures and unlike the previous guidance, proportionate consolidation is no longer permitted for joint ventures.
IFRS 12 sets out the disclosure requirements for subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and unconsolidated structured entities.
These standards are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
Early application is permitted: though entities must adopt all five standards in the package.
IFRS 10 excludes guidance specifically for investment entities, as the IASB continues to work on this with an exposure draft issued on 25 August 2011.
The Groups investments in joint ventures are currently recognised using proportional consolidation.
With the application of IFRS 11, the Groups investments in joint ventures will be accounted for on a single line equity method.
This is a presentational change and is not expected to have an impact on the Groups results and financial position.
The Group is still assessing the full impact of this standard in particular on the Groups consolidated investment funds including OEICs and unit trusts.
IFRS 13, Fair value measurements IFRS 13 creates a uniform framework to explain how to measure fair value and aims to enhance fair value disclosures, but it does not change when to measure fair value or require additional fair value measurements.
The standard requires additional disclosure on the fair value of non-financial assets and liabilities and enhanced disclosure for recurring Level 3 fair value measurements.
IFRS 13 is effective for prospective application on 1 January 2013.
The Group is still assessing the full impact of this standard, but these amendments are not expected to have a material effect on the Groups financial statements.
Amendments to IAS 19, Employee benefits In June 2011, the IASB published an amended version of IAS 19 on the accounting for pensions and other post-employment and is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The key revisions to the standard include: the removal of the corridor option for actuarial gains and losses, presentation of all actuarial gains and losses in other comprehensive income rather than in profit and loss, the replacement of the expected return on plan assets with an amount based on the liability discount rate in the determination of pension costs, and enhanced disclosures, specifically on risks arising from defined benefit plans.
The Group does not apply the corridor option, therefore the removal of the corridor option has no impact to the Group.
However, the Group currently presents actuarial gains and losses in the income statement, with the shareholders share presented below operating profit in the supplementary analysis of profit in the segmental income statement.
With the revised standard, the actuarial gains and losses will be presented in the statement of comprehensive income.
The Group is still assessing the full impact of the other amendments to the standard.
Amendments to IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements This amendment changes the requirement for the disclosure of items presented in other comprehensive income, requiring items to be presented separately based on whether or not they may be recycled to profit or loss in the future.
The amendment is effective from 1 January 2013.
The Group is still assessing the full impact of these amendments but is expecting the amendments to be presentational with no significant impact on the Groups results and financial position.
Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Amendments to IAS 32, Financial instruments: Presentation and IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures In December 2011, the IASB published amendments to the application guidance of IAS 32 clarifying the criteria for offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities in the statement of financial position.
In addition, the IASB has also published amendments to IFRS 7 to enhance current offsetting disclosures.
The amendments to IAS 32 and IFRS 7 are effective for the annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 and 2013, respectively.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of these amendments.
192 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements B:Summaryofresults B1: The determination of the operating segments and performance measure of the operating segments of the Group are as detailed in note A4.
Further segmentation of the income statement is provided in note F1 of these financial statements.
2011 m 2010 m Asianoperations notes i, ii Insurance operations 709 536 Development expenses 5 4 Total Asian insurance operations after development expenses 704 532 Eastspring Investments 80 72 Total Asian operations 784 604 USoperations notes i, ii, iii Jackson US insurance operations 694 833 Broker-dealer and asset management 24 22 Total US operations 718 855 UKoperations notes i, ii UK insurance operations: Long-term business 683 673 note v General insurance commission 40 46 Total UK insurance operations 723 719 M&G 357 284 Total UK operations 1,080 1,003 Totalsegmentprofit 2,582 2,462  Investment return and other income 22 30 Interest payable on core structural borrowings 286 257 F3 Corporate expenditure 219 223 Total 483 450 note vi RPI to CPI inflation measure change on defined benefit pension schemes 42 Solvency II implementation costs 55 45 note vii Restructuring costs 16 26 Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 2,070 1,941 note viii Short-term fluctuations in investment returns on shareholder-backed business 148 123 note ix Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 21 10 note x Costs of terminated AIA transaction 377 I2 Gain on dilution of Group holdings 30  1,943 1,461 Notes i Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns.
The Group provides supplementary analysis of IFRS profit before tax attributable to shareholders so as to distinguish operating profit based on longer-term investment returns from other elements of total profit.
Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns is the basis on which management regularly reviews the performance of Prudentials segments as defined by IFRS 8.
Further discussion on the determination of operating profit based on longer-term investment returns is provided in note A4 d. Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements B:Summaryofresults 193 ii Effect of changes to assumptions, estimates and bases of determining life assurance liabilities.
The results of the Groups long-term business operations are affected by changes to assumptions, estimates and bases of preparation.
These are described in notes D2 i, D3 i and D4 i. iii Jackson operating results based on longer-term investment returns.
IFRS basis operating profits for US operations include the following amounts net of related change in amortisation of deferred acquisition costs, where applicable so as to derive longer-term investment returns.
2011 m 2010 m Debt securities: Amortisation of interest related realised gains and losses 64 63 Risk margin reserve charge for longer-term credit related losses see iv below 53 55 Equity type investments: Longer-term returns 51 51 iv The risk margin reserve RMR charge for longer-term credit related losses included in operating profit based on longer-term investment returns of Jackson for 2011 is based on an average annual RMR of 25 basis points 2010: 26 basis points on average book values of US$44.4 billion 2010: $44.2 billion as shown below: 2011 2010 Average Average Annualexpected Annualexpected book book losses losses Moodysratingcategory value RMR value RMR  US $m % US $m m US $m % US $m m A3 or higher 21,255 0.08 17 11 20,622 0.06 12 8 Baa1, 2 or 3 20,688 0.26 54 34 20,785 0.26 53 34 Ba1, 2 or 3 1,788 1.04 19 11 1,935 1.04 20 13 B1, 2 or 3 474 3.01 14 9 500 2.99 15 10 Below B3 211 3.88 8 5 321 3.88 13 8 Total 44,416 0.25 112 70 44,163 0.26 113 73 Related change to amortisation of deferred acquisition 27 17 28 18 costs see below Risk margin reserve charge to operating profit for longer-term credit related losses 85 53 85 55 Consistent with the basis of measurement of insurance assets and liabilities for Jacksons IFRS results, the charges and credits to operating profits based on longer-term investment returns are partially offset by related changes to amortisation of deferred acquisition costs.
v UK operations transferred its general insurance business to Churchill in 2002, with general insurance commission representing the commission received net of expenses for Prudential-branded general insurance products as part of this arrangement.
vi During 2011 the Group altered its inflation measure basis for future statutory increases to pension payments for certain tranches of its UK defined benefit pension schemes.
This reflects the UK Governments decision to replace the basis of indexation from Retail Prices Index RPI with Consumer Prices Index CPI.
This resulted in a credit to the operating profit before tax of 42 million.
vii Restructuring costs are incurred in the UK as part of EEV covered business and represent one-off expenses incurred in securing expense savings.
viii Short-term fluctuations in investment returns on shareholder-backed business.
2011 m 2010 m Insurance operations: Asia 92 114 U 95 378 U 159 116 Other operations Other 120 25 Total 148 123  The Group did not experience any defaults of its shareholder-backed debt securities portfolio in 2011 and 2010.
 The short-term fluctuations for Asian insurance operations of negative 92 million 2010: positive 114 million in part reflects equity market falls in Taiwan and a partial reversal of unrealised gains recognised in prior years on the Groups 7.37 per cent 2010: 8.66 per cent stake in China Life Insurance Company of Taiwan.
K S 194 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements B:Summaryofresults continued B1: continued  The short-term fluctuations in investment returns for US insurance operations comprise the following items: 2011 m 2010 m Short-term fluctuations relating to debt securities: Charges in the year Defaults Losses on sales of impaired and deteriorating bonds 32 99 Bond write downs 62 124 Recoveries reversals 42 10 note a Total charges in the year 52 213 note iii Less: Risk margin charge included in operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 70 73 18 140 Interest related realised gains: Arising in the year 158 224 Less: Amortisation of gains and losses arising in current and prior years to operating profit based on l onger-term investment returns 84 82 74 142 Related change to amortisation of deferred acquisition costs 4 3 Total short-term fluctuations related to debt securities 88 1 Derivatives other than equity related : market value movement note b net of related change to amortisation of deferred acquisition costs 472 15 Net equity hedge results principally guarantees and derivatives, net of related change note c to amortisation of deferred acquisition costs 632 365 Equity type investments: actual less longer-term return A4 d i net of related change to amortisation of deferred acquisition costs 3 Other items net of related change to amortisation of deferred acquisition costs 23 Total 95 378 The short-term fluctuations shown in the table above are stated net of the related change to amortisation of deferred acquisition costs of 359 million 2010: 358 million see note H1.
Notes a The charges on the debt securities of Jackson comprise the following: Losseson saleof impaired and Bond deteriorating Recoveries 2011 2010 Defaults writedowns bonds reversals Total Total m m m m m m Residential mortgage-backed securities: Prime including agency 19 6 25 56 Alt-A 2 5 6 1 54 Sub-prime 1 1 13 Total residential mortgage-backed securities 21 12 7 26 123 Corporate debt securities 18 4 14 37 Other 41 2 31 12 53 Total 62 32 42 52 213 b The gain of 472 million 2010: loss of 15 million is principally for the value movement of non-equity freestanding derivatives held to manage interest rate exposures, duration matching and for the GMIB reinsurance asset that is considered to be a derivative under IAS 39.
Under IAS 39, unless hedge accounting is applied value movements on derivatives are recognised in the income statement.
For the derivatives programme attaching to the fixed annuity and other general account business, the Group has continued its approach of not seeking to apply hedge accounting under IAS 39.
This decision reflects the inherent constraints of IAS 39 for hedge accounting investments and life assurance assets and liabilities under grandfathered US GAAP under IFRS 4.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements B:Summaryofresults 195 c T he amount of 632 million in 2011 2010: 365 million relates to the net equity hedge accounting effect of the equity-based derivatives and associated guarantee liabilities of Jacksons variable and fixed index annuity business.
The details of the value movements excluded from operating profit based on longer-term investment returns are as described in note A4 d iii.
The principal movements are for i value for free-standing and GMWB not for life embedded derivatives, ii accounting values for GMDB and GMWB for life guarantees and iii related changes to DAC amortisation.
These movements include the effect of lower interest rates which were particularly significant in 2011.
The value movements on derivatives held to manage this and other interest rate exposure are included in the 472 million 2010: loss of 15 million described above in note b.
In addition to the items discussed above, for US insurance operations, included within the statement of comprehensive income is an increase in net unrealised gains on debt securities classified as available-for-sale of 811 million 2010: increase in net unrealised gains of 1,221 million.
Temporary market value movements do not reflect defaults or impairments.
Additional details on the movement in the value of the Jackson portfolio are included in note D3.
 The short-term fluctuations gain for UK insurance operations of 159 million 2010: 116 million principally reflect net investment gains arising in the period on fixed income assets backing the capital of the shareholder-backed annuity business.
Otheroperations Short-term fluctuations of other operations were negative 120 million 2010: positive 25 million representing unrealised value movements on investments, including centrally held swaps to manage foreign exchange and certain macro-economic exposures of the Group.
ix Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 2011 m 2010 m  Actual less expected return on scheme assets 9 31 Experience gains losses on scheme liabilities 19 5 Gains losses on changes of assumptions for scheme liabilities 12 41 40 15 Less: amount attributable to the PAC with-profits sub-fund 18 5 22 10 Othergainsandlosses Movement in the provision for deficit funding of PSPS 4 Less: amount attributable to the PAC with-profits sub-fund 3 1 Total 21 10 The actuarial gains and losses shown in the table above relate to the Scottish Amicable and M&G.
The amounts did not include actuarial gains and losses for the Prudential Staff Pension Scheme PSPS for which the Group has not recognised its interest in the schemes underlying surplus.
The losses of 12 million 2010: losses of 41 million primarily reflect the effect of changes in the inflation rate, expected salary increases and risk discount rate.
Further details on the Groups defined benefit pension schemes are shown in note I3.
x The following costs were incurred in the first six months of 2010 in relation to the proposed, and subsequently terminated transaction, to purchase AIA Group Limited and related rights issue.
2010 m AIG termination break fee 153 Underwriting fees 58 Costs associated with foreign exchange hedging 100 Adviser fees and other 66 Total costs before tax 377 Associated tax relief 93 Total costs after tax 284 Of the 377 million total costs before tax, the 100 million associated with foreign exchange hedging has been recorded within Investment return and the other 277 million has been recorded as Other expenditure within Acquisition costs and other expenditure in the consolidated income statement.
196 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements B:Summaryofresults continued B2:Earningspershare Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, excluding those held in employee share trusts and consolidated unit-trusts and OEICs, which are treated as cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
The Groups only class of potentially dilutive ordinary shares are those share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year.
No adjustment is made if the impact is anti-dilutive overall.
Earnings per share are calculated based on earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders, after related tax and non-controlling interests.
2011 Netoftax NonandnonBasic Diluted controlling controlling earnings earnings Beforetax Tax interests interests pershare pershare B1 F5 m m m m Pence Pence Based on operating profit based on longer-term investment return 2,070 448 4 1,618 63.9p 63.8p Short-term fluctuations in investment returns on shareholder-backed business 148 4 144 5.7 p 5.7 p Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 21 5 16 0.6p 0.6p Based on profit for the year 1,943 449 4 1,490 58.8p 58.7p 2010 Netoftax NonandnonBasic Diluted controlling controlling earnings earnings Beforetax Tax interests interests pershare pershare B1 F5 m m m m Pence Pence Based on operating profit based on longer-term investment returns, excluding exceptional tax credit 1,941 371 5 1,565 62.0p 61.9p Exceptional tax credit 158 158 6.3p 6.3p Based on operating profit based on longer-term investment return 1,941 213 5 1,723 68.3p 68.2p Short-term fluctuations in investment returns on shareholder-backed business 123 92 31 1.2 p 1.2 p Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 10 3 7 0.3 p 0.3 p Costs of terminated AIA transaction 377 93 284 11.3 p 11.3 p Gain on dilution of Group's holdings 30 30 1.2 p 1.2p Based on profit for the year including exceptional tax credit 1,461 25 5 1,431 56.7p 56.6p The tax charge attributable to shareholders return included an exceptional tax credit of 158 million which primarily related to the impact of a settlement agreed with the UK tax authorities.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements B:Summaryofresults 197 Numberofshares A reconciliation of the weighted average number of ordinary shares used for calculating basic and diluted earnings per share is set out as below: 2011 m 2010 m Weighted average shares for calculation of basic earnings per share 2,533 2,524 Shares under option at end of year 13 13 Number of shares that would have been issued at fair value on assumed option exercise 8 8 Weighted average shares for calculation of diluted earnings per share 2,538 2,529 B3:Dividends 2011 m 2010 m Dividends declared and paid in reporting period Parent company: Interim dividend 2011: 7.95p: 2010: 6.61p 203 168 Final second interim dividend for prior period 2011: 17.24p: 2010: 13.56p 439 343 Total 642 511 Dividends paid in cash, as set in the consolidated statement of cash flows for 2011 were 642 million.
As a result of shares issued in lieu of dividends of 62 million in 2010 dividends paid in cash, were 449 million in 2010.
The scrip dividend alternative was replaced by the Dividend Re-investment Plan from the 2010 final dividend.
2011 m 2010 m Parent company dividends relating to reporting period: Interim dividend 2011: 7.95p: 2010: 6.61p 203 168 Final dividend 2011: 17.24p: 2010: 17.24p 439 439 Total 642 607 Dividendpershare Interim dividends are recorded in the period in which they are paid.
The final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010 of 17.24 pence per ordinary share was paid to eligible shareholders on 26 May 2011 and the 2011 interim dividend of 7.95 pence per ordinary share was paid to eligible shareholders on 22 September 2011.
The 2011 final dividend of 17.24 pence per ordinary share will be paid on 24 May 2012 in sterling to shareholders on the principal register and the Irish branch register at 6.00 pm BST on Friday, 30 March 2012 the Record Date, and in Hong Kong dollars to shareholders on the Hong Kong branch register at 4.30 pm Hong Kong time on the Record Date HK Shareholders.
Holders of US American Depositary Receipts US Shareholders will be paid their dividends in US dollars on or about five days after the payment date of the dividend to shareholders on the principal register.
The final dividend will be paid on or about 31 May 2012 in Singapore dollars to shareholders with shares standing to the credit of their securities accounts with The Central Depository Pte.
Limited CDP at 5.00 pm Singapore time on the Record Date SG Shareholders.
The dividend payable to the HK Shareholders will be translated using the exchange rate quoted by the WM Company at the close of business on 12 March 2012.
The exchange rate at which the dividend payable to the SG Shareholders will be translated into SG$ will be determined by CDP.
The dividend will distribute an estimated 439 million of shareholders funds.
In line with 2010, shareholders on the principal register and Irish branch register will be able to participate in a Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
198 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements B:Summaryofresults continued B4:Exchangetranslation  2011 m 2010 m Asian operations 30 164 US operations 42 88 Unallocated to a segment central funds 44 35 32 217 The movements for Asian and US operations reflect the application of year end exchange rates to the assets and liabilities and average exchange rates to the income statement on translation of these operations into the presentation currency of the Group.
The movement unallocated to a segment mainly reflects the translation of currency borrowings and forward contracts which have been designated as a net investment hedge against the currency risk of the net investment in Jackson.
The exchange rates applied were: Closing Closing rateat Average rateat Average Localcurrency: 31Dec2011 for2011 31Dec2010 for2010 Hong Kong 12.07 12.48 12.17 12.01 Indonesia 14,091.80 14,049.41 14,106.51 14,033.41 Malaysia 4.93 4.90 4.83 4.97 Singapore 2.02 2.02 2.01 2.11 India 82.53 74.80 70.01 70.66 Vietnam 33,688.16 33,139.22 30,526.26 29,587.63 US 1.55 1.60 1.57 1.55 B5: To explain more comprehensively the assets, liabilities and capital of the Groups businesses, it is appropriate to provide analyses of the Groups statement of financial position by operating segment and type of business.
The tables below aggregate the three asset management segments for ease of presentation and hence should be read in conjunction with the associated tables on asset management in note E2.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements B:Summaryofresults 199   2011 m Unallocated Asset toa Insuranceoperations Total managesegment Intra- 31Dec insurance ment central group 2011  UK US Asia tions tions tions tions Total Byoperatingsegment D2 D3 D4 E2 Assets Intangible assets attributable to shareholders: Goodwill 235 235 1,230 1,465 Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 113 3,900 1,027 5,040 16 13 5,069 H1 Total 113 3,900 1,262 5,275 1,246 13 6,534 Intangible assets attributable to with-profits funds: In respect of acquired subsidiaries for venture fund and other investment purposes 178 178 178 Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 6 83 89 89 H2 Total 184 83 267 267 Total intangible assets 297 3,900 1,345 5,542 1,246 13 6,801 H4 231 1,392 115 1,738 129 409 2,276 Deferred tax assets H3, H6 Other non-investment and non-cash assets 4,771 1,542 1,024 7,337 1,000 4,532 6,231 6,638 Investment of long-term business and other operations: H7 Investment properties 10,712 35 10 10,757 10,757 Investments accounted for using the equity H8 method 70 70 70 Financial investments: note d iv Loans 3,115 4,110 1,233 8,458 1,256 9,714 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 36,722 38,036 11,997 86,755 594 87,349 note d i Debt securities 77,953 27,022 17,681 122,656 1,842 124,498 Other investments 4,568 2,376 470 7,414 78 17 7,509 Deposits 9,287 167 1,165 10,619 89 10,708 G1, note c Total investments 142,427 71,746 32,556 246,729 3,859 17 250,605 H9 Properties held for sale 3 3 3 H10 Cash and cash equivalents 2,965 271 1,977 5,213 1,735 309 7,257 Totalassets 150,691 78,854 37,017 266,562 7,969 5,280 6,231 273,580 Note i Further segmental analysis: The non-current assets of the Group comprise goodwill, intangible assets other than DAC and present value of acquired in-force business and property, plant and equipment included within other non-investment and non-cash assets.
Items defined as financial instruments or related to insurance contracts are excluded.
The Groups total non-current assets at 31 December comprise: 2011 m 2010 m UK including insurance operations, M&G and Central operations 1,906 1,708 US 144 131 Asia 681 615 Total 2,731 2,454 No individual country in Asia held non-current assets at the end of the year which exceeds 10 per cent of the Group total.
200 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements B:Summaryofresults continued B5: 2011 m Unallocated Asset toa Insuranceoperations Total managesegment Intra- 31Dec insurance ment central group 2011  UK US Asia tions tions tions tions Total Byoperatingsegment D2 D3 D4 E2 Equityandliabilities Equity H11 Shareholders equity 2,581 4,271 2,349 9,201 1,783 1,867 9,117 Non-controlling interests 33 5 38 5 43 Total equity 2,614 4,271 2,354 9,239 1,788 1,867 9,160 Liabilities Policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds: H12 Insurance contract liabilities 82,732 67,278 30,353 180,363 180,363 Investment contract liabilities with G1 d iscretionary participation features 29,348 397 29,745 29,745 Investment contract liabilities w ithout discretionary participation G1 features 14,944 1,911 112 16,967 16,967 Unallocated surplus of with-profits funds reflecting application of realistic basis provisions for UK regulated D2, H12 with-profits funds 9,165 50 9,215 9,215 Total policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds 136,189 69,189 30,912 236,290 236,290 Core structural borrowings of H13 shareholder-financed operations: Subordinated debt 2,652 2,652 Othe 160 160 250 549 959 Total 160 160 250 3,201 3,611 Operational borrowings attributable to G1, H13 shareholder-financed operations 103 127 141 371 13 2,956 3,340 Borrowings attributable to with-profits operations 972 972 972 G1, H13 Other non-insurance liabilities: Obligations under funding, securities lending G1 and sale and repurchase agreements 1,945 1,169 3,114 3,114 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of G1 consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 2,043 18 1,101 3,162 678 3,840 H4 Deferred tax liabilities 1,349 2,093 513 3,955 5 251 4,211 H4 Current tax liabilities 553 116 669 106 155 930 Accruals and deferred income 321 103 424 290 22 736 G1 Other creditors 2,829 548 660 4,037 4,493 245 6,231 2,544 H14 Provisions 266 13 47 326 133 70 529 G1, G3 Derivative liabilities 1,298 887 480 2,665 182 207 3,054 G1, H15 Other liabilities 209 379 590 1,178 31 40 1,249 Total 10,813 5,107 3,610 19,530 5,918 990 6,231 20,207 Total liabilities 148,077 74,583 34,663 257,323 6,181 7,147 6,231 264,420  150,691 78,854 37,017 266,562 7,969 5,280 6,231 273,580 Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 r Financial statements B:Summaryofresults 201  2010 m Unallocated Insuranceoperations Asset toa Total managesegment Intra- 31Dec insurance ment central group 2010  UK US Asia tions tions tions tions Total Byoperatingsegment D2 D3 D4 E2 Assets Intangible assets attributable to shareholders: Goodwill 236 236 1,230 1,466 Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 120 3,559 962 4,641 13 13 4,667 H1 Total 120 3,559 1,198 4,877 1,243 13 6,133 Intangible assets attributable to with-profits funds: In respect of acquired subsidiaries for venture fund and other investment purposes 166 166 166 Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible asset 13 97 110 110 H2 Total 179 97 276 276 Total intangible assets 299 3,559 1,295 5,153 1,243 13 6,409 H4 214 1,391 98 1,703 123 362 2,188 Deferred tax assets H3, H6 Other non-investment and non-cash assets 4,631 1,225 788 6,644 995 4,146 5,761 6,024 Investment of long-term business and other operations: H7 Investment properties 11,212 26 9 11,247 11,247 Investments accounted for using the H8 equity method 69 2 71 71 Financial investments: note d iv Loans 2,302 4,201 1,340 7,843 1,418 9,261 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 40,519 31,501 14,464 86,484 151 86,635 note d i Debt securities 74,304 26,366 14,108 114,778 1,574 116,352 Other investments 3,998 1,199 382 5,579 59 141 5,779 Deposits 9,022 212 638 9,872 80 9,952 G1, note c Total investments 141,426 63,505 30,943 235,874 3,282 141 239,297 H9 Properties held for sale 254 3 257 257 H10 Cash and cash equivalents 2,839 232 1,601 4,672 1,436 523 6,631 Totalassets 149,663 69,915 34,725 254,303 7,079 5,185 5,761 260,806 s 202 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements B:Summaryofresults continued B5: 2010 m Unallocated Asset toa Total managesegment Intra- 31Dec Insuranceoperations insurance ment central group 2010  UK US Asia tions tions tions tions Total Byoperatingsegment D2 D3 D4 E2 Equityandliabilities Equity H11 Shareholders equity 2,148 3,815 2,149 8,112 1,787 1,868 8,031 Non-controlling interests 35 5 40 4 44 Total equity 2,183 3,815 2,154 8,152 1,791 1,868 8,075 Liabilities Policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds: H12 Insurance contract liabilities 84,152 58,641 28,498 171,291 171,291 Investment contract liabilities with G1 discretionary participation features 25,613 119 25,732 25,732 Investment contract liabilities without discretionary participation G1 features 15,765 1,882 57 17,704 17,704 Unallocated surplus of with-profits f unds reflecting application of realistic basis provisions for UK regulated D2, H12 with-profits funds 10,187 66 10,253 10,253 Total policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds 135,717 60,523 28,740 224,980 224,980 Core structural borrowings of H13 shareholderfinanced operations: Subordinated debt 2,718 2,718 Othe 159 159 250 549 958 Total 159 159 250 3,267 3,676 Operational borrowings attributable to G1, H13 shareholder-financed operations 162 90 189 441 3 2,560 3,004 Borrowings attributable to with-profits operations 1,522 1,522 1,522 G1, H13 Other non-insurance liabilities: Obligations under funding, securities lending G1 and sale and repurchase agreements 2,398 1,801 4,199 4,199 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of G1 consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 1,755 33 1,126 2,914 458 3,372 H4 Deferred tax liabilities 1,738 1,776 495 4,009 5 210 4,224 H4 Current tax liabilities 399 34 70 503 33 295 831 Accruals and deferred income 340 109 449 244 14 707 G1 Other creditors 1,939 511 1,122 3,572 4,039 471 5,761 2,321 H14 Provisions 442 19 61 522 157 50 729 G1, G3 Derivative liabilities 792 799 222 1,813 78 146 2,037 G1, H15 Other liabilities 276 355 437 1,068 21 40 1,129 Total 10,079 5,328 3,642 19,049 5,035 1,226 5,761 19,549 Total liabilities 147,480 66,100 32,571 246,151 5,288 7,053 5,761 252,731  149,663 69,915 34,725 254,303 7,079 5,185 5,761 260,806 Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 r Financial statements B:Summaryofresults 203  2011 m 2010 m  Unallocated Unittoa linked Asset segment Intra- 31Dec 31Dec Partiand Nonmanagecentral group 2011 2010 cipating variable linked ment operaeliminGroup Group funds annuity business operations tions ations Total Total E2 Assets Intangible assets attributable to shareholders: Goodwill 235 1,230 1,465 1,466 Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 5,040 16 13 5,069 4,667 H1 Total 5,275 1,246 13 6,534 6,133 Intangible assets attributable to with-profits funds: In respect of acquired subsidiaries for venture fund and other investment purposes 178 178 166 Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 89 89 110 H2 Total 267 267 276 Total intangible assets 267 5,275 1,246 13 6,801 6,409 H4 Deferred tax assets 101 2 1,635 129 409 2,276 2,188 Other non-investment and non-cash assets 2,622 457 4,258 1,000 4,532 6,231 6,638 6,024 Investment of long-term business and other operations: H7 Investment properties 8,461 682 1,614 10,757 11,247 Investments accounted for using the H8 equitymethod 70 70 7 1 Financial investments: note d iv Loans 2,747 5,711 1,256 9,714 9,261 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 26,047 59,890 818 594 87,349 86,635 note d i Debt securities 57,232 8,861 56,563 1,842 124,498 116,352 Other investments 4,423 113 2,878 78 17 7,509 5,779 Deposits 7,207 1,544 1,868 89 10,708 9,952 G1 and note c Total investments 106,117 71,090 69,522 3,859 17 250,605 239,297 H9 Properties held for sale 3 3 257 H10 Cash and cash equivalents 2,564 1,245 1,404 1,735 309 7,257 6,631 Totalassets 111,671 72,794 82,097 7,969 5,280 6,231 273,580 260,806 204 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements B:Summaryofresults continued B5: 2011 m 2010 m  Unallocated Unittoa linked Asset segment Intra- 31Dec 31Dec Partiand Nonmanagecentral group 2011 2010 cipating variable linked ment operaeliminGroup Group funds annuity business operations tions ations Total Total E2 Equityandliabilities Equity H11 Shareholders equity 9,201 1,783 1,867 9,117 8,031 Non-controlling interests 33 5 5 43 44 Total equity 33 9,206 1,788 1,867 9,160 8,075 Liabilities Policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds: Contract liabilities including amounts in respect of contracts classified as investment contracts under IFRS 4 93,569 71,129 62,377 227,075 214,727 Unallocated surplus of with-profits funds reflecting application of realistic basis provisions for UK regulated with-profits H12 funds 9,215 9,215 10,253 Total policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds 102,784 71,129 62,377 236,290 224,980 Core structural borrowings of shareholder-financed H13 operations: Subordinated debt 2,652 2,652 2,718 Othe 160 250 549 959 958 Total 160 250 3,201 3,611 3,676 Operational borrowings attributable to G1, H13 shareholderfinanced operations 1 370 13 2,956 3,340 3,004 G1, H13 Borrowings attributable to with-profits operations 972 972 1,522 H4 Deferred tax liabilities 1,215 33 2,707 5 251 4,211 4,224 Other non-insurance liabilities 6,667 1,631 7,277 5,913 739 6,231 15,996 15,325 Total liabilities 111,638 72,794 72,891 6,181 7,147 6,231 264,420 252,731  111,671 72,794 82,097 7,969 5,280 6,231 273,580 260,806 Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 r Financial statements B:Summaryofresults 205  A reconciliation of the Groups directly held investments from the beginning of the year to the end of the year is as follows:  Total Asset cated insurance managetoa Group UK US Asia operations ment segment Total m m m m m m m At31December2009 1January2010 Total investments including derivative assets 132,690 49,576 23,390 205,656 2,890 176 208,722 Less: investments held by consolidated investment funds 1,835 718 2,553 2,553 G3 Less: derivative liabilities 709 461 146 1,316 49 136 1,501 Directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 130,146 49,115 22,526 201,787 2,841 40 204,668 Net cash inflow from operating activities 1,329 7,306 2,167 10,802 329 120 11,251 Realised gains losses in the year 2,233 21 984 3,238 11 148 3,101 Unrealised gains and losses and exchange movements in the year 5,958 6,264 3,301 15,523 23 17 15,529 Dilution of PruHealth investment 56 56 56 Acquisition of UOB Life Assurance Ltd 1,004 1,004 1,004 Movement in the year of directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 9,576 13,591 7,456 30,623 363 45 30,941 At31December2010 1January2011 Total investments including derivative assets 141,426 63,505 30,943 235,874 3,282 141 239,297 Less: investments held by consolidated investment funds 912 739 1,651 1,651 G3 Less: derivative liabilities 792 799 222 1,813 78 146 2,037 Directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 139,722 62,706 29,982 232,410 3,204 5 235,609 Net cash effect from purchases and sales of investments 920 6,669 2,287 8,036 540 95 8,481 Realised gains losses in the year 3,852 102 503 4,457 17 4,474 Unrealised gains and losses and exchange movements in the year 2,502 1,382 1,343 2,463 84 90 2,637 Movement in the year of directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 430 8,153 1,447 10,030 473 185 10,318 At31December2011 Total investments including derivative assets 142,427 71,746 32,556 246,729 3,859 17 250,605 Less: investments held by consolidated investment funds 977 647 1,624 1,624 G3 Less: derivative liabilities 1,298 887 480 2,665 182 207 3,054 Directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 140,152 70,859 31,429 242,440 3,677 190 245,927 T he above reconciliation analyses the movement of directly held investments net of derivative liabilities.
The deduction of derivative liabilities reflects the fact that these are considered an integral part of the Groups investment portfolio and the exclusion from investments is merely a matter of required balance sheet presentation.
The analysis excludes investments held in the balance sheet as a result of the consolidation of OEICS and unit trusts, as the Groups exposure is merely to its share of the value of the fund as a whole rather than to the underlying investments and other assets and liabilities.
For securities where S&P ratings are not immediately available, those produced by Moodys and then Fitch have been used as an alternative.
For some mortgage-backed securities within Jackson, the table above includes these securities using the regulatory ratings detail issued by the NAIC.
These regulatory ratings levels were established by external third parties PIMCO for residential mortgage-backed securities and BlackRock Solutions for commercial mortgage-backed securities.
Notes D2 d, D3 d, D4 d and E2 provide further details on the credit risks of debt securities by segment.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements B:Summaryofresults 207  The Groups exposure to holdings in asset-backed securities, which comprise residential mortgage-backed securities RMBS, commercial mortgage-backed securities CMBS, CDO funds and other asset-backed securities ABS, at 31 December 2011 is as follows: 2011 m 2010m   : note i UK insurance operations 1,358 1,181 note ii US insurance operations 5,380 6,135 note iii Asian insurance operations 176 113 Other operations 594 437 7,508 7,866 : note i UK insurance operations 5,351 5,237 note iii Asian insurance operations 454 435 5,805 5,672 Total 13,313 13,538 Notes i UK insurance operations The UK insurance operations exposure to asset-backed securities at 31 December 2011 comprises: 2011 m 2010 m i Shareholder-backed business 2011: 38% AAA, 18% AA 1,358 1,181 ii With-profits operations 2011: 58% AAA, 9% AA 5,351 5,237 Total 6,709 6,418 i All of the exposure of the shareholder-backed business relates to the UK market and primarily relates to investments held by PRIL.
ii Exposure of the with-profits operations relates to exposure to: 2011 m 2010 m UK market 4,037 3,685 US market 1,314 1,552 5,351 5,237 ii US insurance operations US insurance operations exposure to asset-backed securities at 31 December 2011 comprises: 2011 m 2010 m RMBS Sub-prime 2011: 20% AAA, 4% AA 207 224 Alt-A 2011: 12% AAA, 4% AA 310 415 Prime including agency 2011: 3% AAA, 76% AA 2,074 2,145 CMBS 2011: 35% AAA, 12% AA 2,169 2,375 CDO funds 2011: 16% AAA, 0% AA, including nil million exposure to sub-prime 44 162 Other ABS 2011: 23% AAA, 17% AA, including 6.6 million exposure to sub-prime 576 814 Total 5,380 6,135 I ncluding the Groups economic interest in Piedmont and other consolidated CDO funds.
208 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements B:Summaryofresults continued B5: iii Asian insurance operations The Asian insurance operations exposure to asset-backed securities is primarily held by the with-profits operations.
The 454 million 2010: 435 million asset-backed securities exposure of the Asian with-profit operations comprises: 2011 m 2010 m CMBS 149 251 CDO funds and ABS 305 184 Total 454 435 The 454 million 2010: 435 million includes 398 million 2010: 341 million held by investment funds consolidated under IFRS in recognition of the control arrangements for those funds and include an amount not owned by the Group with a corresponding liability of 20 million 2010: 7 million on the statement of financial position for net asset value attributable to external unit-holders in respect of these funds, which are non-recourse to the Group.
Of the 454 million, 75 per cent 2010: 435 million, 43 per cent are investment graded by Standard and Poors.
iv Other operations Other operations exposure to asset-backed securities at 31 December 2011 is held by Prudential Capital and comprises: 2011 m 2010 m RMBS: Prime 2011: 91% AAA, 9% AA 340 197 CMBS 2011: 27% AAA, 16% AA 146 184 CDO funds and other ABS - all without sub-prime exposure 2011: 98% AAA 108 56 Total 594 437 Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements B:Summaryofresults 209 iiiSovereigndebt Sovereign debt represented 16 per cent or 9.2 billion of the debt portfolio backing shareholder business at 31 December 2011.
43 per cent of this was rated AAA and 94 per cent investment grade.
Of the Groups holdings in Continental Europe of 690 million, 87 per cent was AAA rated.
Shareholder exposure to the eurozone sovereigns of Portugal, Italy, Ireland, Greece and Spain PIIGS is 44 million.
The Group does not have any sovereign debt exposure to Greece, Portugal, Ireland or France.
The exposure of the Groups shareholder and with-profits funds to sovereign debt including credit default swaps that are referenced to sovereign debt at 31 December 2011 is as follows: Shareholder With-profits sovereign sovereign debt debt m m Continental Europe Italy 43 52 Spain 1 33 44 85 Germany 598 602 Other Europe principally Isle of Man and Belgium 48 62 690 749 United Kingdom 3,254 2,801 United States 2,448 2,615 Other, predominantly Asia 2,850 332 Total 9,242 6,497 Exposure to bank debt securities The Group held the following direct exposures to banks debt securities of shareholder-backed business at 31 December 2011.
 m Seniordebt Subordinateddebt Total Totalsenior subordinated Covered Senior debt Tier2 Tier1 debt Total Portugal 24 24 24 Ireland 13 13 13 Italy 11 11 56 14 70 81 Greece Spain 107 11 118 90 2 92 210 107 59 166 146 16 162 328 Austria 9 9 9 Belgium France 2 34 36 78 35 113 149 Germany 28 28 1 1 29 Luxembourg Netherlands 7 7 81 64 145 152 United Kingdom 228 145 373 615 95 710 1,083 TotalEurope 337 273 610 930 210 1,140 1,750 United States 1,362 1,362 352 2 354 1,716 Other, predominantly Asia 246 246 562 33 595 841 Total 337 1,881 2,218 1,844 245 2,089 4,307 210 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements B:Summaryofresults continued B5: In addition to the exposures held by the shareholder-backed business, the Group held the following banks securities at 31 December 2011 within its with-profits funds.
 m Seniordebt Subordinateddebt Total Totalsenior subordinated Covered Senior debt Tier2 Tier1 debt Total Portugal 7 7 7 Ireland Italy 45 45 49 2 51 96 Greece 5 5 5 Spain 137 137 1 1 138 142 52 194 50 2 52 246 Austria Belgium France 80 80 47 17 64 144 Germany 7 7 7 Luxembourg 7 7 7 Netherlands 80 80 14 28 42 122 United Kingdom 319 385 704 772 74 846 1,550 TotalEurope 461 611 1,072 883 121 1,004 2,076 United States 1,378 1,378 396 278 674 2,052 Other, predominantly Asia 1 384 385 341 20 361 746 Total 462 2,373 2,835 1,620 419 2,039 4,874 ivLoans Information on the credit quality of the portfolio of loans, which almost wholly is for amounts which are neither past due or impaired is shown in notes D2, D3, D4 and E2.
Details of allowances for loans, losses and amounts past due are shown in notes G1 and G2.
No additional analysis is provided of the element of loans and receivables that were neither past due nor impaired from those of the total portfolio on the grounds of the immateriality of the difference between the neither past due nor impaired element and the total portfolio.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements B: Summary of results 211  A reconciliation of the total policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds of the Group from the beginning of the year to the end of the year is as follows: Insuranceoperations m UK US Asia Total Policyholder liabilities 116,229 48,311 21,858 186,398 Unallocated surplus of with-profits funds 9,966 53 10,019 At1January2010 126,195 48,311 21,911 196,417 Premiums 7,890 11,735 4,308 23,933 Surrenders 3,779 3,598 2,241 9,618 Maturities Deaths 7,303 769 498 8,570 Net flows 3,192 7,368 1,569 5,745 Shareholders transfers post tax 223 24 247 Investment-related items and other movements 13,172 3,464 2,235 18,871 Foreign exchange translation differences 208 1,380 2,081 3,253 Dilution of Groups holdings 27 27 Acquisition of UOB Life Assurance Limited 968 968 Asat31December2010 1January2011 135,717 60,523 28,740 224,980 Comprising: Policyholder liabilities 125,530 60,523 28,674 214,727 Unallocated surplus of with-profits funds 10,187 66 10,253 At1January2011 135,717 60,523 28,740 224,980 Premiums 6,988 12,914 5,079 24,981 Surrenders 4,255 4,270 2,237 10,762 Maturities Deaths 7,813 820 664 9,297 Net flows 5,080 7,824 2,178 4,922 Shareholders transfers post tax 216 30 246 Investment-related items and other movements 5,862 136 365 6,363 Foreign exchange translation differences 94 706 341 271 At31December2011 136,189 69,189 30,912 236,290 Comprising: Policyholder liabilities 127,024 69,189 30,862 227,075 Unallocated surplus of with-profits funds 9,165 50 9,215 Average policyholder liability balances 126,277 64,856 29,768 220,901 2011 2010 120,880 54,417 25,750 201,047 A verages have been based on opening and closing balances and adjusted for acquisition and disposals in the period and excluding unallocated surplus of with-profits funds.
The items above represent the amount attributable to changes in policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds as a result of each of the components listed.
The policyholder liabilities shown include investment contracts without discretionary participation features as defined in IFRS 4 and their full movement in the year.
The items above are shown gross of reinsurance.
212 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements B:Summaryofresults continued B5: The analysis above represents the impact of premiums, claims and investment movements on policyholders liabilities.
It does not represent premiums, claims and investment movements as reported in the income statement, for example the premiums shown above will exclude any deductions for fees charges and claims represent the policyholder liabilities provision released rather than the claim amount paid to the policyholder.
The amounts shown are not, and not intended to be, reflective of premium income recorded in the IFRS income statement.
Annual Premium Equivalents APEs are calculated as the aggregate of regular new business amounts and one-tenth of single new business amounts.
New business premiums for regular premium products are shown on an annualised basis.
Department of Work and Pensions DWP rebate business is classified as single recurrent business.
Internal vesting business is classified as new business where the contracts include an open market option.
The format of the tables shown above is consistent with the distinction between insurance and investment products as applied for previous financial reporting periods.
With the exception of some US institutional business, products categorised as insurance refer to those classified as contracts of long-term insurance business for regulatory reporting purposes, ie falling within one of the classes of insurance specified in Part II of Schedule 1 to the Regulated Activities Order under FSA regulations.
The details shown above for insurance products include contributions for contracts that are classified under IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts as not containing significant insurance risk.
These products are described as investment contracts or other financial instruments under IFRS.
Contracts included in this category are primarily certain unit-linked and similar contracts written in UK insurance operations and Guaranteed Investment Contracts and similar funding agreements written in US operations.
ii Investment products referred to in the table for funds under management above are unit trust, mutual funds and similar types of retail fund management arrangements.
These are unrelated to insurance products that are classified as investment contracts under IFRS 4, as described in the preceding paragraph, although similar IFRS recognition and measurement principles apply to the acquisition costs and fees attaching to this type of business.
iii New business sales for the Groups Japanese insurance subsidiary, which ceased selling new business with effect from 15 February 2010, have been excluded from the 2010 comparative.
iv New business and market gross inflows and redemptions have been translated at the average exchange rate for the year applicable.
Funds under management at points in time are translated at the exchange rate applicable at those dates.
v The Prudentials European operation is based in Ireland and sells products into Jersey, Guernsey, Isle of Man, Gibraltar, Cyprus, Malta, Belgium, Spain and UK.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements C:Groupriskmanagement 215 C:Groupriskmanagement a:Overview As a provider of financial services, including insurance, the management of risk lies at the heart of the Groups business.
The control procedures and systems established within the Group are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to meet business objectives.
They can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, and focus on aligning the levels of risk-taking with the achievement of business objectives.
The Groups internal control processes are detailed in the Group Governance Manual.
This is supported by the Group Risk Framework, which provides an overview of the Group-wide philosophy and approach to risk management.
Where appropriate, more detailed policies and procedures have been developed at Group and or business unit levels.
These include Group-wide mandatory policies on certain operational risks, including health, safety, fraud, money laundering, bribery, business continuity, information security and operational security, and policies on certain financial risks.
Additional guidelines are provided for some aspects of actuarial and financial activity.
Prudentials risk governance framework requires that all of the Groups businesses and functions establish processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks faced by the Group.
The risk governance framework is based on the concept of three lines of defence: Risk management: risk oversight and independent assurance.
Primary responsibility for strategy, performance management and risk control lies with the Board, which has established the Group Risk Committee to assist in providing leadership, direction and oversight, and with the Group Chief Executive and the chief executive of each business unit.
Risk oversight is provided by Group-level risk committees, chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer or the Chief Financial Officer.
Independent assurance on the Groups internal control and risk management systems is provided by the Group Audit Committee, supported by the Group-wide Internal Audit.
The Groups risk reporting framework forms an important part of the Groups business processes and planning.
Business units review their risks as well as opportunities as part of their business plans, and risks against business objectives are regularly discussed with Group executive management.
Additional information on the Groups risk framework is included in the risk and capital management section.
The management of the risk attached to the Groups financial instruments and insurance liabilities, together with the inter-relationship with the management of capital, is summarised in the following sections.
b:Groupriskappetite The Groups risk framework includes its appetite for risk exposures as well as its approach to risk management.
Under this approach, the Group continuously assesses the Groups top risks and monitors its risk profile against approved limits.
Prudential defines and monitors aggregate risk limits based on financial and non-financial stresses for its earnings volatility, liquidity and capital requirements.
Earningsvolatility: The objectives of the limits are to ensure that: a the volatility of earnings is consistent with the expectations of stakeholders, b the Group has adequate earnings and cash flows to service debt, expected dividends and to withstand unexpected shocks, and c earnings and cash flows are managed properly across geographies and are consistent with funding strategies.
The two measures used to monitor the volatility of earnings are European Embedded Value EEV operating profit and IFRS operating profit, although EEV and IFRS total profits are also considered.
Liquidity: The objective is to ensure that the Group is able to generate sufficient cash resources to meet financial obligations as they fall due in business as usual and stressed scenarios.
Capitalrequirements: The limits aim to ensure that: a the Group meets its internal economic capital requirements, b the Group achieves its desired target rating to meet its business objectives, and c supervisory intervention is avoided.
The two measures used are the EU Insurance Groups Directive IGD capital requirements and internal economic capital requirements.
In addition, capital requirements are monitored on a local statutory basis.
The Groups risk appetite framework forms an integral part of our annual business planning cycle.
The Group Risk Committee is responsible for reviewing the risks inherent in the Groups business plan and for providing the Board with input on the risk reward trade-offs implicit therein.
This review is supported by our Group Risk function, which uses submissions by business units to calculate the Groups aggregated position allowing for diversification effects between business units relative to the limits contained within the risk appetite statements.
216 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements C:Groupriskmanagement continued c: The Group manages its actual risk profile against its tolerance of risk.
To do this, the Group maintains risk registers that include details of the identified risks and of the controls and mitigating actions employed in managing them.
The Group uses a range of risk management and mitigation strategies.
The most important of these include: adjusting asset portfolios to reduce investment risks such as duration mismatches or overweight counterparty exposures : using derivatives to hedge market risks: implementing reinsurance programmes to manage insurance risk: implementing corporate insurance programmes to limit the impact of operational risks: and revising business plans where appropriate.
Any mitigation strategies involving large transactions, such as material derivative transactions, are subject to scrutiny at Group level before implementation.
i Useofderivatives In the UK business, most of our equity exposure is incurred in the with-profits fund, which includes a large inherited estate.
The inherited estate itself is partially protected against falls in equity markets through an active hedging policy.
In the US, to protect the shareholders against the volatility introduced by embedded options, Jackson uses both a comprehensive hedging programme and reinsurance.
Jackson makes use of the natural offsets that exist between the variable annuity guarantees and the fixed index annuity book, and then uses a combination of over-the-counter OTC options and exchange-traded derivatives to hedge the residual risk, allowing for significant market shocks and limiting the amount of capital at risk.
Internal positions are generally netted before any external hedge positions are considered.
Jackson manages fixed annuity interest rate exposure through a combination of interest rate swaps and interest rate options to protect capital against rates rising quickly, and through the contractual ability to reset crediting rates annually.
Prudential principally operates in the UK, the US, and in 13 countries and territories in Asia and the Middle East.
The geographical diversity of the Groups business means that Prudential is subject to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations.
The Group does not generally seek to hedge foreign currency revenues, as these are substantially retained locally to support the growth of the Groups business, and meet local regulatory and market requirements.
However, in cases where a surplus arising in an overseas operation supports Group capital or shareholders interest, this exposure is hedged if it is economically optimal to do so.
Currency borrowings, swaps and other derivatives are used to manage exposures.
Further details of the Groups use of derivatives are explained in note G3.
iiAsset liabilitymanagement Prudential actively manages its assets and liabilities, testing the adequacy of its reserves and the strength of the solvency position through a combination of analysis, scenarios and stochastic modelling.
A stochastic approach models the inter-relationship between asset and liability movements, taking into account asset correlation and policyholder behaviour, under a large number of possible scenarios.
These scenarios are projected forward over time and the liabilities and solvency position of the fund are calculated in each scenario in each future year.
This allows the identification of which extreme scenarios will have the most adverse effects and what the best estimate outcome may be.
The funds policy on management actions, including bonus and investment policy, is set, such that they are consistent with the available capital and the targeted risk of default.
This differs from a deterministic model, which would only consider the results from one carefully selected scenario.
For businesses that are most sensitive to interest rate changes, such as immediate annuity business, Prudential uses cash flow analysis to create a portfolio of fixed income securities whose value changes in line with the value of liabilities when interest rates change.
This type of analysis helps protect profits and the capital position from changing interest rates.
In the UK, the cash flow analysis is used in Prudentials annuity business while, in the US, it is used for its interest-sensitive and fixed index annuities and stable value products such as Guaranteed Investment Contracts GICs.
Perfect matching is not possible, for example because of the nature of the liabilities which might include guaranteed surrender values and options for prepayment contained in the assets or the unavailability of assets with a sufficiently long duration.
For businesses that are most sensitive to equity price changes, Prudential uses stochastic modelling and scenario testing to look at the expected future returns on its investments under different scenarios that best reflect the large diversity in returns that equities can produce.
This allows Prudential to devise an investment and with-profits policyholder bonus strategy that, on the model assumptions, allows it to optimise returns to its policyholders and shareholders over time, while maintaining appropriate financial strength.
Prudential uses this method extensively in connection with its UK with-profits business.
d:Riskexposures The Group publishes separately within Additional Information of its Group Annual Report, a section on key risk factors, which discusses inherent risks in the business and trading environment.
i Marketrisks Market risk is the risk of loss for our business, or of adverse change in the financial situation, resulting directly or indirectly from fluctuations in the level or volatility of market prices of assets and liabilities.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements C:Groupriskmanagement 217  Prudential invests in equity type investments which are subject to equity price risk, as well as in bonds, mortgages and cash deposits, the values of which are subject to interest rate risk.
The amount of risk borne by Prudentials shareholders depends on the nature of its liabilities and the extent to which its customers share the investment risk through the structure of Prudentials products.
Prudential has some liabilities that contain guaranteed returns for example, interest-sensitive fixed annuities and immediate annuities, which generally will be supported by fixed income investments.
In the US, Jackson is a leading provider of variable annuities for which guarantees are included as part of the contract terms.
GMDB are provided on all policies in this class, GMWB on 70 per cent of the book and GMIB on 5 per cent.
To protect the shareholders against the volatility introduced by these embedded options, Jackson used both a comprehensive hedging programme and reinsurance.
The GMIB is no longer offered, with existing coverage being reinsured.
In the case of other liabilities, where customers share the investment risk, Prudential invests a substantial portion of the assets in equity and property investments that Prudential believes produce greater returns over the long-term.
Foreignexchangerisk 70 per cent of Prudentials operating profit based on longer-term investment returns, as described in note B1, for the year ended 31 December 2011, came from US and Asian operations.
The resulting exposure from the translation of these reported earnings to Sterling is not separately managed, although its impact is reduced by interest payments on foreign currency borrowings and by the adoption of average exchange rates for the translation of foreign currency revenues.
Approximately 77 per cent of the Groups IFRS basis shareholders equity at 31 December 2011 arose in Prudentials US and Asian operations 2010: approximately 79 per cent.
To mitigate the exposure of the US component there are US$2.85 billion of borrowings held centrally, which are formally designated as net investment hedges at 31 December 2011.
Net of the currency position arising from these borrowings some 57 per cent of the Groups shareholders funds are represented by net assets in currencies other than sterling.
Additional details on the market risks exposures of the UK, US and Asian insurance operations are provided in notes D2, D3 and D4, respectively.
iiCreditrisk The risk of loss for our business or of adverse change in the financial position, resulting from fluctuations in the credit standing of issuers of securities, counterparties and any debtors in the form of default or other significant credit event eg downgrade or spread widening.
Some of Prudentials businesses, in particular Jackson, the PAC with-profits fund and Prudentials UK pension annuity business hold large amounts of investments that contain credit risk on which a certain level of default is expected.
These expected losses are considered when Prudential determines the crediting rates, deposit rates and premium rates for the products that will be supported by these assets.
Certain OTC derivatives contain a credit risk element that is controlled through the evaluation of collateral agreements and master netting agreements on interest rate and currency swaps.
Prudential is also exposed to credit-related losses in the event of non-performance by counterparties.
Further analysis of the credit quality of debt securities held by the Group is shown in note B5.
Additional details on the credit quality of the debt security portfolios of UK, US and Asian insurance operations are shown in notes D2, D3 and D4, respectively.
iiiLiquidityrisk Liquidity risk is the risk of the Group being unable to generate sufficient cash resources or raise finance to meet financial obligations as they fall due in business as usual and stress scenarios.
The assets of insurers are in general relatively liquid, whilst the majority of liabilities are long-term products held by policyholders.
Prudential regularly monitors and analyses its liquidity position at the Group level and performs stress tests of this position.
The liquidity of the Group is monitored on a monthly basis by comparing the predicted cash needs of the Group centre, to meet corporate and financing costs net of expected dividends from the business units, to the liquid resources available to it.
These liquid resources include cash held and cash that could be raised through internal resources for example by reporting unencumbered bonds.
The stresses consider changes to cash requirements, the availability of external financing and internal sources of liquidity and the sufficiency of external back-up lines.
The holding company has significant internal sources of liquidity which are sufficient to meet all of our expected requirements for the foreseeable future without having to make use of external funding.
The Group maintains 2.1 billion of undrawn syndicated and bilateral committed banking facilities, maturing between 2013 and 2017. ivInsurancerisk Insurance risk is the risk of loss for our business or of adverse change in the value of insurance liabilities, resulting from changes in the level, trend or volatility of a number of insurance risk drivers.
This includes adverse mortality, longevity, morbidity, persistency and expense experience.
Prudential needs to make assumptions about a number of factors in determining the pricing of its products and for reporting the results of its long-term business operations.
In common with other industry participants, the profitability of the Groups businesses depends on a mix of factors, including mortality and morbidity trends, persistency, investment performance, unit cost of administration and new business acquisition expenses.
218 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements C:Groupriskmanagement continued d:Riskexposures continued For example, the assumption that Prudential makes about future expected levels of mortality is particularly relevant for its UK annuity business where, in exchange for their accumulated pension fund, pension annuity policyholders receive a guaranteed payment, for as long as they live.
Prudential conducts extensive research into longevity risk using data from its substantial annuitant portfolio.
As part of its pension annuity pricing and reserving policy, Prudential UK assumes that current rates of mortality continuously improve over time at levels based on adjusted data from the Continuous Mortality Investigations CMI projections as published by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries.
Prudentials persistency assumptions reflect recent past experience for each relevant line of business, and any expectations of future persistency.
Where appropriate, allowance is also made for the relationship, which is either assumed or historically observed, between persistency and investment returns, and for the resulting additional risk.
,  Operational risk is the risk of loss arising from inadequate or failed internal processes, or from personnel and systems, or from external events.
Business environment risk is the exposure to forces in the external environment that could significantly change the fundamentals that drive the businesss overall strategy.
Strategic risk is the risk of ineffective, inefficient or inadequate senior management processes for the development and implementation of business strategy in relation to the business environment and the Groups capabilities.
Prudential is exposed to operational, business environment and strategic risk in the course of running its businesses.
Prudential processes a large number of complex transactions across numerous products, and is subject to a number of different legal and regulatory, including tax, regimes.
Prudential also has a significant number of third-party relationships that are important to the distribution and processing of our products.
This results in reliance upon the operational performance of these outsourcing partners.
Prudentials systems and processes incorporate controls that are designed to manage and mitigate the operational risks associated with its activities.
Business units are required to confirm that they have implemented the necessary controls to evidence compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Hong Kong Code on Corporate Governance Practices.
The Group has an operational risk management framework and policy in place that facilitates both the qualitative and quantitative analysis of operational risk exposures.
The output of this framework, in particular management information on key operational risk and control assessments, scenario analysis, internal incidents and external incidents, is reported by the business units and presented to the Group Operational Risk Committee.
This information also supports business decision-making and lessons-learned activities: the ongoing improvement of the control environment: determining the operational risk capital requirements: and determination of the adequacy of Prudentials corporate insurance programme.
With regard to business environment risk, the Group has a wide-ranging programme of active and constructive engagement with governments, policymakers and regulators in our key markets and with relevant international institutions.
Such engagement is undertaken both directly and indirectly via trade associations.
The Group has procedures in place to monitor and track political and regulatory developments.
Where appropriate, the Group provides submissions and technical input to officials and others, either via submissions to formal consultations or through interactions with officials.
With regard to strategic risk, both business units and Group Head Office are required to adopt a forward-looking approach to risk management when performing risk assessments and the annual strategic planning process.
This supports the identification of potential threats and the initiatives needed to address them, as well as competitive opportunities.
The impact on the underlying businesses and or Group-wide risk profile is also considered to ensure that strategic initiatives are within the Groups risk appetite.
The European Union EU is developing a new solvency framework for insurance companies, referred to as Solvency II.
The Solvency II Directive, which sets out the new framework, was formally approved by the Economic and Financial Affairs Council in November 2009, and is currently anticipated to be transposed into local regulations and to take effect for supervisors from 2013, with implementation currently anticipated from 2014.
Solvency II represents a regulatory risk due to the uncertainty of what the rules will be when finalised, their potential impacts and the timing of their introduction.
The risks are that the Group may not be able to respond sufficiently quickly to the strategic implication of the change given levels of uncertainty around the content and timing: operational risk in terms of the scale and complexity of the delivery and uncertainty over timelines: and the additional capital that the Company may be required to hold.
Solvency II is covered in more detail in the Regulatory Capital requirements section below.
e: Regulatory capital requirements apply at an individual company level for the Groups life assurance and asset management business.
These are described in sections D5 and E3 respectively.
In addition, the Group as a whole is subject to the capital adequacy requirements of the EU IGD as implemented by the Financial Services Authority FSA in the UK.
The IGD pertains to groups whose activities are primarily concentrated in the insurance sector.
The IGD capital adequacy requirements involves aggregating surplus capital held in our regulated subsidiaries, from which Group borrowings, except those subordinated debt issues that qualify as capital, are deducted.
The test is passed when this aggregate number is positive: a negative result at any point in time is a notifiable breach of UK regulatory requirements.
Due to the geographically diverse nature of Prudentials operations, the application of these requirements to Prudential is complex.
In particular, for many of the Groups Asian operations, the assets, liabilities and capital requirements have to be recalculated based on FSA regulations as if the companies were directly subject to FSA regulation.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements C:Groupriskmanagement 219 The FSA has established a structure for determining how much hybrid debt can count as capital which is similar to that used for banks.
It categorises capital as Tier 1 equity and preference shares, Upper Tier 2 and Lower Tier 2.
Up to 15 per cent of Tier 1 capital can be in the form of hybrid debt and is called Innovative Tier 1.
At 31 December 2011, the Group held 1,823 million 2010: 1,463 million of Innovative Tier 1 capital in the form of perpetual securities, nil 2010: nil of Upper Tier 2 and 829 million 2010: 1,255 million of Lower Tier 2 capital.
In addition, Jackson held 160 million of surplus notes at the end of the financial year 2011 2010: 159 million which, although the US does not have a similar capital categorisation under its regulatory framework, are akin to the FSAs Lower Tier 2 Capital and have been disclosed as such in note H13.
Further details on Group borrowings are shown in note H13.
At 31 December 2010, Prudential met the requirements of the IGD with 4.3 billion of surplus capital before allowing for the 2010 final dividend.
In addition, during 2011, Prudential met the requirements of the FSA under the IGD.
The IGD position as at 31 December 2011 will be submitted to the FSA by 30 April 2012, and at the time of preparation of these financial statements, the surplus capital under the test was estimated to be around 4.0 billion before allowing for the 2011 final dividend, giving a solvency ratio of circa 275 per cent.
The main components of the decrease in IGD surplus during 2011 are: net capital generation mainly through operating earnings in-force releases less investment in new business, net of tax of 1.5 billion.
Offset by: investment market-related impacts of 0.6 billion, final 2010 dividend of 0.4 billion and interim 2011 dividend of 0.2 billion, external financing costs and other central costs, net of tax, of 0.5 billion, and net impact of 0.1 billion arising from issuance of the $550 million perpetual subordinated Tier 1 securities in January 2011 and repayment of the 500 million subordinated notes in December 2011.
Prudentials approach to capital allocation takes into account a range of factors, especially risk-adjusted returns on capital, the impact of alternative capital measurement bases accounting, regulatory, economic and ratings agency assessments, tax efficiency and wider strategic objectives.
Prudential optimises capital allocation across the Group by using a consistent set of capital performance metrics across all business units to ensure meaningful comparison.
Capital utilisation, return on capital and new business value creation are measured at a product level.
The use of these capital performance metrics is embedded into our decision-making processes for product design and product pricing.
Prudentials capital performance metrics are based on economic capital, which provides a view of our capital requirements across the Group, allowing for realistic diversification benefits.
Economic capital also provides valuable insights into our risk profile and is used both for risk measurement and capital management.
As noted above, the EU is developing a new solvency framework for insurance companies, referred to as Solvency II.
The Solvency II Directive, which sets out the new framework, was formally approved by the Economic and Financial Affairs Council in November 2009, and is expected to be transposed into local regulations and take effect for supervisors from 2013, with implementation for firms currently anticipated from 2014.
The new approach is based on the concept of three pillars minimum capital requirements, supervisory review of firms assessments of risk, and enhanced disclosure requirements.
Specifically, Pillar 1 covers the quantitative requirements around own funds, valuation rules for assets and liabilities and capital requirements.
Pillar 2 provides the qualitative requirements for risk management, governance and controls, including the requirement for insurers to submit an Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA, which will be used by the regulator as part of the supervisory review process.
Pillar 3 deals with the enhanced requirements for supervisory reporting and public disclosure.
A key aspect of Solvency II is that the assessment of risks and capital requirements are intended to be aligned more closely with economic capital methodologies.
Companies may be allowed to make use of internal economic capital models if approved by the local regulator.
The European Parliament is currently discussing the Omnibus II Directive which, once approved, will amend certain aspects of the Solvency II Directive, including the implementation date as described above.
The Omnibus II Directive is expected to be finalised during 2012.
In addition, the European Commission is continuing to develop, in consultation with stakeholders including industry, detailed rules that complement the high-level principles in the Solvency II Directive, referred to as implementing measures.
These are not expected to be finalised until later in 2012.
Further guidance and technical standards are also currently being developed by the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority EIOPA.
These are expected to be subject to a formal consultation and are unlikely to be finalised before early 2013.
There remains significant uncertainty regarding the outcome from this process.
In particular, the Solvency II rules relating to the determination of the liability discount rate and to the treatment of US business remain unclear, and Prudentials capital position is sensitive to these outcomes.
With reference to the liability discount rate, solutions to remove artificial volatility from the balance sheet have been suggested by policymakers as the regulations continue to evolve.
These solutions, along with transitional arrangements for the treatment of US business, are continuing to be considered by the European Parliament as part of the process to reach agreement on the Omnibus II Directive.
There is a risk that the effect of the final measures could be adverse for Prudential, including potentially that a significant increase in capital may be required to support its business, and that Prudential may be placed at a competitive disadvantage to other European and non-European financial services groups.
220 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements D: D1:Groupoverview a Products and classification for IFRS reporting The measurement basis of assets and liabilities of long-term business contracts is dependent upon the classification of the contracts under IFRS.
Under IFRS 4, contracts are initially classified as being either insurance contracts, if the level of insurance risk in the contracts is significant, or investment contracts, if the insurance risk is insignificant.
Insurance contracts Insurance contracts are permitted to be accounted for under previously applied GAAP.
The Group has chosen to adopt this approach.
However, as an improvement to accounting policy, permitted by IFRS 4, the Group has applied the measurement principles for withprofits contracts of UK regulated entities and disclosures of the UK Standard FRS 27 from 1 January 2005.
An explanation of the provisions under FRS 27 is provided in note D2.
Under the previously applied GAAP, UK GAAP, the assets and liabilities of contracts are reported in accordance with the Modified Statutory Basis MSB of reporting as set out in the ABI SORP.
The insurance contracts of the Groups shareholder-backed businesses fall broadly into the following categories: UK insurance operations bulk and individual annuity business, written primarily by Prudential Retirement Income Limited and other categories of non-participating UK business: Jackson fixed and variable annuity business and life insurance: and Prudential Corporation Asia non-participating term, whole life, and unit-linked policies, together with accident and health policies.
Investment contracts Investment contracts are further delineated under IFRS 4 between those with and without discretionary participation features.
For those contracts with discretionary participation features, IFRS 4 also permits the continued application of previously applied GAAP.
The Group has adopted this approach, again subject to the FRS 27 improvement.
For investment contracts that do not contain discretionary participation features, IAS 39 and, where the contract includes an investment management element, IAS 18, apply measurement principles to assets and liabilities attaching to the contract that may diverge from those previously applied.
Contracts of the Group, which are classified as investment contracts that do not contain discretionary participation features, can be summarised as: UK certain unit-linked savings and similar contracts, Jackson GICs and funding agreements minor amounts of annuity certain contracts, and Prudential Corporation Asia minor amounts for a number of small categories of business.
The accounting for the investment contracts of UK insurance operations and Jacksons GICs and funding agreements are considered in turn below:  Deferred acquisition costs Acquisition costs are deferred to the extent that it is appropriate to recognise an asset that represents the entitys contractual right to benefit from providing investment management services and are amortised as the entity recognises the related revenue.
IAS 18 further reduces the costs potentially capable of deferral to incremental costs only.
Deferred acquisition costs are amortised to the income statement in line with service provision.
Deferred income reserves These are required to be established under IAS 18 with amortisation over the expected life of the contract.
The majority of the relevant UK contracts are single premium with the initial deferred income reflecting the front-end load ie the difference between the premium paid and the amount credited to the unit fund.
Deferred income is amortised to the income statement in line with service provision.
The amortisation profile is either on a straight-line basis or, if more appropriate, a further deferral of income recognition is applied.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements D: Life assurance business 221 Sterling reserves Prudent provisions established for possible future expenses not covered by future margins at a policy level reflecting the regulatory approach in the UK are not permitted for those contracts with insignificant insurance risk that are classified as investment contracts.
 Under a traditional GIC, the policyholder makes a lump sum deposit.
The interest rate paid is fixed and established when the contract is issued.
Funding agreements are of a similar nature but the interest rate may be floating, based on a rate linked to an external index.
The US GAAP accounting requirements for such contracts are very similar to those under IFRS on the amortised cost model for liability measurement.
b Concentration of risk i Business accepted The Groups exposure to life assurance risks is well diversified.
This is achieved through the geographical spread of the Groups operations and, within those operations, through a broad mix of product types.
As part of the risk management framework, the Group regularly monitors concentration of risk using a variety of risk monitoring tools including common scenario testing and sensitivity analysis of the Group capital and profitability metrics involving IGD, Group economic capital, EEV and IFRS help identify concentrations of risks by risk types, products and business units, as well as the benefits of diversification of risks.
An example of the diversification benefits for Prudential is that adverse scenarios do not affect all business units in the same way, providing natural hedges within the Group.
For example, the Groups US business is sensitive to increasing interest rates, whereas, in contrast, several business units in Asia benefit from increasing rates.
Conversely, these Asian business units are sensitive towards low interest rates, whereas certain products in the US benefit from falling interest rates.
The economic capital framework also takes into account situations where factors are correlated, for example, the extent of correlation between UK and US economies.
Business units are also required to disclose to the Group risk function all material risks, along with information on their severity and likelihood, and mitigating actions taken or planned.
Credit risk remains one of the largest risk exposures.
This reflects the relative size of exposure in Jackson and the UK shareholder annuities business.
The Group manages concentration of credit risks by setting limits on the maximum exposure to each counterparty based on their credit ratings.
ii Ceded business The Group cedes certain business to other insurance companies.
Although the ceding of insurance does not relieve the Group of liability to its policyholders, the Group participates in such agreements for the purpose of managing its loss exposure.
The Group evaluates the financial condition of its reinsurers and monitors concentration of credit risk from similar geographic regions, activities or economic characteristics of the reinsurers to minimise its exposure from reinsurer insolvencies.
Reinsurance recoverable insurance assets are not a significant component of the Groups statement of financial position and accordingly, exposure to concentrations of reinsurance risk is not significant to the Group.
At 31 December 2011, 91 per cent 2010: 97 per cent of the reinsurance recoverable insurance assets were ceded by the Groups UK and US operations, of which 94 per cent 2010: 90 per cent of the balance were from reinsurers with Standard & Poors rating Aand above.
c Guarantees Notes D2 e, D3 e and D4 e provide details of guarantee features of the Groups life assurance products.
In the UK, guarantees of the with-profits products are valued for accounting purposes on a market consistent basis for 2011 as described in section D2 g ii.
The UK business also has products with guaranteed annuity option features, mostly within the Scottish Amicable Insurance Fund SAIF, as described in section D2 e. There is little exposure to financial options and guarantees in the shareholder-backed business of the UK operations.
The US business annuity products have a variety of option and guarantee features as described in section D3 e. Jacksons derivative programme seeks to manage the exposures as described in section D3 f. d Sensitivity of EEV basis shareholders profit and equity for market and other risks The Group prepares supplementary EEV basis financial statements for half-yearly and annual publication.
These statements include sensitivity disclosures which are part of the market risk information provided to key management.
The 2011 EEV sensitivity disclosures are shown in note 16 of the EEV basis supplementary information in this Annual Report.
222  D: continued D1: e Sensitivity of IFRS basis profit or loss and shareholders equity to market and other risks i Overview of risks by business unit The financial and insurance assets and liabilities attaching to the Groups life assurance business are, to varying degrees, subject to market and insurance risk and other changes of experience assumptions that may have a material effect on IFRS basis profit or loss and shareholders equity.
Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument or, in the case of liabilities of insurance contracts, their carrying value will fluctuate because of changes in market prices.
Market risk comprises three types of risk, namely: Currency risk: due to changes in foreign exchange rates: Interest rate risk: due to changes in market interest rates: and Other price risk: due to fluctuations in market prices other than those arising from interest rate risk or currency risk.
Policyholder liabilities relating to the Groups life assurance businesses are also sensitive to the effects of other changes in experience, or expected future experience, such as for mortality, other insurance risk and lapse risk.
Three key points are to be noted, namely: The Groups with-profit and unit-linked funds absorb most market risk attaching to the funds investments.
Except for second order effects, for example, on asset management fees and shareholders share of cost of bonuses for with-profits business, shareholder results are not directly affected by market value movements on the assets of these funds: The Groups shareholder results are most sensitive to market risks for assets of the shareholder-backed business: and The main exposures of the Groups IFRS basis results to market risk for its life assurance operations on investments of the shareholder-backed business are for debt securities.
The most significant items for which the IFRS basis shareholders profit or loss and shareholders equity for the Groups life assurance business is sensitive to these variables are shown in the following tables.
The distinction between direct and indirect exposure is not intended to indicate the relative size of the sensitivity.
Market and credit risk Insurance and lapse risk Type of business Investments derivatives Liabilities unallocated surplus Other exposure UK insurance operations see also section D2 j With-profits business Net neutral direct exposure Indirect exposure only Investment performance Persistency risk to including Prudential subject to smoothing future shareholder Annuities Limited through declared transfers bonuses SAIF sub-fund Net neutral direct exposure Indirect exposure only Asset management fees earned by M&G Unit-linked business Net neutral direct exposure Indirect exposure only Investment performance Persistency risk through asset management fees Asset liability mismatch risk Shareholder-backed Credit risk for assets Mortality experience annuity business covering liabilities and and assumptions for shareholder capital longevity Interest rate risk for assets in excess of liabilities ie assets representing shareholder capital Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements D: 223 Insurance and lapse risk Market and credit risk Type of business Investments derivatives Liabilities unallocated surplus Other exposure US insurance operations see also section D3 j All business Currency risk Persistency risk Variable annuity business Net effect of market risk arising from incidence of guarantee features and variability of asset management fees offset by derivative hedging programme Fixed indexed annuity Derivative hedge Incidence of equity business programme to the extent participation features not fully hedged against liability and fund performance Fixed indexed annuities, Credit risk Spread difference Lapse risk, but the Fixed annuities and Interest rate risk between earned effects of extreme GIC business rate and rate events are mitigated credited by the application of to policyholders market value adjustments and by the use of swaption contracts Profit and loss and shareholders equity are volatile for these risks as they affect the values of derivatives and embedded derivatives and impairment losses.
In addition, shareholders equity is volatile for the incidence of these risks on unrealised appreciation of fixed income securities classified as available-for-sale under IAS 39 Asian insurance operations see also section D4 j All business Currency risk Mortality and morbidity risk Persistency risk With-profits business Net neutral direct exposure Indirect exposure only Investment performance subject to smoothing through declared bonuses Unit-linked business Net neutral direct exposure Indirect exposure only Investment performance through asset management fees Non-participating Interest rate and price risk Interest rates for those business operations where the basis of insurance liabilities is sensitive to current market movements.
224  D: continued D1: ii IFRS shareholder results Exposures for market and other risk KeyGroupexposures Detailed analyses of sensitivity of IFRS basis profit or loss and shareholders equity to key market and other risks are provided in notes D2 j, D3 j, D4 j and E4.
The sensitivity analyses provided show the effect on profit or loss and shareholders equity to changes in the relevant risk variables, all of which are reasonably possible at the relevant balance sheet date.
In the analysis of exposure to interest rate risk, given the low interest rate environment, certain of the sensitivities to a decrease of 2 per cent include the effect of reducing the rate to near zero where rates are lower than 2 per cent.
The IFRS operating profit based on longer-term investment returns for UK insurance operations has high potential sensitivity for changes to longevity assumptions affecting the carrying value of liabilities to policyholders for UK shareholder-backed annuity business.
In addition, at the total IFRS profit level the result is particularly sensitive to temporary value movements on assets backing US and Asia policyholder liabilities which in general are measured on a basis that is insensitive to current market movements and shareholder equity.
For Jackson at the level of operating profit based on longer-term investment returns, the results are sensitive to market conditions to the extent of income earned on spread-based products and second order equity-based exposure in respect of variable annuity asset management fees.
Further information is given below under the US insurance operations section of market and credit risk.
Jacksons derivative programme is used to manage interest rate risk associated with a broad range of products and substantially mitigate equity market risk attaching to its equity-based products.
Movements in equity markets, interest rates and credit spreads materially affect the carrying value of derivatives which are used to manage the liabilities to policyholders and backing investment assets.
Combined with the use of US GAAP measurement as grandfathered under IFRS 4 for the insurance contracts assets and liabilities which is largely insensitive to current period market movements, the Jackson total profit ie including short-term fluctuations in investment returns is very sensitive to market movements.
In addition to these effects the Jackson IFRS shareholders equity is sensitive to the impact of interest rate and credit spread movements on the value of fixed income securities.
Movements in unrealised appreciation on these securities are included as movement in shareholders equity ie outside the income statement.
See D3 j for details of the hedging.
For Asian operations, the operating profit based on longer-term investment returns is mainly affected by the impact of market levels on unit-linked business persistency, and other insurance risk.
At the total IFRS profit level the Asian result is affected by short-term value movements on the asset portfolio for non-linked shareholder-backed business.
M&G profits are affected primarily by movements in the growth in funds under management and by the effect of any impairments on the loan book and fair value movements on debt securities held by Prudential Capital.
In addition, total profits and shareholders equity are sensitive to market value movements and centrally held swaps.
These are used to manage foreign currency and other macroeconomic exposures.
Market and credit risk  i With-profits business UK business of PAC with-profits fund Shareholder results of UK with-profits business are sensitive to market risk only through the indirect effect of investment performance on declared policyholder bonuses.
The investment assets of the PAC with-profits fund are subject to market risk.
However, changes in their carrying value, net of related changes to asset-share liabilities of with-profit contracts, affect the level of unallocated surplus of the fund.
As unallocated surplus is accounted for as a liability under IFRS, movements in its value do not affect shareholders profit or equity.
The shareholder results of the UK with-profits fund correspond to the shareholders share of the cost of bonuses declared on the with-profits business.
This currently corresponds to one-ninth of the cost of bonuses declared.
Investment performance is a key driver of bonuses, and hence the shareholders share of cost of bonuses.
Due to the smoothed basis of bonus declaration the sensitivity to investment performance in a single year is low relative to the movements in the period to period performance.
However, over multiple periods it is important.
Prudential Annuities Limited PAL PAL writes annuity business.
However, as PAL is owned by the PAC with-profits sub-fund, changes in the carrying value of PALs assets and liabilities are reflected in the liability for unallocated surplus which as described above, do not affect shareholder results.
Scottish Amicable Insurance Fund SAIF SAIF is a ring-fenced fund in which, apart from asset management fees, shareholders have no interest.
Accordingly, the Groups IFRS profit and equity are insensitive to the direct effects of market risk attaching to SAIFs assets and liabilities.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements D: 225 ii Shareholder-backed business The factors that may significantly affect the IFRS results of UK shareholder-backed business are the mortality experience and assumptions, and credit risk attaching to the annuity business of Prudential Retirement Income Limited and the PAC non-profit sub-fund.
The sensitivity to market risk for the main constituents elements of the shareholder-backed business of the UK insurance operations is as follows: Prudential Retirement Income Limited PRIL The assets covering PRILs liabilities are principally debt securities and other investments that are held to match the expected duration and payment characteristics of the policyholder liabilities.
These liabilities are valued for IFRS reporting purposes by applying discount rates that reflect the market rates of return attaching to the covering assets.
Except to the extent of any asset liability duration mismatch which is reviewed regularly, and exposure to credit risk, the sensitivity of the Groups results to market risk for movements in the carrying value of PRILs liabilities and covering assets is broadly neutral on a net basis.
The main market risk sensitivity for PRIL arises from interest rate risk on the debt securities which substantially represent shareholders equity.
This shareholders equity comprises the net assets held within the long-term fund of the company that cover regulatory basis liabilities that are not recognised for IFRS reporting purposes, for example contingency reserves, and shareholder capital held outside the long-term fund.
The principal items affecting the IFRS results for PRIL are mortality experience and assumptions, and credit risk.
PAC non-profit sub-fund The PAC non-profit sub-fund principally comprises annuity business previously written by Scottish Amicable Life, unit-linked and other non-participating business.
The financial assets covering the liabilities for those types of business are subject to market risk.
However, for the annuity business the same considerations as described above for PRIL apply, whilst the liabilities of the unit-linked business change in line with the matching linked assets.
Other liabilities of the PAC non-profit sub-fund are broadly insensitive to market risk.
Other shareholder-backed unit-linked business Due to the matching of policyholder liabilities to attaching asset value movements the UK unit-linked business is not directly affected by market or credit risk.
The principal factor affecting the IFRS results is investment performance through asset management fees.
 Jackson The IFRS basis results of Jackson are highly sensitive to market risk on the assets covering liabilities other than variable annuity business segregated in the separate accounts.
Invested assets covering liabilities other than the separate accounts and related capital comprise principally debt securities classified as available-for-sale.
Value movements for these securities are reflected as movements in shareholders equity through the statement of comprehensive income.
Other invested assets and derivatives are carried at fair value with the value movements reflected in the income statement.
By contrast, the IFRS insurance liabilities for business written by Jackson, by the application of grandfathered GAAP under IFRS 4, are measured on US GAAP bases which, with the exception of certain items covered by the equity hedging programme, are generally insensitive to temporary changes in market conditions or the short-term returns on the attaching asset portfolios.
These differences in carrying value of debt securities, other invested assets, derivatives and insurance liabilities give rise to potentially significant volatility in the IFRS income statement and shareholders equity.
As with other shareholder-backed business the profit or loss for Jackson is presented by distinguishing the result for the year between an operating result based on longer-term investment returns and short-term fluctuations in investment returns.
In this way the most significant direct effect of market changes that have taken place to the Jackson result are separately identified.
Excluding these short-term effects, the factors that most significantly affect the Jackson IFRS operating result based on long-term investment returns are: Variable annuity business effect of market risk arising from the variability of asset management fees, Fixed annuity and fixed index annuity business the spread differential between the earned rate and the rate credited to policyholders, and Amortisation of deferred acquisition costs.
226  D: continued D1:  For Asian with-profits business the same features apply as described above for UK with-profits business.
Similarly, as for other parts of the Group, for unit-linked business the main factor affecting IFRS basis results is investment performance through asset management fees.
The sensitivity of the IFRS basis results of the Groups Asian operations to market risk is primarily restricted to the non-participating business.
This sensitivity is primarily reflected through the volatility of asset returns coupled with the fact that the accounting carrying value of liabilities to policyholders are only partially sensitive to changed market conditions.
As for UK shareholder-backed operations and Jackson, the IFRS profit is distinguished in the Groups segmental analysis so as to distinguish operating profits based on longer-term investment return and short-term fluctuations in investment returns.
Insurance and lapse risk The features described above cover the main sensitivities of IFRS profit and loss and equity for market and credit risk.
Lapse and longevity risk may also be a key determination of IFRS basis results with variable impacts.
In the UK, adverse persistency experience can affect the level of profitability from with-profits and unit-linked business.
For with-profits business in any given year, the amount represented by the shareholders share of cost of bonus may only be marginally affected.
However, altered persistency trends may affect future expected shareholder transfers.
By contrast, Group IFRS operating profit is particularly sensitive to longevity outlook that results in changes of assumption for the UK shareholder-backed annuity business.
Jackson is sensitive to lapse risk.
However, Jackson uses swaption derivatives to ameliorate the effect of a sharp rise in interest rates, which would be the most likely cause of a sudden change in policyholder behaviour.
In Asia, adverse persistency experience can impact the IFRS profitability of certain business written in the region.
This risk is managed at a business unit level through monthly monitoring of experience and the implementation of management actions as necessary.
These actions could include product enhancements, increased management focus on premium collection as well as other customer retention efforts.
The potential financial impact of lapses is often mitigated through the specific features of the products, eg surrender charges.
Impact of diversification on risk exposure The Group enjoys significant diversification benefits.
This arises because not all risk scenarios will happen at the same time and across all geographic regions.
The Group tests the sensitivities of results to different correlation factors such as: Correlation across geographic regions financial risk factors non-financial risk factors Correlation across risk factors longevity risk expenses persistency other risks The effect of Group diversification is to significantly reduce the aggregate standalone volatility risk to IFRS operating profit based on longer-term investment returns.
The effect is almost wholly explained by the correlations across risk types, in particular longevity risk.
f Duration of liabilities Under the terms of the Groups contracts, as for life assurance contracts generally, the contractual maturity date is the earlier of the end of the contract term, death, other insurable events or surrender.
The Group has therefore chosen to provide details of liability duration that reflect the actuarially determined best estimate of the likely incidence of these factors on contract duration.
Details are shown in sections D2 k, D3 k and D4 k. In the years 2007 to 2011, claims paid on the Groups life assurance contracts including those classified as investment contracts under IFRS 4 ranged from 17 billion to 19 billion.
Indicatively, it is to be expected that, of the Groups policyholder liabilities excluding unallocated surplus at 31 December 2011 of 227.1 billion, the amounts likely to be paid in 2012 will be of a similar magnitude.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements D: 227 D2: a Summary statement of financial position In order to show the statement of financial position by reference to the differing degrees of policyholder and shareholder economic interest of the different types of fund and business, the analysis below is structured to show separately assets and liabilities of the SAIF, the PAC with-profits sub-fund WPSF, unit-linked assets and liabilities and annuity principally PRIL and other long-term business.
92.6 billion of the 142.4 billion of investments are held by SAIF and the PAC WPSF.
Shareholders are exposed only indirectly to value movements on these assets.
PAC with-profits sub-fundnote i Other funds and subsidiaries UnitScottish Excluding linked Annuity Amicable Prudential Prudential assets and other Insurance Annuities Annuities and long-term 2011 2010 Fund Limited Limited Total liabilities business Total Total Total note ii note iii note iv By operating segment m m m m m m m m m Assets Intangible assets attributable to shareholders: Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 113 113 113 120 Total 113 113 113 120 Intangible assets attributable to with-profits funds: In respect of acquired subsidiaries for venture fund and other investment purposes 178 178 178 166 Deferred acquisition costs 6 6 6 13 Total 184 184 184 179 Total intangible assets 184 184 113 113 297 299 Deferred tax assets 99 2 101 130 130 231 214 Other non-investment and non-cash assets 413 1,799 107 1,906 364 2,088 2,452 4,771 4,631 Investment of long-term business and other operations: note viii Investment properties 571 7,164 726 7,890 682 1,569 2,251 10,712 11,212 Investments accounted for using the equity method 70 70 70 69 Financial investments: note v Loans 143 1,752 78 1,830 1,142 1,142 3,115 2,302 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 2,448 20,685 170 20,855 13,394 25 13,419 36,722 40,519 Debt securities 4,349 37,696 5,633 43,329 6,115 24,160 30,275 77,953 74,304 note vi Other investments 281 3,550 306 3,856 87 344 431 4,568 3,998 Deposits 693 6,155 236 6,391 966 1,237 2,203 9,287 9,022 Total investments 8,485 77,002 7,149 84,151 21,244 28,547 49,791 142,427 141,426 Properties held for sale 254 Cash and cash equivalents 112 1,636 191 1,827 666 360 1,026 2,965 2,839 Total assets 9,010 80,720 7,449 88,169 22,274 31,238 53,512 150,691 149,663 228  D: continued D2: continued PAC with-profits sub-fundnote i Other funds and subsidiaries Scottish UnitAmicable Excluding Prudential linked Annuity Insurance Prudential Annuities assets and other 2011 2010 Fund Annuities Limited Total and long-term Group Group note ii Limited note iii note iv liabilities business Total Total Total m m m m m m m m m Equity and liabilities Equity Shareholders equity 2,581 2,581 2,581 2,148 Non-controlling interests 33 33 33 35 Total equity 33 33 2,581 2,581 2,614 2,183 Liabilities Policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds: Contract liabilities including amounts in respect of contracts classified as investment contracts under IFRS 4 8,555 67,098 5,323 72,421 21,281 24,767 46,048 127,024 125,530 Unallocated surplus of with-profits funds reflecting application of realistic basis provisions for UK note vii regulated with-profits funds 7,743 1,422 9,165 9,165 10,187 Total 8,555 74,841 6,745 81,586 21,281 24,767 46,048 136,189 135,717 Operational borrowings attributable to shareholder-financed operations 1 102 103 103 162 Borrowings attributable to with-profits funds 17 955 955 972 1,522 Deferred tax liabilities 41 691 135 826 482 482 1,349 1,738 Other non-insurance liabilities 397 4,200 569 4,769 992 3,306 4,298 9,464 8,341 Total liabilities 9,010 80,687 7,449 88,136 22,274 28,657 50,931 148,077 147,480 Total equity and liabilities 9,010 80,720 7,449 88,169 22,274 31,238 53,512 150,691 149,663 Notes i For the purposes of this table and subsequent explanation, references to the WPSF also include, for convenience, the amounts attaching to the Defined Charges Participating Sub-fund, which comprises 3.4 per cent of the total assets of the WPSF and includes the with-profits annuity business transferred to Prudential from the Equitable Life Assurance Society on 1 December 2007 with assets of approximately 1.7 billion.
Profits to shareholders on this with-profits annuity business emerge on a charges less expenses basis and policyholders are entitled to 100 per cent of the investment earnings.
ii SAIF is a separate sub-fund within the PAC long-term business fund.
iii Wholly-owned subsidiary of the PAC WPSF that writes annuity business.
The closing liabilities are significantly lower than in 2010 due to a recapture of business by the PAC WPSF.
iv Excluding policyholder liabilities of the Hong Kong branch of PAC.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements D: 229 v UK Insurance operations The loans of the Groups UK insurance operations comprise: 2011 m 2010 m SAIF and PAC WPSF Mortgage loans 1,036 256 Policy loans 20 21 Other loans 917 993 Total SAIF and PAC WPSF loans 1,973 1,270 Shareholder-backed Mortgage loans 1,137 1,027 Other loans 5 5 Total shareholder-backed loans 1,142 1,032 Total UK insurance operations loans 3,115 2,302 The mortgage loans are collateralised by properties.
By carrying value, 96 per cent of the 1,137 million held for shareholder-backed business relates to lifetime equity release mortgage business which has an average loan to property value of 27 per cent.
Other loans held by the PAC WPSF are all commercial loans and comprise mainly syndicated loans.
vi Other investments comprise: 2011 m 2010 m Derivative assets 1,461 926 Partnerships in investment pools and other 3,107 3,072 4,568 3,998 In the UK, Prudential uses derivatives to reduce equity and credit risk, interest rate and currency exposures, and to facilitate efficient portfolio management.
After derivative liabilities of 1,298 million 2010: 792 million, which are also included in the statement of financial position, the overall derivative position was a net asset of 163 million 2010: 134 million.
Partnerships in investment pools and other comprise mainly investments held by the PAC with-profits fund.
These investments are primarily investments in limited partnerships and additionally, investments in property funds.
vii Unallocated surplus of with-profits funds Prudentials long-term business written in the UK comprises predominantly life insurance policies under which the policyholders are entitled to participate in the returns of the funds supporting these policies.
Business similar to this type is also written in certain of the Groups Asian operations, subject to local market and regulatory conditions.
Shareholders profits with respect to bonuses declared on with-profits business correspond to the shareholders share of the cost of bonuses as declared by the Board of Directors.
The unallocated surplus represents the excess of assets over policyholder liabilities for the Groups with-profits funds.
The balance of the unallocated surplus is determined after full provision for deferred tax on unrealised appreciation of investments.
viii Investment properties At 31 December 2011, the Groups UK insurance operations had 10,712 million 2010: 11,212 million of investment properties.
The following table shows the property portfolio by type of investment.
The properties are shown at market value below in accordance with the policies described in note A4.
2011 2010 m % m % Office buildings 4,443 41.5 4,617 41.2 Shopping centres commercial 4,315 40.3 3,777 33.7 Retail warehouses industrial 1,406 13.1 2,184 19.5 Development 383 3.6 402 3.6 Other 165 1.5 232 2.0 Total 10,712 100.0 11,212 100.0 Approximately 42.9 per cent 2010: 46.2 per cent of the UK-held investment property is located in London and south east England including Buckinghamshire, Berkshire, East and West Sussex, Hampshire, Isle of Wight, Kent, Oxfordshire and Surrey, with 41.1 per cent 2010: 36.7 per cent located throughout the rest of the UK and the remaining 16.0 per cent 2010: 17.1 per cent located overseas.
230  D: continued D2: continued b Reconciliation of movement in investments A reconciliation of the total investments of UK insurance operations from the beginning of the year to the end of the year is as follows: Other funds and PAC with-profits sub-fund subsidiaries UnitScottish Excluding linked Annuity UK Amicable Prudential Prudential assets and other insurance Insurance Annuities Annuities and long-term operations Fund Limited Limited Total li abilities business Total m m m m m m m At 1 January 2010 Total investments including derivative assets 9,848 67,832 13,794 81,626 18,421 22,795 132,690 Less: Investments held by consolidated investment funds 1,050 19 1,069 729 37 1,835 Less: Derivative liabilities 37 317 166 483 189 709 Directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 9,811 66,465 13,609 80,074 17,692 22,569 130,146 Net cash outflow inflow from operating activities 762 838 21 859 1,000 1,950 1,329 Realised gains in the year 368 1,502 73 1,575 267 23 2,233 Unrealised gains and losses and exchange movements in the year 249 2,963 608 3,571 1,131 1,007 5,958 Reclassification of property under development 56 56 Movement in the year of directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 145 3,627 660 4,287 2,398 3,036 9,576 At 31 December 2010 1 January 2011 Total investments including derivative assets 9,704 70,576 14,496 85,072 20,795 25,855 141,426 Less: Investments held by consolidated investment funds 140 22 162 705 45 912 G3 Less: Derivative liabilities 38 344 205 549 205 792 Directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 9,666 70,092 14,269 84,361 20,090 25,605 139,722 Net cash outflow inflow from operating activities 1,154 6,746 8,184 1,438 638 1,034 920 Realised gains in the year 349 2,047 785 2,832 607 64 3,852 Unrealised gains and losses and exchange movements in the year 448 2,606 12 2,618 888 1,452 2,502 Movement in the year of directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 1,253 6,187 7,411 1,224 357 2,550 430 At 31 December 2011 Total investments including derivative assets 8,485 77,002 7,149 84,151 21,244 28,547 142,427 Less: Investments held by consolidated investment funds 52 23 75 793 109 977 G3 Less: Derivative liabilities 72 671 268 939 4 283 1,298 Directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 8,413 76,279 6,858 83,137 20,447 28,155 140,152 Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements D: 231 c Reconciliation of movement in policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds A reconciliation of the total policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds of UK insurance operations from the beginning of the year to the end of the year is as follows: Other shareholder-backed funds and subsidiaries Annuity SAIF and PAC and other with-profits Unit-linked long-term sub-fund liabilities business Total m m m m At 1 January 2010 87,495 19,035 19,665 126,195 Comprising: Policyholder liabilities 77,529 19,035 19,665 116,229 Unallocated surplus of with-profits funds 9,966 9,966 Premiums 3,311 2,301 2,278 7,890 Surrenders 2,453 1,272 54 3,779 Maturities Deaths 5,079 726 1,498 7,303 note a Net flows 4,221 303 726 3,192 Shareholders transfers post-tax 223 223 Switches 236 236 note b Investment-related items and other movements 9,165 2,097 1,910 13,172 Dilution of Groups holdings 27 27 Foreign exchange translation differences 207 1 208 At 31 December 2010 1 January 2011 91,773 21,671 22,273 135,717 Comprising: Policyholder liabilities 81,586 21,671 22,273 125,530 Unallocated surplus of with-profits funds 10,187 10,187 Premiums 3,413 1,854 1,721 6,988 Surrenders 2,285 1,851 119 4,255 Maturities Deaths 5,551 655 1,607 7,813 note a Net flows 4,423 652 5 5,080 Shareholders transfers post-tax 216 216 Switches 237 237 note b Investment-related items and other movements 3,338 25 2,499 5,862 Foreign exchange translation differences 94 94 At 31 December 2011 90,141 21,281 24,767 136,189 Comprising: Policyholder liabilities 80,976 21,281 24,767 127,024 Unallocated surplus of with-profits funds 9,165 9,165 Average policyholder liability balances 2011 81,281 21,476 23,520 126,277 2010 79,558 20,353 20,969 120,880 Excluding the unallocated surplus of the with-profits funds and as adjusted for corporate transactions in the period.
Notes a Net outflows increased from 3,192 million in 2010 to 5,080 million in 2011, principally as a result of stock transfer activity within the unit-linked business 2011 saw a large transfer out, while 2010 benefited from a large transfer in and a lower level of bulk annuity transactions in 2011. b Investment-related items and other movements of 5,862 million was lower than the 13,172 million benefit seen in 2010 principally as a result of weaker performance of UK equity markets in 2011.
The 7,615 million total debt securities held at 31 December 2011 2010: 7,258 million which are not externally rated are either internally rated or unrated.
These are analysed as follows: 2011 m 2010 m Internal ratings or unrated: AAA to A- 2,726 2,210 BBB to B- 3,773 3,861 Below Bor unrated 1,116 1,187 Total 7,615 7,258 The majority of unrated debt security investments were held in SAIF and the PAC with-profits fund and relate to convertible debt and other investments which are not covered by ratings analysts nor have an internal rating attributed to them.
Of the 1,882 million PRIL and other annuity and long-term business investments which are not externally rated, 9 million were internally rated AAA, 114 million AA, 590 million A, 887 million BBB, 92 million BB and 190 million were internally rated B and below or unrated.
During the year Standard and Poors withdrew its ratings of debt securities issued by a number of Sovereigns.
Where these are no longer available Moodys ratings have been used.
This primarily impacts the UK and Asia insurance operations.
As detailed in note D2 j below, the primary sensitivity of IFRS basis profit or loss and shareholders equity relates to non-linked shareholder-backed business which covers PRIL and other annuity and long-term business in the table above.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements D: 233 e Products and guarantees Prudentials long-term products in the UK consist of life insurance, pension products and pension annuities.
These products are written primarily in: One of three separate sub-funds of the PAC long-term fund, namely the with-profits sub-fund, SAIF, and the non-profit sub-fund: Prudential Annuities Limited, which is owned by the PAC with-profits sub-fund: Prudential Retirement Income Limited, a shareholder-owned subsidiary: or Other shareholder-backed subsidiaries writing mainly non-profit unit-linked business.
i With-profits products and PAC with-profits sub-fund Within the statement of financial position of UK insurance operations at 31 December 2011, as shown in note D2 a, there are policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of 81.6 billion 2010: 82.0 billion that relate to the WPSF.
These amounts include the liabilities and capital of Prudential Annuities Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the fund.
The WPSF mainly contains with-profits business but it also contains some non-profit business unit-linked, term assurances and annuities.
The WPSFs profits are apportioned 90 per cent to its policyholders and 10 per cent to shareholders as surplus for distribution is determined via the annual actuarial valuation.
The WPSF held a provision of 90 million at 31 December 2011 2010: 24 million to honour guarantees on a small amount of guaranteed annuity products.
SAIFs exposure to guaranteed annuities is described below.
Beyond the generic guarantees described above, there are very few explicit options or guarantees such as minimum investment returns, surrender values or annuities at retirement and any granted have generally been at very low levels.
With-profits products provide returns to policyholders through bonuses that are smoothed.
There are two types of bonuses: annual and final.
Annual bonuses are declared once a year and, once credited, are guaranteed in accordance with the terms of the particular product.
Unlike annual bonuses, final bonuses are guaranteed only until the next bonus declaration.
The main factors that influence the determination of bonus rates are the return on the investments of the with-profits fund, inflation, taxation, the expenses of the fund chargeable to policyholders and the degree to which investment returns are smoothed.
The overall rate of return earned on investments and the expectation of future investment returns are the most important influences on bonus rates.
A high proportion of the assets backing the with-profits business are invested in equities and real estate.
If the financial strength of the with-profits business is affected, then a higher proportion of fixed interest or similar assets might be held by the fund.
Further details on the determination of the two types of the bonuses: regular and final, the application of significant judgement, key assumptions and the degree of smoothing of investment returns in determining the bonus rates are provided below.
Regularbonusrates For regular bonuses, the bonus rates are determined for each type of policy primarily by targeting the bonus level at a prudent proportion of the long-term expected future investment return on underlying assets.
The expected future investment return is reduced as appropriate for each type of policy to allow for items such as expenses, charges, tax and shareholders transfers.
However, the rates declared may differ by product type or by the date of payment of the premium or date of issue of the policy or if the accumulated annual bonuses are particularly high or low relative to a prudent proportion of the achieved investment return.
When target bonus levels change the PAC Board of Directors PAC Board has regard to the overall strength of the long-term fund when determining the length of time over which it will seek to achieve the amended prudent target bonus level.
In normal investment conditions, PAC expects changes in regular bonus rates to be gradual over time, and these are not expected to exceed 1 per cent per annum over any year.
However, the PAC Directors retain the discretion whether or not to declare a regular bonus each year, and there is no limit on the amount by which regular bonus rates can change.
Finalbonusrates A final bonus, which is normally declared yearly, may be added when a claim is paid or when units of a unitised product are realised.
The rates of final bonus usually vary by type of policy and by reference to the period, usually a year, in which the policy commences or each premium is paid.
These rates are determined by reference to the asset shares for the sample policies but subject to the smoothing approach, explained below.
In general, the same final bonus scale applies to maturity, death and surrender claims except that: The total surrender value may be impacted by the application of a Market Value Reduction MVR which is for accumulating with-profits policies and is affected by the surrender bases for conventional with-profits business : and For the SAIF and Scottish Amicable Life SAL, the final bonus rates applicable on surrender may be adjusted to reflect expected future bonus rates.
234  D: continued D2: continued  The application of the above method for determining bonuses requires the PAC Board to apply significant judgement in many respects, including in particular the following: Determining what constitutes fair treatment of customers: Prudential is required by UK law and regulation to consider the fair treatment of its customers in setting bonus levels.
The concept of determining what constitutes fair treatment, while established by statute, is not defined: Smoothing of investment returns: This is an important feature of with-profits products.
Determining when particular circumstances, such as a significant rise or fall in market values, warrant variations in the standard bonus smoothing limits that apply in normal circumstances requires the PAC Board to exercise significant judgement: and Determining at what level to set bonuses to ensure that they are competitive: The overall return to policyholders is an important competitive measure for attracting new business.
Keyassumptions As noted above, the overall rate of return on investments and the expectation of future investment returns are the most important influences in bonus rates, subject to the smoothing described below.
Prudential determines the assumptions to apply in respect of these factors, including the effects of reasonably likely changes in key assumptions, in the context of the overarching discretionary and smoothing framework that applies to its with-profits business as described above.
As such, it is not possible to specifically quantify the effects of each of these assumptions or of reasonably likely changes in these assumptions.
Prudentials approach, in applying significant judgement and discretion in relation to determining bonus rates, is consistent conceptually with the approach adopted by other firms that manage a with-profits business.
It is also consistent with the requirements of UK law, which require all UK firms that carry out a with-profits business to define, and make publicly available, the Principles and Practices of Financial Management PPFM that are applied in the management of their with-profits funds.
Accordingly, Prudentials PPFM contains an explanation of how it determines regular and final bonus rates within the discretionary framework that applies to all with-profits policies, subject to the general legislative requirements applicable.
The purpose of Prudentials PPFM is therefore to: explain the nature and extent of the discretion available, show how competing or conflicting interests or expectations of: different groups and generations of policyholders, and policyholders and shareholders are managed so that all policyholders and shareholders are treated fairly, and provide a knowledgeable observer eg a financial adviser with an understanding of the material risks and rewards from starting and continuing to invest in a with-profits policy with Prudential.
Furthermore, in accordance with industry-wide regulatory requirements, the PAC Board has appointed: an Actuarial Function Holder who provides the PAC Board with all actuarial advice: a With-Profits Actuary whose specific duty is to advise the PAC Board on the reasonableness and proportionality of the manner in which its discretion has been exercised in applying the PPFM and the manner in which any conflicting interests have been addressed: and a With-Profits Committee of independent individuals, which assesses the degree of compliance with the PPFM and the manner in which conflicting rights have been addressed.
 In determining bonus rates for the UK with-profits policies, smoothing is applied to the allocation of the overall earnings of the UK with-profits fund of which the investment return is a significant element.
The smoothing approach differs between accumulating and conventional with-profits policies to reflect the different contract features.
In normal circumstances, Prudential does not expect most payout values on policies of the same duration to change by more than 10 per cent up or down from one year to the next, although some larger changes may occur to balance payout values between different policies.
Greater flexibility may be required in certain circumstances, for example following a significant rise or fall in market values, and in such situations the PAC Board may decide to vary the standard bonus smoothing limits in order to protect the overall interests of policyholders.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements D: 235 The degree of smoothing is illustrated numerically by comparing in the following table the relatively smoothed level of policyholder bonuses declared as part of the surplus for distribution with the more volatile movement in investment return and other items of income and expenditure of the UK component of the PAC with-profits fund for each year presented.
2011 m 2010 m Net income of the fund: Investment return 4,094 8,815 Claims incurred 6,411 6,390 Movement in policyholder liabilities 614 4,301 Add back policyholder bonuses for the year as shown below 1,945 2,019 Claims incurred and movement in policyholder liabilities including charge for provision for asset shares and excluding policyholder bonuses 5,080 8,672 Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 3,404 3,148 Other income 17 9 Acquisition costs and other expenditure 696 600 Tax charge 63 528 Net income of the fund before movement in unallocated surplus 1,676 2,172 Movement in unallocated surplus 485 70 Surplus for distribution 2,161 2,242 Surplus for distribution allocated as follows: 90% policyholders bonus as shown above 1,945 2,019 10% shareholders transfers 216 223 2,161 2,242 ii Annuity business Prudentials conventional annuities include level, fixed-increase and inflation-linked annuities, the link being to the Retail Price Index RPI in the majority of cases.
They are mainly written within the subsidiaries PAL, PRIL, the PAC non-profit sub-fund and the PAC with-profits sub-fund, but there are some annuity liabilities in Prudential Pensions Limited and SAIF.
Prudentials fixed-increase annuities incorporate automatic increases in annuity payments by fixed amounts over the policyholders life.
The RPI annuities that Prudential offers provide for a regular annuity payment to which an additional amount is added periodically based on the increase in the UK RPI.
Prudentials with-profits annuities, which are written in the WPSF, combine the income features of annuity products with the investment smoothing features of with-profits products and enable policyholders to obtain exposure to investment return on the WPSFs equity shares, property and other investment categories over time.
Policyholders select a required smoothed return bonus from the specific range Prudential offers for the particular product.
The amount of the annuity payment each year depends upon the relationship between the required smoothed return bonus rate selected by the policyholder when the product is purchased and the smoothed return bonus rates Prudential subsequently declares each year during the term of the product.
If the total bonus rates fall below the anticipated rate, then the annuity income falls.
At 31 December 2011, 38.3 billion 2010: 35.6 billion of investments relate to annuity business of PAL including the business recaptured by PAC WPSF in 2011 and PRIL.
These investments are predominantly in debt securities including retail price indexlinked bonds to match retail price index-linked annuities, loans and deposits and are duration matched with the estimated duration of the liabilities they support.
236  D: continued D2: continued iii SAIF SAIF is a ring-fenced sub-fund of the PAC long-term fund formed following the acquisition of the mutually owned Scottish Amicable Life Assurance Society in 1997.
No new business may be written in SAIF, although regular premiums are still being paid on policies in force at the time of the acquisition and incremental premiums are permitted on these policies.
The fund is solely for the benefit of policyholders of SAIF.
Shareholders have no interest in the profits of this fund although they are entitled to asset management fees on this business.
The process for determining policyholder bonuses of SAIF with-profits policies, which constitute the vast majority of obligations of the funds, is similar to that for the with-profits policies of the WPSF.
However, in addition, the surplus assets in SAIF are allocated to policies in an orderly and equitable distribution over time as enhancements to policyholder benefits ie in excess of those based on asset share.
Provision is made for the risks attaching to some SAIF unitised with-profits policies that have MVR-free dates and for those SAIF products which have a guaranteed minimum benefit on death or maturity of premiums accumulated at 4 per cent per annum.
The Groups main exposure to guaranteed annuities in the UK is through SAIF and a provision of 370 million was held in SAIF at 31 December 2011 2010: 336 million to honour the guarantees.
As SAIF is a separate sub-fund solely for the benefit of policyholders of SAIF this provision has no impact on the financial position of the Groups shareholders equity.
iv Unit-linked non-annuity and other non-profit business Prudential UK insurance operations also have an extensive book of unit-linked policies of varying types and provide a range of other non-profit business such as credit life and protection contracts.
These contracts do not contain significant financial guarantees.
There are no guaranteed maturity values or guaranteed annuity options on unit-linked policies except for minor amounts for certain policies linked to cash units within SAIF.
f Exposure to market risk i Non-linked life and pension business For with-profits business, the absence of guaranteed surrender values and the flexibility given by the operation of the bonus system means that a high proportion of the investments backing the with-profits business are in equities and real estate, with the balance in debt securities, deposits and loans.
The investments supporting the protection business are small in value and tend to be assets of a fixed term duration, reflecting the guaranteed nature of the liabilities.
ii Pension annuity business Prudentials UK annuity business mainly employs fixed income investments including UK retail price index-linked assets because the liabilities consist of guaranteed payments for as long as each annuitant or surviving partner is alive.
Retail price index-linked assets are used to back pension annuities where the payments are linked to the RPI.
iii Unit-linked business Except through the second order effect on asset management fees, the unit-linked business of the UK insurance operations is not exposed to market risk.
The lack of exposure arises from the contract nature whereby policyholder benefits reflect asset value movements of the unit-linked funds.
g Process for setting assumptions and determining contract liabilities i Overview The calculation of the contract liabilities involves the setting of assumptions for future experience.
This is done following detailed review of the relevant experience including, in particular, mortality, expenses, tax, economic assumptions and, where applicable, persistency.
For with-profits business written in the WPSF or SAIF, a market-consistent valuation is performed as described in section ii below.
Additional assumptions required are for persistency and the management actions under which the fund is managed.
Assumptions used for a market-consistent valuation typically do not contain margins, whereas those used for the valuation of other classes of business do.
Mortality assumptions are set based on the results of the most recent experience analysis looking at the experience over recent years of the relevant business.
For non-profit business, a margin for adverse deviation is added.
Different assumptions are applied for different product groups.
For annuitant mortality, assumptions for current mortality rates are based on recent experience investigations and expected future improvements in mortality.
The expected future improvements are based on recent experience and projections of the business and industry experience generally.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements D: 237 Maintenance and, for some classes of business, termination expense assumptions are expressed as per policy amounts.
They are set based on the expenses incurred during the year, including an allowance for ongoing investment expenditure and allocated between entities and product groups in accordance with the operations internal cost allocation model.
For non-profit business a margin for adverse deviation is added to this amount.
Expense inflation assumptions are set consistent with the economic basis and based on the difference between yields on nominal gilts and index-linked gilts.
The actual renewal expenses incurred on behalf of SAIF by other Group companies are recharged in full to SAIF.
The assumptions for asset management expenses are based on the charges specified in agreements with the Groups asset management operations, plus a margin for adverse deviation for non-profit business.
Tax assumptions are set equal to current rates of taxation.
For non-profit business excluding unit-linked business, the valuation interest rates used to discount the liabilities are based on the yields as at the valuation date on the assets backing the technical provisions.
For fixed interest securities the gross redemption yield is used except for the PAL including the business recaptured by PAC WPSF in 2011 and PRIL annuity business where the internal rate of return of the assets backing the liabilities is used.
Properties are valued using the rental yield, and for equities it is the greater of the dividend yield and the average of the dividend yield and the earnings yield.
An adjustment is made to the yield on non risk-free fixed interest securities and property to reflect credit risk.
To calculate the non-unit reserves for linked business, assumptions have been set for the gross unit growth rate and the rate of inflation of maintenance expenses, as well as for the valuation interest rate as described above.
ii WPSF and SAIF The policyholder liabilities reported for the WPSF are primarily for two broad types of business.
These are accumulating and conventional with-profits contracts.
The policyholder liabilities of the WPSF are accounted for under FRS 27.
The provisions have been determined on a basis consistent with the detailed methodology included in regulations contained in the FSAs rules for the determination of reserves on the FSAs realistic Peak 2 basis.
In aggregate, the regime has the effect of placing a value on the liabilities of UK with-profits contracts, which reflects the amounts expected to be paid based on the current value of investments held by the with-profits funds and current circumstances.
These contracts are a combination of insurance and investment contracts with discretionary participation features, as defined by IFRS 4.
The FSAs Peak 2 calculation under the realistic regime requires the value of liabilities to be calculated as: the with-profits benefits reserve WPBR, plus future policy related liabilities FPRL, plus the realistic current liabilities of the fund.
The WPBR is primarily based on the retrospective calculation of accumulated asset shares but is adjusted to reflect future expected policyholder benefits and other outgoings.
Asset shares are calculated as the accumulation of all items of income and outgo that are relevant to each policy type.
Income comprises credits for premiums, investment returns including unrealised gains and miscellaneous profits.
Outgo comprises charges for tax including an allowance for tax on unrealised gains, guarantees and smoothing, mortality and morbidity, shareholders profit transfers, miscellaneous losses, and expenses and commission net of any tax relief.
The FPRL must include a market-consistent valuation of costs of guarantees, options and smoothing, less any related charges, and this amount must be determined using either a stochastic approach, hedging costs or a series of deterministic projections with attributed probabilities.
Volatilities of, and correlations between, investment returns from different asset classes are as determined by the Groups Portfolio Management Group and aim to be market-consistent.
The cost of guarantees, options and smoothing is very sensitive to the bonus, market value reduction MVR, and investment policy employed and therefore the stochastic modelling incorporates a range of management actions that would help to protect the fund in adverse investment scenarios.
Substantial flexibility has been included in the modelled management actions in order to reflect the discretion that is retained in adverse investment conditions, thereby avoiding the creation of unreasonable minimum capital requirements.
The management actions assumed are consistent with the Groups management policy for with-profits funds and the Groups disclosures in the publicly available PPFM.
The contract liabilities for with-profits business also require assumptions for persistency.
These are set based on the results of recent experience analysis.
238  D: continued D2: continued iii Annuity business Creditriskprovisions For IFRS reporting, the results for UK shareholder-backed annuity business are particularly sensitive to the allowances made for credit risk.
The allowance is reflected in the deduction from the valuation rate of interest for discounting projected future annuity payments to policyholders that would have otherwise applied.
Since mid-2007 there has been a significant increase in the actual and perceived credit risk associated with corporate bonds as reflected in the significant widening that has occurred in corporate bond spreads.
Although bond spreads over swap rates have narrowed from their peak in March 2009, they are still high compared with the levels seen in the years immediately preceding the start of the dislocated markets in 2007.
The allowance that should therefore be made for credit risk remains a particular area of judgement.
The additional yield received on corporate bonds relative to swaps can be broken into the following constituent parts: a the expected level of future defaults, b the credit risk premium that is required to compensate for the potential volatility in default levels, c the liquidity premium that is required to compensate for the lower liquidity of corporate bonds relative to swaps, and d the mark to market risk premium that is required to compensate for the potential volatility in corporate bond spreads and hence market values at the time of sale.
The sum of c and d is often referred to as liquidity premium.
The allowance for credit risk comprises i an amount for long-term best estimate defaults, and ii additional provisions for credit risk premium, downgrade resilience and short-term defaults.
The weighted components of the bond spread over swap rates for shareholder-backed fixed and linked annuity business for PRIL at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010, based on the asset mix at the relevant balance sheet date are shown below.
Adjustment Pillar 1 from regulatory regulatory to basis IFRS basis IFRS 31 December 2011 bps bps bps note i Bond spread over swap rates 201 201 Credit risk allowance: note ii Long-term expected defaults 15 15 note iii Additional provisions 51 24 27 Total credit risk allowance 66 24 42 Liquidity premium 135 24 159 Adjustment Pillar 1 from regulatory regulatory to basis IFRS basis IFRS 31 December 2010 bps bps bps note i Bond spread over swap rates 160 160 Credit risk allowance: note ii Long-term expected defaults 16 16 note iii Additional provisions 52 26 26 Total credit risk allowance 68 26 42 Liquidity premium 92 26 118 Notes i Bond spread over swap rates reflect market observed data.
ii Long-term expected defaults are derived by applying Moodys data from 1970 to 2009 and the definition of the credit rating used is the second highest credit rating published by Moodys, Standard and Poors and Fitch.
iii Additional provisions comprise credit risk premium, which is derived from Moodys data from 1970 to 2009, an allowance for a one notch downgrade of the portfolio subject to credit risk and an additional allowance for short-term defaults.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements D: 239 The very prudent Pillar 1 regulatory basis reflects the overriding objective of maintaining sufficient provisions and capital to ensure payments to policyholders can be made.
The approach for IFRS aims to establish liabilities that are closer to best estimate.
Movement in the credit risk allowance for PRIL for the year ended 31 December 2011 The movement during 2011 of the average basis points allowance for PRIL on Pillar 1 regulatory and IFRS bases are as follows: Pillar 1 regulatory basis IFRS bps bps Total Total Total allowance for credit risk at 31 December 2010 68 42 Credit rating changes 2 2 Asset trading 1 1 Asset mix effect of market value movements 2 1 New business and other 1 Total allowance for credit risk at 31 December 2011 66 42 In prior periods, surplus from favourable default experience has been retained within short-term allowances for credit risk on both the Pillar 1 and IFRS bases.
For full year 2011 the retention of such surpluses continues to be applied to IFRS but not for Pillar 1.
Overall the movement has led to the credit allowance for Pillar 1 purposes to be 33 per cent 2010: 43 per cent of the bond spread over swap rates.
For IFRS purposes it represents 20 per cent 2010: 26 per cent of the bond spread over swap rates.
The reserves for credit risk allowance at 31 December 2011 for the UK shareholder annuity fund were as follows: Pillar 1 regulatory basis IFRS bn bn Total Total PRIL 1.8 1.2 PAC non-profit sub-fund 0.2 0.1 Total 2.0 1.3 240  D: continued D2: continued Mortality The mortality assumptions are set in light of recent population and internal experience.
The assumptions used are percentages of standard actuarial mortality tables with an allowance for future mortality improvements.
Where annuities have been sold on an enhanced basis to impaired lives an additional age adjustment is made.
The percentages of the standard table used are selected according to the source of business.
In 2009, Prudentials annuity business liabilities were determined using the CMI medium cohort projections with a floor.
In November 2009, a new mortality projection model was released by the CMI.
The new model was applied since the 2010 results with calibration to reflect an appropriate view of future mortality improvement.
Prior to 2010, in recognition of the trend in assumed mortality improvements the Company had in previous years included margins in its annuity liabilities.
In determining the 2010 results, based on the new model, the appropriate level of these margins was reassessed.
See note D2 i below for the net effect in 2010 of applying the new model, releases of margin and changes to other related mortality assumptions.
The tables and range of percentages used are set out in the following tables: PAL and annuity business with the WPSF PRIL 2011 Males Females Males Females In payment 92% to 98% PCMA00 88% to 100% PCFA00 93% to 94% PCMA00 84% to 96% PCFA00 with future with future with future with future improvements in line improvements in line improvements in line improvements in line with Prudentials own with Prudentials own with Prudentials own with Prudentials own calibration of the CMI calibration of the CMI calibration of the CMI calibration of the CMI 2009 mortality model, 2009 mortality model, 2009 mortality model, 2009 mortality model, with a long-term with a long-term with a long-term with a long-term improvement rate improvement rate improvement rate improvement rate of 2.25%.
In deferment AM92 minus 4 years AF92 minus 4 years AM92 minus 4 years AF92 minus 4 years PAL PRIL 2010 Males Females Males Females In payment 92% to 98% PCMA00 88% to 100% PCFA00 94% to 95% PCMA00 86% to 97% PCFA00 with future with future with future with future improvements in line improvements in line improvements in line improvements in line with Prudentials own with Prudentials own with Prudentials own with Prudentials own calibration of the CMI calibration of the CMI calibration of the CMI calibration of the CMI 2009 mortality model, 2009 mortality model, 2009 mortality model, 2009 mortality model, with a long-term with a long-term with a long-term with a long-term improvement rate improvement rate improvement rate improvement rate of 2.25%.
In deferment AM92 minus 4 years AF92 minus 4 years AM92 minus 4 years AF92 minus 4 years PAL PRIL 2009 Males Females Males Females In payment 102% to 126% PNMA00 84% to 117% PNFA00 96% to 102% PNMA00 87% to 98% PNFA00 C 2000 with medium C 2000 with 75% C 2000 with medium C 2000 with 75% cohort improvement of medium cohort cohort improvement of medium cohort table with a minimum improvement table with table with a minimum improvement table with annual improvement of a minimum annual annual improvement a minimum annual 2.25% up to age 90, improvement of 1.25% of 2.25% up to age 90, improvement of 1.25% tapering to zero at up to age 90, tapering tapering to zero at up to age 90, tapering age 120. to zero at age 120. age 120. to zero at age 120.
In deferment AM92 minus 4 years AF92 minus 4 years AM92 minus 4 years AF92 minus 4 years Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements D: 241 iv Unit-linked non-annuity and other non-profit business The majority of other long-term business written in the UK insurance operations is unit-linked business or other business with similar features.
For these contracts the attaching liability reflects the unit value obligation and provision for expenses and mortality risk.
The latter component is determined by applying mortality assumptions on a basis that is appropriate for the policyholder profile.
For unit-linked business, the assets covering unit liabilities are exposed to market risk, but the residual risk when considering the unit-linked liabilities and assets together is limited to the effect on fund-based charges.
For those contracts where the level of insurance risk is insignificant the assets and liabilities arising under the contracts are distinguished between those that relate to the financial instrument liability and acquisition costs and deferred income that relate to the component of the contract that relates to investment management.
Acquisition costs and deferred income are recognised consistent with the level of service provision in line with the requirements of IAS 18. h Reinsurance The Groups UK insurance business cedes only minor amounts of business outside the Group.
During 2011, reinsurance premiums for externally ceded business were 132 million 2010: 128 million and reinsurance recoverable assets were 589 million 2010: 608 million in aggregate.
The gains and losses recognised in profit and loss for the 2011 and 2010 contracts were immaterial.
i Effect of changes in assumptions used to measure insurance assets and liabilities 2011 Creditrisk The approach to reserving for credit risk is set out in note D2 f iii.
 In 2011, for the shareholder-backed business, the aggregate effect of assumption changes other than the allowance for credit risk described above was a net charge to the shareholder results of 9 million, comprising a number of individually small assumption changes.
For the with-profits sub-fund, the aggregate effect of assumption changes in 2011 was a net charge to unallocated surplus of 59 million, relating to changes in mortality, expense, persistency and economic assumptions.
2010 Creditrisk The approach to reserving for credit risk is set out in note D2 f iii.
 Note D2 g iii above explains the application of a new mortality projection model in 2010 to determine the Prudentials annuity business.
The net effect of applying the new model, releases of margins and changes to other related mortality assumptions for shareholder-backed business is a credit of 8 million.
With a 38 million benefit from altered expense assumptions the overall credit for shareholder-backed business is 46 million.
For the with-profits sub-fund, the aggregate effect of assumption changes in 2010 was a net charge to unallocated surplus of 62 million, relating to changes in mortality, expense, persistency and economic assumptions.
242  D: continued D2: continued j Sensitivity of IFRS basis profit or loss and shareholders equity to market and other risks The risks to which the IFRS basis results of the UK insurance operations are sensitive are asset liability matching, mortality experience and payment assumptions for shareholder-backed annuity business.
Further details are described below.
i With-profits business a SAIF Shareholders have no interest in the profits of SAIF but are entitled to the asset management fees paid on the assets of the fund.
b  For with-profits business including non-participating business of PAL which is owned by the WPSF adjustments to liabilities and any related tax effects are recognised in the Groups income statement.
However, except for any impact on the annual declaration of bonuses, shareholders profit for with-profits business is unaffected.
This is because IFRS basis profits for with-profits business, which are determined on the same basis as on the grandfathered UK GAAP, solely reflect one-ninth of the cost of bonuses declared for the year.
The main factors that influence the determination of bonus rates are the return on the investments of the fund, the effect of inflation, taxation, the expenses of the fund chargeable to policyholders and the degree to which investment returns are smoothed.
Mortality and other insurance risk are relatively minor factors.
Unallocated surplus represents the excess of assets over policyholder liabilities of the fund.
As unallocated surplus of the WPSF is recorded as a liability, movements in its value do not affect shareholders profits or equity.
The level of unallocated surplus is particularly sensitive to the level of investment returns on the portion of the life fund assets that represents the surplus.
The effects for 2011 and 2010 are demonstrated in note D5.
ii Shareholder-backed annuity business Profits from shareholder-backed annuity business are most sensitive to: The extent to which the duration of the assets held closely matches the expected duration of the liabilities under the contracts.
Assuming close matching, the impact of short-term asset value movements as a result of interest rate movements will broadly offset changes in the value of liabilities caused by movements in valuation rates of interest: Actual versus expected default rates on assets held: The difference between long-term rates of return on corporate bonds and risk-free rates: The variance between actual and expected mortality experience: The extent to which changes to the assumed rate of improvements in mortality give rise to changes in the measurement of liabilities: and Changes in renewal expense levels.
A decrease in assumed mortality rates of 1 per cent would decrease gross profits by approximately 64 million 2010: 53 million.
A decrease in credit default assumptions of five basis points would increase gross profits by 137 million 2010: 119 million.
A decrease in renewal expenses excluding asset management expenses of 5 per cent would increase gross profits by 25 million 2010: 23 million.
The effect on profits would be approximately symmetrical for changes in assumptions that are directionally opposite to those explained above.
iii Unit-linked and other business Unit-linked and other business represents a comparatively small proportion of the in-force business of the UK insurance operations.
Profits from unit-linked and similar contracts primarily arise from the excess of charges to policyholders, for management of assets under the Companys stewardship, over expenses incurred.
The former is most sensitive to the net accretion of funds under management as a function of new business and lapse and timing of death.
The accounting impact of the latter is dependent upon the amortisation of acquisition costs in line with the emergence of margins for insurance contracts and amortisation in line with service provision for the investment management component of investment contracts.
By virtue of the design features of most of the contracts which provide low levels of mortality cover, the profits are relatively insensitive to changes in mortality experience.
iv Shareholder exposure to interest rate risk and other market risk By virtue of the fund structure, product features and basis of accounting, the policyholder liabilities of the UK insurance operations are, except for pension annuity business, not generally exposed to interest rate risk.
At 31 December 2011, pension annuity liabilities accounted for 98 per cent 2010: 98 per cent of UK shareholder-backed business liabilities.
For pension annuity business, liabilities are exposed to interest rate risk.
However, the net exposure to the PAC WPSF for PAL and shareholders for annuity liabilities of PRIL and the non-profit sub-fund is very substantially ameliorated by virtue of the close matching of assets with appropriate duration.
The level of matching from period to period can vary depending on management actions and economic factors so it is possible for a degree of mismatching profits or losses to arise.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements D: 243 The close matching by the Group of assets of appropriate duration to annuity liabilities is based on maintaining economic and regulatory capital.
The measurement of liabilities under capital reporting requirements and IFRS is not the same with contingency reserves and some other margins for prudence within the assumptions required under the FSA regulatory solvency basis not included for IFRS reporting purposes.
As a result IFRS equity is higher than regulatory capital and therefore more sensitive to interest rate and credit risk.
The estimated sensitivity of the UK non-linked shareholder-backed business principally pension annuities business to a movement in interest rates is as follows: 2011 m 2010 m Decrease Decrease Increase Increase Decrease Decrease Increase Increase of 2% of 1% of 1% of 2% of 2% of 1% of 1% of 2% Carrying value of debt securities and derivatives 7,676 3,426 2,820 5,178 6,547 2,938 2,434 4,481 Policyholder liabilities 6,842 3,060 2,510 4,593 5,977 2,723 2,109 3,929 Related deferred tax effects 208 91 77 146 154 58 88 149 Net sensitivity of profit after tax and shareholders equity 626 275 233 439 416 157 237 403 In addition, the shareholder-backed portfolio of UK non-linked insurance operations covering liabilities and shareholders equity includes equity securities and investment property.
Excluding any second order effects on the measurement of the liabilities for future cash flows to the policyholder, a fall in their value would have given rise to the following effects on pre-tax profit, profit after tax, and shareholders equity.
2011 m 2010 m Decrease Decrease Decrease Decrease of 20% of 10% of 20% of 10% Pre-tax profit 319 160 302 151 Related deferred tax effects 80 40 82 41 Net sensitivity of profit after tax and shareholders equity 239 120 220 110 A 10 or 20 per cent increase in their value would have an approximately equal and opposite effect on profit and shareholders equity to the sensitivities shown above.
The market risk sensitivities shown above reflect the impact of temporary market movements and, therefore, the primary effect of such movements would, in the Groups segmental analysis of profits, be included within the short-term fluctuations in investment returns.
In the equity risk sensitivity analysis shown above, the Group has considered the impact of an instantaneous 20 per cent fall in equity markets.
If equity markets were to fall by more than 20 per cent, the Group believes that this would not be an instantaneous fall but rather this would be expected to occur over a period of time during which the Group would be able to put in place mitigating management actions.
244  D: continued D2: continued k Duration of liabilities With the exception of most unitised with-profits bonds and other whole of life contracts the majority of the contracts of the UK insurance operations have a contract term.
However, in effect, the maturity term of contracts reflects the earlier of death, maturity or lapsation.
In addition, with-profits contract liabilities as noted in note D2 g include projected future bonuses based on current investment values.
The actual amounts payable will vary with future investment performance of SAIF and the WPSF.
The tables above show the carrying value of the policyholder liabilities.
Separately, the Group uses cash flow projections of expected benefit payments as part of the determination of the value of in-force business when preparing EEV basis results.
The tables in the accompanying notes below show the maturity profile of the cash flows used for that purpose for insurance contracts, as defined by IFRS, ie those containing significant insurance risk, and investment contracts, which do not.
2011 m Annuity business With-profits business insurance contracts Other Insurance I nvestment InsuranceI nvestment contracts contracts Total PAL PRIL Total contracts contracts Total TOTAL Policyholder liabilities 46,288 29,365 75,653 5,323 18,236 23,559 12,885 14,927 27,812 127,024 2011 % Expected maturity: 0 to 5 years 47 32 41 25 25 25 34 28 31 35 5 to 10 years 24 26 25 22 22 22 25 22 24 24 10 to 15 years 13 19 16 18 18 18 18 18 18 17 15 to 20 years 8 14 10 13 13 13 11 12 11 11 20 to 25 years 5 7 6 9 10 9 7 9 7 7 Over 25 years 3 2 2 13 12 13 5 11 9 6 2010 m Annuity business With-profits business insurance contracts Other Insurance I nvestment InsuranceI nvestment contracts contracts Total PAL PRIL Total contracts contracts Total TOTAL Policyholder liabilities 43,691 25,613 69,304 12,282 16,442 28,724 11,737 15,765 27,502 125,530 2010 % Expected maturity: 0 to 5 years 46 31 40 32 29 30 35 29 32 36 5 to 10 years 25 25 25 25 23 24 26 21 23 24 10 to 15 years 13 19 16 18 17 18 18 20 19 17 15 to 20 years 7 14 10 12 13 12 10 11 11 11 20 to 25 years 4 8 6 7 8 8 6 8 7 7 Over 25 years 5 3 3 6 10 8 5 11 8 5 Notes i The cash flow projections of expected benefit payments used in the maturity profile table above are from value of in-force business and exclude the value of future new business, including vesting of internal pension contracts.
ii Benefit payments do not reflect the pattern of bonuses and shareholder transfers in respect of the with-profits business.
iii Investment contracts under Other comprise certain unit-linked and similar contracts accounted for under IAS 39 and IAS 18. iv For business with no maturity term included within the contracts, for example with-profits investment bonds such as Prudence Bonds, an assumption is made as to likely duration based on prior experience.
v The maturity tables shown above have been prepared on a discounted basis.
Details of undiscounted cash flow for investment contracts are shown in note G2.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements D: 245 D3: a Summary results and statement of financial position i Results and movements in shareholders equity 2011 m 2010 m Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 694 833 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 95 378 Profit before shareholder tax 599 455 Tax 167 117 Profit for the year 432 338 2011 m 2010 m Profit for the year as above 432 338 Items recognised in other comprehensive income: Exchange movements 42 85 Unrealised valuation movements on securities classified as available-for sale: Unrealised holding gains arising during the year 912 1,170 Deduct net gains add back net losses included in the income statement 101 51 Total unrealised valuation movements 811 1,221 Related change in amortisation of deferred income and acquisition costs 331 496 Related tax 168 247 Total other comprehensive income 354 563 Total comprehensive income for the year 786 901 Dividends, interest payments to central companies and other movements 330 97 Net increase in shareholders equity 456 804 Shareholders equity at beginning of year 3,815 3,011 Shareholders equity at end of year 4,271 3,815 Included within the movements in shareholders equity is a net increase in value of Jacksons debt securities classified as available-for-sale under IAS 39 of 811 million 2010: 1,221 million.
With the exception of debt securities for US insurance operations classified as available-for-sale under IAS 39, unrealised value movements on the Groups investments are booked within the income statement.
However, for debt securities classified as available-for-sale, unless impaired, fair value movements are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Realised gains and losses, including impairments, are recorded in the income statement.
This classification is applied for most of the debt securities of the Groups US operations.
In 2011, Jackson recorded 62 million 2010: 124 million of impairment losses arising from: 2011 m 2010 m Residential mortgage-backed securities 21 71 Public fixed income 1 Other 41 52 62 124 246  D: continued D3: continued Further details on the impairment losses recognised in the year are shown in note B1.
Jacksons portfolio of debt securities is managed proactively with credit analysts closely monitoring and reporting on the credit quality of its holdings.
Jackson continues to review its investments on a case-by-case basis to determine whether any decline in fair value represents an impairment.
In addition, investments in structured securities are subject to a rigorous review of their future estimated cash flows, including expected and stress case scenarios, to identify potential shortfalls in contractual payments both interest and principal.
Impairment charges are recorded on structured securities when the Company forecasts a contractual payment shortfall.
Situations where such a shortfall would not lead to a recognition of a loss are rare.
However, some structured securities do not have a single determined set of future cash flows and instead, there can be a reasonable range of estimates that could potentially emerge.
With this variability, there could be instances where the projected cash flow shortfall under managements base case set of assumptions is so minor that relatively small and justifiable changes to the base case assumptions would eliminate the need for an impairment loss to be recognised.
The impairment loss reflects the difference between the fair value and book value.
In 2011 there was a movement in the statement of financial position value for debt securities classified as available-for-sale from a net unrealised gain of 1,210 million to a net unrealised gain of 2,057 million.
The gross unrealised gain in the statement of financial position increased from 1,580 million at 31 December 2010 to 2,303 million at 31 December 2011, while the gross unrealised loss decreased from 370 million at 31 December 2010 to 246 million at 31 December 2011.
Available-for-sale securities 2011 2010 Changes in Foreign unrealised exchange appreciation translation Reflected as part of movement in other comprehensive income m m m m Assets fair valued at below book value Book value 2,455 4,372 Unrealised loss gain 246 122 2 370 Fair value as included in statement of financial position 2,209 4,002 Assets fair valued at or above book value Book value 22,504 20,743 Unrealised gain 2,303 689 34 1,580 Fair value as included in statement of financial position 24,807 22,323 Total Book value 24,959 25,115 Net unrealised gain 2,057 811 36 1,210 Fair value as included in statement of financial position 27,016 26,325 Book value represents cost amortised cost of the debt securities.
Translated at the average rate of $1.6037: 1.
Debt securities for US operations included in the statement of financial position at 31 December 2011 comprise: 2011 m 2010 m Available-for-sale 27,016 26,325 Consolidated investment funds classified as fair value through profit and loss 6 41 27,022 26,366 Included within the movement in gross unrealised losses for the debt securities of Jackson of 122 million 2010: 634 million as shown above was a net decrease in value of 12 million 2010: 84 million increase relating to the sub-prime and Alt-A securities as referred to in section B5.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements D: 247 ii Statement of financial position 2011 m 2010 m Variable annuity separate account Fixed annuity, assets and GIC and other liabilities business note i note i Total Total Assets Intangible assets attributable to shareholders: Deferred acquisition costs and other intangibles 3,900 3,900 3,559 Total 3,900 3,900 3,559 Deferred tax assets 1,392 1,392 1,391 Other non-investment and non-cash assets 1,542 1,542 1,225 Investments of long-term business and other operations: Investment properties 35 35 26 Financial investments: note ii Loans 4,110 4,110 4,201 note v Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 37,833 203 38,036 31,501 Debtsecurities 27,022 27,022 26,366 note iii Otherinvestments 2,376 2,376 1,199 Deposits 167 167 212 Total investments 37,833 33,913 71,746 63,505 Properties held for sale 3 3 3 Cash and cash equivalents 271 271 232 Total assets 37,833 41,021 78,854 69,915 Equity and liabilities Equity Shareholders equity 4,271 4,271 3,815 Total equity 4,271 4,271 3,815 Liabilities Policyholder: Contract liabilities including amounts in respect of contracts note iv classified as investment contracts under IFRS 4 37,833 31,356 69,189 60,523 Total 37,833 31,356 69,189 60,523 Core structural borrowings of shareholder-financed operations 160 160 159 Operational borrowings attributable to shareholder-financed operations 127 127 90 Deferred tax liabilities 2,093 2,093 1,776 Other non-insurance liabilities 3,014 3,014 3,552 Total liabilities 37,833 36,750 74,583 66,100 Total equity and liabilities 37,833 41,021 78,854 69,915 248  D: continued D3: continued Notes i Assets and liabilities attaching to variable annuity business that are not held in the separate account are shown within other business.
ii Loans The loans of the Groups US insurance operations comprise: 2011 m 2010 m Mortgage loans 3,559 3,641 Policy loans 551 548 Other loans 12 Total US insurance operations loans 4,110 4,201 All of the mortgage loans are commercial mortgage loans which are collateralised by properties.
The property types are mainly industrial, multi-family residential, suburban office, retail and hotel.
The breakdown by property type is as follows: 2011 % 2010 % Industrial 28 31 Multi-family residential 23 18 Office 19 19 Retail 19 21 Hotels 11 10 Other 1 100 100 The US insurance operations commercial mortgage loan portfolio does not include any single-family residential mortgage loans and is therefore not exposed to the risk of defaults associated with residential sub-prime mortgage loans.
The average loan size is 6.6 million 2010: 6.6 million.
The portfolio has a current estimated average loan to value of 68 per cent 2010: 73 per cent which provides significant cushion to withstand substantial declines in value.
At 31 December 2011, Jackson had mortgage loans with a carrying value of 87 million where the contractual terms of the agreements had been restructured.
In addition to the regular impairment review afforded all loans in the portfolio, restructured loans are also reviewed for impairment.
An impairment will be recorded if the expected cash flows under the newly restructured terms discounted at the original yield the pre-structured interest rate are below the carrying value of the loan.
The policy loans are fully secured by individual life insurance policies or annuity policies.
These loans are accounted for at amortised cost, less any impairment.
iii Other investments comprise: 2011 m 2010 m note G3 Derivative assets 1,677 645 Partnerships in investment pools and other 699 554 2,376 1,199 In the US, Prudential uses derivatives to reduce interest rate risk, to facilitate efficient portfolio management to match liabilities under annuity policies, and for certain equity-based product management activities.
After taking account of the derivative liability of 887 million 2010: 799 million, which is also included in the statement of financial position, the derivative position for US operations is a net asset of 790 million 2010: net liability of 154 million.
Partnerships in investment pools and other comprise primarily investments in limited partnerships.
These include interests in the PPM America Private Equity Fund and diversified investments in 167 2010: 161 other partnerships by independent money managers that generally invest in various equities and fixed income loans and securities.
iv Summary policyholder liabilities net of reinsurance and reserves at 31 December 2011 The policyholder liabilities, net of reinsurers share of 907 million 2010: 694 million, reflect balances in respect of the following: 2011 m 2010 m Policy reserves and liabilities on non-linked business: Reserves for future policyholder benefits and claims payable 518 1,567 Deposits on investment contracts as defined under IFRS grandfathered US GAAP 28,314 25,494 Guaranteed investment contracts 1,617 1,565 Unit-linked variable annuity business 37,833 31,203 68,282 59,829 In addition to the policyholder liabilities above, Jackson has entered into a programme of funding arrangements under contracts which, in substance, are almost identical to GICs.
The liabilities under these funding arrangements totalled 1,070 million 2010: 1,411 million and are included in other non-insurance liabilities in the statement of financial position above.
v Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts includes investments in mutual funds, the majority of which are equity based.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements D: 249 b Reconciliation of movement in investments A reconciliation of the total investments of US insurance operations from the beginning of the year to the end of the year is as follows: Variable annuity separate account US insurance assets and GIC and other operations liabilities business Total m m m At 1 January 2010 Total investments including derivative assets 20,639 28,937 49,576 Less: Derivative liabilities 461 461 Directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 20,639 28,476 49,115 Net cash inflow from operating activities 6,441 865 7,306 Realised gains in the year 21 21 Unrealised gains and losses and exchange movements in the year 4,123 2,141 6,264 Movement in the year of directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 10,564 3,027 13,591 At 31 December 2010 1 January 2011 Total investments including derivative assets 31,203 32,302 63,505 note G3 Less: Derivative liabilities 799 799 Directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 31,203 31,503 62,706 Net cash inflow outflow from operating activities 7,294 625 6,669 Realised gains in the year 102 102 Unrealised gains and losses and exchange movements in the year 664 2,046 1,382 Movement in the year of directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 6,630 1,523 8,153 At 31 December 2011 Total investments including derivative assets 37,833 33,913 71,746 note G3 Less: Derivative liabilities 887 887 Directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 37,833 33,026 70,859 250  D: continued D3: continued c Reconciliation of movement in policyholder liabilities A reconciliation of the total policyholder liabilities of US insurance operations from the beginning of the year to the end of the year is as follows: US insurance operations Variable annuity separate Fixed annuity, account GIC and other liabilities business Total m m m At 1 January 2010 20,639 27,672 48,311 Premiums 7,420 4,315 11,735 Surrenders 1,403 2,195 3,598 Maturities Deaths 259 510 769 Net flows 5,758 1,610 7,368 Transfers from general to separate account 1,411 1,411 Investment-related items and other movements 2,875 589 3,464 note a Foreign exchange translation differences 520 860 1,380 At 31 December 2010 1 January 2011 31,203 29,320 60,523 Premiums 9,176 3,738 12,914 Surrenders 1,898 2,372 4,270 Maturities Deaths 300 520 820 note b Net flows 6,978 846 7,824 Transfers from general to separate account 957 957 note c Investment-related items and other movements 1,735 1,871 136 Foreign exchange translation differences 430 276 706 At 31 December 2011 37,833 31,356 69,189 Average policyholder liability balances 2011 34,518 30,338 64,856 2010 25,921 28,496 54,417 Notes a Movements in the year have been translated at an average rate of 1.60 2010: 1.55.
The closing balance has been translated at closing rate of 1.55 2010: 1.57.
Differences upon retranslation are included in foreign exchange translation differences of 706 million 2010: 1,380 million.
b Net flows for the year were 7,824 million compared with 7,368 million in 2010, driven largely by increased new business volumes for the variable annuity business.
c Negative investment-related items and other movements in variable annuity separate account liabilities of 1,735 million in 2011 principally reflects the negative separate account return in the year including reductions to liabilities for fees levied, versus a significant increase in the equity market in 2010.
This is offset by an increase in fixed annuity, GIC and other business investment and other movements primarily related to increase in the value of embedded derivatives and interest credited to policyholder accounts in the year.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements D: 251 d Information on credit risks of debt securities Summary 2011 m 2010 m Corporate and government security and commercial loans: Government 2,163 2,440 Publicly traded and SEC Rule 144A securities 16,281 14,747 Non-SEC Rule 144A securities 3,198 3,044 Total 21,642 20,231 Residential mortgage-backed securities RMBS 2,591 2,784 Commercial mortgage-backed securities CMBS 2,169 2,375 Other debt securities 620 976 Total US debt securities 27,022 26,366 i Credit quality For statutory reporting in the US, debt securities are classified into six quality categories specified by the Securities Valuation Office of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners NAIC.
The categories range from Class 1 the highest to Class 6 the lowest.
Performing securities are designated as Classes 1 to 5.
Securities in or near default are designated Class 6.
Securities designated as Class 3, 4, 5 and 6 are non-investment grade securities.
Generally, securities rated AAA to A by nationally recognised statistical ratings organisations are reflected in Class 1, BBB in Class 2, BB in Class 3 and B and below in Classes 4 to 6.
If a designation is not currently available from the NAIC, Jacksons investment adviser, PPM America, provides the designation for the purposes of disclosure below.
The following table shows the quality of the publicly traded and SEC Rule 144A debt securities by NAIC classifications: 2011 2010 Carrying value Carrying value m % of total m % of total NAIC designation: 1 6,338 39 5,338 36 2 9,002 55 8,550 58 3 723 5 644 5 4 204 1 201 1 5 10 11 6 4 3 16,281 100 14,747 100 The following table shows the quality of the non-SEC Rule 144A private placement portfolio by NAIC classifications: 2011 2010 Carrying value Carrying value m % of total m % of total NAIC designation: 1 1,262 39 1,125 37 2 1,835 58 1,772 58 3 81 3 114 4 4 8 18 1 5 12 13 6 2 3,198 100 3,044 100 252  D: continued D3: continued Other debt securities of 620 million 2010: 976 million are made up as shown in the following table: 2011 m 2010 m Asset-backed securities held by Jackson NAIC designation 1 474 527 Asset-backed securities held by Jackson NAIC designation 2 90 135 Securities held by Piedmont trust entity 211 Investments managed by PPM America 6 42 Other 50 61 Total 620 976 In addition to the ratings disclosed above, the following table summarises by rating the debt securities, as at 31 December 2011 and 2010 using Standard and Poors S&P, Moodys, Fitch and implicit ratings of MBS based on NAIC valuations.
2011 m 2010 m S&P AAA 133 4,187 S&P AA to AA- 4,476 801 S&P A to A- 6,382 5,156 S&P BBB to BBB- 8,446 8,202 S&P Other 999 866 20,436 19,212 Moodys Aaa 62 34 Moodys Aa1 to Aa3 15 32 Moodys A1 to A3 29 36 Moodys Baa1 to Baa3 67 73 Moodys Other 17 135 190 310 Implicit ratings of MBS based on NAIC valuations see below NAIC 1 2,577 3,083 NAIC 2 147 181 NAIC 3-6 368 232 3,092 3,496 Fitch 184 176 Other 3,120 3,172 Total US debt securities 27,022 26,366 The amounts within Other which are not rated by S&P, Moody or Fitch, nor are MBS securities using the revised regulatory ratings, have the following NAIC classifications: 2011 m 2010 m NAIC 1 1,258 1,193 NAIC 2 1,792 1,849 NAIC 3-6 70 130 3,120 3,172 In the table above, with the exception of some mortgage-backed securities, S&P ratings have been used where available.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements D: 253 For some mortgage-backed securities within Jackson, the table above includes these securities using the regulatory ratings detail issued by the NAIC.
ii Determining the fair value of debt securities when the markets are not active Under IAS 39, unless categorised as held to maturity or loans and receivables debt securities are required to be fair valued.
Where available, quoted market prices are used.
However, where securities do not have an externally quoted price based on regular trades or where markets for the securities are no longer active as a result of market conditions, IAS 39 requires that valuation techniques be applied.
IFRS 7 requires classification of the fair values applied by the Group into a three level hierarchy.
Note G1 sets out further details of the Groups approach to determining fair value and classifies these fair values into a three level hierarchy as required by IFRS 7.
At 31 December 2011, 0.1 per cent of Jacksons debt securities were classified as level 3 31 December 2010: 0.3 per cent comprising of fair values where there are significant inputs which are not based on observable market data.
iii Asset-backed securities funds exposures Included within the debt securities of Jackson at 31 December 2011 are exposures to asset-backed securities as follows: 2011 m 2010 m RMBS Sub-prime 2011: 20% AAA, 4% AA 207 224 Alt-A 2011: 12% AAA, 4% AA 310 415 Prime including agency 2011: 3% AAA, 76% AA 2,074 2,145 CMBS 2011: 35% AAA, 12% AA 2,169 2,375 CDO funds 2011: 16% AAA, 0% AA, including nil million exposure to sub-prime 44 162 Other ABS 2011: 23% AAA, 17% AA, including 6.6 million exposure to sub-prime 576 814 Total 5,380 6,135 Including Groups economic interest in Piedmont and other consolidated CDO funds.
Jackson defines its exposure to sub-prime mortgages as investments in residential mortgage-backed securities in which the underlying borrowers have a US Fair Isaac Credit Organisation FICO credit score of 680 or lower.
iv Debt securities classified as available-for-sale in an unrealised loss position The following tables show some key attributes of those securities that are in an unrealised loss position at 31 December 2011. a Fair value of available-for-sale securities as a percentage of book value The following table shows the fair value of the debt securities in a gross unrealised loss position for various percentages of book value at 31 December: 2011 m 2010 m Unrealised Unrealised Fair value loss Fair value loss Between 90% and 100% 1,829 60 3,390 102 Between 80% and 90% 172 28 273 44 Below 80% 208 158 339 224 Total 2,209 246 4,002 370 Included within the table above are amounts relating to sub-prime and Alt-A securities of: 2011 m 2010 m Unrealised Unrealised Fair value loss Fair value loss Between 90% and 100% 142 7 98 6 Between 80% and 90% 58 11 55 9 note d Below 80% 69 35 56 25 Total 269 53 209 40 254  D: continued D3: continued b Unrealised losses by maturity of available-for-sale securities 2011 m 2010 m Less than 1 year 1 year to 5 years 7 6 5 years to 10 years 28 47 More than 10 years 28 49 Mortgage-backed and other debt securities 183 268 Total 246 370 These relate to assets with a fair market value and book value of 2,209 million 2010: 4,002 million and 2,455 million 2010: 4,372 million respectively.
c Age analysis of unrealised losses for the years indicated for available-for-sale securities The following table shows the age analysis of all the unrealised losses in the portfolio by reference to the length of time the securities have been in an unrealised loss position: 2011 m 2010 m NonNoninvestment Investment investment Investment grade grade Total grade grade Total Less than 6 months 11 31 42 3 67 70 6 months to 1 year 7 8 15 2 2 1 year to 2 years 5 1 6 13 20 33 2 years to 3 years 7 10 17 27 55 82 More than 3 years 61 105 166 58 125 183 Total 91 155 246 103 267 370 At 31 December 2011, the gross unrealised losses in the statement of financial position for the sub-prime and Alt-A securities in an unrealised loss position were 53 million 2010: 40 million.
Of these losses 10 million 2010: 1 million relate to securities that have been in an unrealised loss position for less than one year and 43 million 2010: 39 million to securities that have been in an unrealised loss position for more than one year.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements D: 255 d Securities whose fair value were below 80 per cent of the book value As shown in the table a above, 158 million of the 246 million of gross unrealised losses at 31 December 2011 2010: 224 million of the 370 million of gross unrealised losses related to securities whose fair value was below 80 per cent of the book value.
The analysis of the 158 million 2010: 224 million, by category of debt securities and by age analysis indicating the length of time for which their fair value was below 80 per cent of the book value, is as follows: 2011 m 2010 m Fair Unrealised Fair Unrealised Category analysis value loss value loss Residential mortgage-backed securities Prime including agency 38 16 88 39 Alt - A 12 3 15 4 Sub-prime 58 32 41 20 108 51 144 63 Commercial mortgage-backed securities 6 29 8 29 Other asset-backed securities 65 58 123 105 Total structured securities 179 138 275 197 Corporates 29 20 64 27 Total 208 158 339 224 Age analysis of fair value being below 80 per cent for the period indicated: 2011 m 2010 m Fair Unrealised Fair Unrealised Age analysis value loss value loss Less than 3 months 15 5 1 3 months to 6 months 45 15 More than 6 months 148 138 339 223 208 158 339 224 256  D: continued D3: continued e Products and guarantees Jackson provides long-term savings and retirement products to retail and institutional customers throughout the US.
Jackson offers fixed annuities interest-sensitive, fixed indexed and immediate annuities, variable annuities VA, life insurance and institutional products.
i Fixed annuities Interest-sensitive annuities At 31 December 2011, interest-sensitive fixed annuities accounted for 16 per cent 2010: 19 per cent of policy and contract liabilities of Jackson.
Interest-sensitive fixed annuities are primarily deferred annuity products that are used for asset accumulation in retirement planning and for providing income in retirement.
They permit tax-deferred accumulation of funds and flexible payout options.
The policyholder of an interest-sensitive fixed annuity pays Jackson a premium, which is credited to the policyholders account.
Periodically, interest is credited to the policyholders account and in some cases administrative charges are deducted from the policyholders account.
Jackson makes benefit payments at a future date as specified in the policy based on the value of the policyholders account at that date.
The policy provides that at Jacksons discretion it may reset the interest rate, subject to a guaranteed minimum.
At 31 December 2011, Jackson had fixed interest rate annuities totalling 16.9 billion US$26.2 billion in account value with minimum guaranteed rates ranging from 1.0 per cent to 5.5 per cent and a 2.83 per cent average guaranteed rate.
Approximately 48 per cent 2010: 45 per cent of the interest-sensitive fixed annuities Jackson wrote in 2011 provide for a market value adjustment that could be positive or negative, on surrenders in the surrender period of the policy.
This formula-based adjustment approximates the change in value that assets supporting the product would realise as interest rates move up or down.
The minimum guaranteed rate is not affected by this adjustment.
Fixed indexed annuities Fixed indexed annuities FIA accounted for 9 per cent 2010: 9 per cent of Jacksons policy and contract liabilities at 31 December 2011.
Fixed indexed annuities vary in structure, but generally are deferred annuities that enable policyholders to obtain a portion of an equity-linked return based on participation rates and caps but provide a guaranteed minimum return.
These guaranteed minimum rates are generally set at 1.0 to 3.0 per cent.
Jackson hedges the equity return risk on fixed indexed products using futures and options linked to the relevant index as well as through offsetting equity exposure in the VA product.
The cost of these hedges is taken into account in setting the index participation rates or caps.
Jackson bears the investment and surrender risk on these products.
Immediate annuities At 31 December 2011, immediate annuities accounted for 1 per cent 2010: 2 per cent of Jacksons policy and contract liabilities.
Immediate annuities guarantee a series of payments beginning within a year of purchase and continuing over either a fixed period of years and or the life of the policyholder.
If the term is for the life of the policyholder, then Jacksons primary risk is mortality risk.
The implicit interest rate on these products is based on the market conditions that exist at the time the policy is issued and is guaranteed for the term of the annuity.
ii Variable annuities At 31 December 2011, VAs accounted for 63 per cent 2010: 58 per cent of Jacksons policy and contract liabilities.
VAs are deferred annuities that have the same tax advantages and payout options as interest-sensitive and fixed indexed annuities.
The primary differences between VAs and interest-sensitive or fixed indexed annuities are investment risk and return.
If a policyholder chooses a VA, the rate of return depends upon the performance of the selected fund portfolio.
Policyholders may allocate their investment to either the fixed or a selection of variable accounts.
Investment risk on the variable account is borne by the policyholder, while investment risk on the fixed account is borne by Jackson through guaranteed minimum fixed rates of return.
At 31 December 2011, approximately 10 per cent 2010: approximately 12 per cent of VA funds were in fixed accounts.
Jackson issues VA contracts where it contractually guarantees to the contractholder either a return of no less than total deposits made to the contract adjusted for any partial withdrawals, b total deposits made to the contract adjusted for any partial withdrawals plus a minimum return, or c the highest contract value on a specified anniversary date adjusted for any withdrawals following the contract anniversary.
These guarantees include benefits that are payable in the event of death GMDB, annuitisation GMIB, or at specified dates during the accumulation period GMWB and GMAB.
Jackson hedges these risks using equity options and futures contracts as described in note D3 f. The GMAB was eliminated from Jacksons product offerings in 2011.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements D: 257 iii Life insurance Jacksons life insurance products accounted for 7 per cent 2010: 7 per cent of Jacksons policy and contract liabilities at 31 December 2011.
The products offered include term life, universal life and variable universal life.
Term life provides protection for a defined period and a benefit that is payable to a designated beneficiary upon death of the insured.
Universal life provides permanent individual life insurance for the life of the insured and includes a savings element.
Variable universal life is a type of life insurance policy that combines death benefit protection with the ability for the policyholder account to be invested in separate account funds.
At 31 December 2011, Jackson had interest-sensitive life universal life type business in force with total account value of 2.9 billion US$4.5 billion, with minimum guaranteed interest rates ranging from 3.0 per cent to 6.0 per cent with a 4.93 per cent average guaranteed rate.
iv Institutional products Jacksons institutional products consist of GICs, funding agreements including agreements issued in conjunction with Jacksons participation in the US Federal Home Loan Bank programme and medium-term note funding agreements.
At 31 December 2011, institutional products accounted for 4 per cent of policy and contract liabilities 2010: 5 per cent.
Under a traditional GIC, the policyholder makes a lump sum deposit.
If deposited funds are withdrawn earlier than the specified term of the contract, an adjustment is made that approximates a market value adjustment.
Under a funding agreement, the policyholder either makes a lump sum deposit or makes specified periodic deposits.
Jackson agrees to pay a rate of interest, which may be fixed but which is usually a floating short-term interest rate linked to an external index.
The average term of the funding arrangements is one to two years.
In 2011 and 2010, there were no funding agreements terminable by the policyholder with less than 90 days notice.
Medium-term note funding agreements are generally issued to support trust instruments issued on non-US exchanges or to qualified investors as defined by SEC Rule 144A.
Through the funding agreements, Jackson agrees to pay a rate of interest, which may be fixed or floating, to the holders of the trust instruments.
f Exposure to market risk and risk management Jacksons main exposures are to market risk through its exposure to interest rate risk and equity risk.
Approximately 92 per cent 2010: 91 per cent of its general account investments support interest-sensitive and fixed indexed annuities, life business and surplus and 8 per cent 2010: 9 per cent support institutional business.
All of these types of business contain considerable interest rate guarantee features and, consequently, require that the assets that support them are primarily fixed income or fixed maturity.
Jackson is exposed primarily to the following risks in the US arising from fluctuations in interest rates: the risk of loss related to meeting guaranteed rates of accumulation following a sharp and sustained fall in interest rates, the risk of loss related to policyholder withdrawals following a sharp and sustained increase in interest rates, and the risk of mismatch between the expected duration of certain annuity liabilities and prepayment risk and extension risk inherent in mortgage-backed securities.
Jackson is also exposed to the following risks in the US arising from equity market movements: the risk of loss related to the incidence of benefits related to guarantees issued in connection with its VA contracts, and the risk of loss related to meeting contractual accumulation requirements in FIA contracts.
Jackson enters into financial derivative transactions, including those noted below to reduce and manage business risks.
These transactions manage the risk of a change in the value, yield, price, cash flows, or quantity of, or a degree of exposure with respect to assets, liabilities or future cash flows, which Jackson has acquired or incurred.
Jackson uses free-standing derivative instruments for hedging purposes.
Additionally, certain liabilities, primarily trust instruments supported by funding agreements, fixed indexed annuities, certain GMWB variable annuity features and reinsured GMIB variable annuity features contain embedded derivatives as defined by IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Jackson does not account for such derivatives as either fair value or cash flow hedges as might be permitted if the specific hedge documentation requirements of IAS 39 were followed.
Financial derivatives, including derivatives embedded in certain host liabilities that have been separated for accounting and financial reporting purposes are carried at fair value.
Value movements on the derivatives are reported within the income statement.
In preparing Jacksons segment profit as shown in note B1, value movements on Jacksons derivative contracts, are included within short-term fluctuations in investment returns and excluded from operating results based on longer-term investment returns.
258  D: continued D3: continued The types of derivatives used by Jackson and their purpose are as follows: I nterest rate swaps generally involve the exchange of fixed and floating payments over the period for which Jackson holds the instrument without an exchange of the underlying principal amount.
These agreements are used for hedging purposes: Put-swaption contracts provide the purchaser with the right, but not the obligation, to require the writer to pay the present value of a long-duration interest rate swap at future exercise dates.
Jackson purchases and writes put-swaptions with maturities up to 10 years.
Put-swaptions hedge against significant movements in interest rates: Equity index futures contracts and equity index options including various call, put options and put spreads are used to hedge Jacksons obligations associated with its issuance of fixed indexed immediate and deferred annuities and certain VA guarantees.
These annuities and guarantees contain embedded options which are fair valued for financial reporting purposes: T otal return swaps in which Jackson receives equity returns or returns based on reference pools of assets in exchange for short-term floating rate payments based on notional amounts, are held for both hedging and investment purposes: C ross-currency swaps, which embody spot and forward currency swaps and additionally, in some cases, interest rate swaps and equity index swaps, are entered into for the purpose of hedging Jacksons foreign currency denominated funding agreements supporting trust instrument obligations: and C redit default swaps, represent agreements under which Jackson has purchased default protection on certain underlying corporate bonds held in its portfolio.
These contracts allow Jackson to sell the protected bonds at par value to the counterparty if a default event occurs in exchange for periodic payments made by Jackson for the life of the agreement.
Jackson does not write default protection using credit derivatives.
Note D3 j parts iii and iv show the sensitivities of Jacksons results through its exposure to equity risk and interest rate risk.
g Process for setting assumptions and determining contract liabilities Under the MSB of reporting applied under IFRS 4 for insurance contracts, providing the requirements of the Companies Act, UK GAAP standards and the ABI SORP are met, it is permissible to reflect the previously applied UK GAAP basis.
Accordingly, and consistent with the basis explained in note A4, in the case of Jackson, the carrying values of insurance assets and liabilities are consolidated into the Group accounts based on US GAAP.
Under US GAAP, investment contracts as defined for US GAAP purposes are accounted for by applying in the first instance a retrospective deposit method to determine the liability for policyholder benefits.
This is then augmented by potentially three additional amounts.
These amounts are for: any amounts that have been assessed to compensate the insurer for services to be performed over future periods ie deferred income, any amounts previously assessed against policyholders that are refundable on termination of the contract, and any probable future loss on the contract ie premium deficiency.
Capitalised acquisition costs and deferred income for these contracts are amortised over the life of the book of contracts.
The present value of the estimated gross profits is generally computed using the rate of interest that accrues to policyholder balances sometimes referred to as the contract rate.
Estimated gross profits include estimates of the following elements, each of which will be determined based on the best estimate of amounts of the following individual elements over the life of the book of contracts without provision for adverse deviation for: amounts expected to be assessed for mortality less benefit claims in excess of related policyholder balances, amounts expected to be assessed for contract administration less costs incurred for contract administration, amounts expected to be earned from the investment of policyholder balances less interest credited to policyholder balances, amounts expected to be assessed against policyholder balances upon termination of contracts sometimes referred to as surrender charges, and other expected assessments and credits.
VA contracts written by Jackson may, as described above, provide for GMDB, GMIB, GMWB and GMAB features.
In general terms, liabilities for these benefits are accounted for under US GAAP by using estimates of future benefits and fees under best estimate persistency assumptions.
In accordance with US GAAP, the grandfathered basis for IFRS, which specifies how certain guarantee features should be accounted for, the GMDB and the for life portion of GMWB liabilities are not fair valued but are instead determined each period end by estimating the expected value of benefits in excess of the projected account balance and recognising the excess ratably over the life of the contract based on total expected assessments.
At 31 December 2011, these liabilities were valued using a series of deterministic investment performance scenarios, a mean investment return of 8.4 per cent 2010: 8.4 per cent and assumptions for lapse, mortality and expense that are the same as those used in amortising the capitalised acquisition costs.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements D: 259 The direct GMIB liability is determined by estimating the expected value of the annuitisation benefits in excess of the projected account balance at the date of annuitisation and recognising the excess ratably over the accumulation period based on total expected assessments.
GMIB benefits are essentially fully reinsured, subject to annual claim limits.
As this reinsurance benefit is net settled, it is considered to be a derivative under IAS 39 and is, therefore, recognised at fair value with the change in fair value included as a component of short-term derivative fluctuations.
The assumptions used for calculating the direct GMIB liability at 31 December 2011 and 2010 are consistent with those used for calculating the GMDB and for life GMWB liabilities.
The change in these reserves, along with claim payments and associated fees included in reserves are included along with the hedge results in short-term fluctuations, resulting in removal of the market impact from the operating profit based on longer-term investment returns.
Jackson regularly evaluates estimates used and adjusts the additional GMDB, GMIB and GMWB for life liability balances, with a related charge or credit to benefit expense, if actual experience or other evidence suggests that earlier assumptions should be revised.
GMWB not for life features, are considered to be embedded derivatives under IAS 39.
Therefore, provisions for these benefits are recognised at fair value, with the change in fair value included in short-term fluctuations.
For GMWB and GMIB reinsurance embedded derivatives that are fair valued under IAS 39, Jackson bases its volatility assumptions solely on implied market volatility with no reference to historical volatility levels and explicitly incorporates Jacksons own credit risk in determining discount rates.
Volatility assumptions are based on a weighting of available market data on implied volatility for durations up to ten years, at which point the projected volatility is held constant.
Non-performance risk is incorporated into the calculation through the use of discount interest rates sourced from a AA corporate credit curve.
Other risk margins, particularly for market illiquidity and policyholder behaviour are also incorporated into the model through the use of explicitly conservative assumptions.
On a periodic basis, Jackson rationalises the resulting fair values based on comparisons to other models and market movements.
With the exception of the GMDB, GMIB, GMWB and GMAB features of VA contracts, the financial guarantee features of Jacksons contracts are in most circumstances not explicitly valued, but the impact of any interest guarantees would be reflected as they are earned in the current account value ie the US GAAP liability.
For traditional life insurance contracts, provisions for future policy benefits are determined under US GAAP using the net level premium method and assumptions as of the issue date as to mortality, interest, policy lapses and expenses plus provisions for adverse deviation.
Institutional products are accounted for as investment contracts under IFRS with the liability classified as being in respect of financial instruments rather than insurance contracts, as defined by IFRS 4.
In practice, there is no material difference between the IFRS and US GAAP basis of recognition and measurement for these contracts.
Certain institutional products representing obligations issued in currencies other than US dollars have been hedged for changes in exchange rates using cross-currency swaps.
The fair value of derivatives embedded in funding agreements, as well as foreign currency transaction gains and losses, are included in the carrying value of the trust instruments supported by funding agreements recorded in other non-insurance liabilities.
Deferred acquisition costs Under IFRS 4, the Group applies grandfathered US GAAP for measuring the insurance assets and liabilities of Jackson.
In the case of Jackson term business, acquisition costs are deferred and amortised in line with expected premiums.
For annuity and interest-sensitive life business, acquisition costs are deferred and amortised in line with a combination of historical and future expected gross profits on the relevant contracts.
For fixed and indexed annuity and interest-sensitive life business, the key assumption is the long-term spread between the earned rate on investments and the rate credited to policyholders, which is based on an annual spread analysis.
Expected gross profits also depend on mortality assumptions, assumed unit costs and terminations other than deaths including the related charges, all of which are based on a combination of actual experience of Jackson, industry experience and future expectations.
A detailed analysis of actual mortality, lapse and expense experience is performed using internally developed experience studies.
As with fixed and indexed annuity and interest-sensitive life business, acquisition costs for Jacksons variable annuity products are amortised in line with the emergence of profits.
The measurement of the amortisation in part reflects current period fees including those for guaranteed minimum death, income, or withdrawal benefits earned on assets covering liabilities to policyholders, and the historical and expected level of future gross profits which depends on the assumed level of future fees, as well as components related to mortality, lapse and expense.
260  D: continued D3: continued Mean reversion technique Under US GAAP as grandfathered under IFRS 4 the projected gross profits, against which acquisition costs are amortised, reflect an assumed long-term level of investment return from the separate accounts which, for Jackson, is 8.4 per cent after deduction of net external fund management fees.
This is applied to the period end level of separate account assets after application of a mean reversion technique that removes a portion of the effect of levels of short-term variability in current market returns.
Under the mean reversion technique applied by Jackson, the projected level of return for each of the next five years is adjusted from period to period so that in combination with the actual rates of return for the preceding two years and the current year, the 8.4 per cent annual return is realised on average over the entire eight-year period.
Projected returns after the mean reversion period revert back to the 8.4 per cent assumption.
However, to ensure that the methodology does not over anticipate a reversion to trend following adverse markets, the mean reversion technique has a cap and floor feature whereby the projected returns in each of the next five years can be no more than 15 per cent per annum and no less than 0 per cent per annum both gross of asset management fees in each year.
The capping feature was relevant in late 2008, 2009 and 2010 due to the very sharp market falls in 2008.
At 31 December 2011, the projected rate of return for the next five years is less than 8.4 per cent.
If Jackson had not applied the mean reversion methodology and had instead applied a constant 8.4 per cent from asset values at 31 December 2011, the Jackson DAC balance would increase by approximately 38 million from 3,880 million to 3,918 million 31 December 2010 decrease of 80 million from 3,543 million to 3,463 million.
Sensitivity of amortisation charge In 2008, the application of the mean reversion technique benefited the results by 110 million.
In 2009 and 2010, whilst the cap was in effect, the credit of 39 million for decelerated amortisation and the charge of 11 million for accelerated amortisation reflected the difference between market returns for the period and the assumed level of 15 per cent.
For 2011, the separate account return net of all fees was approximately negative 4 per cent.
The DAC amortisation charge included in operating profit includes 232 million of accelerated amortisation.
This amount reflects the combined effect of: i the separate account performance in the year as it compares with the assumed level for the year: and ii the reduction in the previously assumed future rates of return for the upcoming five years from 15 per cent, to a level somewhat below the middle of the corridor of 0 and 15 per cent, so that in combination with the historical returns, the 8-year average in the mean reversion calculation is the 8.4 per cent long-term assumption.
The reduction in assumed future rates reflects in large part the elimination from the calculation in 2011, of the negative 2008 returns.
Setting aside other complications and the growth in the book, the 2011 accelerated amortisation can be broadly equated as paying back the benefit experienced in 2008.
Separately, as explained in note A5 it is the Companys intention to adopt the US Financial Accounting Standards Board requirements in EITF Update No 2010 -26 on Accounting for Costs Associated with Acquiring or Renewing Insurance Contracts from 1 January 2012 into Prudentials Group IFRS reporting for the results of Jackson and those Asian operations that use US GAAP for measuring insurance assets and liabilities.
Under the Update, insurers are required to capitalise only those incremental costs directly related to acquiring a contract from 1 January 2012.
This change has two principal effects on the 2011 and 2010 results, which are to be retrospectively adjusted in the 2012 Group financial statements.
i Charging of acquisition costs for business written in the year that can no longer be deferred.
For 2011 and 2010, 156 million and 158 million of acquisition costs will be charged to the operating results of Jackson for these years.
These charges are for the non-incremental acquisition costs for new business written in these years, as shown in note Y, representing 12 per cent of APE of 1,251 million and 14 per cent of 1,164 million, respectively.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements D: 261 ii Reduced amortisation charge for retrospectively adjusted deferred acquisition costs.
On application of the Update, Jacksons: i deferred acquisition costs balance for business in force at 31 December 2011 will be retrospectively reduced by 20 per cent, from 3,880 million to 3,095 million: ii amortisation charge to the 2011 operating profit based on longer-term investment returns is retrospectively adjusted by 18 per cent from 619 million comprising 387 million core charge and 232 million accelerated amortisation to 506 million comprising 316 million core charge and 190 million accelerated amortisation.
The core charge alters from representing 29 per cent to: 24 per cent of operating profit, based on longer-term investment returns before DAC amortisation and the charge for acquisition costs for business written in the year that can no longer be deferred, and 27 per cent of operating profit, based on longer-term investment returns before DAC amortisation but after the charge for acquisition costs for business written in the year that can no longer be deferred: and iii amortisation charge to the 2010 operating profit based on longer-term investment returns is retrospectively adjusted by 16 per cent from 334 million comprising 323 million core charge and 11 million accelerated amortisation to 280 million comprising 271 million core charge and 9 million accelerated amortisation.
The core charge alters from representing 28 per cent to: 23 per cent of operating profit based on longer-term investment returns before DAC amortisation and the charge for acquisition costs for business written in the year that can no longer be deferred, and 27 per cent of operating profit, based on longer-term investment returns before DAC amortisation but after the charge for acquisition costs for business written in the year that can no longer be deferred.
For 2012, the impact of application of the Update on the new business strain for non-incremental acquisition costs and amortisation charge to operating profits based on longer-term investment returns and the DAC balance in the statement of financial position is expected to follow a broadly similar pattern to those described above.
On the assumption that market returns for 2012 are within the range of negative 15 per cent to positive 15 per cent, the estimated effect on the amortisation charge, under the new DAC basis described above, is a range from acceleration of 100 million to deceleration of 100 million.
Statement of changes in equity shadow DAC adjustments Consequent upon the positive unrealised valuation movement in 2011 of 811 million 2010: positive 1,221 million there is a debit of 331 million 2010: 496 million debit for altered shadow DAC amortisation booked within other comprehensive income.
These adjustments reflect movement from period to period, in the changes to the pattern of reported gross profits that would have happened if the assets reflected in the statement of financial position had been sold, crystallising the unrealised gains or losses, and the proceeds reinvested at the yields currently available in the market.
At 31 December 2011, the cumulative shadow DAC balance was negative 866 million 2010: negative 520 million.
h Reinsurance The principal reinsurance ceded by Jackson outside the Group is on term life insurance, direct and assumed accident and health business and GMIB variable annuity guarantees.
In 2011, the premiums for such ceded business amounted to 72 million 2010: 83 million.
Net commissions received on ceded business and claims incurred ceded to external reinsurers totalled 9 million and 84 million respectively during 2011 2010: 12 million and 72 million respectively.
There were no deferred gains or losses on reinsurance contracts in either 2011 or 2010.
The reinsurance asset for business ceded outside the Group was 907 million 2010: 695 million.
i Effect of changes in assumptions used to measure insurance assets and liabilities In 2011 and 2010, there were no changes of assumptions that had a material impact on the results of US insurance operations.
262  D: continued D3: continued j Sensitivity of IFRS basis profit and shareholders equity to market and other risks The estimated sensitivity of Jacksons profit and shareholders equity to equity and interest rate risks provided below is net of the related changes in amortisation of DAC.
The effect on the related changes in amortisation of DAC provided is based on the current grandfathered US GAAP DAC basis but does not include any effect from an acceleration or deceleration of amortisation of DAC.
Note A5 provides explanation of the new US GAAP DAC basis intended to be adopted by the Company from 1 January 2012.
Note D3 g above provides an explanation of the dynamics that affect the amortisation charge and an indicative sensitivity for the 2012 results on the new US GAAP DAC basis.
i Exposure to equity risk Variable annuity contract related Jackson issues variable contracts through its separate accounts for which investment income and investment gains and losses accrue to, and investment risk is borne by, the contract holder traditional variable annuities.
It also issues variable annuity and life contracts through separate accounts where it contractually guarantees to the contract holder variable contracts with guarantees either a return of no less than deposits made to the contract adjusted for any partial withdrawals, b total deposits made to the contract adjusted for any partial withdrawals plus a minimum return, or c the highest contract value on a specified anniversary date adjusted for any withdrawals following the contract anniversary.
These guarantees include benefits that are payable in the event of death GMDB, annuitisation GMIB, at specified dates during the accumulation period GMWB or at the end of a specified period GMAB.
At 31 December 2011 and 2010, Jackson had variable annuity contracts with guarantees, for which the net amount at risk NAR is generally the amount of guaranteed benefit in excess of current account value, as follows: Account Net amount Weighted Period until Minimum value at risk average expected 31 December 2011 return m m attained age annuitisation Return of net deposits plus a minimum return GMDB 0-6% 31,571 2,914 64.2 years GMWB Premium only 0% 2,325 195 GMWB 0-5% 2,582 582 GMAB Premium only 0% 54 2 Highest specified anniversary account value minus withdrawals post-anniversary GMDB 4,002 678 63.7 years GMWB Highest anniversary only 1,855 423 GMWB 735 217 Combination net deposits plus minimum return, highest specified anniversary account value minus withdrawals post-anniversary GMDB 0-6% 2,098 479 66.1 years GMIB 0-6% 1,661 575 4.2 years GMWB 0-8% 21,902 2,263 Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements D: 263 Account Net amount Weighted Period until Minimum value at risk average expected 31 December 2010 return m m attained age annuitisation Return of net deposits plus a minimum return GMDB 0-6% 25,540 2,106 64.0 years GMWB Premium only 0% 2,742 149 GMWB 0-5% 1,996 415 GMAB Premium only 0% 48 1 Highest specified anniversary account value minus withdrawals post-anniversary GMDB 3,742 466 63.3 years GMWB Highest anniversary only 2,010 343 GMWB 852 196 Combination net deposits plus minimum return, highest specified anniversary account value minus withdrawals post-anniversary GMDB 0-6% 1,768 311 65.7 years GMIB 0-6% 1,933 418 5.1 years GMWB 0-8% 15,025 672 Amounts shown for GMWB comprise sums for the not for life portion where the guaranteed withdrawal base less the account value equals to the net amount at risk NAR, and a for life portion where the NAR has been estimated as the present value of future expected benefit payment remaining after the amount of the not for life guaranteed benefits is zero.
Ranges shown based on simple interest.
The upper limits of 5 per cent, or 8 per cent simple interest are approximately equal to 4.1 per cent and 6 per cent respectively, on a compound interest basis over a typical 10-year bonus period.
For example 1 10 x 0.5 is similar to 1.041 growing at a compound rate of 4.01 per cent for a further nine years.
Account balances of contracts with guarantees were invested in variable separate accounts as follows: 2011 m 2010 m Mutual fund type: Equity 28,902 23,841 Bond 4,251 3,417 Balanced 3,846 3,345 Money market 677 451 Total 37,676 31,054 As noted in note D3 f, Jackson is exposed to equity risk through the options embedded in the fixed indexed liabilities and GMDB and GMWB guarantees included in certain VA benefits as illustrated above.
This risk is managed using an equity hedging programme to minimise the risk of a significant economic impact as a result of increases or decreases in equity market levels while taking advantage of naturally offsetting exposures in Jacksons operations.
Jackson purchases external futures and options that hedge the risks inherent in these products, while also considering the impact of rising and falling separate account fees.
As a result of this hedging programme, if the equity markets were to increase further in the future, the net effect of Jacksons free-standing derivatives would decrease in value.
However, over time, this movement would be broadly offset by increased separate account fees and reserve decreases, net of the related changes to amortisation of deferred acquisition costs.
Due to the nature of the free-standing and embedded derivatives, this hedge, while highly effective on an economic basis, may not completely mute in the financial reporting the immediate impact of equity market movements as the free-standing derivatives reset immediately while the hedged liabilities reset more slowly and fees are recognised prospectively.
The net effect of opposite impacts would be observed if the equity markets were to decrease.
264  D: continued D3: continued At 31 December 2011, based on the hedges in place at that time, the estimated sensitivity of Jacksons pre-tax profit for VA business, net of related changes in amortisation of DAC excluding the impact on future separate account fees, profit after tax and shareholders equity to immediate increases and decreases in equity markets is as follows: 2011 m 2010 m Decrease Decrease Increase Increase Decrease Decrease Increase Increase of 20% of 10% of 10% of 20% of 20% of 10% of 10% of 20% Pre-tax profit, net of related changes in amortisation of DAC excluding impact on future separate account fees 267 149 195 447 159 90 98 178 Related deferred tax effects 93 52 68 156 56 31 34 62 Net sensitivity of profit after tax and shareholders' equity 174 97 127 291 103 59 64 116 The above table provides sensitivity movements as at a point in time while the actual impact on financial results would vary contingent upon the volume of new product sales and lapses, changes to the derivative portfolio, correlation of market returns and various other factors including volatility, interest rates and elapsed time.
Other exposure to equity risk In addition to the exposure explained above, Jackson is also exposed to equity risk from its holding of equity securities, partnerships in investment pools and other financial derivatives.
A range of reasonably possible movements in the value of equity securities, partnerships in investment pools and other financial derivatives have been applied to Jacksons holdings at 31 December 2011 and 2010.
The table below shows the sensitivity to a 10 and 20 per cent fall in value and the impact that this would have on pre-tax profit, net of related changes in amortisation of DAC, profit after tax and shareholders equity.
2011 m 2010 m Decrease Decrease Decrease Decrease of 20% of 10% of 20% of 10% Pre-tax profit, net of related changes in amortisation of DAC 121 61 143 72 Related deferred tax effects 42 21 50 25 Net sensitivity of profit after tax and shareholders equity 79 40 93 47 A 10 or 20 per cent increase in their value is estimated to have an approximately equal and opposite effect on profit and shareholders equity to the sensitivities shown above.
ii Exposure to interest rate risk Notwithstanding the market risk exposure previously described, except in the circumstances of interest rate scenarios where the guarantee rates included in contract terms are higher than crediting rates that can be supported from assets held to cover liabilities, the accounting measurement of fixed annuity liabilities of Jackson products is not generally sensitive to interest rate risk.
The GMWB features attaching to variable annuity business other than for-life represents embedded derivatives which are fair valued and so will be sensitive to changes in interest rate.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements D: 265 Debt securities and related derivatives are marked to fair value.
Value movements on derivatives, again net of related changes to amortisation of DAC and deferred tax, are recorded within profit and loss.
Fair value movements on debt securities, net of related changes to amortisation of DAC and deferred tax, are recorded within other comprehensive income.
The estimated sensitivity of these items and policyholder liabilities to a 1 per cent and 2 per cent decrease and increase in interest rates at 31 December 2011 and 2010 is as follows: 2011 m 2010 m A 2% A 1% A 1% A 2% A 2% A 1% A 1% A 2% decrease decrease increase increase decrease decrease increase increase Profit and loss Direct effect Derivatives value change 1,549 736 592 1,078 842 363 277 529 Policyholder liabilities 925 446 395 753 547 243 219 416 Related effect on amortisation of DAC 151 69 36 48 47 23 34 63 Pre-tax profit effect 473 221 161 277 342 143 92 176 Related effect on charge for deferred tax 166 77 56 97 120 50 32 62 Net profit effect 307 144 105 180 222 93 60 114 Other comprehensive income Direct effect on carrying value of debt securities 2,679 1,513 1,513 2,679 2,663 1,454 1,454 2,663 Related effect on amortisation of DAC 1,144 646 646 1,144 1,174 641 641 1,174 Related effect on movement in deferred tax 537 303 303 537 521 285 285 521 Net effect 998 564 564 998 968 528 528 968 Total net effect on shareholders' equity 1,305 708 669 1,178 1,190 621 588 1,082 These sensitivities are shown only for interest rates in isolation and do not include other movements in credit risk that may affect credit spreads and valuations of debt securities.
iii Currency translation Consistent with the Groups accounting policies, the profits of the Groups US operations are translated at average exchange rates and shareholders equity at the closing rate for the reporting period.
A 10 per cent increase or decrease in these rates would reduce or increase profit before tax attributable to shareholders, profit for the year and shareholders equity attributable to US insurance operations respectively as follows: A 10% increase in A 10% decrease in exchange rates exchange rates 2011 m 2010 m 2011 m 2010 m note i Profit before tax attributable to shareholders 54 41 66 50 Profit for the year 39 31 48 37 Shareholders equity attributable to US insurance operations 388 347 475 424 Note i Sensitivity on profit before tax ie aggregate of the operating profit based on longer-term investment returns and short-term fluctuations in investment returns.
In addition, the total profit loss for Jackson is affected by the level of impairment losses on the debt securities portfolio, net effect of market risk arising from the incidence and valuation of guarantee features, guaranteed benefit payments and equity index participation features, offset by variability of benefit related fees and equity derivative hedging performance, short-term value movements on derivatives held to manage the fixed annuity and other general account business, and other temporary value movements on portfolio investments classified as fair value through profit and loss.
266  D: continued D3: continued iv Other sensitivities As noted in section D1, total profit is very sensitive to market risk on the assets covering liabilities other than variable annuity business segregated in the separate accounts.
The principal determinants of variations in operating profit based on longer-term returns are: growth in the size of assets under management covering the liabilities for the contracts in force, variations in fees and other income, offset by variations in market value adjustment payments and, where necessary, strengthening of liabilities, spread returns for the difference between investment returns and rates credited to policyholders, and amortisation of deferred acquisition costs.
For term business, acquisition costs are deferred and amortised in line with expected premiums.
For interest-sensitive business, the key assumption is the expected long-term spread between the earned rate and the rate credited to policyholders, which is based on an annual spread analysis.
In addition, expected gross profits depend on mortality assumptions, assumed unit costs and terminations other than deaths including the related charges all of which are based on a combination of actual experience of Jackson, industry experience and future expectations.
A detailed analysis of actual experience is measured by internally developed expense, mortality and persistency studies.
Except to the extent of mortality experience, which primarily affects profits through variations in claim payments and GMDB reserves, the profits of Jackson are relatively insensitive to changes in insurance risk.
This is applied through the use of a mean reversion technique which is described in more detail in note D3 g above: and ii The required level of provision for guaranteed minimum death benefit claims.
k Duration of liabilities The table below shows the carrying value of policyholder liabilities.
The table below also shows the maturity profile of the cash flows used for that purpose for 2011 and 2010: 2011 m 2010 m Fixed Fixed annuity and annuity and other business other business including including GICs and GICs and similar Variable similar Variable contracts annuity Total contracts annuity Total Policyholder liabilities 31,356 37,833 69,189 29,320 31,203 60,523 % % % % % % Expected maturity: 0 to 5 years 47 47 47 50 50 50 5 to 10 years 27 30 29 27 29 28 10 to 15 years 11 13 12 11 12 12 15 to 20 years 6 6 6 5 6 5 20 to 25 years 5 2 3 3 2 3 Over 25 years 4 2 3 4 1 2 The maturity tables shown above have been prepared on a discounted basis.
Details of undiscounted cash flows for investment contracts are shown in note G2.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements D: 267 D4:  2011 m 2010 m With-profits Unit-linked business assets and note i liabilities Other Total Total Assets Intangible assets attributable to shareholders: Goodwill 235 235 236 Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 1,027 1,027 962 Total 1,262 1,262 1,198 Intangible assets attributable to with-profits funds: Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 83 83 97 Deferred tax assets 2 113 115 98 Other non-investment and non-cash assets 303 93 628 1,024 788 Investments of long-term business and other operations: Investment properties 10 10 9 Investments accounted for using the equity method 2 Financial investments: Loans 774 459 1,233 1,340 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 2,744 8,663 590 11,997 14,464 Debtsecurities 9,554 2,746 5,381 17,681 14,108 Otheinvestment 286 26 158 470 382 Deposits 123 578 464 1,165 638 Total investments 13,481 12,013 7,062 32,556 30,943 Cash and cash equivalents 625 579 773 1,977 1,601 Total assets 14,492 12,687 9,838 37,017 34,725 Equity and liabilities Equity Shareholders equity 2,349 2,349 2,149 Non-controlling interests 5 5 5 Total equity 2,354 2,354 2,154 Liabilities Policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds: Contract liabilities including amounts in respect of contracts classified as investment contracts under IFRS 4 12,593 12,015 6,254 30,862 28,674 note ii Unallocated surplus of with-profits funds 50 50 66 Total 12,643 12,015 6,254 30,912 28,740 Operational borrowings attributable to  operations 141 141 189 Deferred tax liabilities 348 33 132 513 495 Other non-insurance liabilities 1,501 639 957 3,097 3,147 Total liabilities 14,492 12,687 7,484 34,663 32,571 Total equity and liabilities 14,492 12,687 9,838 37,017 34,725 Notes i The statement of financial position for with-profits business comprises the with-profits assets and liabilities of the Hong Kong, Malaysia and Singapore with-profits operations.
Assets and liabilities of other participating business are included in the column for Other business.
ii For the purposes of the presentation of unallocated surplus of with-profits within the statement of financial position, the Hong Kong branch balance is reported within the unallocated surplus of the PAC with-profits sub-fund of the UK insurance operations.
s r 268  D:  continued D4:  continued iii Asian insurance operations The loans of the Groups Asian insurance operations comprise: 2011 m 2010 m Mortgage loans 31 25 Policy loans 572 528 Other loans 630 787 Total Asia insurance operations loans 1,233 1,340 The mortgage and policy loans are secured by properties and life insurance policies respectively.
The majority of the other loans are commercial loans held by the Malaysian operation and which are all investment graded by two local rating agencies.
 netofreinsurance  At 31 December 2011, the policyholder liabilities net of reinsurance of 151 million 2010: 41 million, and unallocated surplus for Asian operations of 30.8 billion 2010: 28.7 billion comprised the following: 2011 m 2010 m Singapore 9,323 9,731 Hong Kong 8,279 6,621 Malaysia 2,829 2,544 Indonesia 1,809 1,475 Korea 1,852 1,897 Taiwan 1,429 968 Other countries 5,240 5,463 Total Asian operations 30,761 28,699 Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements D: 269 b Reconciliation of movement in investments A reconciliation of the total investments of Asian insurance operations from the beginning of the year to the end of the year is as follows: Asian Unit-linked insurance With-profits assets and operations business liabilities Other Total m m m m At 1 January 2010 Total investments including derivative assets 9,547 9,953 3,890 23,390 Less: Investments held by consolidated investment funds 270 218 230 718 Less: Derivative liabilities 63 83 146 Directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 9,214 9,735 3,577 22,526 Net cash inflow from operating activities 278 838 1,051 2,167 Realised gains in the year 638 327 19 984 Unrealised gains and losses and exchange movements in the year 993 1,786 522 3,301 Acquisition of UOB Life Assurance Limited 527 3 474 1,004 Movement in the year of directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 2,436 2,954 2,066 7,456 At 31 December 2010 1 January 2011 Total investments including derivative assets 12,152 12,955 5,836 30,943 Less: Investments held by consolidated investment funds 382 266 91 739 note G3 Less: Derivative liabilities 120 102 222 Directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 11,650 12,689 5,643 29,982 Net cash inflow from operating activities 381 659 1,247 2,287 Realised gains in the year 310 149 44 503 Unrealised gains and losses and exchange movements in the year 444 1,767 20 1,343 Movement in the year of directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 1,135 959 1,271 1,447 At 31 December 2011 Total investments including derivative assets 13,481 12,013 7,062 32,556 Less: Investments held by consolidated investment funds 366 278 3 647 note G3 Less: Derivative liabilities 330 5 145 480 Directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 12,785 11,730 6,914 31,429 270  D: continued D4: continued c Reconciliation of movement in policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds A reconciliation of the total policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds of Asian insurance operations from the beginning of the year to the end of the year is as follows: Unit-linked With-profits assets and business liabilities Other Total m m m m At 1 January 2010 8,861 9,717 3,333 21,911 Comprising: Policyholder liabilities 8,808 9,717 3,333 21,858 Unallocated surplus of with-profits funds 53 53 Premiums New business 141 1,072 452 1,665 In-force 897 1,130 616 2,643 1,038 2,202 1,068 4,308 Surrenders 441 1,572 228 2,241 Maturities Deaths 326 40 132 498 Net flows 271 590 708 1,569 Shareholders transfers post tax 24 24 Investment-related items and other movements 693 1,405 137 2,235 Foreign exchange translation differences 719 1,009 353 2,081 note e Acquisition of UOB Life Assurance Limited 504 3 461 968 At 31 December 2010 1 January 2011 11,024 12,724 4,992 28,740 Comprising: Policyholder liabilities 10,958 12,724 4,992 28,674 Unallocated surplus of with-profits funds 66 66 Premiums New business 162 1,136 723 2,021 In-force 1,110 1,163 785 3,058 1,272 2,299 1,508 5,079 Surrenders 502 1,490 245 2,237 Maturities Deaths 431 39 194 664 Net flows 339 770 1,069 2,178 Shareholders transfers post tax 30 30 note d Investment-related items and other movements 1,274 1,154 245 365 note a Foreign exchange translation differences 36 325 52 341 At 31 December 2011 12,643 12,015 6,254 30,912 Comprising: Policyholder liabilities 12,593 12,015 6,254 30,862 Unallocated surplus of with-profits funds 50 50 Average policyholder liability balances 2011 11,775 12,370 5,623 29,768 2010 10,135 11,222 4,393 25,750 Adjusted for transactions in the period and excluding the unallocated surplus of with-profits funds.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements D: 271 Notes a Movements in the period have been translated at the average exchange rate for the year ended 31 December 2011.
The closing balance has been translated at the closing spot rates as at 31 December 2011.
Differences upon retranslation are included in foreign exchange translation differences.
b Net flows have increased by 609 million from 1,569 million in 2010 to 2,178 million in 2011, primarily reflecting increased flows from new business and the growth in the in-force book.
c The rate of surrenders for unit-linked and other shareholder business expressed as a percentage of opening liabilities was 9.8 per cent compared with 13.8 per cent in 2010. d The investment-related and other items and other movements for unit-linked business of negative 1,154 million in 2011 was mainly driven from Asia equity market losses in the second half of 2011. e The acquisition of UOB Life Assurance Limited reflects the liabilities acquired at the date of acquisition.
d Information on credit risks of debt securities The following table summarises the credit quality of the debt securities of the Asian insurance operations as at 31 December 2011 by rating agency ratings: 2011 m 2010 m With-profits Unit-linked business assets Other Total Total S&P AAA 1,259 38 126 1,423 2,934 S&P AA to AA- 2,161 83 1,599 3,843 2,138 S&P A to A- 1,560 564 931 3,055 2,843 S&P BBB to BBB- 1,032 104 315 1,451 913 S&P Other 786 707 644 2,137 1,773 6,798 1,496 3,615 11,909 10,601 Moodys Aaa 818 222 449 1,489 65 Moodys Aa1 to Aa3 47 61 20 128 115 Moodys A1 to A3 191 17 96 304 130 Moodys Baa1 to Baa3 109 4 18 131 95 Moodys Other 34 9 16 59 49 1,199 313 599 2,111 454 Fitch 189 60 102 351 49 Other 1,368 877 1,065 3,310 3,004 Total Asia debt securities 9,554 2,746 5,381 17,681 14,108 The following table analyses debt securities of Other business which are not externally rated: 2011 m 2010 m Government bonds 244 350 Corporate bonds rated as investment grade by local external ratings agencies 776 666 Structured deposits issued by banks which are rated, but specific deposits are not 5 Other 45 22 Total Asian operations 1,065 1,043 272  D: continued D4: continued e Products and guarantees The life insurance products offered by the Groups Asian operations include a range of with-profits and non-participating term, whole life, endowment and unit-linked policies.
The Asian operations also offer health, disability, critical illness and accident coverage to supplement its core life products.
The terms and conditions of the contracts written by the Asian operations and, in particular, the products options and guarantees, vary from territory to territory depending upon local market circumstances.
In general terms, the Asian participating products provide savings and protection where the basic sum assured can be enhanced by a profit share or bonus from the underlying fund as determined at the discretion of the insurers.
The Asian operations non-participating term, whole life and endowment products offer savings and or protection where the benefits are guaranteed or determined by a set of defined market-related parameters.
Unit-linked products combine savings with protection, the cash value of the policy depends on the value of the underlying unitised funds.
Health and Protection H&P policies provide mortality or morbidity benefits and include health, disability, critical illness and accident coverage.
H&P products are commonly offered as supplements to main life policies but can be sold separately.
Subject to local market circumstances and regulatory requirements, the guarantee features described in note D2 e in respect of UK business broadly apply to similar types of participating contracts written in the Hong Kong branch, Singapore and Malaysia.
Participating products have both guaranteed and non-guaranteed elements.
Non-participating long-term products are the only ones where the Group is contractually obliged to provide guarantees on all benefits.
Investment-linked products have the lowest level of guarantee, if any.
Product guarantees in Asia can be broadly classified into four main categories, namely premium rate, cash value and interest rate guarantees, policy renewability and convertibility options.
The risks on death coverage through premium rate guarantees are low due to appropriate product pricing.
Cash value and interest rate guarantees are of three types: Maturity values Maturity values are guaranteed for non-participating products and on the guaranteed portion of participating products.
Declared annual bonuses are also guaranteed once vested.
Future bonus rates and cash dividends are not guaranteed on participating products.
Surrender values Surrender values are guaranteed for non-participating products and on the guaranteed portion of participating products.
The surrender value of declared reversionary bonuses are also guaranteed once vested.
Market value adjustments and surrender penalties are used where the law permits such adjustments in cash values.
Interest rate guarantees It is common in Asia for regulations or market-driven demand and competition to provide some form of capital value protection and minimum crediting interest rate guarantees.
This would be reflected within the guaranteed maturity and surrender values.
The guarantees are borne by shareholders for non-participating and investment-linked non-investment guarantees only products.
Participating product guarantees are predominantly supported by the segregated life funds and their estates.
Whole of life contracts with floor levels of policyholder benefits that accrue at rates set at inception and do not vary subsequently with market conditions are written in the Korean life operations.
This is to a much lesser extent than the policies written by the Taiwan agency business which was sold in the first half of 2009, as Korea has a much higher proportion of linked and health business.
The Korean business has non-linked liabilities and linked liabilities at 31 December 2011 of 447 million and 1,407 million respectively 2010: 408 million and 1,491 million respectively.
The other area of note in respect of guarantees is the Japanese business where pricing rates are higher than current bond yields.
Lapse risk is a feature in that policyholders could potentially surrender their policies on guaranteed terms if interest rates significantly increased leaving the potential for losses if bond values had depreciated significantly.
However, the business is matched to a relatively short realistic liability duration.
The method for determining liabilities of insurance contracts for UK GAAP, and IFRS, purposes for some Asian operations is based on US GAAP principles and this method applies to contracts with cash value and interest rate guarantees.
Following standard US GAAP procedure, premium deficiency reserve calculations are performed each year to establish whether the carrying values of the liabilities are sufficient.
On the US GAAP basis the calculations are deterministic, that is to say based on a single set of projections, and expected long-term rates of return are applied.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements D: 273 f Exposure to market risk The Asian operations sell with-profits and unit-linked policies and, although the with-profits business generally has a lower terminal bonus element than in the UK, the investment portfolio still contains a proportion of equities.
Non-participating business is largely backed by debt securities or deposits.
The exposure to market risk of the Group arising from its Asian operations is therefore at modest levels.
This arises from the fact that the Asian operations have a balanced portfolio of with-profits, unit-linked and other types of business.
g Process for setting assumptions and determining liabilities The future policyholder benefit provisions for Asian businesses in the Groups IFRS accounts and previously under the MSB, are determined in accordance with methods prescribed by local GAAP adjusted to comply, where necessary, with UK GAAP.
For Asian operations in countries where local GAAP is not well established and in which the business written is primarily non-participating and linked business, US GAAP is used as the most appropriate reporting basis.
This basis is applied in Japan, Vietnam, Taiwan and India.
The future policyholder benefit provisions for non-linked business are determined using the net level premium method, with an allowance for surrenders, maintenance and claims expenses.
h Reinsurance The Asian businesses cede only minor amounts of business outside the Group with immaterial effects on reported profit.
During 2011, reinsurance premiums for externally ceded business were 226 million 2010: 146 million and the reinsurance assets were 151 million 2010: 41 million in aggregate.
i Effect of changes in bases, estimates and assumptions used to measure insurance assets and liabilities 2011 In 2011, IFRS operating profit based on longer-term investment returns for Asian insurance operations included a net 38 million credit arising from a small number of items that are not anticipated to reoccur in future periods.
2010 In 2010, one-off changes made to reserving assumptions resulted in a release from liabilities of 19 million.
j Sensitivity of IFRS basis profit and shareholders equity to market and other risks i Risks other than currency translation a With-profits business Similar principles to those explained for UK with-profits business apply to profit emergence for the Asian with-profits business.
Correspondingly, the profit emergence reflects bonus declaration and is relatively insensitive to period-by-period fluctuations in insurance risk or interest rate movements.
b Unit-linked business As for the UK insurance operations, the profits and shareholders equity related to the Asian operations is primarily driven by charges related to invested funds.
The sensitivity of profits and shareholders equity to changes in insurance risk and to interest rate risk are not material.
274  D: continued D4: continued c Other business i Interest rate risk Asian operations offer a range of insurance and investment products, predominately with-profits and non-participating term, whole life endowment and unit-linked.
Excluding with-profit and unit-linked business, the results of the Asian business are sensitive to the vagaries of routine movements in interest rates.
For the purposes of analysing sensitivity to variations in interest rates, it has been determined for the majority of territories that a movement of 1 per cent in the 10-year government bond rate can be considered reasonably possible.
At 31 December 2011, 10-year government bond rates vary from territory to territory and range from 0.99 per cent to 12.88 per cent 2010: 1.1 per cent to 12.25 per cent.
Exception to this arises in Japan and Taiwan where reasonably possible interest rate movements have been determined as 0.5 per cent 2010: Japan and Taiwan 0.5 per cent.
These reasonably possible changes would have the following impact: 2011 m 2010 m Decrease Decrease of 1% of 1% note i note i Pre-tax profit 73 110 Related deferred tax where applicable 22 41 Net effect on profit and shareholders' equity 51 69 Note i One per cent sensitivity except for Japan and Taiwan 0.5 per cent has been used in all territories 2010: one per cent except Japan and Taiwan 0.5 per cent.
The pre-tax impacts, if they arose, would mostly be recorded within the category short-term fluctuations in investments returns in the Groups segmental analysis of profit before tax.
At 31 December 2011, an increase in the rates of 1 per cent 2010: 1 per cent except Japan and Taiwan 0.5 per cent is estimated to have the effect of decreasing pre-tax profit by 159 million 2010: 112 million.
After adjusting these results for deferred tax the reasonable possible effect on shareholders equity is a decrease of 125 million 2010: 82 million.
ii Equity price risk The non-linked shareholder business has limited exposure to equity and property investment 600 million at 31 December 2011.
Generally changes in equity and property investment values are not directly offset by movements in policyholder liabilities.
However, for the Vietnam business, to the extent that equity investment appreciation is realised through sales of securities then policyholders liabilities are adjusted to the extent that policyholders participate.
The estimated sensitivity to a 10 and 20 per cent change in equity and property prices for shareholder-backed Asian other business, which would be reflected in the short-term fluctuation component of the Groups segmental analysis of profit before tax, at 31 December 2011 and 2010 would be as follows: 2011 m 2010 m Decrease Decrease Decrease Decrease of 20% of 10% of 20% of 10% Pre-tax profit 120 60 103 52 Related deferred tax where applicable 24 12 10 5 Net effect on profit and shareholders' equity 96 48 93 47 A 10 or 20 per cent increase in their value would have an approximately equal and opposite effect on profit and shareholders equity to the sensitivities shown above.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements D: 275 iii Insurance risk Many of the territories in Asia are exposed to mortality morbidity risk and provision is made within policyholder liabilities on a prudent regulatory basis to cover the potential exposure.
If these prudent assumptions were strengthened by 5 per cent estimated at one in ten year shock then it is estimated that post-tax profit would be impacted by approximately 27 million 2010: 21 million.
Mortality morbidity has a symmetrical effect on portfolio and so a weakening of mortality morbidity assumptions would have an approximately equal and opposite similar impact.
ii Currency translation Consistent with the Groups accounting policies, the profits of the Asian insurance operations are translated at average exchange rates and shareholders equity at the closing rate for the reporting period.
For 2011, the results for the most significant operations are given in note B4.
A 10 per cent increase or decrease in these rates would have reduced or increased profit before tax attributable to shareholders, profit for the year and shareholders equity, excluding goodwill, attributable to Asian operations respectively as follows: 10% increase in 10% decrease in exchange rates exchange rates 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m note i Profit before tax attributable to shareholders 57 65 70 80 Profit for the year 46 58 56 71 Shareholders equity, excluding goodwill, attributable to Asian operations 228 193 278 236 Note i Sensitivity on profit loss before tax ie aggregate of the operating profit based on longer-term investment returns and short-term fluctuations in investment returns.
Separately the Group uses cash flow projections of expected benefit payments as part of the determination of the value of in-force business when preparing EEV basis results.
The table below also shows the maturity profile of the cash flows, taking account of expected future premiums and investment returns used for that purpose for 2011 and 2010: 2011 m 2010 m Policyholder liabilities 30,862 28,674 % % Expected maturity: 0 to 5 years 22 24 5 to 10 years 19 20 10 to 15 years 15 15 15 to 20 years 13 12 20 to 25 years 10 10 Over 25 years 21 19 276  D: continued D5: a Summary statement The Groups estimated capital position for life assurance businesses with reconciliations to shareholders equity is shown below.
Available capital for each fund or group of companies is determined by reference to local regulation at 31 December 2011 and 2010.
2011 m Parent company Other and shareUK life holders Total assurance Asian Total equity of PAC subsidilife life M&G other witharies and assurance assurance including subsidiprofits funds  aries and Group SAIF WPSF fund note ii Jackson aries tions Capital funds Total Group shareholders' equity Held outside long-term funds: Net assets 930 4,271 2,114 7,315 229 1,514 6,030 Goodwill 235 235 1,153 77 1,465 Total 930 4,271 2,349 7,550 1,382 1,437 7,495 note iii Held in long-term funds 1,622 1,622 1,622 Total Group shareholders' equity 2,552 4,271 2,349 9,172 1,382 1,437 9,117 Adjustments to regulatory basis Unallocated surplus of note i with-profits funds 9,165 9,165 50 9,215 Shareholders' share of realistic liabilities 2,394 2,394 2,394 Deferred acquisition costs of non-participating business not recognised for regulatory reporting purposes and goodwill 6 6 111 3,880 979 4,976 note iv Jackson surplus notes 160 160 Investment and policyholder liabilities valuation differences between IFRS and regulatory basis for note viii Jackson 1,002 1,002 Adjustment from IAS 19 basis pension deficit attributable to WPSF to pension liability note vii for regulatory purposes 16 16 16 Valuation difference on PAL between IFRS basis and regulatory basis 640 640 640 Other adjustments to restate these amounts to a regulatory basis with SAIF and the WPSF on a Peak 2 note v realistic basis 2 2 504 974 73 541 Total adjustments 6,139 6,139 615 1,744 856 2,924 Total available capital resources of life assurance businesses on local regulatory bases 6,139 6,139 1,937 2,527 1,493 12,096 Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements D: 277 2011 m Other UK life assurance Total PAC subsidiaries Asian life Total life WPSF with-profits and funds assurance assurance SAIF note i fund note ii Jackson subsidiaries operations Policyholder liabilities With-profits liabilities of UK regulated with-profits funds: Insurance contracts 7,934 28,256 36,190 6,777 42,967 Investment contracts with discretionary participation features 412 28,936 29,348 397 29,745 Total 8,346 57,192 65,538 7,174 72,712 Other liabilities: Insurance contracts: With-profits liabilities of non-UK regulated funds 5,419 5,419 Unit-linked, including variable annuity 1,847 1,847 6,387 37,833 12,015 58,082 Other life assurance business 209 13,365 13,574 24,734 29,445 6,142 73,895 Investment contracts without discretionary participation features principally unit-linked and similar contracts in the UK and GIC liabilities of note vi Jackson 17 17 14,927 1,911 112 16,967 Total 209 15,229 15,438 46,048 69,189 23,688 154,363 Total policyholder liabilities shown in the consolidated statement of financial position 8,555 72,421 80,976 46,048 69,189 30,862 227,075 278  D: continued D5: continued 2010 m Parent company Other and shareUK life holders Total assurance Asian Total equity of PAC subsidilife life M&G other witharies and assurance assurance including subsidiprofits funds  aries and Group SAIF WPSF fund note ii Jackson aries tions Capital funds Total Group shareholders' equity Held outside long-term funds: Net assets 716 3,815 1,913 6,444 254 1,532 5,166 Goodwill 236 236 1,153 77 1,466 Total 716 3,815 2,149 6,680 1,407 1,455 6,632 note iii Held in long-term funds 1,399 1,399 1,399 Total Group shareholders' equity 2,115 3,815 2,149 8,079 1,407 1,455 8,031 Adjustments to regulatory basis Unallocated surplus of note i with-profits funds 10,187 10,187 66 10,253 Shareholders' share of realistic liabilities 2,938 2,938 2,938 Deferred acquisition costs of non-participating business not recognised for regulatory reporting purposes and goodwill 13 13 116 3,543 993 4,665 note iv Jackson surplus notes 159 159 Investment and policyholder liabilities valuation differences between IFRS and regulatory basis for note viii Jackson 1,900 1,900 Adjustment from IAS 19 basis pension deficit attributable to WPSF to pension liability note vii for regulatory purposes 60 60 60 Valuation difference on PAL between IFRS basis and regulatory basis 1,202 1,202 1,202 Other adjustments to restate these amounts to a regulatory basis with SAIF and the WPSF on a Peak 2 note v realistic basis 706 706 292 576 156 1,146 Total adjustments 6,800 6,800 408 908 771 4,713 Total available capital resources of life assurance businesses on local regulatory bases 6,800 6,800 1,707 2,907 1,378 12,792 Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements D: 279 2010 m Other UK life assurance Total PAC subsidiaries Asian life Total life WPSF with-profits and funds assurance assurance SAIF note i fund note ii Jackson subsidiaries operations Policyholder liabilities With-profits liabilities of UK regulated with-profits funds: Insurance contracts 9,115 31,395 40,510 5,284 45,794 Investment contracts with discretionary participation features 376 25,237 25,613 119 25,732 Total 9,491 56,632 66,123 5,403 71,526 With-profits liabilities of non-UK regulated funds 5,555 5,555 Unit-linked, including variable annuity 2,128 2,128 8,882 31,203 12,724 54,937 Other life assurance business 268 13,067 13,335 19,297 27,438 4,935 65,005 Investment contracts without discretionary participation features principally unit-linked and similar contracts in the UK and GIC liabilities of note vi Jackson 15,765 1,882 57 17,704 Total 268 15,195 15,463 43,944 60,523 23,271 143,201 Total policyholder liabilities shown in the consolidated statement of financial position 9,759 71,827 81,586 43,944 60,523 28,674 214,727 Notes i WPSF unallocated surplus includes amounts related to the Hong Kong branch.
Policyholder liabilities of the Hong Kong branch are included in the amounts of Asian life assurance subsidiaries.
ii Excluding PAC shareholders equity that is included in parent company and shareholders equity of other subsidiaries and funds.
iii The term shareholders equity held in long-term funds refers to the excess of assets over liabilities attributable to shareholders of funds which are required by law to be maintained ring-fenced with segregated assets and liabilities.
iv For regulatory purposes the Jackson surplus notes are accounted for as capital.
v Other adjustments to shareholders equity and unallocated surplus include amounts for the value of non-participating business for UK regulated with-profits funds, deferred tax, admissibility and other items measured differently on the regulatory basis.
For Jackson the principal reconciling item is deferred tax related to the differences between IFRS and regulatory basis as shown in the table above and other methodology differences.
vi Insurance business accounted for as financial instruments under IAS 39. vii In determining the IAS 19 adjustment for the purposes of this table the deficit in the Groups main pension scheme used for the calculation includes amounts for investments in Prudential insurance policies which, on Group consolidation, are eliminated against equivalent liabilities in the statement of financial position of UK insurance operations see note I3.
viii The investment and policyholder liabilities valuation difference between IFRS and regulatory bases for Jackson is mainly due to not all investments being carried at fair value under the regulatory basis and also due to the valuation difference on annuity reserves.
280  D: continued D5: continued b Basis of preparation, capital requirements and management Each of the Groups long-term business operations is capitalised to a sufficiently strong level for its individual circumstances.
Details of the Groups major operations are shown below.
i UK insurance operations The FSA rules which govern the Prudential regulation of insurance form part of the Prudential Sourcebook for Insurers, the General Prudential Sourcebook and Interim Prudential Sourcebook for Insurers.
Overall, the net requirements of the General Prudential Sourcebook are intended to align the capital adequacy requirements for insurance business more closely with those of banking and investment firms and building societies, for example, by addressing tiers of capital, rather than looking at net admissible assets.
An insurer must hold capital resources equal at least to the minimum capital requirement MCR.
The Prudential Sourcebook for Insurers also contains rules on Individual Capital Assessments.
Under these rules and the rules of the General Prudential Sourcebook all insurers must assess for themselves the amount of capital needed to back their business.
If the FSA views the results of this assessment as insufficient, it may draw up its own Individual Capital Guidance for a firm, which can be superimposed as a requirement.
PAC WPSF and SAIF Under FSA rules, insurers with with-profits liabilities of more than 500 million must hold capital equal to the higher of the MCR and the enhanced capital requirement ECR.
The ECR is intended to provide a more risk responsive and realistic measure of a with-profits insurers capital requirements, whereas the MCR is broadly speaking equivalent to the previous required minimum margin under the Interim Prudential Sourcebook and satisfies the minimum EU Standards.
Determination of the ECR involves the comparison of two separate measurements of the firms resources requirement, which the FSA refers to as the twin peaks approach.
The two separate peaks are: i The requirement comprised by the mathematical reserves plus the Long-Term Insurance Capital Requirement LTICR, together known as the regulatory peak: and ii A calculation of the realistic present value of the insurers expected future contractual liabilities together with projected fair discretionary bonuses to policyholders, plus a risk capital margin, together known as the realistic peak.
Available capital of the WPSF and SAIF of 6.1 billion 2010: 6.8 billion represents the excess of assets over liabilities on the FSA realistic basis.
Unlike the previously discussed FRS 27 basis, realistic liabilities on the regulatory basis include the shareholders share of future bonuses.
These amounts are shown before deduction of the risk capital margin RCM which is estimated to be 2.0 billion at 31 December 2011 2010: 1.5 billion.
The FSAs basis of setting the RCM is to target a level broadly equivalent to a Standard & Poors credit rating of BBB and to judge this by ensuring there are sufficient assets to absorb a one in 200 year event.
The RCM calculation achieves this by setting rules for the determination of margins to cover defined stress changes in asset values and yields for market risk, credit risk and termination risk for with-profits policies.
As noted in section D2 g ii, PAC has discretion in its management actions in the case of adverse investment conditions.
Management actions encompass, but are not confined to, investment allocation decisions, levels of reversionary bonuses, crediting rates and total claim values.
To illustrate the flexibility of management actions, rates of regular bonus are determined for each type of policy primarily by targeting them at a prudent proportion of the long-term expected future investment return on the underlying assets.
However, the rates declared may differ by product type or by date of payment of the premiums or date of issue of the policy, if the accumulated annual bonuses are particularly high or low relative to a prudent proportion of the achieved investment return.
When target bonus levels change, the PAC Board has regard to the overall financial strength of the long-term fund when determining the length of time over which it will seek to achieve the amended product target bonus level.
In normal investment conditions, PAC expects changes to regular bonus rates to be gradual over time and changes are not expected to exceed 1 per cent per annum over any year.
However, discretion is retained as to whether or not a regular bonus is declared each year, and there is no limit on the amount by which regular bonus rates can be changed.
As regards smoothing of maturity and death benefits, in normal circumstances PAC does not expect most payout values on policies of the same duration to change by more than 10 per cent up or down from one year to the next, although some larger changes may occur to balance payout values between different policies.
Greater flexibility may be required in certain circumstances, for example, following a significant rise or fall in market values either sudden or over a period of years and in such situations the PAC Board may decide to vary the standard bonus smoothing limits to protect the overall interests of policyholders.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements D: 281 For surrender benefits, any substantial fall in the market value of the assets of the with-profits sub-fund would lead to changes in the application of MVRs for accumulating with-profits policies, firstly to increase the size of MVRs already being applied, and secondly, to extend the range of policies for which an MVR is applied.
Other UK life assurance subsidiaries and funds The available capital of 1,937 million 2010: 1,707 million reflects the excess of regulatory basis assets over liabilities of the subsidiaries and funds, before deduction of the capital resources requirement of 1,194 million 2010: 1,086 million.
The capital resources requirement for these companies broadly reflects a formula which, for active funds, equates to a percentage of regulatory reserves plus a percentage of death strains.
Death strains represent the payments made to policyholders upon death in excess of amounts explicitly allocated to fund the provisions for policyholders claims and maturities.
ii Jackson The regulatory framework for Jackson is governed by the requirements of the US NAIC approved risk-based capital standards.
Under these requirements life insurance companies report using a formula-based capital standard that they calculate by applying factors to various asset, premium and reserve items and separate model-based calculations of risk associated primarily with variable annuity products.
The risk-based capital formula takes into account the risk characteristics of a company, including asset risk, insurance risk, interest rate risk, market risk and business risk.
The available capital of Jackson shown above of 2,527 million 2010: 2,907 million reflects US regulatory basis assets less liabilities including asset valuation reserves.
The asset valuation reserve is designed to provide for future credit-related losses on debt securities and losses on equity investments.
Available capital includes a reduction for the effect of the interest maintenance reserve, which is designed by state regulators to defer recognition of non-credit related realised capital gains and losses and to recognise them rateably in the future.
Jacksons risk-based capital ratio is significantly in excess of regulatory requirements.
At 31 December 2011, Jackson had a permitted practice in effect as granted by the local regulator allowing Jackson to carry certain interest rate swaps at book value, as if statutory hedge accounting were in place, instead of at fair value as would have been otherwise required.
Jackson was also required to demonstrate the effectiveness of its interest rate swap programme pursuant to the Michigan Insurance Code.
The total effect of this permitted practice net of tax was to decrease statutory surplus by 305 million at 31 December 2011. iii Asian operations The available capital shown above of 1,493 million 2010: 1,378 million represents the excess of local regulatory basis assets over liabilities before deduction of required capital of 608 million 2010: 572 million.
These amounts have been determined applying the local regulations in each of the operations.
The businesses in Asia are subject to local capital requirements in the jurisdictions in which they operate.
The Hong Kong business branch of PAC and its capital requirements are subsumed within those of the PAC long-term fund.
For the other material Asian operations, the details of the basis of determining regulatory capital and regulatory capital requirements are as follows: Singapore In Singapore a risk-based regulatory framework applies rather than one based on a net premium approach.
For participating business, a gross premium reserve, determined using prudent best estimate assumptions and which makes allowance for future bonus, is held.
The amount held is subject to a minimum of the higher of the assets attributed to participating business and a gross premium reserve calculated on specified assumptions, but without allowance for future bonus, that include prescribed provisions for adverse deviations PADs.
For non-participating business, gross premium reserves are held.
For linked business the value of units is held together with a non-unit reserve calculated in accordance with standard actuarial methodology.
Indonesia For linked business the value of units is held together with a non-unit reserve calculated in accordance with standard actuarial methodology.
Solvency capital is determined using a risk-based capital approach.
Insurance companies in Indonesia are expected to maintain the level of net assets above 120 per cent of solvency capital.
Due to the 2008 financial crisis, the local regulator provided relief in solvency capital and the measure continued until 1 January 2012 when it was withdrawn.
The withdrawal of this temporary relief did not have a significant impact on the Groups Indonesia business.
Japan Mathematical reserves for traditional business are determined on a net premium basis using prescribed mortality and interest rates.
Interest rates reflect the original pricing assumptions.
With regard to solvency, the adjusted solvency capital assets of the Company must exceed 200 per cent of the risk related capital requirement value at risk.
It is thus a risk-based capital approach.
282  D: continued D5: continued Malaysia A risk-based capital framework applies in Malaysia.
For participating business, a gross premium reserve on the guaranteed and non-guaranteed benefits determined using best estimate assumptions is held.
The amount held is subject to a minimum of a gross premium reserve on the guaranteed benefits, determined using best estimate assumptions along with provisions of risk margin for adverse deviations PRADs discounted at the risk-free rate.
For non-participating business, gross premium reserves determined using best estimate assumptions along with provisions of risk margin for adverse deviations discounted at the risk-free rate are held.
The risk-free rate is derived from a yield curve of zero-coupon spot yields of Malaysian Government Securities.
Participating fund surplus is not allowed to be used to support a deficit if any and the capital requirement of the non-participating business.
The capital requirement is calculated based on a prescribed series of risk charges with a multiplier of 175 per cent being applied to the total risk charges.
The multiplier of 175 per cent is the capital target agreed between the regulator and the company.
Vietnam Mathematical reserves are calculated using a modified net premium approach, set of assumptions agreed with the regulator.
The capital requirement is determined as 4 per cent of reserves plus a specified percentage of 0.1 per cent of sums at risk for policies with original term less than or equal to five years or 0.3 per cent of sums at risk for policies with original term of more than five years.
An additional capital requirement of Vietnamese Dong 200 billion 6 million is also required for companies transacting unit-linked business.
Korea Policy reserves for traditional business are determined on net premium reserve basis using pricing mortality and prescribed standard interest rates.
For linked business, the value of units is held together with the non-unit reserves calculated in accordance with regulatory standard actuarial methodology.
In April 2009, the capital requirement in Korea moved to being based on a risk-based regulatory framework with a two-year transition period where insurers could choose between the prior and new framework.
The risk-based regulatory framework was adopted in 2009 by the Company.
Under the risk-based framework, insurance companies in Korea are expected to maintain a level of free surplus in excess of the capital requirements with the general target level of solvency margin being in excess of 150 per cent of the risk-based capital.
iv Group capital requirements In addition to the requirements at individual company level, FSA requirements under the IGD apply additional prudential requirements for the Group as a whole.
Discussion of the Groups estimated IGD position at 31 December 2011, together with market risk sensitivity disclosure provided to key management, is provided in the business review section of the Groups 2011 Annual Report and in section C. c Movements in total available capital Total available capital for the Groups life assurance operations has changed as follows: 2011 m Other UK life assurance Asian life subsidiaries assurance Group WPSF and funds Jackson subsidiaries Total note i note iii note ii note iv Available capital at 31 December 2010 6,800 1,707 2,907 1,378 12,792 Changes in assumptions 60 38 32 54 Changes in management policy 15 15 Changes in regulatory requirements 17 17 note v New business and other factors 586 192 380 130 644 Available capital at 31 December 2011 6,139 1,937 2,527 1,493 12,096 Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements D: 283 2010 m Other UK life assurance Asian life subsidiaries assurance Group WPSF and funds Jackson subsidiaries Total note i note iii note ii note iv Available capital at 31 December 2009 6,432 1,607 2,488 1,129 11,656 Changes in assumptions 83 30 2 55 Changes in management policy 364 364 Changes in regulatory requirements 60 60 note v New business and other factors 87 70 479 251 887 Available capital at 31 December 2010 6,800 1,707 2,907 1,378 12,792 Notes i WPSF The decrease in 2011 of 661 million reflects primarily the negative effect of the lower interest rate used to value projected policyholder benefit payments, partially offset by the positive impact of investment returns earned on the opening available capital.
The increase in 2010 reflects primarily the positive effect of changes in management policy of 364 million in respect of hedge strategy, asset allocation and other risk alignment changes.
ii Jackson The decrease of 380 million in 2011 reflects an underlying decrease of 402 million applying the 2011 year end exchange rate of $1.55:1 and 22 million of exchange translation gain.
The increase of 419 million in 2010 reflected an underlying increase of 340 million applying the 2010 year end exchange rate of $1.57:1 and 79 million of exchange translation gain.
The underlying movement of the available capital of Jackson included the effects of capital contributions, dividends paid to the parent company, impairment losses and also the effects of hedging transactions.
iii Other UK life assurance subsidiaries and funds The effect from the changes in assumptions of valuation interest rates on insurance liabilities is broadly matched by the corresponding effect on assets leaving no significant impact on the available capital.
iv Asian life assurance subsidiaries The increase of 115 million in 2011 reflects an underlying increase of 134 million applying the relevant 2011 year end exchange rates and 19 million of exchange translation loss.
The increase of 251 million in 2010 reflected an underlying increase of 127 million applying the relevant 2010 year end exchange rates and 124 million of exchange translation gain.
The underlying increase of available capital in 2010 included the effects of the acquisition of UOB Life Assurance Limited in Singapore in February 2010. v New business and other factors comprise the effect of changes in new business, valuation interest rate, investment return, foreign exchange and other factors.
d Transferability of available capital For PAC and all other UK long-term insurers, long-term business assets and liabilities must, by law, be maintained in funds separate from those for the assets and liabilities attributable to non-life insurance business or to shareholders.
Only the established surplus, the excess of assets over liabilities in the long-term fund determined through a formal valuation, may be transferred so as to be available for other purposes.
Distributions from the with-profits sub-fund to shareholders reflect the shareholders one-ninth share of the cost of declared policyholders bonuses.
Accordingly, the excess of assets over liabilities of the PAC long-term fund is retained within that company.
The retention of the capital enables it to support with-profits and other business of the fund by, for example, providing the benefits associated with smoothing and guarantees.
It also provides investment flexibility for the funds assets by meeting the regulatory capital requirements that demonstrate solvency and by absorbing the costs of significant events or fundamental changes in its long-term business, without affecting the bonus and investment policies.
For other UK long-term business subsidiaries, the amounts retained within the companies are at levels which provide an appropriate level of capital strength in excess of the regulatory minimum.
For Jackson, capital retention is maintained at a level consistent with an appropriate rating by Standard & Poors.
Currently Jackson is rated AA.
Jackson can pay dividends on its capital stock only out of earned surplus unless prior regulatory approval is obtained.
Furthermore, dividends which exceed the greater of statutory net gain from operations for the prior year or 10 per cent of Jacksons statutory surplus require prior regulatory approval.
For Asian subsidiaries, the amounts retained within the companies are at levels that provide an appropriate level of capital strength in excess of the local regulatory minimum.
For ring-fenced with-profits funds, the excess of assets over liabilities is retained with distribution tied to the shareholders share of bonuses through declaration of actuarially determined surplus.
The Singapore and Malaysian businesses may, in general, remit dividends to the UK, provided the statutory insurance fund meets the capital adequacy standard required under local statutory regulations.
284  D: continued D5: continued Available capital of the non-insurance business units is transferable to the life assurance businesses after taking account of an appropriate level of operating capital, based on local regulatory solvency targets, over and above basis liabilities.
The economic capital model described in section D1 concentration of risks takes into account restrictions on mobility of capital across the Group, with capital transfers to and from business units triggered at a solvency level consistent with these targets.
The model takes into account restrictions on the availability to the Group of the estate of the various with-profits funds throughout the Group.
e Sensitivity of liabilities and total capital to changed market conditions and capital management policies Prudential manages its assets, liabilities and capital locally, in accordance with local regulatory requirements and reflecting the different types of liabilities Prudential has in each business.
As a result of the diversity of products offered by Prudential and the different regulatory requirements in which it operates, Prudential employs differing methods of asset liability and capital management, depending on the business concerned.
Stochastic modelling of assets and liabilities is undertaken in the UK, Jackson and Asia to assess the economic capital requirements under different confidence intervals and time horizons.
In addition, reserve adequacy testing under a range of scenarios and dynamic solvency testing is carried out, including under certain scenarios mandated by the UK, US and Asian regulators.
A stochastic approach models the inter-relationship between asset and liability movements, taking into account asset correlation, management actions and policyholder behaviour under a large number of alternative economic scenarios.
These scenarios are projected forward over a period of time, typically 25 years or longer, and the liabilities and solvency position of the fund are calculated in each scenario in each future year.
The funds policy on management actions, including bonus and investment policy, continue to be set in order that they are consistent with the available capital and the targeted risk of default.
The sensitivity of liabilities and other components of total capital vary depending upon the type of business concerned and this conditions the approach to asset liability management.
For example, for businesses that are most sensitive to interest rate changes, such as immediate annuity business, Prudential uses cash flow analysis to create a portfolio of debt securities whose value changes in line with the value of liabilities when interest rates change.
This type of analysis helps protect profits from changing interest rates.
This type of analysis is used in the UK for annuity business and by Jackson for its interest-sensitive and fixed indexed annuities and stable value products.
For businesses that are most sensitive to equity price changes, Prudential uses stochastic modelling and scenario testing to look at the future returns on its investments under different scenarios which best reflect the large diversity in returns that equities can produce.
This allows Prudential to devise an investment and with-profits policyholder bonus strategy that, on the model assumptions, allows it to optimise returns to its policyholders and shareholders over time while maintaining appropriate financial strength.
Prudential uses this methodology extensively in connection with its UK with-profits business.
f Intragroup arrangements in respect of SAIF Should the assets of SAIF be inadequate to meet the guaranteed benefit obligations to the policyholders of SAIF, the PAC long-term fund would be liable to cover any such deficiency.
Due to the quality and diversity of the assets in SAIF and the ability of SAIF to revise guaranteed benefits in the event of an asset shortfall, the directors believe that the probability of either the PAC long-term fund or the Groups shareholders funds, under their obligation to maintain the capital position of long-term funds generally, having to contribute to SAIF is remote.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 E:Assetmanagement  Financial statements andotheroperations 285 E:Assetmanagement  andotheroperations E1: The Groups asset management operations are based in the UK, Asia and the US where they operate different models and under different brands tailored to their markets.
Asset management in the UK is undertaken through M&G which is made up of three distinct businesses, being Retail, Wholesale and Finance, and whose operations include retail asset management, institutional fixed income, pooled life and pension funds, property and private finance.
Asset management in Asia serves both the life companies in Asia by managing the life funds and funds underlying the investment linked products and third-party customers through mutual fund business.
Asia offers mutual fund investment products in a number of countries within the region, allowing customers to participate in debt, equity and money market investments.
Asset management in the US is undertaken through PPM America which manages assets for the Groups US, UK and Asian affiliates plus also provides investment services to other affiliated and unaffiliated institutional clients including CDOs, private investment funds, institutional accounts and mutual funds.
In addition, broker-dealer activities are undertaken in the US where trades in securities are carried out for both third-party customers and for its own account.
Other operations covers unallocated corporate activities and includes the head office functions.
a The profit included in the income statement in respect of asset management operations for the year is as follows: 2011 m 2010 m Eastspring M&G US Investments Total Total note iii Revenue, excluding revenue of consolidated investment funds and NPH broker-dealer fees 1,042 249 292 1,583 1,423 note i Revenue of consolidated investment funds 9 9 11 note i NPH broker-dealer fees 405 405 369 Gross revenue 1,051 654 292 1,997 1,803 Charges, excluding charges of consolidated investment funds and NPH broker-dealer fees 710 225 212 1,147 1,003 note i Charges of consolidated investment funds 9 9 11 note i NPH broker-dealer fees 405 405 369 Gross charges 719 630 212 1,561 1,383 Profitbeforetax 332 24 80 436 420 Comprising: Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 357 24 80 461 378 note ii Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 29 29 47 Shareholders share of actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 4 4 5 Profitbeforetax 332 24 80 436 420 Notes i Under IFRS 8, disclosure details are required of segment revenue.
The segment revenue of the Groups asset management operations is required to include two items that are for amounts which, reflecting their commercial nature, are also wholly reflected as charges within the income statement.
After allowing for these charges, there is no effect on profit from these two items which are: a Investment funds which are managed on behalf of third parties and are consolidated under IFRS in recognition of the control arrangements for the funds.
The gains and losses of these funds are non-recourse to M&G and the Group, and b NPH broker-dealer fees which represent commissions received, which are then paid on to the writing brokers on sales of investment products.
T he presentation in the table above shows the amounts attributable to these two items so that the underlying revenue and charges can be seen.
ii Short-term fluctuations in investment returns for M&G are primarily in respect of unrealised value movements on Prudential Capitals bond portfolio.
iii Included within Eastspring Investments revenue and charges are 44 million of commissions 2010: 60 million.
286 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements E:Assetmanagement  andotheroperations continued E1: b M&G operating profit based on longer-term investment returns: 2011 m 2010 m Asset management fee income 702 612 Other income 4 3 Staff costs 285 263 Other costs 141 123 Underlying profit before performance-related fees 280 229 Performance-related fees 21 17 Operating profit from asset management operations 301 246 Operating profit from Prudential Capital 56 38 Total M&G operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 357 284 The difference between the fees and other income shown above in respect of asset management operations, and the revenue figure for M&G shown excluding consolidated investment funds in the main table primarily relates to total revenue of Prudential Capital including short-term fluctuations of 96 million 2010: 136 million and commissions which have been netted off in arriving at the fee income of 702 million 2010: 612 million in the table above.
The difference in the presentation of commission is aligned with how management reviews the business.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 E:Assetmanagement  Financial statements andotheroperations 287 E2: Assets, liabilities and shareholders funds included in the Group consolidated statement of financial position in respect of asset management operations are as follows: 2011 m 2010 m Eastspring M&G US Investments Total Total note iii Assets Intangible assets: note iii Goodwill 1,153 16 61 1,230 1,230 Deferred acquisition costs and other intangibles assets 12 1 3 16 13 Total 1,165 17 64 1,246 1,243 Other non-investment and non-cash assets 868 179 82 1,129 1,118 Financial investments: note i Loans 1,256 1,256 1,418 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 587 7 594 151 note ii Debt securities 1,834 8 1,842 1,574 Other investments 72 1 5 78 59 Deposits 30 28 31 89 80 note iii Total financial investments 3,779 29 51 3,859 3,282 Cash and cash equivalents 1,533 45 157 1,735 1,436 Totalassets 7,345 270 354 7,969 7,079 Equityandliabilities Equity Shareholders equity 1,382 129 272 1,783 1,787 Non-controlling interests 5 5 4 Total equity 1,387 129 272 1,788 1,791 Liabilities Core structural borrowing of shareholder-financed operations 250 250 250 Intra-group debt represented by operational borrowings at note iv Group level 2,956 2,956 2,560 Net asset value attributable to external holders of consolidated note v unit trusts and similar funds 678 678 458 note vi Other non-insurance liabilities 2,074 141 82 2,297 2,020 Total liabilities 5,958 141 82 6,181 5,288  7,345 270 354 7,969 7,079 Notes i Loans The M&G loans relate to loans and receivables managed by Prudential Capital.
These assets are generally secured but have no external credit ratings.
Internal ratings prepared by the Groups asset management operations, as part of the risk management process, are: 2011 m 2010 m Loans and receivables internal ratings: A to A- 129 213 BBB to BBB- 1,000 873 BB to BB- 89 219 B to B- 38 113 Total M&G loans 1,256 1,418 All loans in the portfolio are currently paying interest on scheduled coupon dates and no interest has been capitalised or deferred.
All loans are in compliance with their covenants at 31 December 2011.
The loans in the portfolio generally have ratchet mechanisms included within the loan agreements at inception so that margins increase over time to encourage early repayment or have had margins increased to reflect revised commercial terms.
288 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements E:Assetmanagement  andotheroperations continued E2: ii Debt securities Of the total debt securities at 31 December 2011 of 1,842 million, the following amounts were held by M&G.
2011 m 2010 m M&G AAA to Aby Standard and Poor's or Aaa rated by Moody's 1,547 1,468 Other 287 92 Total M&G debt securities 1,834 1,560 iii The M&G statement of financial position includes the assets and liabilities in respect of Prudential Capital.
iv Intragroup debt represented by operational borrowings at Group level Operational borrowings for M&G are in respect of Prudential Capitals short-term fixed income security programme and comprise: 2011 m 2010 m Commercial paper 2,706 2,311 Medium-term notes 250 249 Total intragroup debt represented by operational borrowings at Group level 2,956 2,560 v Consolidated investment funds The M&G statement of financial position shown above includes investment funds which are managed on behalf of third parties.
In respect of these funds, the statement of financial position includes the following, which are non-recourse to M&G and the Group: 2011 m 2010 m Cash and cash equivalents 348 304 Total investments 415 167 Other net assets and liabilities 85 13 Net asset value attributable to external unit holders 678 458 Shareholders' equity vi Other non-insurance liabilities consists primarily of intragroup balances, derivatives, liabilities and other creditors.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 E:Assetmanagement  Financial statements andotheroperations 289  A reconciliation of the total investments of asset management operations from the beginning of the year to the end of the year is as follows: Eastspring M&G US Investments Total m m m m At1January2010 Total investments including derivative assets 2,835 15 40 2,890 note G3 Less: Derivative liabilities 49 49 Directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 2,786 15 40 2,841 Net cash inflow from operating activities 310 8 11 329 Realised gains in the year 11 11 Unrealised gains and losses and exchange movements in the year 18 5 23 Movement in the year of directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 339 8 16 363 At31December2010 1January2011 Total investments including derivative assets 3,203 23 56 3,282 note G3 Less: Derivative liabilities 78 78 Directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 3,125 23 56 3,204 Net cash inflow outflow from operating activities 538 6 4 540 Realised gains in the year 17 17 Unrealised gains and losses and exchange movements in the year 83 1 84 Movement in the year of directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 472 6 5 473 At31December2011 Total investments including derivative assets 3,779 29 51 3,859 Less: Derivative liabilities 182 182 Directly held investments, net of derivative liabilities 3,597 29 51 3,677 E3: Certain asset management operations are subject to regulatory requirements.
The movement in the year of the surplus regulatory capital position of these operations, combined with the movement in the IFRS basis shareholders funds for unregulated asset management operations, is as follows:  2011 m 2010 m Eastspring M&G US Investments Total Total  Beginning of year 187 122 123 432 322 Gains during the year 252 12 62 326 312 Movement in capital requirement 3 11 14 23 Capital injection 8 8 1 Distributions made 280 6 56 342 194 Exchange movement 1 1 2 14 End of year 156 129 127 412 432 The movement in the year reflects gains driven by profits generated during the year and also changes in regulatory requirements.
Distributions consist of dividends paid up to the parent company.
The M&G figures include those for Prudential Capital.
290 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements E:Assetmanagement  andotheroperations continued E4: i Currencytranslation Consistent with the Groups accounting policies, the profits of Eastspring Investments and asset management operations are translated at average exchange rates and shareholders equity at the closing rate for the reporting period.
The rates for the most significant operations are shown in note B4.
A 10 per cent increase in the relevant exchange rates would have reduced reported profit before tax attributable to shareholders and shareholders equity, excluding goodwill attributable to Eastspring Investments and US asset management operations, by 9 million 2010: 9 million and 30 million 2010: 28 million respectively.
 The principal sensitivities to other financial risk of the Groups asset management operations are credit risk on the bridging loan portfolio as described in note E2 of the Prudential Capital operation and the indirect effect of changes to market values of funds under management.
Due to the nature of the asset management operations there is limited direct sensitivity to movements in interest rates.
Total debt securities held at 31 December 2011 by asset management operations were 1,842 million 2010: 1,574 million, the majority of which are held by the Prudential Capital operation.
Debt securities held by M&G and Prudential Capital are in general variable rate bonds and so market value is limited in sensitivity to interest rate movements and consequently any change in interest rates would not have a material impact on profit or shareholders equity.
The Groups asset management operations do not hold significant investments in property or equities.
E5:Otheroperations Other operations consist of unallocated corporate activities relating to Group Head Office and the Asia regional head office, with net expenditure for the year of 483 million 2010: 450 million as detailed in note B1.
An analysis of the assets and liabilities of Other operations is shown in note B5.
The Group holds certain derivatives that are used to manage foreign currency movements and macroeconomic exposures.
The fair value of these derivatives is sensitive to the combined effect of movements in exchange rates, interest rate and inflation rate.
The possible permutations cover a wide range of scenarios.
For indicative purposes, a reasonably possible range of fair value movements could be plus or minus approximately 75 million.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements F:Incomestatementnotes 291 F:Incomestatementnotes F1:Segmentalinformation  m note E1 Insurance operations Asset management Eastspring UnalloInvestTotal cated Group UK US Asia M&G US ments segments corporate Total Gross premiums earned 5,678 12,650 7,378 25,706 25,706 Outward reinsurance premiums 131 72 226 429 429 Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 5,547 12,578 7,152 25,277 25,277 note ii Investment return 7,604 1,447 283 128 1 2 9,465 105 9,360 Other income 193 62 155 923 653 290 2,152 283 1,869 Total revenue, net of reinsurance 13,344 13,963 7,590 1,051 654 292 36,894 388 36,506 Benefits and claims 12,048 12,931 6,081 31,060 31,060 Outward reinsurers share of benefits note iv and claims 290 280 176 746 746 Movement in unallocated surplus note iii of with-profits funds 485 540 1,025 1,025 Benefits and claims and movements in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds, net of reinsurance 11,273 12,651 5,365 29,289 29,289 Acquisition costs and other operating note F3 expenditure 1,239 700 1,562 704 630 212 5,047 42 5,005 Finance costs: interest on core structural borrowings of shareholder-financed operations 13 15 28 258 286 Total charges, net of reinsurance 12,512 13,364 6,927 719 630 212 34,364 216 34,580 Profit loss before tax being tax attributable to shareholders and note i policyholders returns 832 599 663 332 24 80 2,530 604 1,926 Tax charge attributable to policyholders returns 68 51 17 17 Profit loss from continuing operations before tax attributable to shareholders 900 599 612 332 24 80 2,547 604 1,943 This is represented in the segmental analysis of profit from continuing operations before tax attributable to shareholders in note B1 as follows:  m Insurance operations Asset management Eastspring UnalloInvestTotal cated Group UK US Asia M&G US ments segments corporate Total Operating profit loss based on longer-term investment returns 723 694 704 357 24 80 2,582 512 2,070 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns on shareholder-backed business 159 95 92 29 57 91 148 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 18 4 22 1 21 Profit loss from continuing operations before tax attributable to shareholders 900 599 612 332 24 80 2,547 604 1,943 292  F:Incomestatementnotes continued F1:  m note E1 Insurance operations Asset management Eastspring UnalloInvestTotal cated Group UK US Asia M&G US ments segments corporate Total Gross premiums earned 6,371 11,817 6,380 24,568 24,568 Outward reinsurance premiums 128 83 146 357 357 Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 6,243 11,734 6,234 24,211 24,211 note ii Investment return 14,374 4,576 2,744 186 1 3 21,884 115 21,769 Other income 233 24 139 768 597 248 1,961 295 1,666 Total revenue, net of reinsurance 20,850 16,286 9,117 954 598 251 48,056 410 47,646 Benefits and claims 18,674 15,472 6,462 40,608 40,608 Outward reinsurers share of benefits note iv and claims 243 49 43 335 335 Movement in unallocated surplus note iii of with-profits funds 70 315 245 245 Benefits and claims and movements in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds, net of reinsurance 18,361 15,423 6,734 40,518 40,518 Acquisition costs and other operating note F3 expenditure 1,093 395 1,662 628 576 179 4,533 266 4,799 Finance costs: interest on core structural borrowings of shareholder-financed operations 13 13 244 257 Total charges, net of reinsurance 19,454 15,831 8,396 628 576 179 45,064 510 45,574 Profit loss before tax being tax attributable to shareholders and note i policyholders returns 1,396 455 721 326 22 72 2,992 920 2,072 Tax charge attributable to policyholders returns 536 75 611 611 Profit loss from continuing operations before tax attributable to shareholders 860 455 646 326 22 72 2,381 920 1,461 This is represented in the segmental analysis of profit from continuing operations before tax attributable to shareholders in note B1 as follows:  m Insurance operations Asset management Eastspring UnalloInvestTotal cated Group UK US Asia M&G US ments segments corporate Total Operating profit loss based on longer-term investment returns 719 833 532 284 22 72 2,462 521 1,941 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns on shareholder-backed business 116 378 114 47 101 22 123 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 5 5 10 10 Costs of terminated AIA transaction 377 377 Gain on dilution of Groups holdings 30 30 30 Profit loss from continuing operations before tax attributable to shareholders 860 455 646 326 22 72 2,381 920 1,461 Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements F:Incomestatementnotes 293 Notes i The measure is the formal profit loss before tax measure under IFRS but is not the result attributable to shareholders.
ii Investment return principally comprises: interest and dividends, realised and unrealised gains and losses on securities and derivatives classified as fair value through profit and loss under IAS 39, and realised gains and losses, including impairment losses, on securities classified as available-for-sale under IAS 39. iii The movement in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds for Asia above includes movement relating to the Hong Kong branch of PAC.
For the purpose of the presentation of unallocated surplus of with-profits funds within the statement of financial position, the Hong Kong branch balance is shown within the unallocated surplus of the PAC with-profits sub-fund.
iv The increase in the credit for outwards reinsurers share of benefits and claims for Jackson from 2010 to 2011 arises from the fair value movement on the GMIB reinsurance in 2011.
As the GMIB reinsurance is net settled it is considered to be a derivative under IAS 39.
The movement was particularly high in 2011 due to the reduction in US interest rates in 2011.
F2:Revenue 2011 m 2010 m Long-term business premiums Insurance contract premiums 24,831 23,647 Investment contracts with discretionary participation feature premiums 735 750 Inwards reinsurance premiums 140 171 Less: reinsurance premiums ceded 429 357 note iv Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 25,277 24,211 Investment return Realised and unrealised gains and losses on securities at fair value through profit and loss 866 14,728 Realised and unrealised losses and gains on derivatives at fair value through profit and loss 86 891 Realised losses on available-for-sale securities, previously recognised in other comprehensive income 101 51 Realised losses on loans 43 12 notes i, ii Interest 6,440 5,976 Dividends 1,304 1,394 Other investment return 606 625 Investment return 9,360 21,769 notes iii, iv Fee income from investment contract business and asset management 1,869 1,666 Total revenue 36,506 47,646 Notes i The segmental analysis of interest income is as follows: 2011 m 2010 m Insurance operations: UK 4,286 4,371 US 1,717 1,014 Asia 339 412 Asset management operations: M&G 110 127 US 1 Eastspring Investments 3 2 Total segment 6,456 5,926 Unallocated corporate 16 50 Total 6,440 5,976 294  F:Incomestatementnotes continued F2:Revenuecontinued ii Interest income includes 8 million 2010: 8 million accrued in respect of impaired securities.
iii Fee income includes 13 million 2010: 11 million relating to financial instruments that are not held at fair value through profit and loss.
These fees primarily related to prepayment fees, late fees and syndication fees.
iv The following table provides additional segmental analysis of revenue from external customers: 2011 m Asia US UK Intragroup Total Revenue from external customers: Insurance operations 7,307 12,516 5,740 25,563 Asset management 290 653 923 323 1,543 Unallocated corporate 40 40 Intragroup revenue eliminated on consolidation 93 68 162 323 Total revenue from external customers 7,504 13,101 6,541 27,146 2010 m Asia US UK Intragroup Total Revenue from external customers: Insurance operations 6,373 11,710 6,476 10 24,549 Asset management 248 597 768 314 1,299 Unallocated corporate 29 29 Intragroup revenue eliminated on consolidation 77 72 175 324 Total revenue from external customers 6,544 12,235 7,098 25,877 Revenue from external customers is made up of the following: 2011 m 2010 m Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 25,277 24,211 Fee income from investment contract business and asset management presented as Other income 1,869 1,666 Total revenue from external customers 27,146 25,877 In their capacity as fund managers to fellow Prudential Group subsidiaries, M&G, Eastspring Investments and US asset management businesses generate fees for investment management and related services.
These services are charged at appropriate arms length prices, typically priced as a percentage of funds under management.
Intragroup fees included within asset management revenue were earned by the following asset management segment: 2011 m 2010 m Intragroup revenue generated by: M&G 162 165 Eastspring Investments 93 77 US broker-dealer and asset management including Curian 68 72 Total intragroup fees included within asset management segment 323 314 In 2010 a further 10 million of intragroup revenue was recorded between UK insurance operations for services, typically charged as a percentage of funds under management.
Revenue from external customers of Asian, US and UK insurance operations shown above are net of outwards reinsurance premiums of 226 million, 72 million and 131 million respectively 2010: 146 million, 83 million and 128 million respectively.
In Asia, revenue from external customers from no individual country exceeds 10 per cent of the Group total.
The largest country is Singapore with a total revenue from external customers of 1,383 million 2010: Hong Kong 1,246 million.
Due to the nature of the business of the Group, there is no reliance on any major customers.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements F:Incomestatementnotes 295 F3: 2011 m 2010 m Acquisition costs incurred 2,264 2,024 Acquisition costs deferred less amortisation of acquisition costs 635 918 Administration costs and other expenditure 3,524 3,496 Movements in amounts attributable to external unit holders 148 197 Total acquisition costs and other expenditure 5,005 4,799 Notes i The acquisition costs as shown in the table above relate to policy acquisition costs.
Acquisition costs from business combinations are included within other expenditure.
Acquisition costs in 2011 comprise amounts related to insurance contracts of 1,564 million 2010: 941 million, and investment contracts and asset management contracts of 65 million 2010: 165 million.
ii There were no fee expenses relating to financial liabilities held at amortised cost included in acquisition costs in 2011 and 2010. iii The total depreciation and amortisation expense of 641 million 2010: 309 million relates to amortisation of deferred acquisition costs of insurance contracts and asset management contracts, which is primarily borne by the insurance operations.
The segmental analysis of total depreciation and amortisation expense is as follows: 2011 m 2010 m Insurance operations: UK 55 35 US 278 6 Asia 286 258 Asset management operations: M&G 7 8 US 1 2 Eastspring Investments 4 4 Total segment 631 301 Unallocated corporate 10 8 Total 641 309 iv Interest expense, excluding interest on core structural borrowings of shareholder-financed operations, amounted to 123 million 2010: 113 million and is included within total acquisition costs and other operating expenditure as part of investment management expenses.
The segmental analysis of this interest expense is as follows: 2011 m 2010 m Insurance operations: UK 49 28 US 31 33 Asia 10 13 Asset management operations: M&G 11 19 Total segment 101 93 Unallocated corporate 22 20 Total 123 113 v Movements in amounts attributable to external unit holders comprises 28 million 2010: 61 million for UK insurance operations and 120 million 2010: 136 million for Asian insurance operations.
296  F:Incomestatementnotes continued F3: vi The total amounts for acquisition costs and other expenditure shown above includes Corporate Expenditure shown in note B1 Segment disclosure income statement.
The charge for Corporate Expenditure comprises: 2011 m 2010 m Group head office: Regular and project costs 156 150 Provision for property leases and other non-recurrent items 12 25 168 175 Asia regional office: Gross costs 86 90 Recharges to Asia operations 35 42 51 48 Total 219 223 F4:Financecosts: Finance costs of 286 million 2010: 257 million comprise 258 million 2010: 244 million interest on core debt of the parent company, 13 million 2010: 13 million on US insurance operations surplus notes and 15 million 2010: nil on PruCaps bank loan.
F5:Tax a Total tax charge by nature of expense An analysis of the total tax benefit expense of continuing operations recognised in the income statement by nature of benefit expense is as follows: 2011 m 2010 m Current tax expense: Corporation tax 775 378 Adjustments in respect of prior years 33 287 Total current tax 742 91 Deferred tax arising from: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 253 518 Credit expense in respect of a previously unrecognised tax loss, tax credit or temporary difference from a prior period 57 27 Total deferred tax credit charge 310 545 Total tax charge 432 636 Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements F:Incomestatementnotes 297 The total tax expense arises as follows: 2011 m 2010 m Current tax expense: UK 475 61 Foreign 267 30 742 91 Deferred tax credit charge : UK 455 252 Foreign 145 293 310 545 Total 432 636 The current tax charge of 742 million includes 16 million 2010: charge of 13 million in respect of the tax charge for Hong Kong.
The Hong Kong current tax charge is calculated as 16.5 per cent for all periods on either i 5 per cent of the net insurance premium or ii the estimated assessable profits, depending on the nature of the business written.
The total tax charge comprises tax attributable to policyholders and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds, unit-linked policies and shareholders as shown below.
2011 m 2010 m Current Deferred Tax charge tax tax Total Total Tax credit charge to policyholders' returns 410 427 17 611 Tax charge attributable to shareholders 332 117 449 25 Total tax charge 742 310 432 636 The principal reason for the reduction in the tax charge attributable to policyholders returns relates to a decrease in deferred tax on unrealised gains and losses on investments.
The tax charge attributable to shareholders of 449 million for 2011 2010: charge of 25 million comprises: 2011 m 2010 m Current Deferred Tax charge attributable to shareholders tax tax Total Total UK tax 135 17 118 187 Overseas tax 197 134 331 212 Total tax charge 332 117 449 25 The total deferred tax credit charge arises as follows: 2011 m 2010 m Unrealised gains and losses on investments 129 217 Balances relating to investment and insurance contracts 108 28 Short-term timing differences 66 431 Capital allowances 2 8 Unused tax losses 5 139 Deferred tax charge 310 545 In 2011, a deferred tax charge of 187 million 2010: charge of 287 million has been taken through other comprehensive income.
Other movements in deferred tax totalling a 22 million charge is mainly comprised of foreign exchange movements.
When these amounts are taken with the deferred tax charge shown above the result is a decrease of 0.1 billion in the Groups net deferred tax liability 2010: increase of 0.9 billion.
298  F:Incomestatementnotes continued F5:Taxcontinued b Reconciliation of effective tax rate The total tax charge is attributable to shareholders and policyholders as summarised in the income statement.
i Summary of pre-tax profit and tax charge The income statement includes the following items: 2011 m 2010 m Profit before tax 1,926 2,072 Tax credit charge attributable to policyholders returns 17 611 Profit before tax attributable to shareholders 1,943 1,461 Tax attributable to shareholders profits: Tax charge 432 636 Less: tax attributable to policyholders returns 17 611 Tax charge attributable to shareholders returns 449 25 Profit for the year 1,494 1,436 ii Overview For the purposes of explaining the relationship between tax expense and accounting profit, it is appropriate to consider the sources of profit and tax by reference to those that are attributable to shareholders and policyholders, as follows: 2011 m 2010 m Attributable to Attributable to Attributable to Attributable to shareholders policyholders Total shareholders policyholders Total Profit loss before tax 1,943 17 1,926 1,461 611 2,072 Taxation charge: Expected tax rate 29% 100% 28% 28% 100% 49% Expected tax charge credit 559 17 542 406 611 1,017 note v ii Variance from expected tax charge 110 110 381 381 Actual tax charge credit 449 17 432 25 611 636 Average effective tax rate 23% 100% 22% 2% 100% 31% For the column entitled Attributable to policyholders, the profit before tax represents income, net of post-tax transfers to unallocated surplus of with-profits funds, before tax attributable to policyholders and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds and unit-linked policies.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements F:Incomestatementnotes 299 Due to the requirements of the financial reporting standards IAS 1 and IAS 12, the profit loss before tax and tax charge reflect the aggregate of amounts that are attributable to shareholders and policyholders.
Profit loss before tax comprises profit attributable to shareholders and pre-tax profit attributable to policyholders of linked and with-profits funds and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds.
The total tax charge for linked and with-profits business includes tax expense on unit-linked and with-profits funds attributable to policyholders, the unallocated surplus of with-profits funds and the shareholders profits.
This feature arises from the basis of taxation applied to life and pension business, principally in the UK, but with similar bases applying in certain Asian operations, and is explained in note iii below.
Furthermore, the basis of preparation of Prudentials financial statements incorporates the additional feature that, as permitted under IFRS 4, the residual equity of the Groups with-profits funds, ie unallocated surplus, is recorded as a liability with transfers to and from that liability reflected in pre-tax profits.
This gives rise to anomalous effective tax rates for profits attributable to policyholders as described in note iv below.
In meeting the reconciliation requirements set out in paragraph 81 c of IAS 12, the presentation shown in this disclosure note seeks to ensure that the explanation of the relationship between tax expense and accounting profit draw properly the distinction between the elements of the profit and tax charge that are attributable to policyholders and shareholders as explained below in notes iv and v respectively.
Due to the nature of the basis of taxation of UK life and pension business as described in note iii below, and the significance of the results of the business to the Group, it is inappropriate to seek to explain the effective tax rate on profit before tax by the traditional approach that would apply for other industries.
The shareholder elements are the components of the profit and tax charge that are of most direct relevance to investors, and it is this aspect that the IAS 12 reconciliation requirement is seeking to explain for companies that do not need to account for both with-profits and unit-linked funds, where tax is borne by the Company on the policyholders behalf and which is not contemplated by the IFRS requirement.
iii Basis of taxation for UK life and pension business Different rules apply under UK tax law for taxing pension business and life insurance business and there are detailed rules for apportioning the investment return and profits of the fund between the types of business.
The investment return referable to pension business, and some other less significant classes of business, is exempt from taxation, but tax is charged on the profit that shareholders derive from writing such business at the corporate rate of tax.
The rules for taxing life insurance business are more complex.
Initially, the UK regime seeks to tax the regulatory basis investment return less management expenses I-E on this business as it arises.
However, in determining the actual tax charge, a calculation of the shareholder profits for taxation purposes from writing life insurance business also has to be made and compared with the I-E profit.
If the shareholder profit is higher than the I-E amount, extra income is attributable to the I-E calculation until the I-E profit equals the shareholder profit.
If on the other hand, the I-E profit is the greater, then an amount equal to the shareholder profit is taxed at the corporate rate of tax, with the remainder of the I-E profit being taxed at the lower policyholder rate of tax.
The purpose of this approach is to ensure that the Company is always at a minimum taxed on the profit, as defined for taxation purposes by reference to the Companys regulatory returns rather than IFRS basis results, that it has earned.
The shareholders portion of the long-term business is taxed at the shareholders rate, with the remaining portion taxed at rates applicable to the policyholders.
It is to be noted that the calculations described are determined using data from the regulatory basis returns rather than the IFRS basis results.
300  F:Incomestatementnotes continued F5:Taxcontinued iv Profits attributable to policyholders and related tax As noted above, it is necessary under IFRS requirements to include the total tax charge of the Company both policyholder and shareholder elements in the tax charge disclosed in the income statement.
The tax expense attributable to policyholders is a combination of current and deferred tax charges and reflects the nature of the income and expenditure of the with-profits and unit-linked funds.
The current tax charge element reflects the element for the funds, determined on the I-E basis as described in note iii above that is attributable to policyholders.
For policyholder deferred tax, normally the most significant element reflects the movement on unrealised appreciation on investments.
These investments are accounted for under IAS 39 on a fair value through profit or loss basis with attaching deferred tax charges or credits.
For with-profits business, total pre-tax profits reflect the aggregate of profits attributable to policyholders and shareholders.
However, amounts attributable to the equity of with-profits funds are carried in the liability for unallocated surplus.
Also, as described in note iii, UK with-profits business is taxed on a basis that affects policyholders unallocated surplus of with-profits funds and shareholders.
For the PAC with-profits sub-fund, transfers to and from unallocated surplus are recorded in the income statement, so that after charging the total tax borne by the fund, the net balance reflects the statutory transfer from the fund for the year.
The statutory transfer represents 10 per cent of the actuarially determined surplus for the year that is attributable to shareholders.
For SAIF, similar transfers are made.
However, in the case of SAIF, a net nil balance is derived, reflecting the lack of shareholder interest in the financial performance of the fund other than through asset management arrangements.
The accounting anomaly that arises under IFRS is that due to the fact that the net of tax profit attributable to with-profits policyholders is zero, the Companys presentation of pre-tax profit attributable to policyholders reflects an amount that is the mirror image of the tax charge attributable to policyholders.
For unit-linked business, pre-tax profits also reflect the aggregate of profits attributable to policyholders and shareholders.
The pre-tax profits attributable to policyholders represent fees earned that are used to pay tax borne by the Company on policyholders behalf.
The net of tax profit attributable to policyholders for unit-linked business is thus zero.
The combined effect of these features is such that providing a reconciliation of the tax charge attributable to policyholders to an expected charge based on the standard corporate rate of tax on IFRS basis profits attributable to policyholders is not relevant.
In summary, for accounting purposes, in all cases and for all reporting periods, the apparent effective rate for profit attributable to policyholders and unallocated surplus is 100 per cent.
However, it is to be noted that the 100 per cent rate does not reflect a rate paid on the profits attributable to policyholders.
It instead reflects the basis of accounting for unallocated surplus coupled with the distinction made for performance reporting between sources of profit attributable to shareholders, policyholders and unallocated surplus and IFRS requirements in respect of reporting of all pre-tax profits and all tax charges irrespective of policyholder or shareholder economic interest.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements F:Incomestatementnotes 301 v Reconciliation of tax charge on profit attributable to shareholders for continuing operations: 2011 m except for tax rates Asian US UK insurance insurance insurance Other operations operations operations operations Total Profit loss before tax attributable to shareholders: Operating profit based on longer-term investment note iii returns 704 694 723 51 2,070 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 92 95 159 120 148 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 18 3 21 Total 612 599 900 168 1,943 note i Expected tax rate: Operating profit based on longer-term investment note iii returns 24% 35% 27% 27% 28% Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 20% 35% 27% 27% 28% Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 0% 0% 27% 27% 27% Expected tax charge credit based on expected tax rates: Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 169 243 195 14 593 note iii Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 18 33 43 32 40 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 5 1 6 Total 151 210 243 45 559 note ii Variance from expected tax charge: Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 47 43 5 50 145 note iii Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 20 8 24 36 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 1 1 Total 27 43 14 26 110 Actual tax charge credit: Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 122 200 190 64 448 note iii Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 2 33 35 8 4 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 4 1 5 Total 124 167 229 71 449 Actual tax rate: Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 17% 29% 26% 125% 22% Total profit 20% 28% 25% 42% 23% 302  F:Incomestatementnotes continued F5:Taxcontinued 2010 m except for tax rates Asian US UK insurance insurance insurance Other operations operations operations operations Total Profit loss before tax attributable to shareholders: Operating profit based on longer-term investment note iii returns 532 833 719 143 1,941 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 114 378 116 25 123 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 5 5 10 Costs of terminated AIA transaction 377 377 Gain on dilution of Group's holdings 30 30 Total 646 455 860 500 1,461 note i Expected tax rate: Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 22% 35% 28% 28% 29% note iii Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 25% 35% 28% 28% 52% Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 28% 28% 20% Costs of terminated AIA transaction 28% 28% Gain on dilution of Group's holdings 28% 28% Expected tax charge credit based on expected tax rates: Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 117 292 201 40 570 note iii Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 29 132 32 7 64 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 1 1 2 Costs of terminated AIA transaction 106 106 Gain on dilution of Group's holdings 8 8 Total 146 160 240 140 406 note ii Variance from expected tax charge: Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 59 43 18 237 357 note iii Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 21 7 28 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 1 1 Costs of terminated AIA transaction 13 13 Gain on dilution of Group's holdings 8 8 Total 80 43 26 232 381 Actual tax charge credit: Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns, excluding exceptional tax credit 58 249 183 119 371 Exceptional tax credit 158 158 Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 58 249 183 277 213 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 8 132 32 92 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 1 2 3 Costs of terminated AIA transaction 93 93 Gain on dilution of Group's holdings Total 66 117 214 372 25 Actual tax rate: Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 11% 30% 25% 194% 11% Total profit 10% 26% 25% 74% 2% Actual tax rate excluding exceptional tax credit : Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 11% 30% 25% 83% 19% Total profit 10% 26% 25% 43% 13% The tax charge attributable to shareholders return included an exceptional tax credit of 158 million which primarily related to the impact of a settlement agreed with the UK tax authorities.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements F:Incomestatementnotes 303 Notes i Expected tax rates for profit loss attributable to shareholders: The expected tax rates shown in the table above reflect the corporation tax rates generally applied to taxable profits of the relevant country jurisdictions.
For Asian operations the expected tax rates reflect the corporation tax rates weighted by reference to the source of profits of operations contributing to the aggregate business result.
The expected tax rate for Other operations reflects the mix of business between UK and overseas operations, which are taxed at a variety of rates.
The rates will fluctuate from year to year dependent on the mix of profits.
ii For 2011 and 2010, the principal variances arise from a number of factors, including: a Asian long-term operations F or 2011 and 2010, profits in certain countries which are not taxable along with utilising brought forward tax losses on which no deferred tax assets were previously recognised, partly offset by the inability to fully recognise deferred tax assets on losses being carried forward.
The increase in the overall Asia tax rate from 2010 to 2011 primarily reflects recent fiscal developments in Indonesia affecting the life insurance industry.
b Jackson F or 2011 and 2010, the benefit reflects the deduction from taxable income of a proportion of dividends received attributable to the variable annuity business.
c UK insurance operations F or 2011 the benefit reflects the effect of the reduction in UK corporation tax rate on deferred tax liabilities and the different tax bases of UK life business, partially offset by routine revisions to prior period tax returns.
For 2010, the benefit arises from routine revisions to prior period tax returns and the different tax bases of UK life business.
d Other operations F or 2011 the settlement of outstanding issues with HMRC at an amount below that previously provided, partly offset by prior year adjustments arising from the revisions of prior period tax returns.
For 2010, an exceptional tax credit which primarily related to the impact of the settlement agreed with the UK tax authorities and the ability to recognise a deferred tax credit on various tax losses which we were previously unable to recognise, partly offset by the inability to fully recognise a tax credit in respect of non deductible capital costs incurred in relation to the terminated AIA transaction.
iii Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns is net of attributable restructuring costs and development expenses.
Related tax charges are determined on the basis of current taxation legislation.
304  F:Incomestatementnotes continued F6: Investment return is attributable to policyholders and shareholders.
A key feature of the accounting policies under IFRS is that the investment return included in the income statement relates to all investment assets of the Group, irrespective of whether the return is attributable to shareholders, or to policyholders or the unallocated surplus of with-profits funds, the latter two of which have no net impact on shareholders profit.
The table below provides a breakdown of the investment return for each regional operation attributable to each type of business.
2011 m 2010 m Asian operations Policyholder returns Assets backing unit-linked liabilities 812 1,279 With-profitsbusiness 756 1,039 56 2,318 Shareholder returns 341 429 Total 285 2,747 US operations Policyholder returns Assets held to back separate account unit-linked liabilities 869 3,520 Shareholder returns Realised gains and losses including impairment losses on available-for-sale bonds 238 21 Value movements on derivative hedging programme for general account business 841 20 I nterest dividend income and value movements on other financial instruments for which fair value movements are booked in the income statement 1,714 1,016 2,317 1,057 Total 1,448 4,577 UK operations Policyholder returns Scottish Amicable Insurance Fund SAIF 321 1,075 Assets held to back unit-linked liabilities 208 2,119 With-profits fund excluding SAIF 4,094 8,815 4,623 12,009 Shareholder returns Prudential Retirement Income Limited PRIL 2,153 1,717 Otherbusiness 956 834 3,109 2,551 Total 7,732 14,560 Unallocated corporate Shareholder returns 105 115 Group Total Policyholder returns 3,698 17,847 Shareholder returns 5,662 3,922 Total 9,360 21,769 Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements F:Incomestatementnotes 305 The returns as shown in the table above, are delineated between those returns allocated to policyholders and those allocated to shareholders.
In making this distinction, returns allocated to policyholders are those from investments in which shareholders have no direct economic interest, namely: Unit-linked business in the UK, Asia and SAIF in the UK, for which the investment return is wholly attributable to policyholders: Separate account business of US operations, the investment return of which is also wholly attributable to policyholders: and With-profits business excluding SAIF in the UK and Asia in which the shareholders economic interest, and the basis of recognising IFRS basis profits, is restricted to a share of the actuarially determined surplus for distribution in the UK 10 per cent.
Except for this surplus the investment return of the with-profit funds is attributable to policyholders through the asset-share liabilities or the unallocated surplus, which is accounted for as a liability under IFRS 4.
The investment return related to the types of business above does not impact shareholders profits directly.
However, there is an indirect impact, for example, investment-related fees or the effect of investment return on the shareholders share of the cost of bonuses of with-profits funds.
Investment returns for unit-linked and similar products have reciprocal impact on benefits and claims, with a decrease in market returns on the attached pool of assets affecting policyholder benefits on these products.
Similarly for with-profits funds there is a close correlation between increases or decreases in investment returns and the level of combined charge for policyholder benefits and movement on unallocated surplus that arises from such returns.
Shareholder returns For shareholder-backed non-participating business of the UK comprising PRIL and other non-linked non-participating business and of the Asian operations, the investment return is not directly attributable to policyholders and therefore does impact shareholders profit directly.
However, it should be noted that for UK shareholder-backed annuity business, principally PRIL, where the durations of asset and liability cash flows are closely matched, the discount rate applied to measure liabilities to policyholders under grandfathered UK GAAP and under IFRS 4 reflects movements in asset yields after allowances for the future defaults of the backing portfolios.
Therefore, the net impact on the shareholders profits of the investment return of the assets backing liabilities of the UK shareholderbacked annuity business is after taking into account the consequential effect on the movement in policyholder liabilities.
Changes in shareholder investment returns for US operations reflect primarily movements in the investment income, movements in the value of derivative instruments, and realised gains and losses.
The derivatives are held to manage general account assets and liabilities, and variable annuity guarantees under a dynamic hedging programme.
Separately reflecting Jacksons types of business an allocation is made to policyholders through the application of crediting rates.
The majority of the investments held to back the US general account business are debt securities for which the available-for-sale designation is applied for IFRS basis reporting.
Under this designation the return included in the income statement reflects the aggregate of investment income and realised gains and losses including impairment losses.
However, movements in unrealised appreciation or depreciation are recognised in other comprehensive income.
The return on these assets is attributable to shareholders.
306  F:Incomestatementnotes continued F7:, netofreinsurance Benefits and claims represent payments, including final bonuses, to policyholders in respect of maturities, surrenders and deaths plus the change in technical provisions which primarily represents the movement in amounts owed to policyholders.
Benefits and claims are amounts attributable to policyholders.
The movement in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds represents the transfer to from the unallocated surplus each year through a charge credit to the income statement of the annual excess shortfall of income over expenditure of the with-profits funds, after declaration and attribution of the cost of bonuses to policyholders and shareholders.
Benefits and claims and movements in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds net of reinsurance can be further analysed as follows: 2011 m Asia US UK Total Claims incurred 2,955 4,678 10,103 17,736 Increase in policyholder liabilities 2,950 7,973 1,655 12,578 note Movement in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds 540 485 1,025 5,365 12,651 11,273 29,289 2010 m Asia US UK Total Claims incurred 2,595 4,348 9,941 16,884 Increase in policyholder liabilities 3,824 11,075 8,490 23,389 note Movement in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds 315 70 245 6,734 15,423 18,361 40,518 Note The unallocated surplus of with-profits funds represents the excess of assets of with-profits funds over policyholder and other liabilities of the funds.
The surplus is therefore sensitive to the measurement basis of the assets and liabilities.
The movements on unallocated surplus of with-profits funds also reflect the impact of market fluctuations of investment values backing the surplus.
The Asia movement principally arises in the Hong Kong branch operation.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 G:Financialassets Financial statements andliabilities 307 G: G1: The Group designates all financial assets as either fair value through profit and loss, available-for-sale, or as loans and receivables.
Financial liabilities are designated as either fair value through profit and loss, amortised cost, or as investment contracts with discretionary participation features accounted for under IFRS 4 as described in note A4.
2011 m Fairvalue through Total profit AvailableLoansand carrying andloss for-sale receivables value Fairvalue Financialassets Cash and cash equivalents 7,257 7,257 7,257 Deposits 10,708 10,708 10,708 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 87,349 87,349 87,349 note i Debt securities 97,482 27,016 124,498 124,498 note ii Loans 279 9,435 9,714 9,828 note iii Other investments 7,509 7,509 7,509 Accrued investment income 2,710 2,710 2,710 Other debtors 987 987 987 192,619 27,016 31,097 250,732 2011 m Fairvalue through IFRS4 Total profit Amortised basis carrying andloss cost value value Fairvalue note v Financialliabilities Core structural borrowings of shareholder-financed H13 and note i operations 3,611 3,611 3,815 Operational borrowings attributable to H13 shareholder-financed operations 3,340 3,340 3,340 H13 Borrowings attributable to with-profits funds 39 933 972 978 Obligations under funding, securities lending and sale and repurchase agreements 3,114 3,114 3,144 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trust and similar funds 3,840 3,840 3,840 Investment contracts with discretionary note iv participation features 29,745 29,745 Investment contracts without discretionary participation features 15,056 1,911 16,967 17,008 Other creditors 281 2,263 2,544 2,544 Derivative liabilities 3,054 3,054 3,054 Other liabilities 1,249 1,249 1,249 22,270 16,421 29,745 68,436 308 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements G: continued G1: 2010 m Fairvalue through Total profit AvailableLoansand carrying andloss for-sale receivables value Fairvalue Financialassets Cash and cash equivalents 6,631 6,631 6,631 Deposits 9,952 9,952 9,952 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 86,635 86,635 86,635 note i Debt securities 90,027 26,325 116,352 116,352 note ii Loans 227 9,034 9,261 9,488 note iii Other investments 5,779 5,779 5,779 Accrued investment income 2,668 2,668 2,668 Other debtors 903 903 903 182,668 26,325 29,188 238,181 2010 m Fairvalue through IFRS4 Total profit Amortised basis carrying andloss cost value value Fairvalue note v Financialliabilities Core structural borrowings of shareholder-financed H13 and note i operations 3,676 3,676 3,866 Operational borrowings attributable to H13 shareholder-financed operations 3,004 3,004 2,991 H13 Borrowings attributable to with-profits funds 82 1,440 1,522 1,524 Obligations under funding, securities lending and sale and repurchase agreements 4,199 4,199 4,236 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trust and similar funds 3,372 3,372 3,372 Investment contracts with discretionary participation note iv features 25,732 25,732 Investment contracts without discretionary participation features 15,822 1,882 17,704 17,652 Other creditors 2,321 2,321 2,321 Derivative liabilities 2,037 2,037 2,037 Other liabilities 1,129 1,129 1,129 21,313 17,651 25,732 64,696 Notes i As at 31 December 2011, 523 million 2010: 685 million of convertible bonds were included in debt securities and 702 million 2010: 352 million were included in borrowings.
ii Loans and receivables are reported net of allowance for loan losses of 89 million 2010: 52 million.
iii See note G3 for details of the derivative assets included.
The balance also contains the PAC with-profits funds participation in various investment funds and limited liability property partnerships.
iv It is impractical to determine the fair value of investment contracts with discretionary participation features due to the lack of a reliable basis to measure such features.
v For financial liabilities designated as fair value through profit and loss, the impact on profit from movements in credit risk during 2011 and 2010 was negligible.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 G:Financialassets Financial statements andliabilities 309  The fair values of the financial assets and liabilities of the Group have been determined on the following bases.
The fair values of the financial instruments for which fair valuation is required under IFRS are determined by the use of current market bid prices for exchange-quoted investments, or by using quotations from independent third parties, such as brokers and pricing services or by using appropriate valuation techniques.
Investments valued using valuation techniques include financial investments which by their nature do not have an externally quoted price based on regular trades and financial investments for which markets are no longer active as a result of market conditions eg market illiquidity.
The valuation techniques used include comparison to recent arms length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis, option adjusted spread models and, if applicable, enterprise valuation.
These techniques may include a number of assumptions relating to variables such as credit risk and interest rates.
Changes in assumptions relating to these variables could positively or negatively impact the reported fair value of these instruments.
When determining the inputs into the valuation techniques used priority is given to publicly available prices from independent sources when available, but overall the source of pricing is chosen with the objective of arriving at a fair value measurement which reflects the price at which an orderly transaction would take place between market participants on the measurement date.
The fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time, based upon available market information and judgements about the financial instruments, including estimates of the timing and amount of expected future cash flows and the credit standing of counterparties.
Such estimates do not reflect any premium or discount that could result from offering for sale at one time the Groups entire holdings of a particular financial instrument, nor do they consider the tax impact of the realisation of unrealised gains or losses from selling the financial instrument being fair valued.
In some cases the disclosed value cannot be realised in immediate settlement of the financial instrument.
The loans and receivables have been shown net of provisions for impairment.
The fair value of loans has been estimated from discounted cash flows expected to be received.
The rate of discount used was the market rate of interest.
The estimated fair value of derivative financial instruments reflects the estimated amount the Group would receive or pay in an arms length transaction.
This amount is determined using quoted prices if exchange listed, quotations from independent third parties or valued internally using standard market practices.
In accordance with the Groups risk management framework, all internally generated valuations are subject to assessment against external counterparties valuations.
For investment contracts in the US with fixed and guaranteed terms the fair value is determined based on the present value of future cash flows discounted at current interest rates.
The fair value of other financial liabilities is determined using discounted cash flows of the amounts expected to be paid.
Level 1, 2 and 3 fair value measurement hierarchy of Group financial instruments The table below includes financial instruments carried at fair value analysed by level of the IFRS 7 defined fair value hierarchy.
This hierarchy is based on the inputs to the fair value measurement and reflects the lowest level input that is significant to that measurement.
The classification criteria and its application to Prudential can be summarised as follows: Level 1 quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets and liabilities Level 1 includes financial instruments where there is clear evidence that the valuation is based on a quoted publicly traded price in an active market eg exchange listed equities, mutual funds with quoted prices and exchange traded derivatives.
Level 2 inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable either directly ie as prices or indirectly ie derived from prices Level 2 includes investments where a direct link to an actively traded price is not readily apparent, but which are valued using inputs which are largely observable either directly ie as prices or indirectly ie derived from prices.
A significant proportion of the Groups level 2 assets are corporate bonds, structured securities and other non-national government debt securities.
These assets, in line with market practice, are generally valued using independent pricing services or third party broker quotes.
These valuations are determined using independent external quotations from multiple sources and are subject to a number of monitoring controls, such as monthly price variances, stale price reviews and variance analysis on prices achieved on subsequent trades.
Pricing services, where available, are used to obtain the third-party broker quotes.
Where pricing services providers are used, a single valuation is obtained and applied.
When prices are not available from pricing services, quotes are sourced directly from brokers.
Prudential seeks to obtain a number of quotes from different brokers so as to obtain the most comprehensive information available on their executability.
Where quotes are sourced directly from brokers, the price used in the valuation is normally selected from one of the quotes based on a number of factors, including the timeliness and regularity of the quotes and the accuracy of the quotes considering the spreads provided.
The selected quote is the one which best represents an executable quote for the security at the measurement date.
310 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements G: continued G1: Generally, no adjustment is made to the prices obtained from independent third parties.
Adjustment is made in only limited circumstances, where it is determined that the third-party valuations obtained do not reflect fair value eg either because the value is stale and or the values are extremely diverse in range.
These are usually securities which are distressed or that could be subject to a debt restructure or where reliable market prices are no longer available due to an inactive market or market dislocation.
In these instances, prices are derived using internal valuation techniques including those as described above in this note with the objective of arriving at a fair value measurement which reflects the price at which an orderly transaction would take place between market participants on the measurement date.
The techniques used require a number of assumptions relating to variables such as credit risk and interest rates.
Examples of such variables include an average credit spread based on the corporate bond universe and the relevant duration of the asset being valued.
Prudential measures the input assumptions based on the best available information at the measurement dates.
Securities valued in such manner are classified as level 3 where these significant inputs are not based on observable market data.
Of the total level 2 debt securities of 94,378 million at 31 December 2011 31 December 2010: 89,948 million, 6,847 million are valued internally 31 December 2010: 6,638 million.
The majority of such securities are valued using matrix pricing, which is based on assessing the credit quality of the underlying borrower to derive a suitable discount rate relative to government securities of a comparable duration.
Under matrix pricing, the debt securities are priced taking the credit spreads on comparable quoted public debt securities and applying these to the equivalent debt instruments factoring in a specified liquidity premium.
The majority of the parameters used in this valuation technique are readily observable in the market and, therefore, are not subject to interpretation.
Level 3 Significant inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs Level 3 includes investments which are internally valued or subject to a significant number of unobservable assumptions eg private equity funds and certain derivatives which are bespoke or long dated.
At 31 December 2011, the Group held 4,565 million 2010: 4,573 million, 2 per cent of the fair valued financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 2010: 2 per cent, within level 3.
Of these amounts 3,732 million 2010: 3,705 million was held by the Groups participating funds and therefore shareholders profit and equity are not impacted by movements in the valuation of these financial instruments.
At 31 December 2011, the 3,732 million 2010: 3,705 million represented 4.3 per cent 2010: 4.2 per cent of the total level 3 fair valued financial instruments, net of derivative liabilities of the participating funds.
Of the 800 million level 3 fair valued financial investments, net of derivative liabilities at 31 December 2011 2010: 866 million, which support non-linked shareholder-backed business representing 1.3 per cent of the total fair valued financial investments net of derivative liabilities backing this business 2010: 1.6 per cent, 757 million of net assets are externally valued and 43 million of net liabilities are internally valued 2010: net assets of 728 million and 138 million respectively.
Internal valuations, which represent 0.1 per cent of the total fair valued financial investments net of derivative liabilities supporting non-linked shareholder-backed business at 31 December 2011 2010: 0.2 per cent, are inherently more subjective than external valuations.
If the value of all internally valued level 3 investments backing non-linked shareholder-backed business was varied downwards by 10 per cent, the change in valuation would be 4 million 2010: 14 million, which would reduce shareholders equity by this amount before tax.
Of this amount a 1 million decrease 2010: 7 million increase would pass through the income statement substantially as part of short-term fluctuations in investment returns outside of operating profit and a 3 million decrease 2010: offset by a 7 million decrease would be included as part of other comprehensive income, being unrealised movements on assets classified as available-for-sale.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 G:Financialassets Financial statements andliabilities 311 31December2011 m Level1 Level2 Level3 Total , netofderivative  With-profits Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 24,001 1,762 284 26,047 Debt securities 13,298 43,279 655 57,232 Other investments including derivative assets 252 1,378 2,793 4,423 Derivative liabilities 214 1,127 1,341 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 37,337 45,292 3,732 86,361 Percentage of total 43% 53% 4% 100%  Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 59,662 198 30 59,890 Debt securities 4,160 4,698 3 8,861 Other investments including derivative assets 18 95 113 Derivative liabilities 2 7 9 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 63,838 4,984 33 68,855 Percentage of total 93% 7% 0% 100%  Loans 279 279 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 1,175 176 61 1,412 Debt securities 11,753 46,401 251 58,405 Other investments including derivative assets 30 2,237 706 2,973 Derivative liabilities 78 1,408 218 1,704 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 12,880 47,685 800 61,365 Percentage of total 21% 78% 1% 100% Grouptotalanalysis,  heldatfairvalue GroupTotal Loans 279 279 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 84,838 2,136 375 87,349 Debt securities 29,211 94,378 909 124,498 Other investments including derivative assets 300 3,710 3,499 7,509 Derivative liabilities 294 2,542 218 3,054 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 114,055 97,961 4,565 216,581 Borrowings attributable to the with-profits fund held at fair value 39 39 Investment contract liabilities without discretionary participation features held at fair value 15,056 15,056 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 2,586 805 449 3,840 Other financial liabilities held at fair value 281 281 Total financial instruments at fair value 111,469 81,780 4,116 197,365 Percentage of total 57% 41% 2% 100% 312 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements G: continued G1: 31December2010 m Level1 Level2 Level3 Total , netofderivative  With-profits Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 29,675 1,281 415 31,371 Debt securities 11,114 41,375 772 53,261 Other investments including derivative assets 137 1,207 2,543 3,887 Derivative liabilities 56 626 25 707 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 40,870 43,237 3,705 87,812 Percentage of total 47% 49% 4% 100%  Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 54,272 2 54,274 Debt securities 3,784 5,268 2 9,054 Other investments including derivative assets 43 88 131 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 58,099 5,358 2 63,459 Percentage of total 92% 8% 0% 100%  Loans 227 227 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 808 21 161 990 Debt securities 10,389 43,305 343 54,037 Other investments including derivative assets 52 1,146 563 1,761 Derivative liabilities 80 1,049 201 1,330 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 11,169 43,650 866 55,685 Percentage of total 20% 78% 2% 100% Grouptotalanalysis,  heldatfairvalue GroupTotal Loans 227 227 Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 84,755 1,304 576 86,635 Debt securities 25,287 89,948 1,117 116,352 Other investments including derivative assets 232 2,441 3,106 5,779 Derivative liabilities 136 1,675 226 2,037 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 110,138 92,245 4,573 206,956 Borrowings attributable to the with-profits fund held at fair value 82 82 Investment contract liabilities without discretionary participation features held at fair value 15,822 15,822 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 2,099 894 379 3,372 Total financial instruments at fair value 108,039 75,447 4,194 187,680 Percentage of total 58% 40% 2% 100% Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 G:Financialassets Financial statements andliabilities 313 Reconciliation of movements in level 3 financial instruments measured at fair value The following tables reconcile the value of level 3 financial instruments at 1 January 2011 to that presented at 31 December 2011 and at 1 January 2010 to that presented at 31 December 2010.
Total investment return in the income statement represents interest and dividend income, realised gains and losses, unrealised gains and losses on financial instruments classified at fair value through profit and loss and foreign exchange movements on an individual entitys overseas investments.
Total gains and losses recorded in other comprehensive income includes unrealised gains and losses on debt securities held as available-for-sale within Jackson and foreign exchange movements arising from the retranslation of the Groups overseas subsidiaries and branches.
The transfers in and out of level 3 during 2011 represent sundry individual financial investments, none of which are materially significant as highlighted in the table below.
The transfers out from level 3 during 2010 comprise mainly transfers within the Jackson portfolio.
Certain broker-priced assets of Jackson were previously classified as level 3 holdings as a result of illiquidity in the market and the resultant lack of observability into the assumptions used to produce those fair values.
During 2010, as a result of ongoing consideration regarding the use of assumptions by pricing sources and the changes in the level of observability of these inputs over recent periods, Jackson determined that these assets would be more appropriately categorised as level 2.
As a result, Jackson transferred debt securities of 606 million and derivative assets of 101 million from level 3 to level 2.
The remaining transfers out of level 3 of the Group are primarily debt securities reclassifications from level 3 to level 2, which reflected improving liquidity during the period.
314 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements G: continued G1: Total gains losses Total recorded gains inother lossesin compreTransfers Transfers At At1Jan income hensive into outof 31Dec 2011 statement income Purchases Sales Settled level3 level3 2011 m m m m m m m m m  , netof  With-profits Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 415 42 21 160 34 284 Debt securities 772 50 1 263 371 19 1 40 655 Other investments including derivative assets 2,543 177 59 530 343 55 2,793 Derivative liabilities 25 25 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 3,705 269 60 814 874 19 1 104 3,732  separateaccount Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 30 30 Debt securities 2 1 1 1 2 3 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 2 1 31 1 2 33  Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 161 8 1 11 118 61 Debt securities 343 5 6 10 119 2 49 31 251 Other investments including derivative assets 563 47 9 161 74 706 Derivative liabilities 201 17 218 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 866 33 14 182 311 2 49 31 800  inlevel3,   GroupTotal Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 576 50 1 62 278 34 375 Debt securities 1,117 46 5 274 490 21 51 73 909 Other investments including derivative assets 3,106 224 50 691 417 55 3,499 Derivative liabilities 226 17 25 218 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 4,573 303 46 1,027 1,185 21 51 137 4,565 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 379 78 10 18 449 Total 4,194 225 46 1,017 1,167 21 51 137 4,116 Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 G:Financialassets Financial statements andliabilities 315 Total gains losses Total recorded gains inother lossesin compreTransfers Transfers At At1Jan income hensive into outof 31Dec 2010 statement income Purchases Sales Settled level3 level3 2010 m m m m m m m m m  , netof  With-profits Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 475 6 48 59 43 415 Debt securities 1,213 113 18 15 158 34 11 180 772 Other investments including derivative assets 2,170 309 5 372 312 1 2,543 Derivative liabilities 25 25 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 3,833 190 23 435 529 34 11 224 3,705  separateaccount Debt securities 40 3 2 4 18 21 2 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 40 3 2 4 18 21 2  Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 179 43 5 30 95 2 3 161 Debt securities 1,068 49 72 46 213 27 61 713 343 Other investments including derivative assets 632 15 32 129 144 101 563 Derivative liabilities 195 5 1 201 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 1,684 102 108 205 452 27 63 817 866  inlevel3,   GroupTotal Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 654 37 5 78 154 2 46 576 Debt securities 2,321 64 93 63 375 79 72 914 1,117 Other investments including derivative assets 2,802 324 37 501 456 102 3,106 Derivative liabilities 220 5 1 226 Total financial investments, net of derivative liabilities 5,557 292 134 642 985 79 74 1,062 4,573 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 367 49 1 7 43 2 379 Total 5,190 243 133 635 942 79 74 1,060 4,194 316 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements G: continued G1: Of the total gains and losses in the income statement of 225 million gains 2010: 243 million gains, 99 million 2010: 315 million relates to financial instruments still held at the end of the year, which can be analysed into gains losses as follows: 2011 m 2010 m Equity securities 49 18 Debt securities 20 110 Other investments 176 243 Derivative liabilities 68 6 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 78 50 Total 99 315 Transfers between level 1 and level 2 During 2011, transfers from level 1 to level 2 amounted to 335 million 2010: 354 million primarily in respect of certain investment funds held by the Groups participating funds due to the change in the observability of the inputs used in valuing these funds.
 The interest income on financial assets not at fair value through profit and loss for the year ended 31 December 2011 from continuing operations was 1,814 million 2010: 1,994 million.
The interest expense on financial liabilities not at fair value through profit and loss for the year ended 31 December 2011 from continuing operations was 456 million 2010: 427 million.
G2:Marketrisk Interestraterisk The following table shows an analysis of the classes of financial assets and liabilities except for cash and cash equivalents and their direct exposure to interest rate risk.
Each applicable class of the Groups financial assets or liabilities is analysed between those exposed to fair value interest rate risk, cash flow interest rate risk and those with no direct interest rate risk exposure.
2011 m Notdirectly Fairvalue Cashflow exposedto interest interest interest raterisk raterisk raterisk Total Financialassets Deposits 790 9,439 479 10,708 Debt securities 117,988 5,788 722 124,498 Loans 6,424 3,091 199 9,714 Other investments including derivatives 1,912 1,077 4,520 7,509 127,114 19,395 5,920 152,429 Financialliabilities Core structural borrowings of shareholder-financed operations 3,362 249 3,611 Operational borrowings attributable to shareholder-financed operations 3,114 213 13 3,340 Borrowings attributable to with-profits funds 120 743 109 972 Obligations under funding, securities lending and sale and repurchase agreements 580 2,534 3,114 Investment contracts without discretionary participation features 1,011 903 15,053 16,967 Derivative liabilities 1,426 615 1,013 3,054 Other liabilities 158 142 949 1,249 9,771 5,399 17,137 32,307 Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 G:Financialassets Financial statements andliabilities 317 2010 m Notdirectly Fairvalue Cashflow exposedto interest interest interest raterisk raterisk raterisk Total Financialassets Deposits 887 8,941 124 9,952 Debt securities 110,168 5,824 360 116,352 Loans 6,238 3,001 22 9,261 Other investments including derivatives 1,616 448 3,715 5,779 118,909 18,214 4,221 141,344 Financialliabilities Core structural borrowings of shareholder-financed operations 3,676 3,676 Operational borrowings attributable to shareholder-financed operations 2,624 377 3 3,004 Borrowings attributable to with-profits funds 679 710 133 1,522 Obligations under funding, securities lending and sale and repurchase agreements 631 3,568 4,199 Investment contracts without discretionary participation features 988 894 15,822 17,704 Derivative liabilities 705 431 901 2,037 Other liabilities 121 129 879 1,129 9,424 6,109 17,738 33,271 Liquidityanalysis  The following table sets out the contractual maturities for applicable classes of financial liabilities, excluding derivative liabilities and investment contracts that are separately presented.
The financial liabilities are included in the column relating to the contractual maturities at the undiscounted cash flows including contractual interest payments due to be paid assuming conditions are consistent with those of year end.
2011 m Total After1 After5 After10 After15 carrying 1year yearto yearsto yearsto yearsto Over Nostated value orless 5years 10years 15years 20years 20years maturity Total Financialliabilities Core structural borrowings of H13 shareholder-financed operations 3,611 245 624 606 840 1,243 737 1,834 6,129 Operational borrowings attributable to shareholder-financed H13 operations 3,340 2,971 394 3,365 Borrowings attributable to H13 with-profits funds 972 199 418 158 100 5 97 139 1,116 Obligations under funding, securities lending and sale and repurchase agreements 3,114 3,114 3,114 Other liabilities 1,249 842 106 5 296 1,249 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 3,840 3,840 3,840 Other creditors 2,544 2,268 20 27 36 45 148 2,544 18,670 13,479 1,562 796 976 1,293 982 2,269 21,357 318 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements G: continued G2:Marketriskcontinued 2010 m Total After1 After5 After10 After15 carrying 1year yearto yearsto yearsto yearsto Over Nostated value orless 5years 10years 15years 20years 20years maturity Total Financialliabilities Core structural borrowings of H13 shareholder-financed operations 3,676 164 861 731 1,314 835 1,244 1,469 6,618 Operational borrowings attributable to shareholder-financed H13 operations 3,004 2,510 561 3 3 3 10 3,090 Borrowings attributable to H13 with-profits funds 1,522 155 1,051 161 2 2 121 182 1,674 Obligations under funding, securities lending and sale and repurchase agreements 4,199 4,199 4,199 Other liabilities 1,129 867 16 50 196 1,129 Net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds 3,372 3,372 3,372 Other creditors 2,321 2,321 2,321 19,223 13,588 2,489 945 1,319 840 1,375 1,847 22,403  The following table provides a maturity analysis of derivative assets and liabilities: 2011 m Total After1 After3 carrying 1year yearto yearsto After5 value orless 3years 5years years Total Net derivative position 601 731 18 11 31 671 2010 m Total After1 After3 carrying 1year yearto yearsto After5 value orless 3years 5years years Total Net derivative position 2 1 1 2 The net derivative positions as shown in the table above comprise the following derivative assets and liabilities: 2011 m 2010 m Derivative assets 3,655 2,039 Derivative liabilities 3,054 2,037 Net derivative position 601 2 Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 G:Financialassets Financial statements andliabilities 319 The majority of derivative assets and liabilities have been included at fair value within the one year or less column, representing the basis on which they are managed ie to manage principally asset or liability value exposures.
Contractual maturities are not considered essential for an understanding of the timing of the cash flows for these instruments and, in particular, the Group has no cash flow hedges.
The only exception is certain identified interest rate swaps which are fully expected to be held until maturity solely for the purposes of matching cash flows on separately held assets and liabilities.
For these instruments the undiscounted cash flows including contractual interest amounts due to be paid under the swap contract assuming conditions are consistent with those at year end are included in the column relating to the contractual maturity of the derivative.
The table below shows the maturity profile for investment contracts on an undiscounted basis to the nearest billion.
This maturity profile has been based on the cash flow projections of expected benefit payments as part of the determination of the value of in-force business when preparing EEV basis results.
2011 bn Total After1 After5 After10 After15 undisTotal 1year yearto yearsto yearsto yearsto Over counted carrying orless 5years 10years 15years 20years 20years value value Life assurance investment contracts 3 12 13 11 9 10 58 47 2010 bn Total After1 After5 After10 After15 undisTotal 1year yearto yearsto yearsto yearsto Over counted carrying orless 5years 10years 15years 20years 20years value value Life assurance investment contracts 3 12 15 14 12 15 71 43 Most investment contracts have options to surrender early, albeit these are often subject to surrender or other penalties.
It is therefore the case that most contracts could be said to have a contractual maturity of less than one year, but in reality the additional charges and term of the contracts means these are unlikely to be exercised in practice and the more useful information is to present information on expected payment.
The maturity profile above excludes certain corporate unit-linked business with gross policyholder liabilities of 11 billion 2010: 11 billion which has no stated maturity but which is repayable on demand.
This table has been prepared on an undiscounted basis and accordingly the amounts shown for life assurance investment contracts differ from those disclosed on the statement of financial position.
Durations of long-term business contracts, covering insurance and investment contracts, on a discounted basis are included in section D. The vast majority of the Groups financial assets are held to back the Groups policyholder liabilities.
Although asset liability matching is an important component of managing policyholder liabilities both those classified as insurance and those classified as investments, this profile is mainly relevant for managing market risk rather than liquidity risk.
Within each business unit this asset liability matching is performed on a portfolio by portfolio basis.
In terms of liquidity risk a large proportion of the policyholder liabilities contain discretionary surrender values or surrender charges, meaning that many of the Groups liabilities are expected to be held for the long-term.
Much of the Groups investment portfolios are in marketable securities, which can therefore be converted quickly to liquid assets.
For the reasons above an analysis of the Groups assets by contractual maturity is not considered necessary to evaluate the nature and extent of the Groups liquidity risk.
320 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements G: continued G2:Marketriskcontinued Creditrisk The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk of financial instruments before any allowance for collateral or allocation of losses to policyholders is represented by the carrying value of financial instruments on the balance sheet that have exposures to credit risk.
These assets comprise cash and cash equivalents, deposits, debt securities, loans and derivative assets, and other debtors, the carrying value of which are disclosed at the start of this note and note G3 for derivative assets.
The collateral in place in relation to derivatives is described in G4.
Notes D2 a v, D3 a ii ii and D4 a iii, describe the security for these loans held by the Group, as disclosed at the start of this note.
Of the total loans and receivables held, 39 million 2010: 74 million are past their due date but have not been impaired.
Of the total past due but not impaired, 3 million is less than one year past their due date and no loans or receivables are more than six months but less than one year past their due date 2010: 26 million and 9 million respectively.
The Group expects full recovery of these loans and receivables.
No further analysis has been provided of the age of financial assets that are past due at the end of the reporting period but not impaired as the amounts are immaterial.
No further analysis has been provided of the element of loans and receivables that was neither past due nor impaired for the total portfolio.
This is on the grounds of immateriality of the difference between the neither past due nor impaired elements and the total portfolio.
Financial assets that would have been past due or impaired had the terms not been renegotiated amounted to 90 million 2010: 97 million.
In addition, during the year the Group took possession of 13 million 2010: 22 million of other collateral held as security, which mainly consists of assets that could be readily convertible into cash.
Further details of collateral and pledges are provided in note G4.
Currencyrisk As at 31 December 2011, the Group held 21 per cent 2010: 18 per cent and 9 per cent 2010: 14 per cent of its financial assets and financial liabilities respectively, in currencies, mainly US dollar and Euro, other than the functional currency of the relevant business unit.
The financial assets, of which 55 per cent 2010: 70 per cent are held by the PAC with-profits fund, allow the PAC with-profits fund to obtain exposure to foreign equity markets.
The financial liabilities, of which 28 per cent 2010: 28 per cent are held by the PAC with-profits fund, mainly relate to foreign currency borrowings.
The exchange risks inherent in these exposures are mitigated through the use of derivatives, mainly forward currency contracts note G3 below.
The amount of exchange gains recognised in the income statement in 2011, except for those arising on financial instruments measured at fair value through profit and loss, is 1 million 2010: 82 million losses.
This constitutes 11 million losses 2010: 16 million losses on medium-term notes MTN liabilities and 12 million of net gains 2010: 98 million net losses, mainly arising on investments of the PAC with-profits fund.
The gains losses on MTN liabilities are fully offset by value movements on cross-currency swaps, which are measured at fair value through profit and loss.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 G:Financialassets Financial statements andliabilities 321 G3: Derivatives The Group enters into a variety of exchange traded and over-the-counter derivative financial instruments, including futures, options, forward currency contracts and swaps such as interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps, swaptions and credit default swaps.
All over-the-counter derivative transactions, with the exception of some Asian transactions, are conducted under standardised ISDA International Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc master agreements and the Group has collateral agreements between the individual Group entities and relevant counterparties in place under each of these market master agreements.
The total fair value balances of derivative assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2011 were as follows: 2011 m UK US Asian insurance insurance insurance Asset Unallocated Group operations operations operations management toasegment Total Derivative assets 1,461 1,677 444 71 2 3,655 Derivative liabilities 1,298 887 480 182 207 3,054 163 790 36 111 205 601 2010 m UK US Asian insurance insurance insurance Asset Unallocated Group operations operations operations management toasegment Total Derivative assets 926 645 310 44 114 2,039 Derivative liabilities 792 799 222 78 146 2,037 134 154 88 34 32 2 The above derivative assets are included in other investments in the primary statements.
These derivatives are used for efficient portfolio management to obtain cost-effective and efficient exposure to various markets in accordance with the Groups investment strategies and to manage exposure to interest rate, currency, credit and other business risks.
See also note D3 for use of derivatives by the Groups US operations.
The Group uses various interest rate derivative instruments such as interest rate swaps to reduce exposure to interest rate volatility.
The UK insurance operations use various currency derivatives in order to limit volatility due to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations arising on securities denominated in currencies other than sterling.
In addition, total return swaps and interest rate swaps are held for efficient portfolio management.
Some of the Groups products, especially those sold in the US, have certain guarantee features linked to equity indexes.
A mismatch between guaranteed product liabilities and the performance of the underlying assets backing them, exposes the Group to equity index risk.
In order to mitigate this risk, the relevant business units purchase swaptions, equity options and futures to match asset performance with liabilities under equity-indexed products.
The US operations and some of the UK operations hold large amounts of interest rate sensitive investments that contain credit risks on which a certain level of defaults is expected.
These entities have purchased some swaptions in order to manage the default risk on certain underlying assets and hence reduce the amount of regulatory capital held to support the assets.
322 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements G: continued G3: Hedging The Group has formally assessed and documented the effectiveness of the following hedges under IAS 39.
Fairvaluehedges The Group used interest rate derivatives to hedge the interest rate exposures on its US$300 million, 6.5 per cent perpetual subordinated capital securities until September 2010.
The hedge terminated at this point.
The impact on the Groups 2010 income statement was immaterial.
The Group has chosen to designate as a fair value hedge certain fixed to floating rate swaps which hedge the fair value exposure to interest rate movements of certain of the Groups operational borrowings.
The fair value of the derivatives designated as fair value hedges above at 31 December 2011, was an asset of 3 million 2010: asset of 5 million.
Movements in the fair value of the hedging instruments of a net loss of 2 million 2010: net loss of 1 million and the hedged items of a net gain of 2 million 2010: net gain of 1 million are recorded in the income statement in respect of the fair value hedges above.
Cashflowhedges The Group has no cash flow hedges in place.
Netinvestmenthedges The Group has designated perpetual subordinated capital securities totalling US$2.85 billion 2010: US$2.3 billion as a net investment hedge to hedge the currency risks related to the net investment in Jackson.
The carrying value of the subordinated capital securities was 1,834 million as at 31 December 2011 2010: 1,462 million.
The foreign exchange loss of 18 million 2010: loss of 45 million on translation of the borrowings to pounds sterling at the statement of financial position date is recognised in the translation reserve in shareholders equity.
This net investment hedge was 100 per cent effective.
G4:  The Group has entered into securities lending including repurchase agreements whereby blocks of securities are loaned to third parties, primarily major brokerage firms.
The amounts above the fair value of the loaned securities required to be held as collateral by the agreements depend on the quality of the collateral, calculated on a daily basis.
The loaned securities are not removed from the Groups consolidated statement of financial position, rather they are retained within the appropriate investment classification.
Collateral typically consists of cash, debt securities, equity securities and letters of credit.
At 31 December 2011, the Group had lent 7,843 million 2010: 8,708 million, of which 5,820 million 2010: 6,488 million was lent by the PAC with-profits fund of securities and held collateral under such agreements of 8,160 million 2010: 9,334 million of which 6,108 million 2010: 6,910 million was held by the PAC with-profits fund.
At 31 December 2011, the Group had entered into reverse repurchase transactions under which it purchased securities and had taken on the obligation to resell the securities for the purchase price of 1,607 million 2010: 1,208 million, together with accrued interest.
 At 31 December 2011, the Group had pledged 840 million 2010: 800 million for liabilities and held collateral of 1,953 million 2010: 804 million in respect of over-the-counter derivative transactions.
These transactions are conducted under terms that are usual and customary to collateralised transactions including, where relevant, standard securities lending and repurchase agreement.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 G:Financialassets Financial statements andliabilities 323 G5: In accordance with the Groups accounting policy set out in note A4, impairment reviews were performed for available-for-sale securities and loans and receivables.
In addition, impairment reviews were undertaken for the reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities.
During the year ended 31 December 2011, impairment losses of 126 million 2010: 145 million were recognised for available-for-sale securities and loans and receivables analysed as shown in the attached table.
2011 m 2010 m Available-for-sale securities held by Jackson 62 124 Loans and receivables 64 21 126 145 R elates to loans held by the UK with-profits fund and mortgage loans held by Jackson Impairment losses recognised on available-for-sale securities amounted to 62 million 2010: 124 million.
Of this amount, 34 per cent 2010: 90 per cent has been recorded on structured asset-backed securities, primarily due to reduced cash flow expectations on such securities that are collateralised by diversified pools of primarily below investment grade securities.
Of the losses related to the impairment of fixed maturity securities, the top five individual corporate issuers made up 75 per cent 2010: 32 per cent, reflecting a deteriorating business outlook of the companies concerned.
The impairment losses have been recorded in investment return in the income statement.
In 2011, the Group realised gross losses on sales of available-for-sale securities of 43 million 2010: 160 million with 64 per cent 2010: 45 per cent of these losses related to the disposal of fixed maturity securities of 10 2010: 15 individual issuers, which were disposed of as part of risk reduction programmes intended to limit future credit loss exposure.
Of the 43 million 2010: 160 million, 32 million 2010: 99 million relates to losses on sales of impaired and deteriorating securities.
The effect of those reasonably likely changes in the key assumptions underlying the estimates that underpin the assessment of whether impairment has taken place depends on the factors described in note A3.
A key indicator of whether such impairment may arise in future and the potential amounts at risk, is the profile of gross unrealised losses for fixed maturity securities accounted for on an available-for-sale basis by reference to the time periods by which the securities have been held continuously in an unrealised loss position and by reference to the maturity date of the securities concerned.
For 2011, the amount of gross unrealised losses for fixed maturity securities classified as available-for-sale under IFRS in an unrealised loss position was 246 million 2010: 370 million.
Notes B1 and D3 provide further details on the impairment charges and unrealised losses of Jacksons available-for-sale securities.
324 Financial Statements | Notes on the Group Financial Statements H:  H1: a Goodwill 2011 m 2010 m Cost At 1 January 1,586 1,430 Acquisition of UOB Life Assurance Limited in Singapore 141 Exchange differences 1 15 At 31 December 1,585 1,586 Aggregate impairment 120 120 Net book amount at 31 December 1,465 1,466 Goodwill attributable to shareholders comprises: 2011 m 2010 m M&G 1,153 1,153 Other 312 313 1,465 1,466 Other represents goodwill amounts allocated across cash generating units CGUs in Asia and US operations.
Other goodwill amounts are not individually material.
During 2010, 141 million SGD313 million of goodwill was recognised upon the acquisition of UOB Life Assurance Limited.
Upon translation at the year end exchange rate, the carrying value of this UOB Life Assurance goodwill at 31 December 2011 was 155 million 31 December 2010: 156 million.
Impairment testing Goodwill does not generate cash flows independently of other groups of assets and thus is assigned to CGUs for the purposes of impairment testing.
These CGUs are based upon how management monitors the business and represent the lowest level to which goodwill can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Assessment of whether goodwill may be impaired Goodwill is tested for impairment by comparing the CGUs carrying amount, including any goodwill, with its recoverable amount.
With the exception of M&G, the goodwill attributable to shareholders in the statement of financial position mainly relates to acquired life businesses.
The Company routinely compares the aggregate of net asset value and acquired goodwill on an IFRS basis of acquired life business with the value of the business as determined using the EEV methodology, as described in note D1.
Any excess of IFRS over EEV carrying value is then compared with EEV basis value of current and projected future new business to determine whether there is any indication that the goodwill in the IFRS statement of financial position may be impaired.
The assumptions underpinning the Groups EEV basis of reporting are included in the EEV basis supplementary information in this Annual Report.
In particular at 31 December 2011, the EEV of the CGU containing the UOB Life Assurance goodwill being the Singapore insurance operations materially exceeded its IFRS net asset value and so no impairment was deemed to arise.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 H: Other information on statement of financial Financial statements position items 325 M&G The recoverable amount for the M&G CGU has been determined by calculating its value in use.
This has been calculated by aggregating the present value of future cash flows expected to be derived from the M&G operating segment based upon management projections.
The discounted cash flow valuation has been based on a three-year plan prepared by M&G, and approved by management, and cash flow projections for later years.
The value in use is particularly sensitive to a number of key assumptions as follows: i The set of economic, market and business assumptions used to derive the three-year plan.
The direct and secondary effects of recent developments, eg changes in global equity markets, are considered by management in arriving at the expectations for the financial projections for the plan: ii The assumed growth rate on forecast cash flows beyond the terminal year of the plan.
A growth rate of 2.5 per cent 2010: 2.5 per cent has been used to extrapolate beyond the plan period representing managements best estimate view of the long-term growth rate of the business after considering the future and past growth rates and external sources of data: iii The risk discount rate.
Differing discount rates have been applied in accordance with the nature of the individual component businesses.
For retail and institutional business a risk discount rate of 12 per cent 2010: 12 per cent has been applied to post-tax cash flows.
The pre-tax risk discount rate was 15 per cent 2010: 16 per cent.
Management have determined the risk discount rate by reference to an average implied discount rate for comparable UK listed asset managers calculated by reference to risk-free rates, equity risk premiums of five per cent and an average beta factor for relative market risk of comparable UK listed asset managers.
A similar approach has been applied for the other component businesses of M&G: and iv That asset management contracts continue on similar terms.
Management believes that any reasonable change in the key assumptions would not cause the recoverable amount of M&G to fall below its carrying amount.
Japanese life company The aggregate goodwill impairment of 120 million at 31 December 2011 and 2010 relates to the goodwill held in relation to the Japanese life operation which was impaired in 2005. b Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets attributable to shareholders The deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets in the Group consolidated statement of financial position attributable to shareholders comprise: 2011 m 2010 m Deferred acquisition costs related to insurance contracts as classified under IFRS 4 4,640 4,316 Deferred acquisition costs related to investment management contracts, including life assurance contracts classified as financial instruments and investment management contracts under IFRS 4 107 110 4,747 4,426 Present value of acquired in-force policies for insurance contracts as classified under IFRS 4 PVIF 64 70 Other intangibles 258 171 322 241 Total of deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets 5,069 4,667 At 31 December 2010 as previously published, tangible assets included computer software with a net book value of 58 million, which in these financial statements have been more appropriately classified as other intangible assets.
These amounts have been transferred to other intangible assets and the comparative balances have been adjusted accordingly.
This is only a presentational adjustment with no impact on the Groups results or shareholders equity.
326 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements H:  continued H1: Deferred acquisition costs PVIF and Asset other 2011 2010 UK US Asia management intangibles Total Total note i m m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 116 3,543 758 9 241 4,667 4,097 Additions 16 890 256 7 120 1,289 1,162 Acquisitions of subsidiaries 12 Amortisation to the income statement: Operating profit 21 619 242 4 35 921 595 Amortisation related to short-term fluctuations in investment returns 359 359 358 21 260 242 4 35 562 237 Exchange differences 38 28 2 8 141 Change in shadow DAC related to movement in unrealised appreciation of Jackson's securities classified as available-for-sale 331 331 496 Disposals 2 2 5 Dilution of Group's holdings 7 Balance at 31 December 111 3,880 744 12 322 5,069 4,667 See note D3 g for explanation Note i The DAC amount in respect of US insurance operations includes: 2011 m 2010 m Variable annuity business 3,860 2,834 Other business 886 1,229 Cumulative shadow DAC 866 520 Total DAC for US operations 3,880 3,543 Deferred acquisition costs related to insurance contracts attributable to shareholders The movement in deferred acquisition costs relating to insurance contracts attributable to shareholders is as follows: 2011 m 2010 m Deferred acquisition costs at 1 January 4,316 3,823 Additions 1,152 1,064 Amortisation 507 190 Exchange differences 10 122 Change in shadow DAC related to movement in unrealised appreciation of Jacksons securities classified as available-for-sale 331 496 Dilution of Group's holdings 7 Deferred acquisition costs at 31 December 4,640 4,316 Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 H: Other information on statement of financial Financial statements position items 327 Deferred acquisition costs related to investment management contracts attributable to shareholders Incremental costs associated with the origination of investment management contracts written by the Groups insurance and asset management businesses are capitalised and amortised as the related revenue is recognised.
2011 m 2010 m At 1 January Gross amount 183 162 Accumulated amortisation 73 55 Net book amount 110 107 Additions through internal development 17 21 Amortisation 20 18 At 31 December 107 110 Comprising: Gross amount 200 183 Accumulated amortisation 93 73 Net book amount 107 110 Present value of acquired in-force business of long-term business contracts attributable to shareholders The present value of acquired in-force business PVAIF relating to investment contracts without discretionary participation features represents the contractual right to benefit from providing these investment management services in the future.
The fair value is measured as the present value of the future profits of the investment management component of these contracts.
These contracts are accounted for under the provisions of IAS 18.
The PVAIF balance relating to insurance contracts is accounted for under UK GAAP as permitted by IFRS 4.
The present value of future profits of acquired investment management contracts which was fully amortised during 2010 related to unit-linked contracts acquired as part of the M&G acquisition in 1999.
Amortisation is charged to the acquisition costs and other operating expenditure line in the income statement over the period of provision of asset management services as those profits emerge.
2011m 2010m Insurance Investment Insurance Investment business management business management At 1 January Cost 203 175 12 Accumulated amortisation 133 123 11 Net book amount 70 52 1 note I1 Acquisition of UOB Life Assurance Ltd 12 Amortisation charge 5 4 1 Exchange differences 1 10 At 31 December 64 70 Comprising: Cost 200 203 Accumulated amortisation 136 133 Net book amount 64 70 328 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements H:  continued H1: Other intangibles Other intangibles comprise distribution and software rights.
Distribution rights relate to facilitation fees paid in respect of the bancassurance partnership arrangements in Asia for the bank distribution of Prudentials insurance products for a fixed period of time.
The distribution rights amounts are amortised over the term of the distribution contracts.
Software is amortised over its useful economic life, which generally represents the licence period of the software acquired.
Amortisation is charged to the acquisition costs and other expenditure line in the income statement.
Distribution rights Software Total 2011 m 2010 m 2011 m 2010 m 2011 m 2010 m At 1 January Cost 136 79 144 155 280 234 Accumulated amortisation 23 13 86 107 109 120 113 66 58 48 171 114 Additions including amounts arising on acquisition of subsidiaries 96 50 24 27 120 77 Amortisation charge 9 8 21 16 30 24 Disposals 2 5 2 5 Exchange differences 1 5 4 1 9 At 31 December 199 113 59 58 258 171 Comprising: Cost 235 136 163 144 398 280 Accumulated amortisation 36 23 104 86 140 109 199 113 59 58 258 171 H2: a Goodwill in respect of acquired investment subsidiaries for venture fund and other investment purposes 2011 m 2010 m At 1 January 166 124 note I8 iii Additions in the year 12 42 At 31 December 178 166 All the goodwill relates to the UK insurance operations segment.
The venture fund investments consolidated by the Group relates to investments by PAC with-profits fund managed by M&G.
The goodwill shown in the table above relates to these venture fund investments.
Goodwill is tested for impairment for these investments by comparing the investments carrying value including goodwill with its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of the investments is determined by calculating their fair value less costs to sell.
The fair value is determined by using a discounted cash flow valuation.
The valuations are based on cash flow projections to 2015 prepared by management after considering the historical experience and future growth rates of the business.
The key assumption applied in the calculations is the risk discount rate ranging from 10 to 14 per cent derived by reference to risk-free rates and an equity premium risk.
In 2011, no goodwill was deemed to be impaired following the impairment testing carried out.
b Deferred acquisition costs and other intangible assets Other intangible assets in the Group consolidated statement of financial position attributable to with-profits funds consist of: 2011 m 2010 m note I8 iii Deferred acquisition costs related to insurance contracts attributable to the PAC with-profits fund 6 13 Distribution rights attributable to with-profits funds of the Asian insurance operations 83 97 89 110 Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 H: Other information on statement of financial Financial statements position items 329 Deferred acquisition costs related to insurance contracts attributable to the PAC with-profits fund The movement in deferred acquisition costs relating to insurance contracts attributable to the PAC with-profits fund is as follows: 2011 m 2010 m At 1 January 13 9 Additions 9 Amortisation charge 7 5 At 31 December 6 13 The above costs relate to non-participating business written by the PAC with-profits sub-fund.
No deferred acquisition costs are established for the participating business.
Distribution rights attributable to with-profit funds of the Asian insurance operations Distribution rights relate to facilitation fees paid in relation to the bancassurance partnership arrangements in Asia for the bank distribution of Prudentials insurance products for a fixed period of time.
2011 m 2010 m At 1 January Gross amount 108 103 Accumulated amortisation 11 6 97 97 Amortisation charge 5 4 Exchange differences 1 4 Reclassification 10 At 31 December 83 97 Comprising: Gross amount 96 108 Accumulated amortisation 13 11 83 97 H3: 2011 m 2010 m Insurance contract liabilities 1,486 1,167 Claims outstanding 161 177 1,647 1,344 Comprising amounts in respect of: note D2 h UK insurance operations 589 608 note D3 h US insurance operations 907 695 note D4 h Asian insurance operations 151 41 1,647 1,344 The movement on reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities is as follows: 2011 m 2010 m At 1 January 1,167 1,114 Movement in the year 303 31 Foreign exchange translation differences 16 22 At 31 December 1,486 1,167 330 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements H:  continued H4: Assets Of the 546 million 2010: 555 million current tax recoverable, the majority is expected to be recovered in one year or less.
Deferred tax asset 2011 m 2010 m Unrealised losses on investments 297 449 Balances relating to investment and insurance contracts 13 11 Short-term timing differences 1,513 1,152 Capital allowances 15 16 Unused deferred tax losses 438 560 Total 2,276 2,188 The deferred tax asset at 31 December 2011 and 2010 arises in the following parts of the Group: 2011 m 2010 m UK insurance operations SAI 1 2 PAC with-profits fund including PAL 78 108 Othe 153 104 US insurance operations 1,392 1,391 Asian insurance operations 114 98 Other operations 538 485 Total 2,276 2,188 The increase in the deferred tax asset primarily relates to additional short-term timing differences on US insurance reserves partially offset by the reduction in unrealised losses together with the utilisation of unused tax losses across the group.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable, that is to the extent that, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying temporary differences can be deducted.
The taxation regimes applicable across the Group often apply separate rules to trading and capital profits and losses.
The distinction between temporary differences that arise from items of either a trading or capital nature may affect the recognition of deferred tax assets.
Accordingly, for the 2011 results and financial position at 31 December 2011 the possible tax benefit of approximately 158 million 31 December 2010: 143 million, which may arise from capital losses valued at approximately 0.7 billion 31 December 2010: 0.5 billion, is sufficiently uncertain that it has not been recognised.
In addition, a potential deferred tax asset of 147 million 31 December 2010: 298 million, which may arise from trading tax losses and other potential temporary differences totalling 0.6 billion 31 December 2010: 1.2 billion, is sufficiently uncertain that it has not been recognised.
Of these, losses of 142 million will expire within the next nine years.
The remaining losses have no expiry date.
In the two tables that follow the Group has provided a further breakdown of the recognised deferred tax assets for both the short-term timing differences and unused tax losses split by business unit set out in the table at ii above.
In addition we have detailed the period of estimated recoverability for each respective business unit.
For these and each category of deferred tax asset recognised, their recoverability against forecast taxable profits is not significantly impacted by any current proposed changes to future accounting standards.
Short-term timing differences 2011 m Expected period of recoverability Asia 65 3 to 5 years JNL 1,206 70% to 90% within 10 years UK long-term business 141 1 to 7 years Other 101 3 to 10 years Total 1,513 The remainder is expected to be recovered within 20 years Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 r F H: Other information on statement of financial Financial statements position items 331 Unused tax losses 2011 m Expected period of recoverability Asia 28 3 to 5 years UK long-term business 11 1 to 3 years Other 399 1 to 3 years Total 438 Liabilities The current tax liability increased to 930 million 2010: 831 million reflecting both an increase in taxable profits in the UK insurance business, and the recent fiscal developments affecting the Indonesia life insurance industry.
Deferred tax liability 2011 m 2010 m Unrealised gains on investments 1,566 1,678 Balances relating to investment and insurance contracts 949 1,057 Short-term timing differences 1,687 1,477 Capital allowances 9 12 Total 4,211 4,224 The UK governments tax rate change to 25 per cent from the current 26 per cent which was effective from 1 April 2011 has had the effect of reducing the UK with-profits and shareholder-backed business element of the net deferred tax balances as at 31 December 2011 by 26 million.
The tax change to 25 per cent is effective from 1 April 2012 but has been enacted at 31 December 2011.
The subsequent proposed phased rate changes to 23 per cent are expected to have the effect of reducing the UK with-profits and shareholder-backed business elements of the net deferred tax balances at 31 December 2011 by 45 million.
H5: 2011 m 2010 m Accrued investment income Interest receivable 1,919 1,844 Other 791 824 Total 2,710 2,668 Other debtors Amounts due from: Policyholders 227 141 Intermediaries 27 28 Reinsurers 11 27 Other 722 707 Total 987 903 Total accrued investment income and other debtors 3,697 3,571 Of the 3,697 million 2010: 3,571 million of accrued investment income and other debtors, 162 million 2010: 151 million is expected to be settled after one year or more.
332 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements H:  continued H6:Property, plantandequipment Property, plant and equipment comprise Group occupied properties and tangible assets.
A reconciliation of the carrying amount of these items from the beginning of the year to the end of the year is as follows: Group occupied Tangible Property Assets Total m m m At 1 January 2010 Cost 173 506 679 Accumulated depreciation 20 340 360 Net book amount 153 166 319 note I1 Year ended 31 December 2010 Opening net book amount 153 166 319 Exchange differences 5 5 10 Depreciation charge 4 52 56 Additions 19 48 67 Arising on acquisitions of subsidiaries 219 219 Disposals and transfers 5 5 Closing net book amount 173 381 554 At 1 January 2011 Cost 197 764 961 Accumulated depreciation 24 383 407 Net book amount 173 381 554 Year ended 31 December 2011 Opening net book amount 173 381 554 Exchange differences 2 7 9 Depreciation charge 5 69 74 Additions 5 119 124 Arising on acquisitions of subsidiaries 69 99 168 Disposals and transfers 7 8 15 Closing net book amount 233 515 748 At 31 December 2011 Cost 262 915 1,177 Accumulated depreciation 29 400 429 Net book amount 233 515 748 At 31 December 2010 as previously published, tangible assets included computer software with a net book value of 58 million, which in these financial statements have been more appropriately classified as other intangible assets.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 H: Other information on statement of financial Financial statements position items 333 Capital expenditure: property, plant and equipment by segment 2011 m 2010 m Insurance operations: UK 69 23 US 20 18 Asia 21 18 Asset management operations: M&G 1 1 US 1 1 Asia 5 3 Total segment 117 64 Unallocated corporate 7 3 Total 124 67 H7:Investmentproperties Investment properties principally relate to the PAC with-profits fund and are carried at fair value.
A reconciliation of the carrying amount of investment properties at the beginning and end of the year is set out below: 2011 m 2010 m At 1 January 11,247 10,905 Additions: Resulting from acquisitions 393 267 Resulting from expenditure capitalised 45 44 Disposals 1,439 390 Net gain from fair value adjustments 522 636 Net foreign exchange differences 41 38 Transfers from to held for sale assets 25 254 Transfers from owner occupied properties 5 1 At 31 December 10,757 11,247 The income statement includes the following items in respect of investment properties: 2011 m 2010 m Rental income from investment properties 606 625 Direct operating expenses including repairs and maintenance expenses arising from investment properties that generated rental income during the year 128 125 Further information on the investment property held by the UK insurance operations is included in note D2 a.
334 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements H:  continued H7: Investment properties of 3,439 million 2010: 3,435 million are held under finance leases.
A reconciliation between the total of future minimum lease payments at the statement of financial position date, and their present value is shown below: 2011 m 2010 m Future minimum lease payments at 31 December 1,071 1,107 Future finance charges on finance leases 944 972 Present value of minimum lease payments 127 135 Future minimum lease payments are due as follows: Less than 1 year 7 7 1 to 5 years 26 28 Over 5 years 1,038 1,072 Total 1,071 1,107 The present values of these minimum lease payments are: Less than 1 year 6 7 1 to 5 years 23 24 Over 5 years 98 104 Total 127 135 Contingent rent is that portion of the lease payments that is not fixed in amount but is based on the future value of a factor that changes other than with the passage of time.
There was no contingent rent recognised as income or expense in 2011 and 2010.
The Groups policy is to rent investment properties to tenants through operating leases.
Minimum future rentals to be received on non-cancellable operating leases are receivable in the following periods: 2011 m 2010 m Less than 1 year 430 601 1 to 5 years 1,407 2,121 Over 5 years 3,304 5,616 Total 5,141 8,338 The total minimum future rentals to be received on non-cancellable sub-leases for land and buildings at 31 December 2011 are 2,553 million 2010: 3,366million.
H8: Investments in associates The Group had one associate at 31 December 2011 31 December 2010: three that was accounted for under the equity method, which is for a 25 per cent interest in PruHealth Holdings Limited.
During 2011 the Group disposed of a 30 per cent interest in The Nam Khang, a Vietnamese property developer and a 30 per cent interest in Apollo Education and Training Organisation Vietnam.
The Group also has investments in associates which meet the IAS 28 criteria for measurement at fair value through profit and loss in accordance with IAS 39.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 H: Other information on statement of financial Financial statements position items 335 Associates accounted for using the equity method A summary of the movements in investments in associates accounted for using the equity method in 2011 and 2010 is set out below: Total Share of Share of net carrying Share of capital reserves assets Goodwill value m m m m m Balance at 31 December 2009 5 5 1 6 note I2 Transfer of PruHealth to associates 1 65 66 66 Acquisition capital injection in PruHealth 9 9 9 Exchange translation and other movements 3 1 4 4 Share of loss for the year after tax 6 6 6 Balance at 31 December 2010 12 58 70 1 71 Capital injection 4 4 4 Exchange translation and other movements 1 1 Disposals 1 1 1 Goodwill write-off 1 1 Share of loss for the year after tax 3 3 3 Balance at 31 December 2011 14 56 70 70 There have been no changes recognised in the other comprehensive income of associates that would also be recognised in the other comprehensive income by the Group.
The Groups share of the assets, liabilities, revenues and profit and loss of associates accounted for using the equity method at 31 December 2011 and 2010 is as follows: 2011 m 2010 m Financial position Total assets excluding goodwill 109 70 Total liabilities 39 Net assets 70 70 Results of operations Revenue 81 39 Loss in the year 3 6 The 2010 amounts include the Groups share of PruHealths revenue and profit and loss for the five months ended from 1 August to 31 December 2010.
Prior to August 2010, PruHealth was accounted for as a joint venture.
Associates carried at fair value through profit and loss In addition to the above the Group has associates that are carried at fair value through profit and loss, as allowed under IAS 28, that comprise investments in OEICs, unit trusts, funds holding collateralised debt obligations, property unit trusts, and venture capital investments of the PAC with-profits funds where the Group has significant influence.
These investments are incorporated both in the UK and overseas, and some have year ends which are non-coterminous with that of the Group.
In these instances, the investments are recorded at fair value at 31 December 2011 based on valuations or pricing information at that specific date.
The aggregate fair value of associates carried at fair value through profit and loss where there are published price quotations is approximately 4.8 billion 2010: 5 billion at 31 December 2011.
The aggregate assets of these associates are approximately 3.4 billion 2010: 6 billion.
Aggregate liabilities, excluding liabilities to unit holders and shareholders for unit trusts and OEICs, are approximately 1.1 billion 2010: 1 billion.
Fund revenues, with revenue arising in unit trusts and OEICs deemed to constitute the investment return for these vehicles, were approximately 0.3 billion 2010: 0.4 billion and net profit in the year, excluding unit trusts and OEICs where all investment returns accrue to unit holders or shareholders respectively, was approximately 0.2 billion 2010: profit of 0.1 billion.
336 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements H:  continued H8: Investments in joint ventures Joint ventures represent activities over which the Group exercises joint control through contractual agreement with one or more parties.
The Groups significant joint ventures, which are accounted for using proportionate consolidation, comprise the following interests: Investment % held Principal activity Country CITIC Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited 50 Life assurance China CITIC-Prudential Fund Management Company Limited 49 Asset management China ICICI Prudential Asset Management Company Limited 49 Asset management India Prudential BSN Takaful Berhad 49 General and life insurance Malaysia BOCI-Prudential Asset Management Limited 36 Asset management China Hong Kong ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited 26 Life assurance India The investments noted in the table above have the same accounting year end as the Group, except for ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited and Prudential ICICI Asset Management Company Limited.
Although these investments have reporting periods ending 31 March, 12 months of financial information up to 31 December is recorded.
Accordingly, the information covers the same period as that of the Group.
The summarised financial data for the Groups share of investments in joint ventures is as follows: 2011 m 2010 m Financial position Current assets 706 327 Non-current assets 2,757 3,386 Total assets 3,463 3,713 Current liabilities 301 329 Non-current liabilities 2,799 3,093 Total Liabilities 3,100 3,422 Net equity 363 291 2011 m 2010 m Results of operations Revenue 1,056 1,195 Expenses 1,002 1,135 Net profit loss 54 60 The 2010 amounts include the Groups share of PruHealths results for the seven months ended 31 July 2010.
On 1 August 2010, the Groups interest in PruHealth was diluted and the Groups investment was reclassified as an associate.
There are several minor service agreements in place between the joint ventures and the Group.
During 2011, the aggregate amount of the transactions was 33 million 2010: 29.7 million and the balance outstanding as at 31 December 2011 was 74.2 million 2010: 69.5 million.
The joint ventures have no significant contingent liabilities or capital commitments to which the Group is exposed nor does the Group have any significant contingent liabilities or capital commitments in relation to its interest in the joint ventures.
H9: Investment properties are classified as held for sale when contracts have been exchanged but the sale has not been completed at the period end.
At 31 December 2011 the value of assets held for sale was 3 million 2010: 257 million.
Gains on disposal of held for sale assets are recorded in investment return within the income statement.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 H: Other information on statement of financial Financial statements position items 337 H10: Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and in hand, deposits held at call with banks, treasury bills and other short-term highly liquid investments with less than 90 days maturity from the date of acquisition.
Cash and cash equivalents included in the cash flow statement comprise the following statement of financial position amounts: 2011 m 2010 m Cash 6,338 6,167 Cash equivalents 919 464 Total cash and cash equivalents 7,257 6,631 Cash and cash equivalents held centrally are considered to be available for general use by the Group.
These funds amount to 309 million and 523 million at 31 December 2011 and 2010, respectively.
The remaining funds are considered not to be available for general use by the Group, and include funds held for the benefit of policyholders.
H11:Shareholdersequity:sharecapital,  2011 m 2010 m Share capital and share premium Share capital 127 127 Share premium 1,873 1,856 Reserves Retained earnings 5,839 4,982 Translation reserve 354 454 Available-for-sale reserve 924 612 Total shareholders equity 9,117 8,031 A summary of the ordinary shares in issue is set out below: Share capital and share premium Number of Share Share ordinary capital premium shares m m Issued shares of 5p each fully paid: At 1 January 2010 2,532,227,471 127 1,843 Shares issued under share option schemes 2,455,227 13 Shares issued in lieu of cash dividends 10,911,808 62 Reserve movements in respect of shares issued in lieu of cash dividends 62 At 31 December 2010 2,545,594,506 127 1,856 Shares issued under share option schemes 2,444,824 17 At 31 December 2011 2,548,039,330 127 1,873 Amounts recorded in share capital represent the nominal value of the shares issued.
The difference between the proceeds received on issue of shares, net of issue costs, and the nominal value of shares issued is credited to the share premium account.
Shares issued in lieu of cash dividends in 2010 were considered to take the legal form of bonus issue shares and were accounted for as such.
At 31 December 2011, there were options outstanding under SAYE schemes to subscribe for shares as follows: Share price range Number of shares Exercisable to subscribe for from to by year 31 December 2011 13,329,709 288p 572p 2017 31 December 2010 12,802,482 288p 572p 2016 338 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements H:  continued H11:Shareholdersequity:sharecapital,  Transactions by Prudential plc and its subsidiaries in Prudential plc shares The Group buys and sells Prudential plc own shares either in relation to its employee share schemes or via transactions undertaken by authorised investment funds that the Group is deemed to control.
Further information about these transactions is set out below.
The cost of own shares of 109 million as at 31 December 2011 2010: 75 million is deducted from retained earnings.
The Company has established trusts to facilitate the delivery of shares under employee incentive plans and savings-related share option schemes.
At 31 December 2011, 8.1 million 2010: 4.5 million Prudential plc shares with a market value of 52 million 2010: 30 million were held in such trusts.
Of this total, 8.0 million 2010: 4.4 million shares were held in trusts under employee incentive plans.
In 2011, the Company purchased the following number of shares in respect of employee incentive plans.
Number of shares purchased Cost in millions m 2011 8.2 54.7 2010 5.7 32.2 The maximum number of shares held in 2011 was 8.1 million which was at the end of the period.
Of the total shares held in trust, 0.1 million 2010: 0.1 million shares were held by a qualifying employee share ownership trust.
These shares are expected to be fully distributed in the future on maturity of savings-related share option schemes.
Some of these funds hold shares in Prudential plc.
The total number of shares held by these funds at 31 December 2011 was 8.6 million 2010: 9.8 million and the cost of acquiring these shares of 52 million 2010: 47 million is included in the cost of own shares.
The market value of these shares as at 31 December 2011 was 54 million 2010: 65 million.
During 2011, these funds made net disposals of 1,171,635 Prudential shares 2010: net disposals of 833,618 for a net increase of 4.8 million to book cost 2010: net decrease of 3 million.
All share transactions were made on an exchange other than the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong.
Other than set out above the Group did not purchase, sell or redeem any Prudential plc listed securities during 2011 or 2010.
Reserves The translation reserve represents cumulative foreign exchange translation differences taken directly to equity in accordance with IFRS, net of related tax.
In accordance with IFRS 1, cumulative translation differences are deemed to be zero at 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS.
The available-for-sale reserve represents gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of available-for-sale securities of Jackson, net of the related change in amortisation of deferred income and acquisition costs and of the related tax.
H12: Movement in year Unallocated Insurance surplus of contract with-profits liabilities funds m m At 1 January 2010 145,713 10,019 Income and expense included in the income statement 22,412 245 Foreign exchange translation differences 3,193 11 Dilution of Group's holdings 27 At 1 January 2011 171,291 10,253 Income and expense included in the income statement 8,748 1,025 Foreign exchange translation differences 324 13 At 31 December 2011 180,363 9,215 Notes B5, D2c, D3c and D4c provide further analysis of the movement in the year of the Groups policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of the with-profits funds.
340 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements H:  continued H13:Borrowings Core structural borrowings of shareholder-financed operations 2011m 2010 m Innovative Innovative Tier 1 Tier 2 Senior Total Total Central operations Subordinated debt: note i 500m 5.75% Subordinated Notes 2021 428 note ii 20m Medium-Term Subordinated Notes 2023 17 17 17 435m 6.125% Subordinated Notes 2031 428 428 428 400m 11.375% Subordinated Notes 2039 384 384 382 US$1,000m 6.5% Perpetual Subordinated Capital Securities 644 644 639 US$250m 6.75% Perpetual Subordinated Capital note iii Securities 161 161 160 US$300m 6.5% Perpetual Subordinated Capital note iii Securities 193 193 192 US$750m 11.75% Perpetual Subordinated Capital Securities 477 477 472 US$550m 7.75% Perpetual Subordinated Capital note iii Securities 348 348 1,823 829 2,652 2,718 Senior debt: 300m 6.875% Bonds 2023 300 300 300 250m 5.875% Bonds 2029 249 249 249 549 549 549 Total central operations 1,823 829 549 3,201 3,267 PruCap note iv 250m bank loan 250 250 250 Jackson note v US$250m 8.15% Surplus Notes 2027 160 160 159 notes vi, vii Total 1,823 989 799 3,611 3,676 These debt classifications are consistent with the treatment of capital for regulatory purposes, as defined in the FSA handbook.
In January 2011, the Company issued US$550 million 7.75 per cent Tier 1 subordinated debt, primarily to retail investors.
The proceeds, net of costs, were US$539 million 340 million and have been used to finance the repayments of the 500 million Tier 2 subordinated debt in December 2011.
The Group has designated US$2.85 billion 2010: US$2.3 billion of its Tier 1 subordinated debt as a net investment hedge under IAS 39 to hedge the currency risks related to the net investment in Jackson.
The senior debt ranks above subordinated debt in the event of liquidation.
Notes i The 500 million 5.75 per cent borrowings had been swapped into borrowings of 333 million with interest payable at six month LIBOR plus 0.962 per cent.
The borrowings were repaid in December 2011. ii The 20 million borrowings were issued at 20-year Euro Constant Maturity Swap capped at 6.5 per cent.
These have been swapped into borrowings of 14 million with interest payable at three month LIBOR plus 1.2 per cent.
iii The US$250 million 6.75 per cent borrowings, the US$300 million 6.5 per cent borrowings and the US$550 million 7.75 per cent borrowings can be converted, in whole or in part, at the Companys option and subject to certain conditions, on any interest payment date into one or more series of Prudential preference shares.
iv The 250 million PruCap bank loan was made in December 2010 in two tranches: 135 million maturing in June 2014, currently drawn at a cost of twelve month LIBOR plus 1.2 per cent and 115 million maturing on 20 December 2012, currently drawn at a cost of twelve month LIBOR plus 0.99 per cent.
v The Jackson borrowings are unsecured and subordinated to all present and future indebtedness, policy claims and other creditor claims of Jackson.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 H:Otherinformation  Financial statements positionitems 341 vi Maturity analysis The following table sets out the contractual maturity analysis of the Groups core structural borrowings: 2011 m 2010 m Less than 1 year 115 1 to 2 years 115 2 to 3 years 135 3 to 4 years 135 4 to 5 years Over 5 years 3,361 3,426 Total 3,611 3,676 vii Management analyses the net core structural borrowings position as follows: 2011 m 2010 m Total core structural borrowings as above 3,611 3,676 Less: Holding company cash and short-term investments recorded within the consolidated statement of financial position 1,200 1,232 Net core structural borrowings of shareholder-financed operations 2,411 2,444 Operational borrowings attributable to shareholder-financed operations 2011 m 2010 m Borrowings in respect of short-term fixed income securities programmes Commercial paper 2,706 2,311 Bank Notes 2013 250 249 2,956 2,560 Non-recourse borrowings of US operations note i Investment subsidiaries 20 20 note i, ii Piedmont and CDO funds 1 60 21 80 Other borrowings Bank loans and overdrafts 13 5 Obligations under finance leases 1 2 note iii Other borrowings 349 357 363 364 Total 3,340 3,004 Notes i In all instances the holders of the debt instruments issued by these subsidiaries and funds do not have recourse beyond the assets of those subsidiaries and funds.
ii Piedmont is an investment trust investing in certain asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities in the US.
These borrowings pertain to debt instruments issued to external parties.
iii Other borrowings include mainly amounts whose repayment to the lender is contingent upon future surpluses emerging from certain contracts specified under the arrangement.
If insufficient surplus emerges on the contracts, there is no recourse to other assets of the Group and the liability is not payable to the degree of shortfall.
Further, the Group has chosen to designate as a fair value hedge under IAS 39 certain fixed to floating rate swaps which hedge the fair value exposures to interest rate movements of these borrowings.
In addition, other borrowings include senior debt issued through the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis and was secured on collateral posted with FHLB by Jackson.
iv In addition to the debt listed above, 200 million Floating Rate Notes were issued by Prudential plc in October 2011 which mature in April 2012.
These Notes have been wholly subscribed by a Group subsidiary and accordingly have been eliminated on consolidation in the Group financial statements.
These notes were originally issued in October 2008 and have been reissued upon their maturity.
342 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements H:  continued H13:Borrowingscontinued v Maturity analysis The following table sets out the contractual maturity analysis of the Groups operational borrowings attributable to shareholder-financed operations: 2011 m 2010 m Less than 1 year 3,169 2,496 1 to 2 years 140 98 2 to 3 years 10 401 3 to 4 years 10 4 to 5 years 11 Over 5 years 9 Total 3,340 3,004 Borrowings attributable to with-profits operations 2011 m 2010 m note i Non-recourse borrowings of consolidated investment funds 747 1,287 note ii 100m 8.5% undated subordinated guaranteed bonds of the Scottish Amicable Insurance Fund 100 100 Other borrowings predominantly obligations under finance leases 125 135 note iii Total 972 1,522 Notes i In all instances the holders of the debt instruments issued by these funds do not have recourse beyond the assets of those funds.
ii The interests of the holders of the bonds issued by Scottish Amicable Finance plc, a subsidiary of the Scottish Amicable Insurance Fund, are subordinate to the entitlements of the policyholders of that fund.
iii Maturity analysis The following table sets out the contractual maturity analysis of the Groups borrowings attributable to with-profits operations: 2011 m 2010 m Less than 1 year 297 96 1 to 2 years 75 635 2 to 3 years 30 99 3 to 4 years 110 74 4 to 5 years 31 1 Over 5 years 429 617 Total 972 1,522 H14: Provisions 2011 m 2010 m I3 Provision in respect of defined benefit pension schemes: Deficit, gross of deferred tax, based on scheme assets held, including investments in Prudential insurance policies: Attributable to PAC with-profits fund ie absorbed by the liability for unallocated surplus 41 106 Attributable to shareholder-financed operations ie to shareholders equity 23 114 64 220 Add back: Investments in Prudential insurance policies 165 227 Provision after elimination of investments in Prudential insurance policies and matching policyholder liability from Group statement of financial position 229 447 Other provisions see below 300 282 Total provisions 529 729 Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 H:Otherinformation  Financial statements positionitems 343 Analysis of other provisions: 2011 m 2010 m I3 At 1 January 282 206 Charged to income statement: Additional provisions 144 182 Unused amounts released 29 10 Used during the year 97 106 Exchange differences 10 At 31 December 300 282 Comprising: Legal provisions 14 20 Restructuring provisions 23 26 Other provisions 263 236 Total 300 282 Of the other provisions balance of 300 million 2010: 282 million, 159 million 2010 141 million is expected to be settled within one year.
Employer contributions expected to be paid into defined benefit pension schemes within one year are shown in note I3.
Legal provisions The movement in legal provisions is summarised in the table below: Jackson Other Total m m m At 1 January 2010 11 4 15 Charged to income statement: Additional provisions 9 9 Used during the year 1 3 4 Total at 31 December 2010 19 1 20 Charged to income statement: Used during the year 6 6 Total at 31 December 2011 13 1 14 Jackson has been named in civil proceedings, which appear to be substantially similar to other class action litigation brought against many life insurers in the US, alleging misconduct in the sale of insurance products.
The provision has been established to cover potential litigation and is expected to be utilised over the next five years.
344 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements H:  continued H14: Restructuring provisions These primarily relate to restructuring activities of UK insurance operations.
The provisions pertain to property liabilities resulting from the closure of regional sales centres and branches, staff terminations and other transformation costs to enable streamlining of operations.
The movement is summarised in the table below: 2011 m 2010 m At 1 January 26 17 Charge to income statement: Additional provisions 5 14 Unused amounts released 5 2 Used during the year 3 3 Total at 31 December 23 26 The provision balance is expected to be paid out within the next five years.
Other provisions The movement in other provisions is shown in the table below: Onerous Regulatory Staff Benefits contracts and other Total m m m m At 1 January 2010 143 27 4 174 Charge to income statement: Additional provisions 148 10 4 162 Unused amounts released 6 6 Used during the year 92 8 100 Exchange differences 7 1 6 Total at 31 December 2010 200 28 8 236 Charge to income statement: Additional provisions 120 19 139 Unused amounts released 15 6 3 24 Used during the year 88 88 Total at 31 December 2011 217 41 5 263 Benefits will generally be paid out within the next three years.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 H:Otherinformation  Financial statements positionitems 345 Contingencies and related obligations In addition to the legal proceedings relating to Jackson mentioned under the legal provisions section above, the Group is involved in other litigation and regulatory issues.
Whilst the outcome of such litigation and regulatory issues cannot be predicted with certainty, the Company believes that their ultimate outcome will not have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
Pension mis-selling review The pensions review by the UK insurance regulator of past sales of personal pension policies required all UK life insurance companies to review their cases of potential mis-selling and record a provision for the estimated costs.
The Group met the requirement of the FSA to issue offers to all cases by 30 June 2002.
The table below summarises the change in the pension mis-selling provision for the years ended 31 December 2011 and 2010.
The change in the provision is included in benefits and claims in the income statement and the movement in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds has been determined accordingly.
2011 m 2010 m At 1 January 314 322 Changes to actuarial assumptions and method of calculation 97 37 Discount unwind 1 2 Redress to policyholders 49 46 Payment of administrative costs 1 1 At 31 December 362 314 The pension mis-selling provision is included within the liabilities in respect of investment contracts with discretionary participation features under IFRS 4.
The pension mis-selling provision at 31 December 2011 set out above of 362 million is stochastically determined on a discounted basis.
The average discount rate implied in the movement in the year is 2.6 per cent.
The undiscounted amounts at 31 December 2011 expected to be paid in each of the years ending 31 December are as follows: 2011 m Year ended 31 December 2012 60 2013 15 2014 13 2015 10 2016 13 Thereafter 370 Total undiscounted amount 481 Aggregate discount 119 Discounted pension mis-selling provision at 31 December 2011 362 The directors believe that, based on current information, the provision, together with future investment return on the assets backing the provision, will be adequate to cover the costs of pension mis-selling including administration costs.
Such provision represents the best estimate of probable costs and expenses.
However, there can be no assurance that the current provision level will not need to be increased.
The costs associated with the pension mis-selling review have been met from the inherited estate see below.
Accordingly, these costs have not been charged to the asset shares used in the determination of policyholder bonus rates.
Hence policyholders payout values have been unaffected by pension mis-selling.
In 1998, Prudential stated that deducting mis-selling costs from the inherited estate would not impact its bonus or investment policy and it gave an assurance that if this unlikely event were to occur, it would make available support to the fund from shareholder resources for as long as the situation continued, so as to ensure that policyholders were not disadvantaged.
The assurance was designed to protect both existing policyholders at the date it was announced, and policyholders who subsequently purchased policies while the pension mis-selling review was continuing.
346 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements H:  continued H14: This review was completed on 30 June 2002.
The assurance will continue to apply to any policy in force at 31 December 2003, both for premiums paid before 1 January 2004, and for subsequent regular premiums including future fixed, RPI or salary related increases and Department of Work and Pensions rebate business.
The assurance has not applied to new business since 1 January 2004.
New business in this context consists of new policies, new members to existing pension schemes plus regular and single premium top-ups, transfers and switches to existing arrangements.
The maximum amount of capital support available under the terms of the assurance will reduce over time.
The bonus and investment policy for each type of with-profits policy is the same irrespective of whether or not the assurance applies and this is expected to continue for the foreseeable future.
Hence removal of the assurance for new business has had no impact on policyholder returns.
Mortgage endowment products review In common with several other UK insurance companies, the Group used to sell low-cost endowment products related to repayment of residential mortgages.
At sale, the initial sum assured is set at a level such that the projected benefits, including an estimate of the annual bonus receivable over the life of the policy, will equal or exceed the mortgage debt.
Because of a decrease in expected future investment returns since these products were sold, the FSA is concerned that the maturity value of some of these products will be less than the mortgage debt.
The FSA has worked with insurance companies to devise a programme whereby the companies write to customers indicating whether they may have a possible shortfall and outline the actions that the customers can take to prevent this possibility.
The Group is exposed to mortgage endowment products in respect of policies issued by Scottish Amicable Life plc SAL and the Scottish Amicable Life Assurance Society SALAS which were transferred into SAIF.
At 31 December 2011, provisions of 2 million 2010: 2 million in respect of the SAL policies and 15 million 2010: 20 million in SAIF were held within policyholder liabilities to cover potential compensation in respect of mortgage endowment product mis-selling claims.
As SAIF is a separate sub-fund of the Prudential Assurance long-term business fund, wholly attributable to the policyholders of the fund, this provision has no impact on shareholders.
In addition, in the year ended 31 December 2010 Prudential Assurances main with-profits fund paid compensation of 1 million 2010: 2 million in respect of mortgage endowment products mis-selling claims and at 31 December 2011 held a provision of 26 million 2010: 32 million in respect of further compensation.
The movement in this provision has no impact on the Groups profit before tax.
In May 2006, the Group introduced a deadline for both Prudential and Scottish Amicable mortgage endowment complaints.
Impacted customers have three years to lodge a mis-selling complaint in line with the time limit prescribed by the FSA and the ABI.
Guaranteed annuities Prudential Assurance used to sell guaranteed annuity products in the UK and at 31 December 2011 held a provision of 90 million 2010: 24 million within the main with-profits fund within policyholder liabilities to honour guarantees on these products.
The Groups main exposure to guaranteed annuities in the UK is through SAIF and at 31 December 2011 a provision of 370 million 2010: 336 million was held in SAIF to honour the guarantees.
As SAIF is a separate sub-fund of the Prudential Assurance long-term business fund, wholly attributable to the policyholders of the fund, the movement in this provision has no impact on shareholders.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 H:Otherinformation  Financial statements positionitems 347 Other matters Inherited estate of the PAC long-term fund The assets of the with-profits sub-fund WPSF within the long-term insurance fund of The Prudential Assurance Company Limited PAC comprise the amounts that it expects to pay out to meet its obligations to existing policyholders and an additional amount used as working capital.
The amount payable over time to policyholders from the WPSF is equal to the policyholders accumulated asset shares plus any additional payments that may be required by way of smoothing or to meet guarantees.
The balance of the assets of the WPSF is called the inherited estate and has accumulated over many years from various sources.
The inherited estate, as working capital, enables PAC to support with-profits business by providing the benefits associated with smoothing and guarantees, by providing investment flexibility for the funds assets, by meeting the regulatory capital requirements that demonstrate solvency and by absorbing the costs of certain significant events or fundamental changes in its long-term business without affecting the bonus and investment policies.
The size of the inherited estate fluctuates from year to year depending on the investment return and the extent to which it has been required to meet smoothing costs, guarantees and other events.
Support for long-term business funds by shareholders funds As a proprietary insurance company, PAC is liable to meet its obligations to policyholders even if the assets of the long-term funds are insufficient to do so.
The assets, represented by the unallocated surplus of with-profits funds, in excess of amounts expected to be paid for future terminal bonuses and related shareholder transfers the excess assets in the long-term funds could be materially depleted over time by, for example, a significant or sustained equity market downturn, costs of significant fundamental strategic change or a material increase in the pension mis-selling provision.
In the unlikely circumstance that the depletion of the excess assets within the long-term fund was such that the Groups ability to satisfy policyholders reasonable expectations was adversely affected, it might become necessary to restrict the annual distribution to shareholders or to contribute shareholders funds to the long-term funds to provide financial support.
In 1997, the business of SALAS, a mutual society, was transferred to PAC.
In effecting the transfer, a separate sub-fund, SAIF, was established within PACs long-term business fund.
This sub-fund contains all the with-profits business and all other pension business that was transferred.
No new business has been or will be written in the sub-fund and the sub-fund is managed to ensure that all the invested assets are distributed to SAIF policyholders over the lifetime of SAIF policies.
With the exception of certain amounts in respect of the unitised with-profits life business, all future earnings arising in SAIF are retained for SAIF policyholders.
Any excess deficiency of revenue over expense within SAIF during a period is attributable to the policyholders of the fund.
Shareholders have no interest in the profits of SAIF but are entitled to the asset management fees paid on this business.
With the exception of certain guaranteed annuity products mentioned earlier in this note, and certain products which include a minimum guaranteed rate of accumulation, the majority of SAIF with-profits policies do not guarantee minimum rates of return to policyholders.
Should the assets of SAIF be inadequate to meet the guaranteed benefit obligations to the policyholders of SAIF, the PAC long-term fund would be liable to cover any such deficiency.
Due to the quality and diversity of the assets in SAIF and the ability of SAIF to revise guaranteed benefits in the event of an asset shortfall, the directors believe that the probability of either the PAC long-term fund or the Groups shareholders funds having to contribute to SAIF is remote.
Unclaimed property provision Jackson has received industry-wide regulatory enquiries with respect to claims settlement practices and compliance with unclaimed property laws.
To date, only one state New York has requested a formal search for potential unreported claims.
Any regulatory audits, related examination activity and internal reviews may result in additional payments to beneficiaries, escheatment of funds ie reversion of funds to the state deemed abandoned under state laws, administrative penalties and changes in Jacksons procedures for the identification of unreported claims and handling of escheatable property.
Based on its current analysis, at 31 December 2011, Jackson accrued 16 million for these unreported claims.
Additionally, regulators and state legislators are considering proposals that would require life insurance companies to take additional steps to identify unreported deceased policy and contract holders.
Currently, there does not appear to be a consensus among state insurance regulators and state unclaimed property administrators regarding a life insurers obligations in connection with identifying unreported deaths of its policy and contract holders.
348 Financial statements | Notes on the Group financial statements H:  continued H14: Guarantees and commitments Guarantee funds in both the UK and the US provide for payments to be made to policyholders on behalf of insolvent life insurance companies.
These guarantee funds are financed by payments assessed on solvent insurance companies based on location, volume and types of business.
The Group estimated its reserve for future guarantee fund assessments for Jackson, included within other liabilities to be 17 million at 31 December 2011 2010: 16 million.
Similar assessments for the UK businesses were not significant.
The directors believe that the reserve is adequate for all anticipated payments for known insolvencies.
At 31 December 2011, Jackson has unfunded commitments of 341 million 2010: 363 million related to its investments in limited partnerships and of 77 million 2010: 88 million related to commercial mortgage loans.
These commitments were entered into in the normal course of business and the directors do not expect a material adverse impact on the operations to arise from them.
Jackson owns debt instruments issued by securitisation trusts managed by PPM America.
At 31 December 2011, the support provided by certain forbearance agreements Jackson entered into with the counterparty to certain of these trusts could potentially expose Jackson to maximum losses of 71 million 2010: 332 million, if circumstances allowed the forbearance period to cease.
Jackson believes that, so long as the forbearance period continues, the risk of loss under the agreements is remote.
The Group has provided other guarantees and commitments to third-parties entered into in the normal course of business but the Company does not consider that the amounts involved are significant.
H15:Otherliabilities 2011 m 2010 m Creditors arising from direct insurance and reinsurance operations 970 821 Interest payable 67 66 Other items 212 242 Total 1,249 1,129 Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements I:Othernotes 349 I:Othernotes I1: On 1 February 2010, the Group acquired from United Overseas Bank UOB its 100 per cent interest in UOB Life Assurance Limited in Singapore for total cash consideration, after post-completion adjustments of SGD67 million 32 million, of SGD495 million 220 million.
As part of the transaction the Group also entered into a long-term strategic partnership to develop a major regional bancassurance business with UOB.
In addition to the amounts above, the Group incurred 2 million of acquisition-related costs excluding integration costs.
These have been excluded from the consideration transferred and were recognised as an expense during 2010, in the consolidated income statement.
Goodwill arising on acquisition m Cash consideration 220 Less: fair value of identifiable net assets acquired 79 Goodwill arising on acquisition 141 Goodwill arose on the acquisition of UOB Life Assurance Limited in Singapore because the acquisition included revenue and cost synergies.
These synergies could not be recognised as assets separately from goodwill because they are not capable of being separated from the Group and sold, transferred, licensed, rented or exchanged, either individually or together with any related contracts, and did not arise from contractual or other legal rights.
None of the goodwill arising on this transaction is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition m Assets: Intangible assets attributable to shareholders: present value of acquired in-force business 12 Other non-investment and non-cash assets 16 Investments of long-term business and other operations 1,004 Cash and cash equivalents 89 Total assets 1,121 Liabilities: Policyholder liabilities 968 Other non-insurance liabilities 74 Total liabilities 1,042 Fair value of identifiable net assets acquired 79 Total assets include loans and receivables with a fair value of 15 million.
This value represents the gross contractual amount and all amounts have been collected.
The consolidated statement of cash flows contains a 133 million net cash outflow in respect of this acquisition representing cash consideration of 220 million, acquisition related costs paid of 2 million less cash and cash equivalents acquired of 89 million.
Impact of acquisition on the results of the Group Included in the Groups consolidated profit before tax for 2010 is 8 million attributable to UOB Life Assurance Limited in Singapore.
Consolidated revenue, including investment returns, for 2010 includes 125 million in respect of UOB Life Assurance Limited in Singapore.
Had the acquisition been effected at 1 January 2010, the revenue and profit of the Group from continuing operations for the year ended 31 December 2010 would not have been materially different.
350  I:Othernotes continued I2: 2010 On 1 August 2010, Discovery Holdings of South Africa, the Groups joint venture partner in its investment in PruHealth, completed the acquisition of the entire share capital of Standard Life Healthcare, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Standard Life Group, for 138 million.
Discovery funded the purchase of the Standard Life Healthcare transaction, and contributed Standard Life Healthcare to PruHealth as a capital investment on completion.
As a result of the transaction, Discovery increased their shareholding in PruHealth from the previous level of 50 per cent to 75 per cent, and Prudentials shareholding was reduced from 50 per cent of the previous joint venture structure to 25 per cent of the new structure with the much enlarged business.
As a result of this dilution in holding and the consequential loss of control, PruHealth was reclassified from a joint venture to an associate, and the entity was no longer proportionally consolidated from the date of the transaction.
In accordance with IAS 31 Interests in joint ventures, a gain of 30 million arose in 2010 upon the dilution, representing the difference between the fair value of the enlarged 25 per cent investment still held and the book value of the original 50 per cent investment holding.
I3:Staffandpensionplans a Staff and employment costs The average number of staff employed by the Group during the year was: 2011 2010 Business operations: Asian operations 17,001 17,988 US operations 3,785 3,545 UK operations 4,628 4,459 Total 25,414 25,992 The costs of employment were: 2011 m 2010 m Business operations: Wages and salaries 1,101 1,052 Social security costs 75 69 Other pension costs Defined benefit schemes Defined benefit schemes PSPS 22 27 Defined benefit schemes Other schemes 34 31 Defined contribution schemes Defined contribution schemes Domestic 12 11 Defined contribution schemes Overseas 29 26 Pension actuarial and other gains losses charged to income statement 37 26 8 121 Total 1,168 1,242 The derivation of these amounts is shown in note b i 7.
Consistent with the derecognition of the Companys interest in the underlying IAS 19 surplus of PSPS as described in note b i 1 below, the other pension costs for PSPS represents the cash cost of contributions for ongoing service of active members and the unwind of discount on the opening provision for deficit funding for PSPS.
b Pension plans i Defined benefit plans 1 Summary The Group business operations operate a number of pension schemes.
The specific features of these plans vary in accordance with the regulations of the country in which the employees are located, although they are, in general, funded by the Group and based either on a cash balance formula or on years of service and salary earned in the last year or years of employment.
The largest defined benefit scheme is the principal UK scheme, namely the PSPS: 86 per cent 2010: 86 per cent of the underlying scheme liabilities of the Group defined benefit schemes are accounted for within PSPS.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements I:Othernotes 351 The Group also operates two smaller defined benefit schemes for UK employees in respect of Scottish Amicable and M&G.
For all three schemes the projected unit method was used for the most recent full actuarial valuations.
There is also a small defined benefit scheme in Taiwan, but as part of the sale of the Taiwan agency business completed in June 2009, the Group settled the majority of the obligations under the scheme as a significant number of employees transferred out.
Defined benefit schemes in the UK are generally required to be subject to full actuarial valuation every three years in order to assess the appropriate level of funding for schemes in relation to their commitments.
These valuations include assessments of the likely rate of return on the assets held within the separate trustee administered funds.
The last completed actuarial valuation of PSPS was as at 5 April 2008 by C G Singer, Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries, of Towers Watson Limited previously Watson Wyatt Limited.
This valuation demonstrated the scheme to be 106 per cent funded by reference to the Scheme Solvency Target that forms the basis of the schemes statutory funding objective.
No formal deficit plan was required.
However, in recognition of the fall in value of the Schemes investments between 5 April 2008 and the completion of the actuarial valuation in 2009, an additional funding akin to deficit funding was agreed by the Trustees.
The total contributions being currently made by the Group into the scheme, representing the annual accrual cost and additional funding, are 50 million per annum.
Deficit funding for PSPS is apportioned in the ratio of 70 30 between the PAC with-profits fund and shareholder-backed operations following detailed consideration in 2005 of the sourcing of previous contributions.
Employer contributions for ongoing service of current employees are apportioned in the ratio relevant to current activity.
The current contributions will continue to be made until the next valuation as at 5 April 2011 is finalised later in 2012.
In 2011, total contributions paid in the year including expenses and augmentations were 54 million 2010: 55 million.
The market value of PSPS scheme assets as at the 5 April 2008 valuation was 4,759 million.
The actuarial assumptions used in determining benefit obligations and the net periodic benefit costs for the purposes of the 2008 valuation were as follows: Rate of increase in salaries Nil Rate of inflation 3.5% Rate of increase of pensions in payment for inflation: Guaranteed maximum 5% 3.5% Guaranteed maximum 2.5% 2.5% Discretionary Nil Expected returns on plan assets 4.55% Mortality assumptions The tables used for PSPS pensions in payment at 5 April 2008 were: Base post retirement mortality For current male female pensioners 108.6 per cent 103.4 per cent of the mortality rates of the 2000 series mortality tables, published by the Continuous Mortality Investigation Bureau.
For male female non-pensioners 113.4 per cent 97.4 per cent of the 2000 series rates.
Allowance for future improvements to post retirement mortality For males females 100 per cent 75 per cent of Medium Cohort subject to a minimum rate of improvement of 1.75 per cent 1 per cent up to the age of 90, decreasing linearly to zero by age of 120.
The last completed actuarial valuation of the Scottish Amicable Pension Scheme as at 31 March 2008 by Jonathan Seed, Fellow of the Faculty of Actuaries, of Xafinity Consulting, demonstrated the scheme to be 91 per cent funded.
Based on this valuation, deficit funding amounts designed to eliminate the actuarial deficit over a seven year period were made from July 2009 of 7.3 million per annum.
During 2010, the Group agreed to pay additional funding of 5.8 million per annum from October 2010 until the conclusion of the next formal valuation, or until the funding level reaches 90 per cent, whichever is the earlier.
The actuarial valuation as at 31 March 2011 will be finalised later in 2012.
The IAS 19 deficit of the Scottish Amicable Pension Scheme at 31 December 2011 of 55 million 2010: 146 million has been allocated approximately 50 per cent to the PAC with-profits fund and 50 per cent to the shareholders fund.
The last completed actuarial valuation of the M&G pension scheme as at 31 December 2008 by Paul Belok, Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries, of AON Hewitt Limited previously AON Consulting Limited, was finalised in January 2010, and demonstrated the scheme to be 76 per cent funded.
Based on this valuation, deficit funding amounts designed to eliminate the actuarial deficit over a five year period have been made from January 2010 of 14.1 million per annum for the first two years and 9.3 million per annum for the subsequent three years.
During 2011, the Group agreed to pay an additional funding of 1.2 million per annum from January 2012, until the conclusion of the next formal valuation as at 31 December 2011, which is currently in progress.
The IAS 19 surplus of the M&G pension scheme on an economic basis at 31 December 2011 was 10 million 2010: deficit of 27 million.
As described above, as at 31 December 2011, the M&G pension scheme has invested 165 million in Prudential policies 2010: 227 million.
After excluding these investments that are offset against liabilities to policyholders, the IAS 19 basis position of the scheme is a deficit of 155 million 2010: 254 million.
352  I:Othernotes continued I3: Under the IAS 19 valuation basis, the Group applies IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction Under IFRIC 14, for PSPS, where the Group does not have unconditional right of refund to any surplus in the scheme, the surplus is not recognised.
Additionally, the Group has to recognise a liability for committed deficit funding obligation to PSPS.
Accordingly, at 31 December 2011, the Group has not recognised the underlying PSPS surplus of 1,588 million gross of deferred tax 2010: 485 million and has recognised a liability for deficit funding to 30 June 2012 for PSPS of 19 million, gross of deferred tax 2010: 47 million.
The asset and liabilities of PSPS are unaffected by the impact of the application of IFRIC 14.
PSPS is managed on an economic basis for the longer-term benefit of its current and deferred pensioners and active members.
The surplus in PSPS is available to absorb future adverse asset value movements and, if required, strengthening in mortality assumptions.
As at 31 December 2011, after the effect of the application of IFRIC 14, the shareholders share of the pension liability for PSPS deficit funding obligation and the deficits of the defined benefit pension schemes amounted to a 17 million liability net of related tax relief 2010: 83 million.
These amounts are determined after including amounts invested by the M&G scheme in Prudential policies as explained later in this note.
On the economic basis including investments of the M&G scheme in Prudential policies as assets, for 2011, a 18 million pre-tax shareholder credit 2010: 27 million charge to operating results based on longer-term returns arises.
The 18 million credit in 2011 included a 42 million credit for the RPI to CPI inflation measure change as described later.
In addition, outside the operating result but included in total profits is a pre-tax shareholder gain of 21 million 2010: 10 million loss for shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses.
In addition, also on the economic basis, the PAC with-profits sub-fund was credited 9 million 2010: charge of 18 million for its share of the pension credit charge of PSPS and Scottish Amicable, and credited with 15 million 2010: charge of 5 million for its share of net actuarial and other losses on the scheme assets and liabilities.
The 9 million credit in 2011 included a 24 million credit for the PAC with-profit funds share of accounting benefit from the RPI to CPI inflation-measure charge as described later.
As shareholder profits for the PAC with-profits sub-fund reflects the surplus for distribution, these amounts are effectively absorbed by an increased credit in the income statement for the transfer to the liability for unallocated surplus.
At 31 December 2011, after the effect of the application of IFRIC 14, the total share of the liability for deficit funding on PSPS and the deficit on the smaller Scottish Amicable Scheme attributable to the PAC with-profits fund amounted to a liability of 38 million 2010: 99 million net of related tax relief.
2 Corporate governance The rules of the Groups largest pension arrangement, the defined benefit section of PSPS, a final salary scheme, specify that, in exercising its investment powers, the Trustees objective is to achieve the best overall investment return consistent with the security of the assets of the scheme.
In doing this, consideration is given to the nature and duration of the schemes liabilities.
The Trustee sets the benchmark for the asset mix, following analysis of the liabilities by the Schemes Actuary and, having taken advice from the Investment Managers, then selects benchmark indices for each asset type in order to measure investment performance against a benchmark return.
The Trustee reviews strategy, the asset mix benchmark and the Investment Managers objectives every three years, to coincide with the Actuarial Valuation, or earlier if the Scheme Actuary recommends.
Interim reviews are conducted annually based on changing economic circumstances and financial market levels.
The Trustee sets the general investment policy and specifies any restrictions on types of investment and the degrees of divergence permitted from the benchmark, but delegates the responsibility for selection and realisation of specific investments to the Investment Managers.
In carrying out this responsibility, the Investment Managers are required by the Pensions Act 1995 to have regard to the need for diversification and suitability of investments.
Subject to a number of restrictions contained within the relevant asset management agreements, the Investment Managers are authorised to invest in any class of investment asset.
However, the Investment Managers will not invest in any new class of investment asset without prior consultation with the Trustee.
The Trustee consults the Principal Employer, the Prudential Assurance Company, on these investment principles, but the ultimate responsibility for the investment of the assets of the scheme lies with the Trustee.
The investment policies and strategies for the other two UK defined benefit schemes, the M&G Group Pension Scheme and the Scottish Amicable Staff Pension Scheme, which are both final salary schemes, follow similar principles, but have different target allocations reflecting the particular requirements of the schemes.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements I:Othernotes 353 3 Assumptions The actuarial assumptions used in determining benefit obligations and the net periodic benefit costs for the years ended 31 December were as follows: 2011 % 2010 % Discount rate 4.7 5.45 Rate of increase in salaries 2.9 5.55 Rate of inflation: Retail price index RPI 2.9 3.55 Consumer price index CPI 1.9 n a Rate of increase of pensions in payment for inflation: Guaranteed maximum 5% 2.5 3.55 Guaranteed maximum 2.5% 2.5 2.5 Discretionary 2.5 2.5 Expected returns on plan assets 5.1 5.9 The discount rate has been determined by reference to an AA corporate bond index adjusted, where applicable, to allow for the difference in duration between the index and the pension liabilities.
The rate of inflation for the year ended 31 December 2011 reflects the long-term assumption for the UK RPI or CPI, depending on the tranche of the schemes.
For prior periods it reflects the long-term assumption for the UK RPI.
The rates of 2.5 per cent are those for PSPS.
Assumed rates of increase of pensions in payments for inflation for all other schemes are 2.9 per cent in 2011 2010: 3.55 per cent.
The calculations are based on current actuarially calculated mortality estimates with a specific allowance made for future improvements in mortality.
The specific allowance for 2011 and 2010 is in line with a custom calibration of the 2009 mortality model from the CMI bureau of the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries.
The tables used for PSPS immediate annuities in payment at 31 December 2011 and 2010 were: Male: 108.6 per cent PNMA00 with improvements in line with a custom calibration of the CMIs 2009 mortality model, with a long-term mortality improvement rate of 1.75 per cent per annum: and Female: 103.4 per cent PNFA00 with improvements in line with a custom calibration of the CMIs 2009 mortality model, with a long-term mortality improvement rate of 1.00 per cent per annum.
The assumed life expectancies on retirement at age 60, based on the mortality table used were: 2011 years 2010 years Male Female Male Female Retiring today 27.8 29.0 27.7 29.0 Retiring in 20 years time 30.5 31.1 30.3 31.1 The mean term of the current PSPS liabilities is around 17 years.
Using external actuarial advice provided by the scheme actuaries, being Towers Watson for the valuation of PSPS, Xafinity Consulting for the Scottish Amicable scheme and Aon Hewitt Limited for the M&G scheme, the most recent full valuations have been updated to 31 December 2011, applying the principles prescribed by IAS 19.
In July 2010, the UK government announced plans to use the CPI in place of the RPI in its determination of the statutory minimum pension increases for private sector occupational pension schemes.
In December 2010, the government published the statutory revaluation order for 2011 which confirms the change to use CPI.
Further, in December 2010, the government consulted on the impact of the switch from RPI to CPI on the private sector occupational pension schemes.
In its response following the consultation published in June 2011, the government confirmed that it would not introduce legislation to override scheme rules that provide for pension increases revaluation on a basis that is higher than the statutory minimum.
For the Groups UK defined benefit schemes, the pensions in deferment and or pensions in payment for certain tranches of these schemes are subject to statutory increases in accordance with the schemes rules and were therefore affected by the governments decision to change the indexation from RPI to CPI.
Other tranches, where RPI is specified in the scheme rules, were unaffected.
During 2011, the pension schemes communicated to their members the changes in basis from RPI to CPI in light of the government announcement.
The impact of this change in 2011 was an accounting benefit of 42 million to the Groups operating profit based on longer-term investment returns and profit attributable to shareholders before tax and 31 million to shareholders equity.
There was no impact on the results for the year ended 31 December 2010.
354  I:Othernotes continued I3: 4 Summary financial position The Group liability in respect of defined benefit pension schemes is as follows: 2011 m 2010 m Economic position: Deficit, gross of deferred tax, based on scheme assets held, including investments in Prudential insurance policies: Attributable to the PAC with-profits fund ie absorbed by the liability for unallocated surplus 41 106 Attributable to shareholder-backed operations ie shareholders equity 23 114 Economic deficit 64 220 Exclude: investments in Prudential insurance liabilities offset on consolidation in the Group financial statements against insurance liabilities 165 227 Deficit under IAS 19 included in Provisions in the statement of financial position as explained in note 7 below 229 447 The following disclosures explain the economic position and IAS 19 basis of accounting after eliminating investment in Prudential insurance policies on consolidation.
5 Group economic financial position The following tables illustrate the movement on the financial position of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes on an economic basis.
The underlying position on an economic basis reflects the assets including investments in Prudential policies that are offset against liabilities to policyholders on the Group consolidation and the liabilities of the schemes.
At 31 December 2011, the investments in Prudential policies comprise 112 million 2010: 118 million for PSPS and 165 million 2010: 227 million for the M&G scheme.
Separately, the economic financial position also includes the effect of the application of IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
For PSPS, where there are constraints in the trust deed to prevent the company access, the surplus is not recognised and a liability to additional funding is established as previously described.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements I:Othernotes 355 Estimated pension scheme deficit economic basis Movements on the pension scheme deficit determined on the economic basis are as follows, with the effect of the application of IFRIC 14 being shown separately: 2011 m Charge credit to income statement Operating results Surplus based on Actuarial Surplus deficit in longer-term and deficit in scheme at investment other gains Contributions scheme at 1 January 2011 returns and losses paid 31 Dec 2011 note a note b note c All schemes Underlying position without the effect of IFRIC 14 Surplus 312 256 882 93 1,543 Less: amount attributable to PAC with-profits fund 264 171 607 41 1,083 Shareholders share: Gross of tax surplus 48 85 275 52 460 Related tax 13 22 68 14 117 Net of shareholders tax 35 63 207 38 343 Effect of IFRIC 14 Derecognition of surplus and set-up of additional funding obligation 532 229 846 1,607 Less: amount attributable to PAC with-profits fund 370 162 592 1,124 Shareholders share: Gross of tax deficit 162 67 254 483 Related tax 44 16 63 123 Net of shareholders tax 118 51 191 360 With the effect of IFRIC 14 Deficit surplus 220 27 36 93 64 Less: amount attributable to PAC with-profits fund 106 9 15 41 41 Shareholders share: Gross of tax deficit surplus 114 18 21 52 23 Related tax 31 6 5 14 6 Net of shareholders tax 83 12 16 38 17 356  I:Othernotes continued I3: 2010 m Charge credit to income statement Operating results Surplus based on Actuarial Surplus deficit in longer-term and deficit in scheme at investment other gains Contributions scheme at 1 January 2010 returns and losses paid 31 Dec 2010 note a note b note c All schemes Underlying position without the effect of IFRIC 14 Surplus deficit 338 7 109 90 312 Less: amount attributable to PAC with-profits fund 285 11 71 39 264 Shareholders share: Gross of tax surplus deficit 53 18 38 51 48 Related tax 15 5 11 14 13 Net of shareholders tax 38 13 27 37 35 Effect of IFRIC 14 Derecognition of surplus and set-up of additional funding obligation 588 38 94 532 Less: amount attributable to PAC with-profits fund 407 29 66 370 Shareholders share: Gross of tax surplus deficit 181 9 28 162 Related tax 51 2 9 44 Net of shareholders tax 130 7 19 118 With the effect of IFRIC 14 Surplus deficit 250 45 15 90 220 Less: amount attributable to PAC with-profits fund 122 18 5 39 106 Shareholders share: Gross of tax surplus deficit 128 27 10 51 114 Related tax 36 7 2 14 31 Net of shareholders tax 92 20 8 37 83 Notes a The components of the credit charge to operating results comprising amounts attributable to the PAC with-profits fund and shareholder-backed operations are as follows: 2011 m 2010 m Current service cost 35 38 note i Negative past service cost RPI to CPI inflation measure change 282 Finance expense income: Interest on pension scheme liabilities 299 294 Expected return on assets 308 325 Total credit charge without the effect of IFRIC 14 256 7 Effect of IFRIC 14 for pension schemes 229 38 Total credit charge after the effect of IFRIC 14 as shown above, reflected in the Groups operating profit based note ii on longer-term investment returns 27 45 Notes i RPI to CPI inflation measure change The 282 million credit shown above comprises 216 million for PSPS and 66 million for other schemes.
As noted earlier, the PSPS scheme surplus is not recognised for accounting purposes due to the application of IFRIC 14.
The 66 million for other schemes as shown in the table below is allocated as 24 million to PAC with-profits fund and 42 million to shareholders referred to in note B1.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements I:Othernotes 357 ii The net credit charge to operating profit comprising amounts attributable to the PAC with-profits fund and shareholder-backed operations of 27 million 2010: 45 million is made up of the following: 2011 m 2010 m Underlying IAS 19 charge for other pension schemes 17 18 Cash costs for PSPS 20 23 Unwind of discount on opening provision for deficit funding for PSPS 2 4 Negative past service cost RPI to CPI inflation measure change note i to table above 66 27 45 Consistent with the derecognition of the Companys interest in the underlying IAS 19 surplus of PSPS, the charge to operating profit based on longer-term investment returns for PSPS reflects the cash cost of contributions for ongoing service of active members.
In addition, the charge to the operating results also includes a charge for the unwind of discount on the opening provision for deficit funding for PSPS.
b The components of the credit charge for actuarial and other gains and losses comprising amounts attributable to the PAC with-profits fund and shareholder-backed operations are as follows: 2011 m 2010 m Actual less expected return on assets 982 306 Losses on changes of assumptions for plan liabilities 414 411 Experience gains losses on liabilities 314 4 Total credit charge without the effect of IFRIC 14 882 109 Effect of IFRIC 14 for pension schemes 846 94 Actuarial and other gains and losses after the effect of IFRIC 14 36 15 The net charge for actuarial and other gains and losses is recorded within the income statement but, within the segmental analysis of profit, the shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses ie net of allocation of the share to the PAC with-profits funds is excluded from operating profit based on longer-term investment returns.
The 2011 actuarial gains of 882 million gross of allocation of share to the PAC with-profits funds and before the application of IFRIC 14 primarily reflects the effect of the excess of market returns over long-term assumptions and experience gains on liabilities which are partially offset by the effect of changes in economic assumptions.
Consistent with the derecognition of the Companys interest in the underlying IAS 19 surplus of PSPS, the actuarial gains and losses do not include those of PSPS.
In addition, as a result of applying IFRIC 14, the Group has recognised a provision for deficit funding in respect of PSPS.
The change in 2011 in relation to this provision was 4 million 2010: nil, and is recognised as other gains and losses within the 36 million of actuarial and other gains and losses shown above.
c On the economic basis, after including the underlying assets represented by the investments in Prudential insurance policies as scheme assets, the underlying statements of financial position of the schemes at 31 December were: 2011 2010 Other Other PSPS schemes Total PSPS schemes Total note iii note iii m m m % m m m % Equities 210 273 483 7 548 277 825 14 Bonds 5,547 407 5,954 83 3,864 339 4,203 70 Properties 297 20 317 4 199 29 228 4 note i Cash-like investments 378 31 409 6 740 8 748 12 Total value of assets 6,432 731 7,163 100 5,351 653 6,004 100 Present value of benefit obligations 4,844 776 5,620 4,866 826 5,692 1,588 45 1,543 485 173 312 Effect of the application of IFRIC 14 for pension schemes: Derecognition of PSPS surplus 1,588 1,588 485 485 Adjust for additional funding for PSPS 19 19 47 47 note ii Pre-tax deficit 19 45 64 47 173 220 Notes i The PSPS has entered into a derivatives-based strategy to match the duration and inflation profile of its liabilities.
This involved a reallocation from other investments to cash-like investments with an interest and inflation swap overlay.
In broad terms, the scheme is committed to making a series of payments related to LIBOR on a nominal amount and in return the scheme receives a series of fixed and inflation-linked payments that match a proportion of its liabilities.
As at 31 December 2011, the nominal value of the interest and inflation-linked swaps amounted to 0.9 billion 2010: 1.1 billion and 2.0 billion 2010: 1.8 billion respectively.
358  I:Othernotes continued I3: ii The resulting scheme deficits arising from the excess of liabilities over assets at 31 December 2011, after application of IFRIC 14 of 64 million 2010: 220 million, comprised a deficit of 41 million 2010: 106 million attributable to the PAC with-profits fund and deficit of 23 million 2010: 114 million attributable to shareholder operations.
iii In addition to PSPS, there are two smaller schemes in the UK, the Scottish Amicable Pension Scheme and the M&G Pension Scheme, with a combined deficit at 31 December 2011 of 45 million 2010: 173 million, gross of tax.
There is also a small scheme in Taiwan, with a negligible amount of deficit at 31 December 2011 and 2010.
The movements in the deficit on the economic basis between scheme assets and liabilities were: 2011 m 2010 m Current service cost 13 13 Negative past service cost RPI to CPI inflation measure change 66 Other finance income 4 5 Cash costs and unwind of discount on opening provision for deficit funding for PSPS 22 27 Contributions 93 90 Actuarial and other gains and losses 36 15 Net decrease in deficit 156 30 6 Movement in IAS 19 basis financial position The change in the present value of the benefit obligation and the change in fair value of the assets for the total of the PSPS, Scottish Amicable, M&G and Taiwan schemes, and the provision for deficit funding of PSPS over the period, were as follows: 2011 m PSPS Other schemes Total IAS 19 basis: IAS 19 basis: change in change in fair Investments Economic present Economic Provision value in Prudential basis: value basis: for deficit of plan insurance total of benefit net funding assets policies assets obligations obligations Fair value of plan assets, beginning of year 426 227 653 653 Present value of benefit obligation, beginning of year 826 826 Provision for deficit funding for PSPS 47 47 47 426 227 653 826 220 Service cost current charge only 13 13 Negative past service cost RPI to CPI inflation measure change 66 66 Interest cost 45 45 Expected return on plan assets 26 15 41 41 Employee contributions 1 1 1 Employer contributions 54 19 20 39 93 Actuarial gains losses 13 1 12 28 40 Benefit payments 10 5 15 15 Movement in the provision for deficit funding for PSPS 4 4 Transfer out of investment in Prudential insurance policies 92 92 Cash costs and unwind of discount on the opening provision for deficit funding for PSPS 22 22 Fair value of plan assets, end of year 566 165 731 731 Present value of benefit obligation, end of year 776 776 Provision for deficit funding of PSPS 19 19 Economic basis deficit 64 Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements I:Othernotes 359 2010 m PSPS Other schemes Total IAS 19 basis: IAS 19 basis: change in change in fair Investments Economic present Economic Provision value in Prudential basis: value basis: for deficit of plan insurance total of benefit net funding assets policies assets obligations obligations Fair value of plan assets, beginning of year 376 187 563 563 Present value of benefit obligation, beginning of year 738 738 Provision for deficit funding for PSPS 75 75 75 376 187 563 738 250 Service cost current charge only 13 13 Interest cost 43 43 Expected return on plan assets 25 13 38 38 Employee contributions 1 1 1 Employer contributions 55 15 20 35 90 Actuarial gains losses 20 11 31 46 15 Benefit payments 10 5 15 15 Cash costs and unwind of discount on the opening provision for deficit funding for PSPS 27 27 Fair value of plan assets, end of year 426 227 653 653 Present value of benefit obligation, end of year 826 826 Provision for deficit funding of PSPS 47 47 Economic basis deficit 220 7 IAS 19 basis financial position as consolidated The IAS 19 basis pensions deficit can be summarised as follows: 2011 m 2010 m 2009 m 2008 m 2007 m Fair value of plan assets, end of year excluding investments in Prudential policies 6,886 5,659 5,224 5,057 5,150 Present value of benefit obligation 5,620 5,438 4,951 4,493 4,826 Funded status wholly or partly funded 1,266 221 273 564 324 Present value of unfunded obligations on Group consolidated basis M&G scheme 254 223 180 189 1,266 33 50 384 135 Effect of the application of IFRIC 14 for pension schemes Derecognition of PSPS surplus 1,588 485 513 728 528 Set up obligation for deficit funding for PSPS 19 47 75 65 102 Adjustment in respect of investment of PSPS in Prudential policies 112 118 101 103 140 Deficit recognised in the statement of financial position 229 447 437 306 355 The M&G pension scheme invests in Prudential insurance policies.
On Prudential Group consolidation, these assets are eliminated against liabilities in the statement of financial position of UK Insurance Operations.
Up until 2011, all of the M&G scheme assets were invested in this way, thus giving rise to an unfunded status on a Prudential Group consolidated basis.
At 31 December 2011, only 165 million out of the M&G scheme assets of 257 million was invested in Prudential insurance policies, thereby switching its status to a partly funded scheme.
360  I:Othernotes continued I3: 2011 m 2010 m Components of net periodic pension cost Current service cost 35 38 Negative past service cost RPI to CPI inflation measure change 282 Interest cost 299 294 Expected return on assets economic basis 308 325 Less: expected return on investments of scheme assets in Prudential insurance policies 25 21 Expected return on assets IAS 19 basis 283 304 231 28 Effect of the application of IFRIC 14 219 30 Pension cost as referred to in note I3a 12 58 Actuarial gains and losses economic basis 882 109 Less: actuarial gains on investments of scheme assets in Prudential insurance policies 17 20 899 129 Effect of the application of IFRIC 14 862 103 Actuarial gains and losses IAS 19 basis as referred to in note I3a 37 26 Net periodic pension cost included within acquisition and other operating expenditure in the income statement 49 84 Consistent with the derecognition of the Companys interest in the underlying IAS 19 surplus of PSPS, the effect on the net periodic pension cost for PSPS was to replace the usual IAS 19 pension charges and credits with the cash cost of contribution for ongoing services of active members, and also not to report the actuarial gains and losses.
In determining the expected return on scheme assets for 2011, the 5.1 per cent 2010: 5.9 per cent rate shown below has been applied to the opening assets.
The long-term expected rate of return has been taken to be the weighted average by market value of the long-term expected rates of return on each major asset class shown below: 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 m % m % m % m % m % Scheme assets IAS 19 basis before effect of IFRIC 14 Equities 336 5 610 11 917 18 875 17 1,332 26 Bonds 5,826 85 4,095 72 3,587 69 2,619 52 1,299 25 Properties 317 4 206 4 278 5 290 6 583 11 Cash-like investments 407 6 748 13 442 8 1,273 25 1,936 38 Total 6,886 100 5,659 100 5,224 100 5,057 100 5,150 100 Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements I:Othernotes 361 Prospectively for2012 % 2011 % 2010 % Long-term expected rates of return Equities 6.8 8.2 8.5 Bonds 3.0 4.6 5.3 Properties 5.55 6.9 6.75 Cash-like investments 2.0 4.75 4.75 Weighted average long-term expected rate of return 3.1 5.1 5.9 The expected rates of return have been determined by reference to long-term expectations, the carrying value of the assets and equity, and other market conditions at the statement of financial position date.
The actual return on scheme assets was a gain of 1,290 million 2010: 631 million on an IAS 19 basis.
None of the scheme assets included shares in Prudential plc or property occupied by the Prudential Group.
2011 m 2010 m 2009 m 2008 m 2007 m Fair value of scheme assets, end of year IAS 19 basis 6,886 5,659 5,224 5,057 5,150 Present value of the benefit obligation, end of year 5,620 5,692 5,174 4,673 5,015 Underlying scheme assets in surplus deficit of benefit obligation, before the effect of IFRIC 14 1,266 33 50 384 135 Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities 314 4 76 145 14 Percentage of scheme liabilities at 31 December 5.59% 0.07% 1.47% 3.10% 0.28% Experience adjustments on scheme assets IAS 19 basis 998 287 100 277 7 Percentage of scheme assets at 31 December 14.49% 5.07% 1.91% 5.48% 0.14% The experience adjustments on scheme liabilities in 2011 of 314 million related mainly to the true up reflecting improvements in data consequent upon the ongoing 2011 triennial valuations of PSPS and the Scottish Amicable pension scheme.
The experience adjustments on scheme liabilities in 2008 of a gain of 145 million related mainly to the true up reflecting improvements in data consequent upon the 2008 triennial valuation of PSPS.
Total employer contributions expected to be paid into the Group defined benefit schemes for the year ending 31 December 2012 amounts to 89 million 2011: 94 million.
However, this is subject to a reassessment when the 2011 valuations of the schemes are completed.
8 Sensitivity of the pension scheme liabilities to key variables The total underlying Group pension scheme liabilities of 5,620 million 2010: 5,692 million comprise 4,844 million 2010: 4,866 million for PSPS and 776 million 2010: 826 million for the other schemes.
The table below shows the sensitivity of the underlying PSPS and the other scheme liabilities at 31 December 2011 and 2010 to changes in discount rates, inflation rates and mortality rates.
2011 Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities in IAS 19 basis Discount rate Decrease by 0.2% from 4.7% to 4.5% Increase in scheme liabilities by: PSPS 3.3% Other schemes 4.8% Discount rate Increase by 0.2% from 4.7% to 4.9% Decrease in scheme liabilities by: PSPS 3.1% Other schemes 4.5% Rate of inflation RPI: Decrease by 0.2% from 2.9% to 2.7% Decrease in scheme liabilities by: CPI: Decrease by 0.2% from 1.9% to 1.7% PSPS 0.6% with consequent reduction in salary increases Other schemes 4.1% Mortality rate Increase life expectancy by 1 year Increase in scheme liabilities by: PSPS 2.7% Other schemes 2.4% 362  I:Othernotes continued I3: 2010 Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities in IAS 19 basis Discount rate Decrease by 0.2% from 5.45% to 5.25% Increase in scheme liabilities by: PSPS 3.6% Other schemes 5.2% Discount rate Increase by 0.2% from 5.45% to 5.65% Decrease in scheme liabilities by: PSPS 3.5% Other schemes 4.8% Rate of inflation RPI: Decrease by 0.2% from 3.55% to 3.35% Decrease in scheme liabilities by: with consequent reduction in salary increases PSPS 1.0% Other schemes 4.9% Mortality rate Increase life expectancy by 1 year Increase in scheme liabilities by: PSPS 2.1% Other schemes 2.6% The sensitivity of the underlying pension scheme liabilities to changes in discount, inflation and mortality rates as shown above does not directly equate to the impact on the profit or loss attributable to shareholders or shareholders equity due to the effect of the application of IFRIC 14 on PSPS and the allocation of a share of the interest in financial position of the PSPS and Scottish Amicable schemes to the PAC with-profits fund as described above.
The sensitivity to the changes in the key variables as shown in the table above has no significant impact on the pension costs included in the Groups operating results.
This is due to the pension costs charged in each of the periods presented being derived largely from market conditions at the beginning of the period.
After applying IFRIC 14 and to the extent attributable to shareholders, any residual impact from the changes to these variables is reflected as actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes within the supplementary analysis of profits.
The relevance of this is described further below.
For PSPS, the underlying surplus of the scheme of 1,588 million 2010: 485 million has not been recognised under IFRIC 14.
Any change in the underlying scheme liabilities to the extent that it is not sufficient to alter PSPS into a liability in excess of the deficit funding provision will not have an impact on the Groups results and financial position.
Based on the underlying financial position of PSPS as at 31 December 2011, none of the changes to the underlying scheme liabilities for the changes in the variables shown in the table above have had an impact on the Groups 2011 results and financial position.
In the event that a change in the PSPS scheme liabilities results in a deficit position for the scheme which is recognisable, the deficit recognised affects the Groups results and financial position only to the extent of the amounts attributable to shareholder operations.
The amounts attributable to the PAC with-profits fund are absorbed by the liability for unallocated surplus and have no direct effect on the profit or loss attributable to shareholders or shareholders equity.
The deficit of the Scottish Amicable pension scheme has been allocated approximately 50 per cent to the PAC with-profits fund and 50 per cent to the shareholders.
Accordingly, half of the changes to its scheme liabilities, which at 31 December 2011 were 527 million 2010: 572 million, due to the changes in the variables shown in the table above would have had an impact on the Groups shareholder results and financial position.
9 Transfer value of PSPS scheme At 31 December 2011, it is estimated that the assets of the scheme are broadly sufficient to cover the liabilities of PSPS on a buyout basis, including an allowance for expenses.
The buyout basis refers to a basis that might apply in the circumstance of a transfer to another appropriate financial institution.
In making this assessment, it has been assumed that a more conservative investment strategy applies together with a more prudent allowance for future mortality improvements and no allowance for discretionary pension increases.
ii Other pension plans The Group operates various defined contribution pension schemes including schemes in Jackson and Asia.
The cost of the Groups contributions for continuing operations to these schemes in 2011 was 40 million 2010: 37 million.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements I:Othernotes 363 I4:Share-basedpayments The Group maintains 10 main share award and share option plans relating to Prudential plc shares, which are described below.
The Group Performance Share Plan GPSP is the incentive plan in which all executive directors and other senior executives within the Group can participate.
This scheme was established as a replacement for the Restricted Share Plan RSP under which no further awards could be made after March 2006.
Awards are granted either in the form of a nil cost option, conditional right over shares, or such other form that shall confer to the participant an equivalent economic benefit, with a vesting period of three years.
The performance measure for the awards is that Prudentials Total Shareholder Return TSR outperforms an index comprising of peer companies.
Vesting of the awards between each performance point is on a straight-line sliding-scale basis.
Participants are entitled to the value of reinvested dividends that would have accrued on the shares that vest.
Beginning in 2010, newly issued shares have been used in settling the awards that vest and are released.
The RSP was, until March 2006, the Groups long-term incentive plan for executive directors and other senior executives designed to provide rewards linked to shareholder return.
Each year participants were granted a conditional option to receive a number of shares.
There was a deferment period of three years, at the end of which the award vested to an extent that depended on the performance of the Groups shares including notional reinvested dividends and on the Groups underlying financial performance.
After vesting, the option may be exercised at zero cost at any time, subject to closed period rules, in the balance of a 10-year period.
Shares are purchased in the open market by a trust for the benefit of qualifying employees.
The Business Unit Performance Plan BUPP is an incentive plan created to provide a common framework under which awards would be made to senior employees in the UK, Jackson and Asia, including the chief executive officers.
Awards under this plan were based on growth in shareholder capital value on the European Embedded Value EEV basis with performance measured over three years.
Upon vesting of awards made up to 2008, half of the awards were released as shares and the other half released in cash.
Since the year ended 31 December 2009, all awards made will be settled in shares after vesting.
Participants are entitled to receive the value of reinvested dividends over the performance period for those shares that vest.
The growth parameters for the awards are relevant to each region, and vesting of the awards between each performance point is on a straight-line sliding-scale basis.
Beginning in 2010, newly issued shares will be used in settling the awards that vest and are released.
During 2009, the Remuneration Committee decided that future BUPP awards for the UK business unit would be based on the same relative TSR measure applied to GPSP awards.
As a result, awards made under the UK BUPP reflect those TSR conditions applied to GPSP awards.
In 2011, the Remuneration Committee decided to cancel two-thirds of the number of shares comprising the 2008 share awards and one-third of the 2009 share awards to most UK BUPP participants with the vesting of the remaining one-third and two-thirds, respectively, of awards then being dependent on the achievement of the TSR condition.
The change in awards was not applicable to executive directors.
Upon the cancellation, Prudential recognised as expense the full amount of the one-third and two-thirds awards that would have been accrued for the remainder of the respective vesting periods in accordance with IFRS 2, Share-based Payment.
The Group maintains four share option schemes satisfied by the issue of new shares.
UK-based executive directors and eligible employees are eligible to participate in the Prudential HM Revenue & Customs HMRCapproved UK Savings Related Share Option Scheme SAYE scheme and the Asia-based executive directors and eligible employees can participate in the equivalent International SAYE scheme.
Dublin-based employees are eligible to participate in the Prudential International Assurance Sharesave Plan, and Hong Kong-based agents can participate in the Non-employee Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
The schemes allow participants to save towards the exercise of options over Prudential plc shares, at an option price set at the beginning of the savings period as determined by reference to the average market price of the ordinary shares on the three business days immediately preceding the invitation, at a discount of 20 per cent.
Participants may save up to 250 per month for three or five years.
On maturity at the end of the set term, participants may exercise their options within six months of the end of the savings period and purchase Prudential plc shares.
If an option is not exercised within six months, participants are entitled to a refund of their cash contributions plus interest if applicable under the rules.
The exercise period of the options granted may be advanced to an earlier date in certain circumstances, for example on retirement, and may be extended in certain circumstances, for example on the death of the participant the personal representative may exercise the options beyond the normal exercise period.
Shares are issued to satisfy options that are exercised.
No options may be granted under the schemes if the grant would cause the number of shares which have been issued, or which remain issuable pursuant to options granted in the preceding 10 years under the scheme and other share option schemes operated by the Company, or which have been issued under any other share incentive scheme of the Company, to exceed 10 per cent of the Companys ordinary share capital at the proposed date of grant.
UK-based executive directors and employees are also eligible to participate in the Companys HMRC-approved Share Incentive Plan, which allows all UK-based employees to purchase shares of Prudential plc partnership shares on a monthly basis out of gross salary.
For every four partnership shares bought, an additional matching share is awarded, purchased on the open market.
Dividend shares accumulate while the employee participates in the plan.
Partnership shares may be withdrawn from the scheme at any time.
If the employee withdraws from the plan within five years, the matching shares are forfeit, and if within three years, dividend shares are forfeit.
Jackson operates a performance-related share award which, subject to the prior approval of the Jackson Remuneration Committee, may grant share awards to eligible Jackson employees in the form of a contingent right to receive shares or a conditional allocation of shares.
These share awards have vesting periods of four years and are at nil cost to the employee.
Award holders do not have any right to dividends or voting rights attaching to the shares.
The shares are held in the employee share trust in the form of American Depository Receipts which are tradable on the New York Stock Exchange.
364  I:Othernotes continued I4: The Prudential Corporation Asia Long-Term Incentive Plan PCA LTIP is an incentive plan created in 2008 for senior employees and chief executive officers.
Awards under the PCA LTIP will vest after three years subject to the employee being in employment at the time of vesting without any performance conditions.
Awards will be discretionary and on a year-by-year basis determined by Prudentials full year financial results and the employees contribution to the business.
All awards will be in Prudential shares except for countries where share awards are not feasible due to securities and or tax reasons, where awards will be replaced by the cash value of the shares that would otherwise have been transferred.
Certain senior executives have annual incentive plans with awards paid in cash up to the target level of their plan.
The portion of any award for above-target performance is made in the form of awards of shares deferred for three years, with the release of shares subject to close periods.
The shares are held in the employee share trust and shares equivalent to dividends otherwise payable will accumulate for the benefit of award holders during the deferral period up to the release date.
In addition, there are other share awards, including the Prudential Corporation Asia Deferred Bonus Plan PCA DBP, Prudential Capital Deferred Bonus Plan PruCap DBP and other arrangements.
There are no performance conditions attaching to these deferred bonus plans, and awards vest in full subject to the individual being employed by Prudential at the end of the vesting period.
The other arrangements relate to various awards that have been made without performance conditions to individual employees, typically in order to secure their appointment or ensure retention.
2011 2010 Weighted Weighted average average Number exercise Number exercise of options price of options price Options outstanding under SAYE schemes millions millions Beginning of year: 12.8 3.4 12.2 3.2 Granted 2.1 4.66 2.2 4.61 Exercised 0.6 3.98 0.6 3.15 Forfeited 0.2 3.17 0.2 3.44 Cancelled 0.4 3.56 0.5 3.37 Lapsed 0.4 3.94 0.3 3.89 End of year 13.3 3.55 12.8 3.4 Options immediately exercisable, end of year 0.4 4.54 0.2 5.52 The weighted average share price of Prudential plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 was 6.86 compared to 5.68 for the year ended 31 December 2010.
Movements in share awards outstanding under the Groups share-based compensation plans relating to Prudential plc shares at 31 December 2011 and 2010 were as follows: 2011 2010 Number Number of awards of awards Awards outstanding under incentive plans including conditional options millions millions Beginning of year: 23.9 19.2 Granted 10.3 11.2 Exercised 4.2 4.7 Forfeited 0.1 1.2 Expired 3.2 0.6 End of year 26.7 23.9 Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements I:Othernotes 365 The following table provides a summary of the range of exercise prices for Prudential plc options outstanding at 31 December 2011.
Outstanding Exercisable Weighted average Weighted Weighted remaining average average Number contractual exercise Number exercise Outstanding life prices exercisable prices Range of exercise prices millions years millions Between 2 and 3 8.2 1.6 2.88 Between 3 and 4 0.8 3.73 3.43 Between 4 and 5 5.0 3.1 4.58 0.3 4.40 Between 5 and 6 0.1 0.9 5.58 0.1 5.53 13.3 2.2 3.55 0.4 4.54 The following table provides a summary of the range of exercise prices for Prudential plc options outstanding at 31 December 2010.
Outstanding Exercisable Weighted average Weighted Weighted remaining average average Number contractual exercise Number exercise Outstanding life prices exercisable prices Range of exercise prices millions years millions Between 2 and 3 9.0 2.6 2.88 Between 3 and 4 0.1 1.3 3.59 3.67 Between 4 and 5 3.3 3.3 4.51 4.07 Between 5 and 6 0.4 1.0 5.59 0.2 5.63 12.8 2.8 3.4 0.2 5.52 The years shown above for weighted average remaining contractual life include the time period from end of vesting period to expiration of contract.
The weighted average fair values of Prudential plc options and awards granted during the period are as follows: 2011 2010 Weighted average fair value Weighted average fair value SAYE SAYE GPSP Options Awards GPSP Options Awards 3.88 2.63 6.28 2.74 2.91 5.14 The fair value amounts relating to all options including conditional nil cost options above were determined using the Black-Scholes and the Monte Carlo option-pricing models using the following assumptions: 2011 2010 SAYE SAYE GPSP Options GPSP Options Dividend yield % 3.33 3.33 3.43 3.43 Expected volatility % 28.90 62.67 42.69 64.65 Risk-free interest rate % 1.32 0.89 1.70 1.07 Expected option life years 3.48 3.49 Weighted average exercise price 4.66 4.61 Weighted average share price 7.32 6.06 5.70 6.38 366  I:Othernotes continued I4: Compensation costs for all share-based compensation plans are determined using either the Black-Scholes model or the Monte Carlo model.
Share options and awards are valued using the share price at the date of grant.
The compensation costs for all awards and options are recognised in net income over the plans respective vesting periods.
The Group uses the Black-Scholes model to value all options and awards other than the GPSP and UK BUPP, for which the Group uses a Monte Carlo model in order to allow for the impact of the TSR performance conditions.
These models are used to calculate fair values for share options and awards at the grant date based on the quoted market price of the stock at the measurement date, the amount, if any, that the employees are required to pay, the dividend yield, expected volatility, risk-free interest rates and exercise prices.
For SAYE options, the expected volatility is measured as the standard deviation of expected share price returns based on statistical analysis of daily share prices over a period up to the grant date equal to the expected life of options.
In recent years, this calculation has been influenced by the extreme market volatility experienced in 2008 2009.
Risk-free interest rates are UK gilt rates with projections for threeand five-year terms to match corresponding vesting periods.
Dividend yield is determined as the average yield over the year of grant.
For the GPSP, volatility and correlation between Prudential and an index constructed from a simple average of the TSR growth of 10 companies is required.
For grants in 2011, an average index volatility and correlation of 32 per cent and 78 per cent respectively, were used.
For the GPSP, market implied volatilities are used for both Prudential and the components of the index.
Changes to the subjective input assumptions could materially affect the fair value estimate.
When options are granted or awards made to employees, an estimate is made of what percentage is more than likely to vest, be forfeited, lapse or cancelled based on historical information.
Based on these estimates, compensation expense to be accrued at that date is calculated and amortised over the vesting period.
For early exercises of options or release of awards due to redundancy, death or resignation, the compensation expense is immediately recognised, and for forfeitures due to employees leaving the Group, any previously recognised expense is reversed.
However, if an employee loses their award because of the Groups failure to meet the performance criteria, previously recognised expense is not reversed.
During the year, the Group granted share options to certain non-employee independent financial advisors.
Those options were measured using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with assumptions consistent with those of other share options.
These transactions were measured using an option model because the Group does not receive a separate and measurable benefit from those non-employees in exchange for the options granted.
As such, the fair value of the options themselves is more readily determinable than the services received in return.
Total share-based payment expense Total expense recognised in the year in the consolidated financial statements related to share-based compensation is as follows: 2011 m 2010 m Share-based compensation expense 48 47 Amount accounted for as equity-settled 44 37 Carrying value at 31 December of liabilities arising from share-based payment transactions 15 17 Intrinsic value of above liabilities for which rights had vested at 31 December 6 6 I5: Key management constitutes the directors of Prudential plc as they have authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group.
Total key management remuneration can be broken down in the following table: 2011 2010 Salaries and short-term benefits 12,192,000 9,594,000 Post-employment benefits 1,189,000 926,000 Share-based payments 9,734,000 11,157,000 23,115,000 21,677,000 Post-employment benefits comprise the change in the transfer value of the accrued benefit relating to directors defined benefit pension schemes in the year and the total contributions made to directors other pension arrangements.
The share-based payments charge is the sum of 6,571,000 2010: 7,320,000, which is determined in accordance with IFRS 2, Share-Based Payments see note I4 and 3,163,000 2010: 3,837,000 of deferred share awards.
Total key management remuneration includes total directors emoluments of 16,212,000 2010: 14,225,000 as shown in the directors remuneration table and related footnotes in the directors remuneration report, and additional amounts in respect of pensions and share-based payments.
Further information on directors remuneration is given in the directors remuneration report.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements I:Othernotes 367 I6:Feespayabletoauditor 2011 m 2010 m Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 2.1 1.9 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: Audit of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 6.1 6.1 Audit-related assurance services 2.6 2.5 Tax compliance services 0.6 0.4 Other assurance services 0.5 0.6 Services relating to corporate finance transactions excluding the AIA transaction 0.5 0.1 All other services 0.3 0.4 Services relating to the AIA transaction 5.5 Total 12.7 17.5 In addition, there were fees incurred of 0.1 million 2010: 0.1 million for the audit of pension schemes.
The above audit fees for 2011 and 2010 reflect the new disclosure requirements of SI2011 2198 The Companies Disclosure of Auditor Remuneration and Liability Limitation Agreements Amendment Regulations 2011.
The fees for services relating to the AIA transaction in 2010 of 5.5 million were primarily comprised of the following services: accountants report on historical financial information on Prudential Group, consulting actuaries report on AIA EEV information, technical accounting advice, financial due diligence, working capital review, synergies review, and extraction comfort All services were specifically approved by the Prudential Group Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee regularly monitors the non-audit services provided to the Group by its auditor and has developed a formal Auditor Independence Policy, which sets out the types of services that the auditor may provide, consistent with the guidance in Sir Robert Smiths report Audit Committees Combined Code Guidance and with the provisions of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Audit Committee annually reviews the auditors objectivity and independence.
More information on these issues is given in the corporate governance report within this Annual Report.
I7: Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation.
In addition, the Company has transactions and outstanding balances with certain unit trusts, OEICs, collateralised debt obligations and similar entities which are not consolidated and where a Group company acts as manager.
These entities are regarded as related parties for the purposes of IAS 24.
The balances are included in the Groups statement of financial position sheet at fair value or amortised cost in accordance with their IAS 39 classifications.
The transactions are included in the income statement and include amounts paid on issue of shares or units, amounts received on cancellation of shares or units and paid in respect of the periodic charge and administration fee.
Further details of the aggregate assets, liabilities, revenues, profits or losses and reporting dates of entities considered to be associates under IFRS are disclosed in note H8.
Executive officers and directors of the Company may from time to time purchase insurance, asset management or annuity products marketed by Group companies in the ordinary course of business on substantially the same terms as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with other persons.
Apart from the transactions with directors referred to below, no director had interests in shares, transactions or arrangements that require disclosure, other than those given in the directors remuneration report.
Key management remuneration is disclosed in note I5.
In 2011 and 2010, other transactions with directors were not deemed to be significant both by virtue of their size and in the context of the directors financial positions.
As indicated above, all of these transactions are on terms broadly equivalent to those that prevail in arms length transactions.
368  I: Othernotes continued I8:  i Principal subsidiaries The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Company at 31 December 2011, all wholly owned were: Country of Main activity incorporation The Prudential Assurance Company Limited Insurance England and Wales Prudential Annuities Limited Insurance England and Wales Prudential Retirement Income Limited PRIL Insurance Scotland M&G Investment Management Limited Asset management England and Wales Jackson National Life Insurance Company Insurance US Prudential Assurance Company Singapore Pte Limited Insurance Singapore Owned by a subsidiary undertaking of the Company.
Each subsidiary has one class of ordinary shares and operates mainly in its country of incorporation, except for PRIL, which operates mainly in England and Wales.
Details of all Prudential subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates will be annexed to the next Annual Returns of Prudential plc filed with the UK Registrar of Companies.
ii Dividend restrictions and minimum capital requirements Certain Group subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on the amount of funds they may transfer in the form of cash dividends or otherwise to the parent company.
UK insurance companies are required to maintain solvency margins, which must be supported by capital reserves and other resources, including unrealised gains on investments.
Furthermore, without the prior regulatory approval, dividends cannot be distributed if all dividends made within the preceding 12 months exceed the greater of Jacksons statutory net gain from operations or 10 per cent of Jacksons statutory surplus for the prior year.
In 2012, the maximum amount of dividends that could be paid by Jackson, subject to the availability of earned surplus, without prior regulatory approval is US$411 million 264 million in 2011: US$770 million 495 million.
The Groups subsidiaries in Asia may remit dividends to the Group, in general, provided the statutory insurance fund meets the capital adequacy standard required under local statutory regulations.
The Group capital position statement for life assurance businesses is set out in note D5, showing the available capital reflecting the excess of regulatory basis over liabilities for each fund or group of companies determined by reference to the local regulation of the subsidiaries.
In addition, disclosure is also provided in note D5 of the local capital requirement of each of the fund or group of companies.
iii Acquisition of subsidiaries 2011 The PAC with-profits fund, via its venture fund holdings and as part of its investment portfolio, made acquisitions during the period.
These were acquisitions for a 100 per cent interest of Earth & Wind Energias Renovables SL, a company which invests in solar panel parks, in March 2011 and a 100 per cent interest of Alticom Holdings BV, a company investing in telecommunication towers, in June 2011.
The Earth & Wind portfolio of solar panel parks was further expanded with the acquisition of a 100 per cent interest in Promociones Fotovoltaicas Betula SL, Promociones Fotovoltaicas Castanea SL, Promociones Fotovoltaicas Corylus SL and Promociones Fotovoltaicas Fagus SL in July 2011, and a 50 per cent controlling interest in Sarinena Solar SL in October 2011.
As these transactions are within the with-profits fund, they have no impact on shareholders profit or equity for the year ended 31 December 2011.
The impact on the Groups consolidated revenue, including investment returns, is not material.
Had the acquisitions been effected at 1 January 2011, the revenue and profit of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2011 would not have been materially different.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements I:Othernotes 369 A summary of the consideration, goodwill and net assets acquired relating to these four acquisitions is provided in the table below: 2011 Total m Cash consideration paid 67 Net assets acquired: Property, plant and equipment 190 Other non-investment and non-cash assets 16 Cash and cash equivalents 14 Borrowings attributable to with-profits funds 114 Derivative liabilities 2 Other non-insurance liabilities 49 Fair value of net assets acquired 55 Total goodwill arising on acquisition attributable to the with-profits fund 12 The acquisition costs associated with these transactions were expensed as incurred and totalled less than 1.7 million.
Goodwill represents managements expectation of future income streams and is not allowable for tax.
2010 During 2010, the Group acquired a 100 per cent interest in United Overseas Bank Life Assurance Limited UOB in Singapore.
Further details are set out in note I1.
On 1 October 2010, the PAC with-profits fund, via its venture fund holdings and as part of its investment portfolio, acquired control of Meterserve North West Limited and Meterserve North East Limited together referred to as Meterserve, increasing its 50 per cent stake to 100 per cent.
As this transaction is within the with-profits fund, it has no impact on shareholders profit or equity for the period ended 31 December 2010.
A summary of the consideration, goodwill and net assets acquired relating to Meterserve is provided in the table below: 2010 m Cash consideration paid 22 Fair value of existing stake 25 Total consideration 47 Net assets acquired: Property, plant and equipment 219 Derivative assets 35 Other non-investment and non-cash assets 11 Cash and cash equivalents 10 Borrowings attributable to with-profits funds 194 Other non-insurance liabilities 6 Fair value of net assets acquired 5 Total goodwill arising on acquisition attributable to the with-profits fund 42 The acquisition costs associated with this transaction were expensed as incurred and totalled less than 1 million.
As noted above, the transaction increased the previously held stake from 50 per cent to 100 per cent.
The fair value of the existing stake at the date of the transaction was 25 million.
As the investment was held in the Groups balance sheet as a financial instrument classified as at fair value through profit and loss, no gain or loss arises as a result of the transaction.
Other than the above, there were no other material acquisitions or disposals of subsidiaries during 2011 or 2010.
370  I:Othernotes continued I9:Commitments i Operating leases The Group leases various offices to conduct its business.
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
2011 m 2010 m Future minimum lease payments for non-cancellable operating leases fall due during the following periods: Not later than 1 year 66 70 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 173 236 Later than 5 years 72 120 The total minimum future sublease rentals to be received on non-cancellable operating leases for land and buildings for the year ended 31 December 2011 were nil 2010: nil.
Minimum lease rental payments for the year ended 31 December 2011 of 74 million 2010: 92 million are included in the consolidated income statement.
ii Capital commitments The Group has provided, from time to time, certain guarantees and commitments to third parties including funding the purchase or development of land and buildings and other related matters.
The contractual obligations to purchase or develop investment properties at 31 December 2011 were 9 million 2010: 28 million.
I10:Cashflows Structural borrowings of shareholder-financed operations comprise of core debt of the parent company, the PruCap bank loan and Jackson surplus notes.
Core debt excludes borrowings to support short-term fixed income securities programmes, non-recourse borrowings of investment subsidiaries of shareholder-financed operations and other borrowings of shareholder-financed operations.
Cash flows in respect of these borrowings are included within cash flows from operating activities.
Structural borrowings of with-profits operations relate solely to the 100 million 8.5 per cent undated subordinated guaranteed bonds which contribute to the solvency base of the Scottish Amicable Insurance fund SAIF, a ring-fenced sub-fund of the PAC with-profits fund.
Cash flows in respect of other borrowings of with-profits funds, which principally relate to consolidated investment funds, are included within cash flows from operating activities.
I11: On 22 February 2012, M&G completed transactions to i exchange bonus share rights for equity holdings with the employees of PPM South Africa and ii the sale of a 10 per cent holding in the majority of the business to Thesele Group, a minority shareholder, for cash.
Following these transactions M&Gs holding in the majority of the business reduced from 75 per cent to 47 per cent.
Under IFRS requirements, the divestment is accounted for as the disposal of the 75 per cent holding and an acquisition of a 47 per cent holding at fair value.
As a consequence of the IFRS application, the transactions give rise to a gain on dilution of approximately 40 million.
This amount will be accounted for in the Group 2012 supplementary analysis of profit as a gain on dilution excluded from the Groups IFRS operating profit based on longer-term investment returns.
