EEV basis supplementary Financial statements information 391 Notes on the EEV basis results 1 Basis of preparation, methodology and accounting presentation The EEV basis results have been prepared in accordance with the EEV Principles issued by the European Insurance CFO Forum in May 2004 and expanded by the Additional Guidance on EEV disclosures published in October 2005.
Where appropriate, the EEV basis results include the effects of adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
The directors are responsible for the preparation of the supplementary information in accordance with the EEV Principles.
a Covered business The EEV results for the Group are prepared for covered business, as defined by the EEV Principles.
Covered business represents the Groups long-term insurance business for which the value of new and in-force contracts is attributable to shareholders.
The EEV basis results for the Groups covered business are then combined with the IFRS basis results of the Groups other operations.
The definition of long-term business operations is consistent with previous practice and comprises those contracts falling under the definition of long-term insurance business for regulatory purposes together with, for US operations, contracts that are in substance the same as guaranteed investment contracts GICs but do not fall within the technical definition.
Under the EEV Principles, the results for covered business incorporate the projected margins of attaching internal asset management.
With two principal exceptions, covered business comprises the Groups long-term business operations.
The principal exceptions are for the closed Scottish Amicable Insurance Fund SAIF and for the presentational treatment of the financial position of the Groups principal defined benefit pension scheme, the Prudential Staff Pension Scheme PSPS.
A small amount of UK group pensions business is also not modelled for EEV reporting purposes.
SAIF is a ring-fenced sub-fund of the Prudential Assurance Company PAC long-term fund, established by a Court approved Scheme of Arrangement in October 1997.
SAIF is closed to new business and the assets and liabilities of the fund are wholly attributable to the policyholders of the fund.
The PSPS deficit funding liability attaching to the shareholder-backed business is included in the total for Other operations, reflecting the fact that the deficit funding is being paid for by the parent company, Prudential plc.
The changes in financial position of the Scottish Amicable and M&G pension scheme are reflected in the EEV results for UK insurance operations and Other operations respectively.
b Methodology i Embedded value Overview The embedded value is the present value of the shareholders interest in the earnings distributable from assets allocated to covered business after sufficient allowance has been made for the aggregate risks in that business.
The shareholders interest in the Groups long-term business comprises: present value of future shareholder cash flows from in-force covered business value of in-force business, less deductions for: the cost of locked-in required capital, the time value of cost of options and guarantees, locked-in required capital, and shareholders net worth in excess of required capital free surplus.
The value of future new business is excluded from the embedded value.
Notwithstanding the basis of presentation of results as explained in note 1 c iv no smoothing of market or account balance values, unrealised gains or investment return is applied in determining the embedded value or profit before tax.
Separately, the analysis of profit is delineated between operating profit based on longer-term investment returns and other constituent items, as explained in note 1 c i. Valuation of in-force and new business The embedded value results are prepared incorporating best estimate assumptions about all relevant factors including levels of future investment returns, expenses, persistency and mortality.
These assumptions are used to project future cash flows.
The present value of the future cash flows is then calculated using a discount rate which reflects both the time value of money and the non-diversifiable risks associated with the cash flows that are not otherwise allowed for.
Best estimate assumptions Best estimate assumptions are used for the cash flow projections, where best estimate is defined as the mean of the distribution of future possible outcomes.
The assumptions are reviewed actively and changes are made when evidence exists that material changes in future experience are reasonably certain.
Assumptions required in the calculation of the value of options and guarantees, for example relating to volatilities and correlations, or dynamic algorithms linking liabilities to assets, have been set equal to the best estimates and, wherever material and practical, reflect any dynamic relationships between the assumptions and the stochastic variables.
392 Financial statements | European Embedded Value EEV basis supplementary information Notes on the EEV basis results continued 1 Basis of preparation, methodology and accounting presentation continued Principal economic assumptions The EEV basis results for the Groups operations have been determined using economic assumptions where the long-term expected rates of return on investments and risk discount rates are set by reference to year end rates of return on government bonds the active basis.
Expected returns on equity and property asset classes are derived by adding a risk premium, based on the long-term view of Prudentials economists, to the risk-free rate.
The total profit that emerges over the lifetime of an individual contract as calculated using the embedded value basis is the same as that calculated under the IFRS basis.
Since the embedded value basis reflects discounted future cash flows, under this methodology the profit emergence is advanced, thus more closely aligning the timing of the recognition of profits with the efforts and risks of current management actions, particularly with regard to business sold during the year.
New business The contribution from new business represents profits determined by applying operating assumptions as at the end of the year.
In determining the new business contribution for UK immediate annuity business, which is interest rate sensitive, it is appropriate to use assumptions reflecting point of sale market conditions, consistent with how the business is priced.
For other business within the Group, end of period economic assumptions are used.
Valuation movements on investments With the exception of debt securities held by Jackson, investment gains and losses during the year to the extent that changes in capital values do not directly match changes in liabilities are included directly in the profit for the year and shareholders equity as they arise.
The results for any covered business conceptually reflects the aggregate of the IFRS results and the movements on the additional shareholders interest recognised on the EEV basis.
Thus the start point for the calculation of the EEV results for Jackson, as for other businesses, reflects the market value movements recognised on the IFRS basis.
However, in determining the movements on the additional shareholders interest, the basis for calculating the Jackson EEV result acknowledges that for debt securities backing liabilities the aggregate EEV results reflect the fact that the value of in-force business instead incorporates the discounted value of future spread earnings.
This value is not affected generally by short-term market movements on securities that are, broadly speaking, held for the longer-term.
Fixed income securities backing the free surplus and required capital for Jackson are accounted for at fair value.
However, consistent with the treatment applied under IFRS for Jackson securities classified as available-for-sale, movements in unrealised appreciation on these securities are accounted for in equity rather than in the income statement, as shown in the movement in shareholders equity.
Cost of capital A charge is deducted from the embedded value for the cost of capital supporting the Groups long-term business.
This capital is referred to as required capital.
The cost is the difference between the nominal value of the capital and the discounted value of the projected releases of this capital allowing for investment earnings net of tax on the capital.
The annual result is affected by the movement in this cost from year-to-year which comprises a charge against new business profit and generally a release in respect of the reduction in capital requirements for business in force as this runs off.
Where required capital is held within a with-profits long-term fund, the value placed on surplus assets in the fund is already discounted to reflect its release over time and no further adjustment is necessary in respect of required capital.
Financial options and guarantees Nature of options and guarantees in Prudentials long-term business Asian operations Subject to local market circumstances and regulatory requirements, the guarantee features described below in respect of UK business broadly apply to similar types of participating contracts principally written in the PAC Hong Kong branch, Singapore and Malaysia.
Participating products have both guaranteed and non-guaranteed elements.
There are also various non-participating long-term products with guarantees.
The principal guarantees are those for whole of life contracts with floor levels of policyholder benefits that accrue at rates set at inception and do not vary subsequently with market conditions.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 EEV basis supplementary Financial statements information 393 US operations Jackson The principal options and guarantees in Jackson are associated with the fixed annuity and variable annuity VA lines of business.
Fixed annuities provide that, at Jacksons discretion, it may reset the interest rate credited to policyholders accounts, subject to a guaranteed minimum.
The guaranteed minimum return varies from 1.0 per cent to 5.5 per cent 2010: 1.5 per cent to 5.5 per cent, depending on the particular product, jurisdiction where issued, and date of issue.
At 31 December 2011, 85 per cent 2010: 83 per cent of the account values on fixed annuities relates to policies with guarantees of 3 per cent or less.
The average guarantee rate is 2.8 per cent for 2011 2010: 2.9 per cent.
Fixed annuities also present a risk that policyholders will exercise their option to surrender their contracts in periods of rapidly rising interest rates, possibly requiring Jackson to liquidate assets at an inopportune time.
Jackson issues VA contracts where it contractually guarantees to the contract holder either: a return of no less than total deposits made to the contract adjusted for any partial withdrawals, b total deposits made to the contract adjusted for any partial withdrawals plus a minimum return, or c the highest contract value on a specified anniversary date adjusted for any withdrawals following the specified contract anniversary.
These guarantees include benefits that are payable at specified dates during the accumulation period Guaranteed Minimum Withdrawal Benefit GMWB, as death benefits Guaranteed Minimum Death Benefits GMDB or as income benefits Guaranteed Minimum Income Benefits GMIB.
Jackson reinsures and hedges these risks using equity options and futures contracts.
These guarantees generally protect the policyholders value in the event of poor equity market performance.
Jackson also issues fixed index annuities that enable policyholders to obtain a portion of an equity-linked return while providing a guaranteed minimum return.
The guaranteed minimum returns would be of a similar nature to those described above for fixed annuities.
UK insurance operations The only significant financial options and guarantees in the UK insurance operations arise in the with-profits fund and SAIF.
With-profits products provide returns to policyholders through bonuses that are smoothed.
There are two types of bonuses: annual and final.
Annual bonuses are declared once a year and, once credited, are guaranteed in accordance with the terms of the particular product.
Unlike annual bonuses, final bonuses are guaranteed only until the next bonus declaration.
The with-profits fund also held a provision on the Pillar I Peak 2 basis of 90 million at 31 December 2011 2010: 24 million to honour guarantees on a small amount of guaranteed annuity option products.
Beyond the generic features and the provisions held in respect of guaranteed annuities described above, there are very few explicit options or guarantees of the with-profits fund such as minimum investment returns, surrender values, or annuity values at retirement and any granted have generally been at very low levels.
At 31 December 2011, guarantees on certain with-profits deferred annuity business were in the money as a result of the low level of interest rates at that date.
The Groups main exposure to guaranteed annuity options in the UK is through SAIF and a provision on the Pillar I Peak 2 basis of 370 million 2010: 336 million was held in SAIF at 31 December 2011 to honour the guarantees.
As SAIF is a separate sub-fund of the PAC long-term fund which is attributable to policyholders of the fund, the movement in the provision has no direct impact on shareholders.
Time value The value of financial options and guarantees comprises two parts.
One is given by a deterministic valuation on best estimate assumptions the intrinsic value.
The other part arises from the variability of economic outcomes in the future the time value.
Where appropriate, a full stochastic valuation has been undertaken to determine the time value of the financial options and guarantees.
The economic assumptions used for the stochastic calculations are consistent with those used for the deterministic calculations.
Assumptions specific to the stochastic calculations reflect local market conditions and are based on a combination of actual market data, historic market data and an assessment of long-term economic conditions.
Common principles have been adopted across the Group for the stochastic asset models, for example, separate modelling of individual asset classes but with an allowance for correlation between the various asset classes.
Details of the key characteristics of each model are given in note 17 a. ii Level of required capital In adopting the EEV Principles, Prudential has based required capital on its internal targets for economic capital subject to it being at least the local statutory minimum requirements.
Economic capital is assessed using internal models but, when applying the EEV Principles, Prudential does not take credit for the significant diversification benefits that exist within the Group.
For with-profits business written in a segregated life fund, as is the case in Asia and the UK, the capital available in the fund is sufficient to meet the required capital requirements.
For shareholder-backed business the following capital requirements apply: Asian operations: the level of required capital has been set at the higher of local statutory requirements and the economic capital requirement: US operations: the level of required capital has been set to an amount at least equal to 235 per cent of the risk-based capital required by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners NAIC at the Company Action Level CAL : and UK insurance operations: the capital requirements are set at the higher of Pillar I and Pillar II requirements for shareholder-backed business of UK insurance operations as a whole, which for 2011 and 2010 was Pillar I.
394 Financial statements | European Embedded Value EEV basis supplementary information Notes on the EEV basis results continued 1 Basis of preparation, methodology and accounting presentation continued iii Allowance for risk and risk discount rates Overview Under the EEV Principles, discount rates used to determine the present value of future cash flows are set equal to risk-free rates plus a risk margin.
The risk margin should reflect any non-diversifiable risk associated with the emergence of distributable earnings that is not allowed for elsewhere in the valuation.
Prudential has selected a granular approach to better reflect differences in market risk inherent in each product group.
The risk discount rate so derived does not reflect an overall Group market beta but instead reflects the expected volatility associated with the cash flows for each product category in the embedded value model.
Since financial options and guarantees are explicitly valued under the EEV methodology, discount rates under EEV are set excluding the effect of these product features.
The risk margin represents the aggregate of the allowance for market risk, additional allowance for credit risk where appropriate, and allowance for non-diversifiable non-market risk.
No allowance is required for non-market risks where these are assumed to be fully diversifiable.
The majority of non-market and non-credit risks are considered to be diversifiable.
Market risk allowance The allowance for market risk represents the beta multiplied by an equity risk premium.
Except for UK shareholder-backed annuity business as explained below such an approach has been used for all of the Groups businesses.
The beta of a portfolio or product measures its relative market risk.
The risk discount rates reflect the market risk inherent in each product group and hence the volatility of product cash flows.
These are determined by considering how the profits from each product are affected by changes in expected returns on various asset classes.
By converting this into a relative rate of return it is possible to derive a product specific beta.
Product level betas reflect the most recent product mix to produce appropriate betas and risk discount rates for each major product grouping.
Additional credit risk allowance The Groups methodology is to allow appropriately for credit risk.
The allowance for total credit risk is to cover: expected long-term defaults, credit risk premium to reflect the volatility in downgrade and default levels, and short-term downgrades and defaults.
These allowances are initially reflected in determining best-estimate returns and through the market risk allowance described above.
However, for those businesses which are largely backed by holdings of debt securities, these allowances in the projected returns and market risk allowances may not be sufficient and an additional allowance may be appropriate.
The practical application of the allowance for credit risk varies depending upon the type of business as described below.
Asian operations For Asian operations, the allowance for credit risk incorporated in the projected rates of return and the market risk allowance are sufficient.
Accordingly, no additional allowance for credit risk is required.
US business Jackson For Jackson business, the allowance for long-term defaults is reflected in the Risk Margin Reserve RMR charge which is deducted in determining the projected spread margin between the earned rate on the investments and the policyholder crediting rate.
The risk discount rate incorporates an additional allowance for credit risk premium and short-term downgrades and defaults.
In determining this allowance a number of factors have been considered.
These factors, in particular, include: How much of the credit spread on debt securities represents an increased credit risk not reflected in the RMR long-term default assumptions, and how much is liquidity premium.
In assessing this effect, consideration has been given to a number of approaches to estimating the liquidity premium by considering recent statistical data: and Policyholder benefits for Jackson fixed annuity business are not fixed.
It is possible in adverse economic scenarios to pass on a component of credit losses to policyholders subject to guarantee features through lower crediting rates.
Consequently, it is only necessary to allow for the balance of the credit risk in the risk discount rate.
After taking these and related factors into account and, based on market conditions from 2009 to 2011, the risk discount rate for general account business includes an additional allowance of 200 basis points 2010: 150 basis points for credit risk.
For VA business, the additional allowance has been set at one-fifth equivalent to 40 basis points 2010: 30 basis points of the non-VA business to reflect the proportion of the VA business that is allocated to holdings of general account debt securities.
The level of the additional allowance is assessed at each reporting period to take account of prevailing credit conditions and as the business in force alters over time.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 EEV basis supplementary Financial statements information 395 The level of allowance differs from that for UK annuity business for investment portfolio differences and to take account of the management actions available in adverse economic scenarios to reduce crediting rates to policyholders, subject to guarantee features of the products.
UK business 1 Shareholder-backed annuity business For Prudentials UK shareholder-backed annuity business, Prudential has used a market consistent embedded value MCEV approach to derive an implied risk discount rate which is then applied to the projected best estimate cash flows.
In the annuity MCEV calculations, the future cash flows are discounted using the swap yield curve plus an allowance for liquidity premium based on Prudentials assessment of the expected return on the assets backing the annuity liabilities after allowing for expected long-term defaults, a credit risk premium, an allowance for a 1 notch downgrade of the portfolio subject to credit risk and an allowance for short-term defaults.
For the purposes of presentation in the EEV results, the results on this basis are reconfigured.
Under this approach the projected earned rate of return on the debt securities held is determined after allowing for expected long-term defaults and, where necessary, an additional allowance for an element of short-term downgrades and defaults to bring the allowance in the earned rate up to best estimate levels.
The allowances for credit risk premium and the remaining element of short-term downgrade and default allowances are incorporated into the risk margin included in the discount rate, as shown in note 17 a.
2 With-profit fund non-profit annuity business For UK non-profit annuity business including that written by Prudential Annuities Limited PAL the basis for determining the aggregate allowance for credit risk is consistent with that applied for UK shareholder-backed annuity business as described above.
The allowance for credit risk in PAL is taken into account in determining the projected cash flows to the with-profits fund, which are in turn discounted at the risk discount rate applicable to all of the projected cash flows of the fund.
3 With-profit fund holdings of debt securities The UK with-profits fund holds debt securities as part of its investment portfolio backing policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus.
The assumed earned rate for with-profit holdings of corporate bonds is defined as the risk-free rate plus an assessment of the long-term spread over gilts, net of expected long-term defaults.
This approach is similar to that applied for equities and properties for which the projected earned rate is defined as the risk-free rate plus a long-term risk premium.
Allowance for non-diversifiable non-market risks Finance theory cannot be used to determine the appropriate component of beta for non-diversifiable non-market risks since there is no observable risk premium associated with it that is akin to the equity risk premium.
Recognising this, a pragmatic approach has been applied.
A base level allowance of 50 basis points is applied to cover the non-diversifiable non-market risks associated with the Groups businesses.
For the Groups US business and UK business other than shareholder-backed annuity, no additional allowance is necessary.
For UK shareholder-backed annuity business a further allowance of 50 basis points is used to reflect the longevity risk which is of particular relevance.
For the Groups Asian operations in China, India, Indonesia, Philippines, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam, additional allowances are applied for emerging market risk ranging from 100 to 250 basis points.
iv Management actions In deriving the time value of financial options and guarantees, management actions in response to emerging investment and fund solvency conditions have been modelled.
Management actions encompass, but are not confined to investment allocation decisions, levels of reversionary and terminal bonuses and credited rates.
Bonus rates are projected from current levels and varied in accordance with assumed management actions applying in the emerging investment and fund solvency conditions.
In all instances, the modelled actions are in accordance with approved local practice and therefore reflect the options actually available to management.
For the PAC with-profits fund, the actions assumed are consistent with those set out in the Principles and Practices of Financial Management.
v With-profits business and the treatment of the estate The proportion of surplus allocated to shareholders from the PAC with-profits fund has been based on the present level of 10 per cent.
The value attributed to the shareholders interest in the estate is derived by increasing final bonus rates and related shareholder transfers so as to exhaust the estate over the lifetime of the in-force with-profits business.
In any scenarios where the total assets of the life fund are insufficient to meet policyholder claims in full, the excess cost is fully attributed to shareholders.
Similar principles apply, where appropriate, for other with-profit funds of the Groups Asian operations.
396 Financial statements | European Embedded Value EEV basis supplementary information Notes on the EEV basis results continued 1 Basis of preparation, methodology and accounting presentation continued vi Pension costs The Group operates three defined benefit schemes in the UK.
The largest scheme is the PSPS.
The other two, smaller schemes are the Scottish Amicable and M&G scheme.
Under IFRS the surpluses or deficits attaching to these schemes are accounted for in accordance with the provisions of IAS 19 that apply the principles of IFRIC 14, providing guidance on assessing the limit in IAS 19 on the amount of surplus in a defined benefit pension scheme that can be recognised as an asset.
Under the EEV basis the IAS 19 basis surpluses to the extent not restricted under IFRIC 14 or deficits are initially allocated in the same manner.
The shareholders 10 per cent interest in the PAC with-profits fund estate is determined after inclusion of the portion of the IAS 19 basis surpluses or deficits attributable to the fund.
Adjustments under EEV in respect of accounting for surpluses or deficits on the Scottish Amicable Pension Scheme are reflected as part of UK long-term business operations and for other defined benefit schemes the adjustments are reflected as part of Other operations, as shown in note 7.
Separately, the projected cash flows of in-force covered business include the cost of contributions to the defined benefit schemes for future service based on the contribution basis applying to the schemes at the time of the preparation of the results.
vii Debt capital Core structural debt liabilities are carried at market value.
As the liabilities are generally held to maturity or for the long-term, no deferred tax asset or liability has been established on the difference, compared to the IFRS carrying value.
Accordingly, no deferred tax credit or charge is recorded in the results for the reporting period in respect of the mark to market value adjustment.
viii Foreign currency translation Foreign currency profits and losses have been translated at average exchange rates for the year.
Foreign currency assets and liabilities have been translated at year end rates of exchange.
The purpose of translating the profits and losses at average exchange rates, notwithstanding the fact that EEV profit represents the incremental value added on a discounted cash flow basis, is to maintain consistency with the methodology applied for IFRS basis reporting.
c Accounting presentation i Analysis of profit before tax To the extent applicable, the presentation of the EEV profit for the year is consistent with the basis that the Group applies for analysis of IFRS basis profits before shareholder taxes between operating and non-operating results.
Operating results reflect the underlying results including longer-term investment returns which are determined as described in note 1 c ii below and incorporate the following: new business contribution, as defined in note 1 b i, unwind of discount on the value of in-force business and other expected returns, as described in note 1 c iv below, the impact of routine changes of estimates relating to non-economic assumptions, as described in note 1 c iii below, and non-economic experience variances, as described in note 1 c v below.
Non-operating results comprise the recurrent items of short-term fluctuations in investment returns, the shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes, the mark to market value movements on core borrowings and the effect of changes in economic assumptions.
In addition, for 2010 the Company incurred costs associated with the terminated AIA transaction and the Groups holding in PruHealth was diluted.
The effect of both of these items has been shown separately from operating profits based on longer-term investment returns.
ii Operating profit For the investment element of the assets covering the net worth of long-term insurance business, investment returns are recognised in operating results at the expected long-term rate of return.
These expected returns are calculated by reference to the asset mix of the portfolio.
For the purpose of calculating the longer-term investment return to be included in the operating result of the PAC with-profits fund of UK operations, where assets backing the liabilities and unallocated surplus are subject to market volatility, asset values at the beginning of the reporting period are adjusted to remove the effects of short-term market movements as explained in note 1 c iv below.
For the purpose of determining the long-term returns for debt securities of US operations for fixed annuity and other general account business, a risk margin charge is included which reflects the expected long-term rate of default based on the credit quality of the portfolio.
For Jackson, interest-related realised gains and losses are amortised to the operating results over the maturity period of the sold bonds and for equity-related investments, a long-term rate of return is assumed, which reflects the aggregation of end of year risk-free rates and equity risk premium.
For US variable annuity separate account business, operating profit includes the unwind of discount on the opening value of in-force adjusted to reflect end of year projected rates of return with the excess or deficit of the actual return recognised within non-operating profit, together with the related hedging activity.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 EEV basis supplementary Financial statements information 397 For UK annuity business, rebalancing of the asset portfolio backing the liabilities to policyholders may, from time to time, take place to align it more closely with the internal benchmark of credit quality that management applies.
Such rebalancing will result in a change in the projected yield on the asset portfolio and the allowance for default risk.
The net effect of these changes is reflected in the result for the year.
In general, the effect is booked in operating results.
iii Effect of changes in operating assumptions Operating profit includes the effect of changes to operating assumptions on the value of in-force at the end of the period.
For presentational purposes, the effect of change is delineated to show the effect on the opening value of in force with the experience variance being determined by reference to the end of period assumptions.
iv Unwind of discount and other expected returns The unwind of discount and other expected returns is determined by reference to the value of in-force business, required capital and surplus assets at the start of the period as adjusted for the effect of changes in economic and operating assumptions reflected in the current period.
For UK insurance operations the amount included within operating results based on longer-term investment returns represents the unwind of discount on the value of in-force business at the beginning of the period adjusted for the effect of current period assumption changes, the unwind of discount on additional value representing the shareholders share of smoothed surplus assets retained within the PAC with-profits fund as explained in note 1 b v above, and the expected return on shareholders assets held in other UK long-term business operations.
Surplus assets retained within the PAC with-profits fund are smoothed for this purpose to remove the effects of short-term investment volatility from operating results.
In the summary statement of financial position and for total profit reporting, asset values and investment returns are not smoothed.
v Operating experience variances Operating profits include the effect of experience variances on non-economic assumptions, which are calculated with reference to the embedded value assumptions at the end of the reporting year, such as persistency, mortality and morbidity, expenses and other factors.
Further details are shown in note 17 b. vi Pension costs Profit before tax Movements on the shareholders share of surpluses to the extent not restricted by IFRIC 14 and deficits of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes adjusted for contributions paid in the year are recorded within the income statement.
Consistent with the basis of distribution of bonuses and the treatment of the estate described in note 1 b iv and v, the shareholders share incorporates 10 per cent of the proportion of the financial position attributable to the PAC with-profits fund.
The financial position is determined by applying the requirements of IAS 19.
Actuarial and other gains and losses For pension schemes in which the IAS 19 position reflects the difference between the assets and liabilities of the scheme, actuarial and other gains and losses comprise: the difference between actual and expected return on the scheme assets, experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities, the impact of altered economic and other assumptions on the discounted value of scheme liabilities, and for pension schemes where the IAS 19 position reflects a deficit funding obligation, actuarial and other gains and losses includes the movement in estimates of deficit funding requirements.
These items are recorded in the income statement but, consistent with the IFRS basis of presentation, are excluded from operating results based on longer-term investment returns.
vii Effect of changes in economic assumptions Movements in the value of in-force business at the beginning of the period caused by changes in economic assumptions, net of the related change in the time value of cost of option and guarantees, are recorded in non-operating results.
viii Taxation The profit for the year for covered business is in most cases calculated initially at the post-tax level.
The post-tax profit for covered business is then grossed up for presentation purposes at the rates of tax applicable to the countries and periods concerned.
In the UK the rate applied for 2011 is 25 per cent 2010: 27 per cent.
For Jackson, the US federal tax rate of 35 per cent is applied to gross up movements on the value of in-force business.
The overall tax rate includes the impact of tax effects determined on a local regulatory basis.
For Asia, similar principles apply subject to the availability of taxable profits.
Tax payments and receipts included in the projected cash flows to determine the value of in-force business are calculated using rates that have been substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
Possible future changes of rate are not anticipated.
398 Financial statements | European Embedded Value EEV basis supplementary information Notes on the EEV basis results continued 1 Basis of preparation, methodology and accounting presentation continued ix Inter-company arrangements The EEV results for covered business incorporate the effect of the reinsurance arrangement of non-profit immediate pension annuity liabilities of SAIF which is not covered business to PRIL.
In addition, the analysis of free surplus and value of in-force business takes account of the impact of contingent loan arrangements between Group companies.
x Foreign exchange rates Foreign currency results have been translated as discussed in note 1 b viii, for which the principal exchange rates are as follows: Closing rate at Average rate Closing rate at Average rate Opening rate at Local currency: 31 Dec 2011 for 2011 31 Dec 2010 for 2010 1 Jan 2010 China 9.78 10.37 10.32 10.46 11.02 Hong Kong 12.07 12.48 12.17 12.01 12.52 India 82.53 74.80 70.01 70.66 75.15 Indonesia 14,091.80 14,049.41 14,106.51 14,033.41 15,171.52 Korea 1,790.32 1,775.98 1,776.86 1,786.23 1,880.45 Malaysia 4.93 4.90 4.83 4.97 5.53 Singapore 2.02 2.02 2.01 2.11 2.27 Taiwan 47.06 47.12 45.65 48.65 51.65 Vietnam 32,688.16 33,139.22 30,526.26 29,587.63 29,832.74 US 1.55 1.60 1.57 1.55 1.61 note iv 2 Analysis of new business contribution 2011 Annual Present value New business margin New business premiums premium and of new note i contribution business Pre-tax equivalents premiums new business Single Regular APE PVNBP contribution APE PVNBP note i note i notes ii, iii m m m m m % % Asian operations 1,456 1,514 1,660 8,910 1,076 65 12.1 US operations 12,562 19 1,275 12,720 815 64 6.4 note vii UK insurance operations 4,871 259 746 6,111 260 35 4.3 Total 18,889 1,792 3,681 27,741 2,151 58 7.8 2010 Annual Present value New business margin New business premiums premium and of new note i contribution business Pre-tax equivalents premiums new business Single Regular APE PVNBP contribution APE PVNBP note i note i notes ii, iii m m m m m % % notes v, vi Asian operations 1,104 1,391 1,501 7,493 902 60 12.0 US operations 11,417 22 1,164 11,572 761 65 6.6 note vii UK insurance operations 5,656 254 820 6,842 365 45 5.3 Total 18,177 1,667 3,485 25,907 2,028 58 7.8 Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 EEV basis supplementary Financial statements information 399 New business margin APE % 2011 2010 note v Asian operations: China 46 47 Hong Kong 66 74 Indi 20 20 Indonesia 87 75 Korea 43 31 Taiwan 19 13 Othe 76 79 Weighted average for all Asian operations 65 60 Notes i New business margins are shown on two bases, namely the margins by reference to Annual Premium Equivalents APE and the Present Value of New Business Premiums PVNBP and are calculated as the ratio of the value of new business profit to APE and PVNBP.
APE are calculated as the aggregate of regular new business amounts and one-tenth of single new business amounts.
PVNBP are calculated as equalling single premiums plus the present value of expected premiums of new regular premium business, allowing for lapses and other assumptions made in determining the EEV new business contribution.
ii In determining the EEV basis value of new business, premiums are included in projected cash flows on the same basis of distinguishing annual and single premium business as set out for statutory basis reporting.
iii New business contributions represent profits determined by applying operating assumptions as at the end of the year.
In general, the use of point of sale or end of period economic assumptions is not significant in determining the new business contribution for different types of business and across financial reporting periods.
However, to obtain proper measurement of the new business contribution for business which is interest rate sensitive, it is appropriate to use assumptions reflecting point of sale market conditions, consistent with how the business was priced.
In practice, the only area within the Group where this has a material effect is for UK shareholder-backed annuity business.
For other business within the Group end of period economic assumptions are used.
iv The amounts shown in the tables are translated at average exchange rates for the year.
v The tables for 2010 exclude new business sales and contributions for Japanese insurance operations in which the Company ceased selling new business from 15 February 2010. vi The new business contribution in 2010 of 902 million for Asian operations includes a benefit of around 5 million arising from the application of the active basis of economic assumption setting rather than the previously applied basis of an assessment of longer-term economic conditions, as described in note 17a v. vii The new business margin for UK operations for 2010 of 45 per cent reflects the signing of bulk annuity buy-in insurance agreements with an APE of 93 million and new business profit of 106 million.
In 2011 the new business margin of 35 per cent includes bulk annuity agreements with an APE of 33 million and new business profit of 28 million.
r a 400 Financial statements | European Embedded Value EEV basis supplementary information Notes on the EEV basis results continued 3 Operating profit from business in force Group summary 2011 m UK Asian US insurance operations operations operations Total note i note ii note iii Unwind of discount and other expected returns 613 349 485 1,447 Effect of change in operating assumptions 10 14 79 103 Experience variances and other items 65 253 29 347 Total 688 616 593 1,897 2010 m UK Asian US insurance operations operations operations Total note i note ii note iii Unwind of discount and other expected returns 573 369 550 1,492 Effect of change in operating assumptions 23 3 3 23 Experience variances and other items 1 325 24 348 Total 549 697 571 1,817 Notes Analysis by business unit i Asian operations 2011 2010 note j m m note a Unwind of discount and other expected returns 613 573 Effect of change in operating assumptions: note b Mortality and morbidity 126 89 note c Expense 11 62 note d Persistency and withdrawals 140 75 note e Other 13 25 10 23 Experience variance and other items: note f Mortality and morbidity 58 45 note g Expense 31 39 note h Persistency and withdrawals 10 48 note i Other 28 41 65 1 Total Asian operations 688 549 Notes a The increase in unwind of discount and other expected returns to 613 million in 2011 from 573 million in 2010 mainly arises from the growth in the opening value of the in-force book, partially offset by the effect of the reduction in interest rates.
b The credit of 126 million in 2011 for mortality and morbidity assumption changes arises as follows: 2011 m note 1 Malaysia 69 note 2 Indonesia 33 Singapore 19 Other 5 126 1 T he credit in Malaysia of 69 million relates to revised mortality and morbidity assumptions, reflecting recent experience.
2 The credit in Indonesia of 33 million represents the effect of revised morbidity assumptions of 48 million, the revision of reinsurance rates of 8 million, offset by modelling enhancements for the cost of reinsurance of 23 million.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 EEV basis supplementary Financial statements information 401 The credit of 89 million in 2010 for mortality and morbidity assumption changes mainly arose in Indonesia of 72 million comprising 36 million for relaxation of morbidity assumptions and 36 million to reflect recent experience in relation to protection benefits provided by unit-linked policies.
c The credit of 11 million in 2011 for expense assumption changes mainly arises from altered assumptions for maintenance expenses, reflecting recent experience, principally in Singapore of 34 million and Indonesia of 11 million, partly offset by a charge in India of 30 million.
The charge of 62 million in 2010 for expense assumption changes includes a charge in Korea of 40 million to reflect higher policy maintenance costs and a charge of 16 million in Malaysia relating to altered maintenance expense assumptions.
d The charge of 140 million in 2011 for persistency and withdrawals assumption changes arises as follows: 2011 m note 1 Malaysia 106 note 2 India 21 Indonesia 13 Singapore 4 Other 4 140 1 The charge of 106 million in Malaysia includes 108 million for the effect of strengthening partial withdrawal assumptions on PruSaver product riders to reflect recent experience.
Policyholders pattern and frequency of withdrawals from this savings rider is different from that of the underlying host contract, where both persistency and premium payment experience remains in line with assumptions.
2 The charge in India of 21 million reflects lower persistency assumptions for paid-up policies for unit-linked business.
The charge of 75 million for 2010 for the effect of changes in persistency and withdrawals assumptions mainly arises in Indonesia of 33 million, Malaysia of 26 million and India of 24 million partly offset by a credit in Hong Kong of 16 million.
The charge in Indonesia of 33 million primarily relates to Shariah and single premium policies for which lower renewal rates had been experienced.
The charge in Malaysia of 26 million reflects altered premium holiday and other lapse assumptions and the charge in India of 24 million represents changes in persistency assumptions on linked business.
e The credit of 13 million in 2011 for other operating assumptions principally represents the combined effect of a favourable change in assumed asset management margins, a reduction in investment expenses for Indonesia resulting from a growth in the asset portfolio, a decrease in policyholder bonuses in the Philippines, partly offset by the effect of altered profit sharing arrangements in relation to participating business in Vietnam.
f The favourable effect of mortality and morbidity experience in 2011 of 58 million and in 2010 of 45 million reflects better than expected experience, principally arising in Hong Kong, Indonesia, Singapore and Malaysia.
g The negative expense experience variance of 31 million in 2011 2010: 39 million comprises a charge of 26 million 2010: 18 million for expense overruns for operations which are at a relatively early stage of development, for which actual expenses are in excess of those factored into the product pricing, together with 6 million 2010: 9 million in Taiwan and 1 million 2010: 12 million of variance for other operations.
h The positive persistency and withdrawals experience variance of 10 million in 2011 reflects a combination of favourable experience in Hong Kong and Indonesia, partially offset by individually small negative variances in other territories.
The negative persistency and withdrawals experience variance of 48 million in 2010 mainly arises in India of 27 million relating to higher paid-ups and surrenders on unit-linked business and in Malaysia of 26 million for higher partial withdrawals on unit-linked business as customers sought to monetise a proportion of their funds following two years of exceptional returns.
i The credit of 28 million in 2011 for other experience and other items primarily arises in Indonesia of 24 million.
The credit of 41 million in 2010 includes a credit of 24 million arising in Indonesia for the impact of additional riders being added to in-force policies during the year, funded from the policyholder unit-linked account balances.
j The in-force operating profit for 2010 of 549 million reflects the effect of setting economic assumptions on an active basis rather than the previously applied passive basis as described in note 17a v, the impact of which was to lower in-force operating profits in 2010 by 58 million, principally for altered unwind of discount.
402 Financial statements | European Embedded Value EEV basis supplementary information Notes on the EEV basis results continued 3 Operating profit from business in force continued ii US operations 2011 m 2010 m note a Unwind of discount and other expected returns 349 369 Effect of changes in operating assumptions: note b Persistency 29 4 note c Variable Annuity VA fees 24 27 note d Mortality 36 10 note e Other 3 38 14 3 Experience variances and other items: note f Spread experience variance 152 158 note g Amortisation of interest-related realised gains and losses 84 82 note h Other 17 85 253 325 Total US operations 616 697 Notes a The decrease in unwind of discount and other expected returns from 369 million for 2010 to 349 million for 2011 mainly reflects lower unwind of discount driven by the reduction in the 10-year US treasury rate, partly offset by an increase in opening value of in-force business.
b The credit of 29 million for the effect of changes in persistency assumptions in 2011 arises on variable annuity business of a credit of 15 million and 14 million on other business.
The credit of 15 million for VA business represents a credit of 32 million to reflect a decrease in lapse rates for selected product and policy duration combinations, partially offset by a charge of 17 million to increase partial withdrawal rates in line with experience.
The credit of 14 million for other business reflects updated persistency assumptions for life and fixed annuity business.
c The effect of the change of assumption for VA fees represents the capitalised value of the change in the projected level of policyholder advisory fees, which vary according to the size and mix of VA funds.
The credit of 24 million for 2011 2010: 27 million reflects an increase in the projected level of fees paid by policyholders, according to the current fund size and mix.
d The charge of 36 million for 2011 for updated mortality assumptions primarily arises on variable annuity business to reflect recent mortality experience.
The credit of 10 million for 2010 represents a credit of 29 million for business other than variable annuity, reflecting recent experience, partially offset by a negative effect on variable annuity business of 19 million for a change in the modelling of mortality rates.
e The charge of 38 million for other operating assumption changes in 2010 includes the net effect of a number of items including a charge of 19 million for the altered projection of life reserves run-off.
f The spread assumption for Jackson is determined on a longer-term basis, net of provision for defaults.
The spread experience variance in 2011 of 152 million 2010: 158 million includes the positive effect of transactions undertaken in 2010 and 2011 to more closely match the overall asset and liability duration.
g The amortisation of interest-related gains and losses reflects the same treatment applied to the supplementary analysis of IFRS profit.
When bonds that are neither impaired nor deteriorating are sold and reinvested there will be a consequent change in the investment yield.
The realised gain or loss is amortised into the result over the period when the bonds would have otherwise matured to better reflect the long-term returns included in operating profits.
h Other experience variances and other items arise as follows: 2011 m 2010 m note 1 Mortality experience variance 6 21 note 2 Expense experience variance 12 32 note 3 Persistency experience variance 21 23 Other 10 9 17 85 1 T he negative mortality experience variance of 6 million in 2011 includes a provision of 16 million in respect of unclaimed property for deceased policyholders.
The positive mortality experience variance of 21 million in 2010 primarily relates to life products.
2 The positive expense experience variances of 12 million in 2011 and 32 million in 2010 primarily represents favourable experience variance relating to marketing expenses.
3 The positive persistency experience variance of 21 million in 2011 mainly arises on annuity business and in 2010, the favourable experience variance of 23 million primarily arises on annuity and institutional business.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 EEV basis supplementary Financial statements information 403 iii UK insurance operations 2011 m 2010 m note a Unwind of discount and other expected returns 485 550 note b Effect of change in UK corporate tax rate 79 41 note c Updated mortality assumptions, net of release of margins 40 note d Other items 29 20 Total UK insurance operations 593 571 Notes a The decrease in unwind of discount and other expected returns from 550 million for 2010 to 485 million for 2011 mainly arises from lower unwind on with-profits business, reflecting a decrease in both the risk discount rate and opening in-force value as adjusted for the effects of changes in operating and economic assumptions.
b In 2011 a change to reduce the UK corporate tax rate to 25 per cent with effect from 1 April 2012 was enacted.
The effect of the change in tax rate of 79 million in 2011 represents the pre-tax benefit of the reduction in tax rate from 27 per cent to 25 per cent, arising from the increase in the present value of the post-tax projected cash flows of the in-force business, grossed up for notional tax.
The effect of the change in tax rate of 41 million for 2010 represents the pre-tax benefit of the reduction in the tax rate from 28 per cent to 27 per cent.
c In 2010 the Continuous Mortality Investigation CMI model and Core Projection parameters were reviewed and a custom parameterisation of the CMI model was made where some aspects of the pattern of convergence from current rates of improvements to long-term rates of improvement were altered.
The assumption change shown above for 2010 of a charge of 40 million represents the effect of the implementation of the custom parameterisation on the opening value of in-force business at 1 January 2010, offset by the effects of other mortality assumption changes and the release of margins on the base mortality assumptions.
d Other items of 29 million for 2011 includes 45 million for the effects of annuity portfolio rebalancing.
In 2010, other items of 20 million includes a credit of 37 million for changes in operating expense assumptions relating to renewal expense assumptions on shareholder-backed annuity business.
4 Costs of terminated AIA transaction in 2010 In 2010, pre-tax costs of 377 million post tax 284 million were incurred in relation to the proposed, and subsequently terminated transaction, to purchase AIA Group Limited and related rights issue.
5 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns Short-term fluctuations in investment returns, net of the related change in the time value of cost of options and guarantees, arise as follows: Group summary 2011 m 2010 m Insurance operations: note i Asia 155 287 note ii US 491 678 note iii UK 141 336 787 55 note iv Other operations 120 25 Total 907 30 Notes Analysis by business unit i Asian operations For 2011, short-term fluctuations in investment returns in Asian operations of 155 million are driven by lower equity markets reducing future expected fee income, mainly arising in Singapore 105 million and Korea 22 million.
The 2011 short-term fluctuations in investment returns also include 28 million of adverse variance arising in other territories.
This principally comprises fluctuations arising in India of 53 million reflecting lower equity market returns, in Vietnam of 33 million for unrealised losses on bonds and equities and Taiwan of 30 million for losses on bonds and CDOs, partially offset by a credit in Hong Kong of 96 million primarily relating to positive returns on bonds backing participating business.
For 2010, short-term fluctuations in investment returns in Asian operations of 287 million primarily reflect the favourable performance in equity markets across the territories, primarily arising in Indonesia 55 million, Hong Kong 51 million, Taiwan 40 million, Malaysia 37 million and Singapore 16 million.
Also included for 2010 is an unrealised gain of 30 million on the Groups 8.66 per cent stake in China Life Insurance Company of Taiwan, which at 31 December 2010 was valued at 100 million.
404 Financial statements | European Embedded Value EEV basis supplementary information Notes on the EEV basis results continued 5 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns continued ii US operations The short-term fluctuations in investment returns for US operations comprise the following items: 2011 m 2010 m note a Debt securities investment return related experience 74 351 Investment return related impact due primarily to changed expectation of profits on in-force variable annuity business in future periods based on current period equity returns, net of related hedging activity for equity note b related products 418 332 Actual less long-term return on equity based investments and other items 1 5 Total Jackson 491 678 Notes a The charge relating to fixed income securities comprises the following elements: the excess of actual realised losses over the amortisation of interest related realised losses recorded in the profit and loss account, credit loss experience versus the longer-term assumption, and the impact of fide-risking activities within the portfolio, which accounts for the majority of the 2010 charge.
b This item reflects the net impact of: 1 variances in projected future fees arising from the effect of market fluctuations on the growth in separate account asset values in the current reporting period, and 2 related hedging activity.
In 2011 there was a negative 0.5 per cent rate of return for the variable annuity separate account assets.
This compared with an assumed longer-term rate of return of 5.4 per cent.
Consequently the asset values, and therefore projected future fees at 31 December 2011, were lower than assumed.
As a consequence of this lower level of return, net of the impact of relating hedging effects, there was a short-term fluctuation of 418 million.
In 2010 there was a 14.5 per cent return which compared with an assumed longer-term rate of return of 6.8 per cent.
However, despite this excess return, there was an overall charge of 332 million which arose from the effects of related hedging activity.
iii UK insurance operations The short-term fluctuations in investment returns for UK insurance operations represents: 2011 m 2010 m note a With-profits 201 218 note b Shareholder-backed annuity 56 84 note c Unit-linked and other 4 34 141 336 Notes a For with-profits business the amounts reflect the excess deficit of the actual investment return on the investments of the PAC with-profits fund covering policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus against the assumed long-term rate for the year.
For 2011 the charge of 201 million reflects the actual investment return of 3.2 per cent against the assumed long-term rate of 5.1 per cent, primarily reflecting the fall in equity markets and widening of corporate bond credit spreads, partially offset by the increase in asset values as a result of the reduction in bond yields.
For 2010 the credit of 218 million reflects the actual investment return of 12.0 per cent against the assumed long-term rate of 6.7 per cent.
b Short-term fluctuations in investment returns for shareholder-backed annuity business comprise: 1 gains on surplus assets reflecting reductions in corporate bond and gilt yields in 2011 and 2010, and 2 the effect of mismatching for assets and liabilities of different durations and other short-term fluctuations in investment returns.
c The short-term fluctuations in investment returns for unit-linked business represents the increase in capitalised value of future fees arising from the positive movements in market values experienced during the year.
iv Other operations Short-term fluctuations in investment returns for other operations in 2011 of 120 million 2010: 25 million represent unrealised value movements on investments, principally on centrally held swaps to manage foreign exchange and certain macro-economic exposures of the Group.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 EEV basis supplementary Financial statements information 405 6 Effect of changes in economic assumptions The effects of changes in economic assumptions for in-force business, net of the related change in the time value of cost of options and guarantees, included within profit before tax including actual investment returns arise as follows: Group summary 2011 m 2010 m note i Asian operations 279 71 note ii US operations 144 1 note iii UK insurance operations 293 62 Total 158 10 Notes Analysis by business unit i Asian operations The effect of changes in economic assumptions for Asian operations in 2011 of a credit of 279 million principally arises in Singapore 160 million, Malaysia 97 million and Indonesia 94 million, primarily reflecting the positive impact of discounting health and protection profits at lower rates, driven by the decrease in risk-free rates as shown in note 17a.
There is a partial offset arising in Hong Kong of 57 million, primarily reflecting the reduction in fund earned rates for participating business.
For 2010, the effect of changes in economic assumptions in Asian operations of 71 million primarily represents the effect of derisking certain asset portfolios in Hong Kong and Singapore totalling 73 million, together with the effects of routine adjustments for changes in economic factors and the effect of altering the basis of setting economic assumptions to the active basis as described in note 17a v. ii US operations The effect of changes in economic assumptions for US operations reflects the following: 2011 m 2010 m note a Effect of changes in 10-year treasury rates, beta and equity risk premium: Fixed annuity and other general account business 282 111 Variable Annuity VA business 333 112 note b Increase in risk margin allowance for credit risk 93 144 1 Notes a For Jackson, the charge for the effect of changes in economic assumptions represents the aggregate of the effects of changes to projected returns and the risk discount rate.
The risk discount rate, as discussed in note 1 b iii, represents the aggregate of the risk-free rate and margin for market risk, credit risk and non-diversifiable non-market risk.
For fixed annuity and other general account business the effect of changes to the risk-free rate, which is defined as the 10-year treasury rate, is reflected in the risk discount rate.
This discount rate is in turn applied to projected cash flows which principally reflect projected spread, which is largely insensitive to changes in the risk-free rate.
Secondary effects on the cash flows also result from changes to assumed future yield and resulting policyholder behaviour.
For VA business, changes to the risk-free rate are also reflected in determining the risk discount rate.
However, the projected cash flows are also reassessed for altered investment returns on the underlying separate account assets from which fees are charged.
For 2011, the effect of these changes resulted in an overall credit for fixed annuity and other general account business of 282 million 2010: 111 million and a charge for VA business of 333 million 2010: 112 million reflecting the reduction of 1.4 per cent 2010: a reduction of 0.6 per cent in the risk-free rate as shown in note 17a.
b For 2011 the effect of 93 million for the increase in the risk margin allowance within the risk discount rate for credit risk represents 50 basis points increase in the risk discount rate for spread business from 150 basis points in 2010 to 200 basis points in 2011, and 10 basis points for VA business from 30 basis points in 2010 to 40 basis points in 2011, representing the proportion of business invested in the general account, as described in note 1b iii.
406 Financial statements | European Embedded Value EEV basis supplementary information Notes on the EEV basis results continued 6 Effect of changes in economic assumptions continued iii UK insurance operations The effect of changes in economic assumptions of a charge of 293 million for UK insurance operations for 2011 comprises the effect of: 2011 m 2010 m  With-profits backed With-profits annuity and other annuity and other business business business business note a note b Total note a note b Total Effect of changes in expected long-term rates of return 58 1,113 1,055 102 80 182 Effect of changes in risk discount rates 240 627 867 55 183 238 Other changes 20 85 105 6 12 6 278 571 293 53 115 62 Notes a For shareholder-backed annuity business the overall effect of changes in expected long-term rates of return and risk discount rates for the years shown above reflect the combined effects of the changes in assumptions which incorporate a default allowance for both best estimate defaults and in respect of the additional credit risk provisions, as shown in note 17a.
b For with-profits and other business the charge in 2011 of 1,113 million for the effect of changes in expected long-term rates of return arises from the reduction in fund earned rates as shown in note 17a, driven by the 1.5 per cent decrease in gilt rates and reduction in additional returns assumed on corporate bonds, reflecting changes in asset mix.
The credit in 2011 of 627 million for the effect of changes in risk discount rates reflects the 1.35 per cent reduction in the risk discount rate as shown in note 17 a, driven by the 1.5 per cent decrease in gilt rates, partly offset by the impact of an increase in beta for with-profits business.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 EEV basis supplementary Financial statements information 407 7 Shareholders equity excluding non-controlling interests segmental analysis Note 2011 m 2010 m Asian operations Long-term business: note iii Net assets of operations EEV basis shareholders equity 8,510 7,445 note i Acquired goodwill 235 236 8,745 7,681 note i Eastspring Investments: Net assets of operations 211 197 Acquired goodwill 61 61 272 258 9,017 7,939 US operations Jackson EEV basis shareholders equity net of surplus note borrowings of 177 million 2010: 172 million 5,082 4,799 note i Broker-dealer and asset management operations: Net assets of operations 113 106 Acquired goodwill 16 16 129 122 5,211 4,921 UK operations Insurance operations: Long-term business operations: Smoothed shareholders equity 6,097 5,911 Actual shareholders equity less smoothed shareholders equity 39 59 EEV basis shareholders equity 6,058 5,970 note i Other 29 33 6,087 6,003 note i M&G: Net assets of operations 229 254 Acquired goodwill 1,153 1,153 1,382 1,407 7,469 7,410 Other operations Holding company net borrowings at market value 9 2,188 2,212 note i Other net assets 128 149 2,060 2,063 Total 19,637 18,207 408 Financial statements | European Embedded Value EEV basis supplementary information Notes on the EEV basis results continued 7 Shareholders equity excluding non-controlling interests segmental analysis continued 2011 m 2010 m Statutory Additional EEV basis Statutory Additional EEV basis IFRS basis retained profit shareIFRS basis retained profit shareshareholders on an EEV holders shareholders on an EEV holders Representing: equity basis equity equity basis equity Asian operations 2,349 6,396 8,745 2,149 5,532 7,681 US operations 4,271 811 5,082 3,815 984 4,799 UK insurance operations 2,552 3,506 6,058 2,115 3,855 5,970 Total long-term business operations 9,172 10,713 19,885 8,079 10,371 18,450 note ii Other operations 55 193 248 48 195 243 Group total 9,117 10,520 19,637 8,031 10,176 18,207 Notes i With the exception of the share of the Prudential Staff Pension Scheme PSPS deficit as explained below, the amounts shown for net assets of non-covered business, together with acquired goodwill, have been determined on the statutory IFRS basis.
The share of the PSPS deficit attributable to the PAC with-profits fund is included in other operations net assets.
The overall pension scheme deficit, net of tax, attributable to shareholders relating to PSPS is determined as shown below: 2011 m 2010 m IFRS basis deficit relating to shareholder-backed operations 5 10 Additional EEV deficit relating to shareholders 10 per cent share of the IFRS basis deficit attributable to the PAC with-profits fund 1 3 EEV basis 6 13 ii The additional retained profit on an EEV basis for Other operations primarily represents the mark to market value difference on holding company net borrowings of a charge of 187 million 2010: 177 million, as shown in note 9. iii The EEV basis shareholders equity for Asian long-term business for 2010 of 7,445 million includes the 39 million effect of moving from a passive to an active basis of economic assumption setting as described in note 17a v. Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 EEV basis supplementary Financial statements information 409 8 Analysis of movement in free surplus Free surplus is the excess of the net worth over the capital required to support the covered business.
Where appropriate, adjustments are made to the regulatory basis net worth from the local regulatory basis so as to include backing assets movements at fair value rather than cost, so as to comply with the EEV Principles.
Prudential has based required capital on its internal targets for economic capital subject to it being at least the local statutory minimum requirements, as described in note 1 b ii.
2011 m Free surplus Asset of long-term management business, asset and UK management general and UK general Long-term insurance insurance business commission commission note i Long-term business and asset management operations note 14 note ii Underlying movement: New business 553 553 Business in force: Expected in-force cash flows including expected return on net assets 1,972 363 2,335 Effects of changes in operating assumptions, operating experience variances and otheoperatinitem 168 168 RPI to CPI inflation measure change on defined benefit pension schemes 20 13 33 1,607 376 1,983 note iii Changes in non-operating items 507 24 531 1,100 352 1,452 note iv Net cash flows to parent company 829 276 1,105 note v Exchange movements, timing differences and other items 180 84 264 Net movement in free surplus 91 8 83 Balance at 1 January 2011 2,748 590 3,338 Balance at 31 December 2011 2,839 582 3,421 Representing: Asian operations 1,067 211 1,278 US operations 1,220 113 1,333 UK operations 552 258 810 2,839 582 3,421 Balance at 1 January 2011 Representing: Asian operations 1,045 197 1,242 US operations 1,163 106 1,269 UK operations 540 287 827 2,748 590 3,338 Notes i All figures are shown net of tax.
ii For the purposes of this analysis, free surplus for asset management operations and the UK general insurance commission is taken to be IFRS basis shareholders equity as shown in note 7. iii Changes in non-operating items This represents short-term fluctuations in investment returns, the shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes and the effect of changes in economic assumptions for long-term business operations.
Short-term fluctuations in investment returns primarily reflect temporary market movements on the portfolio of investments held by the Groups shareholder-backed operations.
iv Net cash flows to parent company for long-term business operations reflect the flows as included in the holding company cash flow at transaction rates.
s g r 410 Financial statements | European Embedded Value EEV basis supplementary information Notes on the EEV basis results continued 8 Analysis of movement in free surplus continued v Exchange movements, timing differences and other items represent: 2011 m Asset management and UK general Long-term insurance business commission Total note 14 Exchange movements 15 2 17 note 14 Mark to market value movements on Jackson assets backing surplus and required capital 62 62 note vi Other 227 82 309 180 84 264 vi Other primarily reflects the effect of repayment of contingent loan funding, as shown in note 14 ii, together with timing differences, intragroup loans and other non-cash items.
9 Net core structural borrowings of shareholder-financed operations 2011 m 2010 m Mark to EEV Mark to EEV market basis at market basis at value market value market IFRS basis adjustment value IFRS basis adjustment value note ii note ii Holding company cash and short-term investments 1,200 1,200 1,232 1,232 note i Core structural borrowings central funds 3,201 187 3,388 3,267 177 3,444 Holding company net borrowings 2,001 187 2,188 2,035 177 2,212 Core structural borrowings note iii Prudential Capital 250 250 250 250 Core structural borrowings Jackson 160 17 177 159 13 172 Net core structural borrowings of shareholderfinanced operations 2,411 204 2,615 2,444 190 2,634 Including central finance subsidiaries.
Notes i EEV basis holding company borrowings comprise: 2011 m 2010 m Perpetual subordinated capital securities Innovative Tier 1 1,813 1,491 Subordinated debt Lower Tier 2 949 1,372 Senior debt 626 581 3,388 3,444 In January 2011, the Company issued US$550 million perpetual subordinated capital securities which has been used to finance the repayment of the 500 million subordinated debt in December 2011.
In accordance with the EEV Principles, core borrowings are carried at market value.
As the liabilities are generally held to maturity or for the long-term, no deferred tax asset or liability has been established on the market value adjustment above.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 EEV basis supplementary Financial statements information 411 ii The movement in the mark to market value adjustment represents: Mark to market movement in balance sheet: 2011 m 2010 m Beginning of year 190 30 Change: Income statement 14 164 Foreign exchange effects 4 End of year 204 190 iii The core structural borrowing by Prudential Capital of 250 million represents a bank loan taken out in 2010 which was made in two tranches: 135 million maturing in June 2014, and 115 million maturing in December 2012.
412 Financial statements | European Embedded Value EEV basis supplementary information  continued   2011 m Long-term business operations UK Total Asian US insurance long-term Other Group operations operations operations business operations Total Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns Long-term business: note 2 New business 1,076 815 260 2,151 2,151 note 3 Business in force 688 616 593 1,897 1,897 1,764 1,431 853 4,048 4,048 Asia development expenses 5 5 5 UK general insurance commission 40 40 M&G 357 357 Eastspring Investments 80 80 US broker-dealer and asset management 24 24 Other income and expenditure 536 536 RPI to CPI inflation measure change on defined benefit pension schemes 27 27 18 45 Solvency II implementation costs 4 8 12 44 56 Restructuring costs 19 19 19 Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 1,759 1,427 853 4,039 61 3,978 note 5 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns 155 491 141 787 120 907 Mark to market value movements on core note 9 borrowings 4 4 10 14 Shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 20 20 3 23 note 6 Effect of changes in economic assumptions 279 144 293 158 158 Profit loss before tax including actual investment returns 1,883 788 439 3,110 188 2,922 Tax charge credit attributable to shareholders note 11 profit loss : Tax on operating profit 402 487 221 1,110 66 1,044 Tax on short-term fluctuations in investment returns 10 157 35 202 8 210 Tax on shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 5 5 1 6 Tax on effect of changes in economic assumptions 58 50 72 64 64 Total tax charge credit 450 280 119 849 73 776 Non-controlling interests 4 4 Profit loss for the year 1,433 508 320 2,261 119 2,142 Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 EEV basis supplementary Financial statements information 413 2011 m Long-term business operations UK Total Asian US insurance long-term Other Group operations operations operations business operations total Other movements Exchange movements on foreign operations and note i net investment hedges 87 42 45 45 90 Related tax 68 68 Intragroup dividends including statutory note iii transfers 302 330 218 850 850 External dividends 642 642 Reserve movements in respect of share-based payments 44 44 note iii Investment in operations 32 4 36 36 note iv Other transfers 11 1 18 28 28 Movement in own shares held in respect of share-based payment plans 30 30 Movement in Prudential plc shares purchased by unit trusts consolidated under IFRS 5 5 New share capital subscribed 17 17 Mark to market value movements on Jackson assets backing surplus and required capital: Mark to market value movements arising during the year 96 96 96 Related tax 34 34 34 Net increase decrease in shareholders equity 1,065 283 88 1,436 6 1,430 notes ii and 7 Shareholders equity at 1 January 2011 7,445 4,799 5,970 18,214 7 18,207 Shareholders equity at notes ii and 7 31 December 2011 8,510 5,082 6,058 19,650 13 19,637 Notes i Profits are translated at average exchange rates, consistent with the method applied for statutory IFRS basis results.
The amounts recorded above for exchange rate movements reflect the difference between 2011 and 2010 exchange rates as applied to shareholders equity at 1 January 2011 and the difference between 31 December 2011 and average rates for the year ended 31 December 2011. ii For the purposes of the table above, goodwill related to Asia long-term operations as shown in note 7 is included in Other operations.
iii Total intragroup dividends and investment in operations represent: Total UK long-term Asian US insurance business Other operations operations operations operations operations Total m m m m m m Intragroup dividends note a including statutory transfers 302 330 218 850 850 note b Investment in operations 32 4 36 36 note c Total 270 330 214 814 814 Notes a Intragroup dividends including statutory transfers represent dividends that have been declared in the year and amounts accrued in respect of statutory transfers.
b Investment in operations reflects increases in share capital.
c For long-term business operations, the difference between the total above of 814 million for intragroup dividends including statutory transfers and investment in operations and the net cash flows to parent company of 829 million as shown in note 8 primarily relates to timing differences arising on statutory transfers, intragroup loans and other non-cash items.
414 Financial statements | European Embedded Value EEV basis supplementary information  continued   continued iv Other transfers from long-term business operations to Other operations in 2011 represent: Total UK long-term Asian US insurance business operations operations operations operations m m m m Adjustment for net of tax asset management projected profits of covered business 15 3 22 40 Other adjustments 4 4 4 12 11 1 18 28  The tax charge comprises: 2011 m 2010 m Tax charge on operating profit based on longer-term investment returns: Long-term business: note i Asian operations 402 329 US operations 487 509 note i UK insurance operations 221 260 1,110 1,098 Other operations 66 106 Total tax charge on operating profit based on longer-term investment returns, excluding exceptional tax credit 1,044 992 note ii Exceptional tax credit 158 Total tax charge on operating profit based on longer-term investment returns, including exceptional tax credit 1,044 834 Tax credit on items not included in operating profit: note iii Tax credit on short-term fluctuations in investment returns 210 222 Tax charge credit on shareholders share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 6 2 Tax credit charge on effect of changes in economic assumptions 64 13 Tax credit on costs of terminated AIA transaction 93 Total tax credit on items not included in operating profit 268 304 Tax charge on profit attributable to shareholders including tax on actual investment returns 776 530 Notes i Including tax relief on Asia development expenses and restructuring costs borne by UK insurance operations.
ii The 2010 tax charge on operating profit based on longer-term investment returns of 834 million included an exceptional tax credit of 158 million which primarily related to the impact of a settlement agreed with the UK tax authorities.
iii In 2010, the tax charge on short-term fluctuations in investment returns of 222 million included a credit of 52 million for a net present value reduction in US deferred tax liabilities following changes to variable annuity reserving in accordance with revised statutory guidance.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 EEV basis supplementary Financial statements information 415 12Earningspershare EPS 2011 m 2010 m Operating EPS: Operating profit before tax 3,978 3,696 Tax excluding exceptional tax credit 1,044 992 Non-controlling interests 4 4 Operating profit after tax and non-controlling interests excluding exceptional tax credit 2,930 2,700 Exceptional tax credit 158 Operating profit after tax and non-controlling interests including exceptional tax credit 2,930 2,858 Operating EPS pence excluding exceptional tax credit 115.7p 106.9p Exceptional tax credit pence 6.3p Operating EPS pence including exceptional tax credit 115.7p 113.2p Total EPS: Profit before tax 2,922 3,107 Tax 776 530 Non-controlling interests 4 4 Total profit after tax and non-controlling interests 2,142 2,573 Total EPS pence including exceptional tax credit 84.6p 101.9p Average number of shares millions 2,533 2,524 The 2010 tax charge attributable to shareholders profit included an exceptional tax credit of 158 million which primarily related to the impact of a settlement agreed with the UK tax authorities.
The average number of shares reflects the average number in issue adjusted for shares held by employee trusts and consolidated unit trusts and OEICs which are treated as cancelled.
 2010 On 1 August 2010, Discovery Holdings of South Africa, the Groups joint venture partner in its investment in PruHealth, completed the acquisition of the entire share capital of Standard Life Healthcare, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Standard Life Group, for 138 million.
Discovery funded the purchase of the Standard Life Healthcare transaction, and contributed Standard Life Healthcare to PruHealth as a capital investment on completion.
As a result of the transaction, Discovery increased their shareholding in PruHealth from the previous level of 50 per cent to 75 per cent, and Prudentials shareholding was reduced from 50 per cent of the previous joint venture structure to 25 per cent of the new structure with the much enlarged business.
A gain of 3 million arose in 2010 upon the dilution, representing the difference between the fair value of the enlarged 25 per cent investment still held and the book value of the original 50 per cent investment holding.
416 Financial statements | European Embedded Value EEV basis supplementary information  continued note i  2011 m Value of Total Free Required Total net in-force long-term surplus capital worth business business note 8 note vii Group Shareholders equity at 1 January 2011 2,748 3,415 6,163 12,051 18,214 notes iv, v New business contribution 553 406 147 1,683 1,536 Existing business transfer to net worth 1,862 339 1,523 1,523 Expected return on existing business 110 84 194 880 1,074 Changes in operating assumptions and experience variances 168 42 126 173 299 RPI to CPI inflation measure change on defined benefit pension schemes 20 20 20 Changes in non-operating assumptions and experience variances 507 78 585 83 668 Profit after tax from long-term business 1,100 31 1,131 1,130 2,261 Exchange movements on foreign operations and net investment hedges 15 1 14 31 45 Intragroup dividends including statutory transfers and note ii investment in operations 1,028 1,028 214 814 Mark to market value movements on Jackson assets backing surplus and required capital 62 62 62 Other transfers from net worth 28 28 28 Shareholders equity at 31 December 2011 2,839 3,447 6,286 13,364 19,650 Representing: Asian operations Shareholders equity at 1 January 2011 1,045 790 1,835 5,610 7,445 note v New business contribution 297 97 200 1,011 811 Existing business transfer to net worth 597 21 618 618 Expected return on existing business 58 58 424 482 Changes in operating assumptions and experience variances 52 40 12 52 64 Changes in non-operating assumptions and experience variances 49 3 52 128 76 Profit after tax from long-term business 361 75 436 997 1,433 Exchange movements on foreign operations and net investment hedges 23 5 28 59 87 Intragroup dividends including statutory transfers and note ii investment in operations 305 305 35 270 Other transfers from net worth 11 11 11 Shareholders equity at 31 December 2011 1,067 860 1,927 6,583 8,510 Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 EEV basis supplementary Financial statements information 417 2011 m Value of Total Free Required Total net in-force long-term surplus capital worth business business note 8 note vii US operations Shareholders equity at 1 January 2011 1,163 1,505 2,668 2,131 4,799 note v New business contribution 202 232 30 500 530 Existing business transfer to net worth 754 288 466 466 Expected return on existing business 42 46 88 139 227 Changes in operating assumptions and experience variances 154 2 156 27 183 Changes in non-operating assumptions and note iii experience variances 432 132 564 132 432 Profit after tax from long-term business 316 140 176 332 508 Exchange movements on foreign operations and net investment hedges 8 6 14 28 42 Intragroup dividends including statutory transfers and investment in operations 330 330 330 Mark to market value movements on Jackson assets backing surplus and required capital 62 62 62 Other transfers to net worth 1 1 1 Shareholders equity at 31 December 2011 1,220 1,371 2,591 2,491 5,082 UK insurance operations Shareholders equity at 1 January 2011 540 1,120 1,660 4,310 5,970 note v New business contribution 54 77 23 172 195 Existing business transfer to net worth 511 72 439 439 Expected return on existing business 10 38 48 317 365 Changes in operating assumptions and experience variances 38 4 42 94 52 RPI to CPI inflation measure change on defined benefit pension schemes 20 20 20 Changes in non-operating assumptions and experience variances 26 57 31 343 312 Profit after tax from long-term business 423 96 519 199 320 Intragroup dividends including statutory transfers and note ii investment in operations 393 393 179 214 Other transfers from net worth 18 18 18 Shareholders equity at 31 December 2011 552 1,216 1,768 4,290 6,058 Notes i All figures are shown net of tax.
ii The amounts shown in respect of free surplus and the value of in-force business for Asian and UK insurance operations for intragroup dividends including statutory transfers and investment in operations include the repayment of contingent loan funding.
Contingent loan funding represents amounts whose repayment to the lender is contingent upon future surpluses emerging from certain contracts specified under the arrangement.
If insufficient surplus emerges on those contracts, there is no recourse to other assets of the Group and the liability is not payable to the degree of shortfall.
iii For US operations, changes in non-operating assumptions and experience variances for required capital reflects a release to free surplus following a reduction in the required asset risk charges arising from improvements to quality of the investment portfolio.
418 Financial statements | European Embedded Value EEV basis supplementary information  continued note i  continued iv The movements arising from new business contribution are as follows: 2011 m 2010 m Free surplus invested in new business: Excluding Japan 553 643 note vi Japan 2 note vi Total 553 645 Required capital 406 461 Total net worth 147 184 Value of in-force business 1,683 1,616 Total post-tax new business contribution 1,536 1,432 v Free surplus invested in new business is as follows: 2011 m Total long-term Asian business Total operations UK operations long-term excluding US insurance excluding business Japan operations operations Japan Japan operations note vi note vi note vi note 2 Pre-tax new business contribution 1,076 815 260 2,151 2,151 Tax 265 285 65 615 615 Post-tax new business contribution 811 530 195 1,536 1,536 Free surplus invested in new business 297 202 54 553 553 Post-tax new business contribution per 1 million free surplus invested 2.7 2.6 3.6 2.8 2.8 2010 m Total long-term Asian business Total operations UK operations long-term excluding US insurance excluding business Japan operations operations Japan Japan operations note vi note vi note vi note 2 Pre-tax new business contribution 902 761 365 2,028 1 2,027 Tax 230 266 99 595 595 Post-tax new business contribution 672 495 266 1,433 1 1,432 Free surplus invested in new business 278 300 65 643 2 645 Post-tax new business contribution per 1 million free surplus invested 2.4 1.7 4.1 2.2 0.5 2.2 vi New business contribution and free surplus invested in new business for the Groups Japanese insurance subsidiary, which ceased selling new business with effect from 15 February 2010, have been presented separately from those of the remainder of the Group.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 EEV basis supplementary Financial statements information 419 vii The value of in-force business includes the value of future margins from current in-force business less the cost of holding required capital and represents: 2011 m UK Asian US insurance operations operations operations Group Value of in-force business before deduction of cost of capital and of guarantees 6,922 3,222 4,598 14,742 Cost of capital 317 135 241 693 note viii Cost of time value of guarantees 22 596 67 685 Net value of in-force business 6,583 2,491 4,290 13,364 2010 m UK Asian US insurance operations operations operations Group Value of in-force business before deduction of cost of capital and of guarantees 5,941 2,584 4,635 13,160 Cost of capital 321 183 236 740 note viii Cost of time value of guarantees 10 270 89 369 Net value of in-force business 5,610 2,131 4,310 12,051 viii The change in the cost of time value of guarantees for US operations from 270 million in 2010 to 596 million in 2011 primarily relates to VA business, mainly arising from the new business written in the year, reflecting the increase in VA sales, and the reduction in the expected long-term rate of return for US equities of 1.4 per cent, driven by the reduction in US 10-year treasury bond rate, as shown in note 17a.
 The discounted value of in-force business and required capital can be reconciled to the 2011 and 2010 totals in the tables below for the emergence of free surplus as follows: 2011 m 2010 m note 14 Required capital 3,447 3,415 note 14 Value of in-force VIF 13,364 12,051 note 14 Add back: deduction for cost of time value of guarantees 685 369 note Other items 1,214 845 16,282 14,990 Note Other items represent amounts incorporated into VIF where there is no definitive timeframe for when the payments will be made or receipts received.
In particular, other items includes the deduction of the value of the shareholders interest in the estate, the value of which is derived by increasing final bonus rates so as to exhaust the estate over the lifetime of the in-force with-profits business.
This is an assumption to give an appropriate valuation.
To be conservative this item is excluded from the expected free surplus generation profile below.
420 Financial statements | European Embedded Value EEV basis supplementary information  continued  Cash flows are projected on a deterministic basis and are discounted at the appropriate risk discount rate.
The modelled cash flows use the same methodology underpinning the Groups embedded value reporting and so is subject to the same assumptions and sensitivities.
The table below shows how the VIF generated by the in-force business and the associated required capital is modelled as emerging into free surplus over future years.
2011 m Expected period of conversion of future post-tax distributable earnings and required capital flows to free surplus 2011 total as shown above 1-5 years 6-10 years 11-15 years 16-20 years 21-40 years 40 years Asian operations 7,387 2,582 1,596 1,012 732 1,262 203 US operations 4,267 2,241 1,287 490 173 76 UK insurance operations 4,628 1,864 1,166 743 453 394 8 Total 16,282 6,687 4,049 2,245 1,358 1,732 211 100% 41% 25% 14% 8% 11% 1% 2010 m Expected period of conversion of future post-tax distributable earnings and required capital flows to free surplus 2010 total as shown above 1-5 years 6-10 years 11-15 years 16-20 years 21-40 years 40 years Asian operations 6,329 2,304 1,407 866 591 1,009 152 US operations 4,078 2,358 1,007 421 173 119 UK insurance operations 4,583 1,792 1,173 755 468 389 6 Total 14,990 6,454 3,587 2,042 1,232 1,517 158 100% 43% 24% 14% 8% 10% 1% Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 EEV basis supplementary Financial statements information 421  a Sensitivity analysis economic assumptions The tables below show the sensitivity of the embedded value as at 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 and the new business contribution after the effect of required capital for 2011 and 2010 to: 1 per cent increase in the discount rates, 1 per cent increase and decrease in interest rates, including all consequential changes assumed investment returns for all asset classes, market values of fixed interest assets, risk discount rates, 1 per cent rise in equity and property yields, 10 per cent fall in market value of equity and property assets embedded value only, holding company statutory minimum capital by contrast to required capital, embedded value only, 5 basis point increase in UK long-term expected defaults, and 10 basis point increase in the liquidity premium for UK shareholder-backed annuities.
In each sensitivity calculation, all other assumptions remain unchanged except where they are directly affected by the revised economic conditions.
New business profit per operating profit summary 2011 m Total UK long-term Asian US insurance business operations operations operations operations note 10 New business profit for 2011 1,076 815 260 2,151 Discount rates 1% increase 139 45 36 220 Interest rates 1% increase 2 81 5 88 Interest rates 1% decrease 72 117 6 195 Equity property yields 1% rise 50 92 11 153 Long-term expected defaults 5 bps increase 8 8 Liquidity premium 10 bps increase 16 16 2010 m Total UK long-term Asian US insurance business operations operations operations operations New business profit for 2010 901 761 365 2,027 Discount rates 1% increase 111 51 53 215 Interest rates 1% increase 7 34 8 19 Interest rates 1% decrease 20 40 8 52 Equity property yields 1% rise 41 63 12 116 Long-term expected defaults 5 bps increase 13 13 Liquidity premium 10 bps increase 26 26 422 Financial statements | European Embedded Value EEV basis supplementary information  continued  Embedded value of long-term business operations 2011 m Total UK long-term Asian US insurance business operations operations operations operations note 10 31 December 2011 8,510 5,082 6,058 19,650 Discount rates 1% increase 771 147 443 1,361 Interest rates 1% increase 376 106 343 825 Interest rates 1% decrease 253 58 400 711 Equity property yields 1% rise 329 185 205 719 Equity property market values 10% fall 159 16 326 469 Statutory minimum capital 114 92 4 210 Long-term expected defaults 5 bps increase 98 98 Liquidity premium 10 bps increase 196 196 2010 m Total UK long-term Asian US insurance business operations operations operations operations note 10 31 December 2010 7,445 4,799 5,970 18,214 Discount rates 1% increase 643 164 437 1,244 Interest rates 1% increase 220 148 254 622 Interest rates 1% decrease 176 103 336 615 Equity property yields 1% rise 308 120 227 655 Equity property market values 10% fall 174 5 339 518 Statutory minimum capital 104 127 5 236 Long-term expected defaults 5 bps increase 87 87 Liquidity premium 10 bps increase 174 174 The sensitivities shown above are for the impact of instantaneous changes on the embedded value of long-term business operations and include the combined effect on the value of in-force business and net assets at the balance sheet dates indicated.
If the change in assumption shown in the sensitivities were to occur, then the effect shown above would be recorded within two components of the profit analysis for the following year.
These are for the effect of economic assumption changes and, to the extent that asset value changes are included in the sensitivities, within short-term fluctuations in investment returns.
In addition to the sensitivity effects shown above, the other components of the profit for the following year would be calculated by reference to the altered assumptions, for example, new business contribution and unwind of discount, together with the effect of other changes such as altered corporate bond spreads.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 EEV basis supplementary Financial statements information 423 b Sensitivity analysis non-economic assumptions The tables below show the sensitivity of the embedded value as at 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 and the new business contribution after the effect of required capital for 2011 and 2010 to: 10 per cent proportionate decrease in maintenance expenses a 10 per cent sensitivity on a base assumption of 10 per annum would represent an expense assumption of 9 per annum, 10 per cent proportionate decrease in lapse rates a 10 per cent sensitivity on a base assumption of 5 per cent would represent a lapse rate of 4.5 per cent per annum, and 5 per cent proportionate decrease in base mortality and morbidity rates ie increased longevity.
New business profit per operating profit summary 2011 m Total UK long-term Asian US insurance business operations operations operations operations note 10 New business profit for 2011 1,076 815 260 2,151 Maintenance expenses 10% decrease 26 11 7 44 Lapse rates 10% decrease 92 24 10 126 Mortality and morbidity 5% decrease 60 9 9 60 Change representing effect on: Life business 60 9 3 72 UK annuities 12 12 2010 m Total UK long-term Asian US insurance business operations operations operations operations New business profit for 2010 901 761 365 2,027 Maintenance expenses 10% decrease 27 9 5 41 Lapse rates 10% decrease 81 31 8 120 Mortality and morbidity 5% decrease 50 7 20 37 Change representing effect on: Life business 50 7 1 58 UK annuities 21 21 424 Financial statements | European Embedded Value EEV basis supplementary information  continued  Embedded value of long-term business operations 2011 m Total UK long-term Asian US insurance business operations operations operations operations note 10 31 December 2011 8,510 5,082 6,058 19,650 Maintenance expenses 10% decrease 117 44 52 213 Lapse rates 10% decrease 342 157 65 564 Mortality and morbidity 5% decrease 289 92 227 154 Change representing effect on: Life business 289 92 12 393 UK annuities 239 239 2010 m Total UK long-term Asian US insurance business operations operations operations operations note 10 31 December 2010 7,445 4,799 5,970 18,214 Maintenance expenses 10% decrease 104 39 48 191 Lapse rates 10% decrease 293 158 67 518 Mortality and morbidity 5% decrease 233 81 181 133 Change representing effect on: Life business 233 81 12 326 UK annuities 193 193 Effect of proposed changes in UK corporation tax rate The 2011 results include the effect of the change in the UK corporate tax rate that has been enacted to revise the rate to 25 per cent from 1 April 2012.
The impact of further reductions in the UK corporate tax rate of 1 per cent per annum to 23 per cent in 2014 would be an increase in the net of tax value of in-force business of UK insurance operations at 31 December 2011 of around 60 million.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 EEV basis supplementary Financial statements information 425 17 Assumptions a Principal economic assumptions Deterministic assumptions The tables below summarise the principal financial assumptions: Assumed investment returns reflect the expected future returns on the assets held and allocated to the covered business at the valuation date.
Equity risk premiums in Asia range from 3.25 per cent to 8.7 per cent for both years.
In the US and the UK, the equity risk premium is 4.0 per cent for both years.
notes i, ii, v Asian operations 31December2011 % China Hong Kong India Indonesia Japan Korea Malaysia Philippines Singapore Taiwan Thailand Vietnam notes notes ii, iv iii, iv note iv Risk discount rate: New business 10.0 3.85 13.75 11.15 7.1 6.4 12.2 3.9 5.0 10.1 19.6 In-force 10.0 3.7 13.75 11.15 4.7 7.1 6.5 12.2 4.65 5.0 10.1 19.6 Expected long-term rate of inflation 2.5 2.25 4.0 5.0 0.0 3.0 2.5 4.0 2.0 1.0 3.0 6.5 Government bond yield 3.5 1.9 8.75 6.1 1.0 3.8 3.7 5.4 1.6 1.3 3.3 12.9 31December2010 % China Hong Kong India Indonesia Japan Korea Malaysia Philippines Singapore Taiwan Thailand Vietnam notes notes ii, iv iii, iv note iv Risk discount rate: New business 10.45 5.1 13.1 13.0 4.9 7.9 7.0 13.2 5.4 5.0 10.5 18.85 In-force 10.45 5.1 13.1 13.0 4.9 8.1 7.1 13.2 6.1 5.2 10.5 18.85 Expected long-term rate of inflation 2.5 2.25 4.0 5.0 0.0 3.0 2.5 4.0 2.0 1.0 3.0 5.5 Government bond yield 3.95 3.3 8.1 7.75 1.1 4.6 4.0 6.4 2.7 1.6 3.8 12.1 Asia total % 2011 2010 note i Weighted risk discount rate: New business excluding Japan 7.4 8.4 In-force 6.9 8.1 Notes i The weighted risk discount rates for Asian operations shown above have been determined by weighting each countrys risk discount rates by reference to the EEV basis new business result and the closing value of in-force business.
The risk discount rates for individual Asian territories reflect the movement in government bond yields, together with the effects of movements in the allowance for market risk and changes in product mix.
ii For Hong Kong the assumptions shown are for US dollar denominated business which comprises the largest proportion of the in-force business.
For other territories, the assumptions are for local currency denominated business which reflects the largest proportion of the in-force business.
iii The risk discount rate for Malaysia reflects both the Malaysia life and Takaful operations.
426 Financial statements | European Embedded Value EEV basis supplementary information  continued  iv The mean equity return assumptions for the most significant equity holdings in the Asian operations were: 2011 % 2010 % Hong Kong 5.9 7.3 Malaysia 9.7 10.0 Singapore 7.7 8.7 To obtain the mean, an average over all simulations of the accumulated return at the end of the projection period is calculated.
The annual average return is then calculated by taking the root of the average accumulated return minus one.
v In preparing the EEV basis results for 2011 and 2010 the active basis of economic assumption setting has been applied for all Asian operations.
Previously, the EEV basis results for Japan, Korea and US dollar denominated business written in Hong Kong were determined on the active basis.
For other Asian countries the investment return assumptions and risk discount rates were based on an assessment of longer-term economic conditions the passive basis.
The altered approach with effect from full year 2010 to determine the EEV basis results for all Asian territories on an active basis of economic assumption setting is in line with the Groups other operations, and reflects the fact that markets in a number of Asian countries are becoming increasingly developed.
The effect of the change in 2010 to move to an active basis for Asia operations was as follows: Effect on: 2010 m Pre-tax operating profits from: note 2 New business 5 note 3 Business in force 58 Total 53 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns and changes in economic assumptions 16 Total profit before tax 37 Shareholders equity as at 31 December 2010 39 US operations 2011 % 2010 % note iii Assumed new business spread margins: note i Fixed Annuity business 1.75 to 2.0 2.0 Fixed Index Annuity business 2.25 2.5 Institutional business 1.0 note iv Risk discount rate: Variable annuity 6.7 7.8 Non-variable annuity 4.6 5.6 note ii Weighted average total: Newbusiness 6.5 7.6 In-force 6.0 6.9 US 10-year treasury bond rate at end of year 1.9 3.3 Pre-tax expected long-term nominal rate of return for US equities 5.9 7.3 Expected long-term rate of inflation 2.0 2.3 including the proportion of variable annuity business invested in the general account.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 EEV basis supplementary Financial statements information 427 Notes i For new business issuances in 2011, the assumed spread margin for fixed annuity business and for the proportion of variable annuity business invested in the general account is assumed to grade from 1.75 per cent to 2.0 per cent over five years.
For new business issuances in 2010, the assumed spread margin for fixed annuity business and for the proportion of variable annuity business invested in the general account applies from inception.
ii The weighted average risk discount rates reflect the mix of business between variable annuity and non-variable annuity business.
The decrease in the weighted average risk discount rates from 2010 to 2011 primarily reflects the decrease in the US 10-year Treasury bond rate of 140 basis points, partly offset by the effect of the increase in additional allowance for credit risk as described in note iii below and the impact of the increase in allowance for market risk.
iii Credit risk treatment The projected cash flows incorporate the expected long-term spread between the earned rate and the rate credited to policyholders.
The projected earned rates reflect book value yields which are adjusted over time to reflect projected reinvestment rates.
Positive net cash flows are assumed to be reinvested in a mix of corporate bonds, commercial mortgages and limited partnerships.
The yield on those assets is assumed to grade from the current level to a yield that allows for a long-term assumed credit spread on the reinvested assets of 1.25 per cent over 10 years.
The yield also reflects an allowance for a RMR, which for 2011 is 27 basis points 2010: 26 basis points for longer-term defaults as described in note 1b iii, which represents the allowance as at the valuation date applied in the cash flow projections of the value of the in-force business.
In the event that longer-term default levels are higher, then, unlike for UK annuity business where policyholder benefits are not changeable, Jackson has some discretion to adjust crediting rates, subject to contract guarantee levels and general market competition considerations.
iv For US operations, the risk discount rates shown above include an additional allowance for a combination of credit risk premium and short-term downgrade and default allowance for general account business of 200 basis points 2010: 150 basis points and for variable annuity business of 40 basis points 2010: 30 basis points to reflect the fact that a proportion of the variable annuity business is allocated to the general account as described in note 1b iii.
UK insurance operations 2011 % 2010 % note iv Shareholder-backed annuity business: Risk discount rate: note i New business 7.7 7.3 note ii In-force 8.6 9.9 Pre-tax expected long-term nominal rate of return for shareholder-backed annuity business: New business: Fixedannuities 4.95 4.9  4.4 5.1 note ii In-force: Fixedannuities 4.5 5.1  4.1 5.2 note iv Other business: note iii Risk discount rate: New business 5.3 6.9 In-force 5.65 7.0 Pre-tax expected long-term nominal rates of investment return: UK equities 6.5 8.0 Overseas equities 5.9 to 9.9 7.3 to 10.2 Property 5.2 6.7 Gilt 2.5 4.0 Corporate bonds 4.0 5.7 Expected long-term rate of inflation 3.0 3.55 Post-tax expected long-term nominal rate of return for the PAC with-profits fund: Pension business where no tax applies 5.1 6.7 Life business 4.4 5.9 Notes i The new business risk discount rate for shareholder-backed annuity business incorporates a default allowance for best estimate defaults in respect of assets purchased with new business monies received in 2011.
The increase in the risk discount rate from 2010 to 2011 reflects the profile of the release of additional credit risk provisions, appropriate to the new business assets, over the projected lifetime of this business.
These additional provisions comprise of a credit risk premium, which is derived from Moodys data from 1970 to 2009, an allowance for a 1 notch downgrade of the portfolio subject to credit risk and an allowance for short-term defaults.
s 428 Financial statements | European Embedded Value EEV basis supplementary information  continued  ii For shareholder-backed annuity business, the movement in the pre-tax long-term nominal rates of return and the risk discount rates for in-force business reflect the combined effect of changes in asset yields and changes to the aggregate credit risk allowances as shown in note iv below.
iii The risk discount rates for new business and business in force for UK insurance operations other than shareholder-backed annuities reflect weighted rates based on the type of business.
iv Credit spread treatment For with-profits business, the embedded value reflects the discounted value of future shareholder transfers.
These transfers are directly affected by the level of projected rates of return on investments, including debt securities.
For UK shareholder-backed annuity business, different dynamics apply both in terms of the nature of the business and the EEV methodology applied.
For this type of business the assets are generally held to maturity to match long duration liabilities.
It is therefore appropriate under EEV methodology to include a liquidity premium in the economic basis used.
The appropriate EEV risk discount rate is set in order to equate the EEV with a market consistent embedded value including liquidity premium.
The liquidity premium in the market consistent embedded value is derived from the yield on the assets held after deducting an appropriate allowance for credit risk.
For PRIL, which has approximately 90 per cent of UK shareholder-backed annuity business, the allowance for credit risk for the in-force business at 31 December 2011 is made up of: a 15 basis points for fixed annuities and 14 basis points for inflation-linked annuities in respect of long-term expected defaults.
This is derived by applying Moodys data from 1970 to 2009 and the definition of the credit rating used is the second highest credit rating published by Moodys, Standard and Poors and Fitch: and b 52 basis points for fixed annuities and 47 basis points for inflation-linked annuities in respect of additional provisions which comprise a credit risk premium, which is derived from Moodys data from 1970 to 2009, an allowance for a 1 notch downgrade of the portfolio subject to credit risk and an allowance for short-term defaults.
The credit assumptions used and the residual liquidity premium element of the bond spread over swap rates is as follows: note 1 New business 2011 bps 2010 bps Bond spread over swap rates 139 117 note 2 Total credit risk allowance 35 38 Liquidity premium 104 79 In-force business 2011 bps 2010 bps Bond spread over swap rates 201 160 Credit risk allowance: Long-term expected defaults 15 16 Additional provisions 51 52 note 2 Total credit risk allowance 66 68 Liquidity premium 135 92 Notes 1 The new business liquidity premium is based on the weighted average of the point of sale liquidity premium.
2 Specific assets are allocated to the new business for the year with the appropriate allowance for credit risk which was 35 basis points 2010: 38 basis points.
The reduced allowance for new business in comparison to that for the in-force book reflects the assets held and other factors that influence the necessary level of provision.
The overall allowance for credit risk is prudent by comparison with historic rates of default and would be sufficient to withstand a wide range of extreme credit events over the expected lifetime of the annuity business.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 EEV basis supplementary Financial statements information 429 Stochastic assumptions The economic assumptions used for the stochastic calculations are consistent with those used for the deterministic calculations described above.
Assumptions specific to the stochastic calculations, such as the volatilities of asset returns, reflect local market conditions and are based on a combination of actual market data, historic market data and an assessment of longer-term economic conditions.
Common principles have been adopted across the Group for the stochastic asset models, for example, separate modelling of individual asset classes but with allowance for correlation between the various asset classes.
Details are given below of the key characteristics and calibrations of each model.
Asian operations The same asset return models as described for UK insurance operations below, appropriately calibrated, have been used for Asian operations.
The principal asset classes are government and corporate bonds.
Equity holdings are much lower than in the UK while property holdings do not represent a significant investment asset: The stochastic cost of guarantees is primarily only of significance for the Hong Kong, Korea, Malaysia and Singapore operations: and The mean stochastic returns are consistent with the mean deterministic returns for each country.
The expected volatility of equity returns ranges from 18 per cent to 35 per cent, and the volatility of government bond yields ranges from 0.9 per cent to 2.4 per cent for both years.
US operations Jackson Interest rates are projected using a log-normal generator calibrated to historical US Treasury yield curves: Corporate bond returns are based on Treasury securities plus a spread that has been calibrated to current market conditions and varies by credit quality: and Variable annuity equity returns and bond interest rates have been stochastically generated using a log-normal model with parameters determined by reference to historical data.
The volatility of equity fund returns for 2011 and 2010 ranges from 19 per cent to 32 per cent, depending on the risk class and the class of equity, and the standard deviation of interest rates ranges from 2.1 per cent to 2.4 per cent 2010: 2.0 per cent to 2.4 per cent.
UK insurance operations Interest rates are projected using a two-factor model calibrated to the initial market yield curve: The risk premium on equity assets is assumed to follow a log-normal distribution: The corporate bond return is calculated as the return on a zero-coupon bond plus a spread.
The spread process is a mean reverting stochastic process: and Property returns are modelled in a similar fashion to corporate bonds, namely as the return on a risk-free bond, plus a risk premium, plus a process representative of the change in residual values and the change in value of the call option on rents.
Mean returns have been derived as the annualised arithmetic average return across all simulations and durations.
For each projection year, standard deviations have been calculated by taking the square root of the annualised variance of the returns over all the simulations.
These have been averaged over all durations in the projection.
For equity and property, the standard deviations relate to the total return on these assets.
The standard deviations applied for all years are as follows: 2011 % 2010 % Equities: UK 20 18 Overseas 18 18 Property 15 15 430  EEV   continued  b Demographic assumptions Persistency, mortality and morbidity assumptions are based on an analysis of recent experience but also reflect expected future experience.
Where relevant, when calculating the time value of financial options and guarantees, policyholder withdrawal rates vary in line with the emerging investment conditions according to managements expectations.
c Expense assumptions Expense levels, including those of service companies that support the Groups long-term business operations, are based on internal expense analysis investigations and are appropriately allocated to acquisition of new business and renewal of in-force business.
Exceptional expenses are identified and reported separately.
It is Prudentials policy not to take credit for future cost reduction programmes until the savings have been delivered.
For Asian life operations, the expenses comprise costs borne directly and recharged costs from the Asian regional head office, that are attributable to covered business.
The assumed future expenses for these operations also include projections of these future recharges.
Development expenses are charged as incurred.
Corporate expenditure comprises: Expenditure for group head office, to the extent not allocated to the PAC with-profits funds, together with Solvency II implementation and restructuring costs, which are charged to the EEV basis results as incurred: and Expenditure of the Asian regional head office that is not allocated to the covered business or asset management operations, and is charged as incurred.
These costs are primarily for corporate related activities and included within corporate expenditure.
d Taxation and other legislation Current taxation and other legislation have been assumed to continue unaltered except where changes have been announced and substantively enacted in the year.
The amounts shown are not, and not intended to be, reflective of premium income recorded in the IFRS income statement.
APE are calculated as the aggregate of regular new business amounts and one-tenth of single new business amounts and are subject to roundings.
The PVNBP are calculated as equalling single premiums plus the present value of expected premiums of new regular premium business, allowing for lapses and other assumptions made in determining the EEV new business contribution.
New business premiums reflect those premiums attaching to covered business, including premiums for contracts classified as investment products for IFRS basis reporting.
New business premiums for regular premium products are shown on an annualised basis.
Internal vesting business is classified as new business where the contracts include an open market option.
ii For 2010, the table above excludes new business sales for the Groups Japanese insurance subsidiary, which ceased selling new business with effect from 15 February 2010. iii New business in India is included at Prudentials 26 per cent interest in the India life operation.
iv New business in China is included at Prudentials 50 per cent in the China life operation.
v UK wholesale sales for 2010 and 2011 include amounts for a small number of bulk annuity buy-in insurance agreements with an APE of 93 million and 33 million respectively.
 On 22 February 2012, M&G completed transactions to: i exchange bonus share rights for equity holdings with the employees of PPM South Africa, and ii the sale of a 10 per cent holding in the majority of the business to Thesele Group, a minority shareholder, for cash.
Following these transactions M&Gs holding in the majority of the business reduced from 75 per cent to 47 per cent.
Under IFRS requirements the divestment is accounted for as the disposal of the 75 per cent holding and an acquisition of a 47 per cent holding at fair value.
As a consequence of the IFRS application, the transactions give rise to a gain on dilution of approximately 40 million.
On an EEV basis, consistent with IFRS, this amount will be accounted for in the Group 2012 summarised consolidated income statement as a gain on dilution, excluded from the Groups EEV operating profit based on longer-term investment returns.
