Additional information 471 Glossary Actual exchange rate AER Collateralised debt obligation fund CDO fund Actual exchange rates are actual historical exchange rates for the An asset backed security and structured credit product.
CDOs specific accounting period, being the average rates over the period gain exposure to the credit of a portfolio of assets and divide the for the income statement and the closing rates for the balance credit risk among different tranches, with any losses initially sheet at the balance sheet date.
applied to the most junior tranches and moving up to the more senior tranches should these be exhausted.
Annual premium equivalent or APE A measure of new business activity that is calculated as the sum of Commission annualised regular premiums from new business plus 10 per cent A fee paid to an agent or broker by an insurance company for of single premiums on new business written during the period.
services rendered in connection with the sale or maintenance of an insurance product.
Annuity A contract providing for periodic payments to an annuitant for a Constant exchange rate CER specified period of time, often until the annuitants death.
Constant exchange rate Prudential plc reports its results at both actual exchange rates AER to reflect actual results and also Asset backed security ABS constant exchange rates, so as to eliminate the impact from A security whose value and income payments are derived from exchange translation.
and collateralised or backed by a specified pool of underlying assets.
The pool of assets is typically a group of small and illiquid Core structural borrowings assets that are unable to be sold individually.
Borrowings which Prudential considers to form part of its core capital structure and exclude operational borrowings.
Available-for-sale AFS Securities that have been acquired neither for short-term sale nor Credit risk to be held to maturity.
Shown at fair value on the statement of The risk of loss if another party fails to meet its obligations, or fails financial position and changes in value are taken straight to equity to do so in a timely fashion.
instead of the income statement.
Currency risk Bancassurance The risk that asset or liability values, cash flows, income or The distribution of insurance products through bank branches expenses will be affected by changes in exchange rates.
Also and or joint ventures with banks.
referred to as foreign exchange risk.
Bonuses Deferred acquisition costs or DAC Bonuses refer to the non-guaranteed benefit added to Acquisition costs are expenses of an insurer which are incurred in participating life insurance policies and are the way in which connection with the acquisition of new insurance contracts, or the policyholders receive their share of the profits of the policies.
renewal of existing insurance policies.
They include commissions There are normally two types of bonus: and other variable sales inducements and the direct costs of issuing the policy, such as underwriting and other policy issue Regular bonus expected to be added every year during the expenses.
Typically, under IFRS, an element of acquisition costs term of the policy.
It is not guaranteed that a regular bonus will is deferred ie not expensed in the year incurred, and instead, be added each year, but once it is added, it cannot be reversed, amortised in the income statement in line with the emergence also known as annual or reversionary bonus: and of surpluses on the related contracts.
Final bonus an additional bonus expected to be paid when policyholders take money from the policies.
If investment return Deferred annuities has been low over the lifetime of the policy, a final bonus may not Annuities or pensions due to be paid from a future date or when be paid.
Final bonuses may vary and are not guaranteed.
the policyholder reaches a specified age.
Cash surrender value Defined benefit pension scheme The amount of cash available to a policyholder on the surrender of An occupational scheme where the benefits paid to the annuitant or withdrawal from a life insurance policy or annuity contract.
depend on the number of years in service and the salary at the time of retirement.
Also known as a final salary scheme in the UK.
Cede When an insurer reinsures its risk with another insurer, it cedes Discretionary participation features or DPF business.
A contractual right to receive, as a supplement to guaranteed benefits, additional benefits: Claim An occurrence that is the basis for submission and or payment of a that are likely to be a significant portion of the total contractual benefit under an insurance policy.
Depending on the terms of the benefits, insurance policy, a claim may be covered, limited or excluded from whose amount or timing is contractually at the discretion of the coverage.
issuer, and that are contractually based on asset, fund, company or other entity performance as discussed in IFRS 4.
472 Additional information | Glossary | continued Glossary Dividend cover Fixed indexed annuities Dividend cover is calculated as operating profit after tax on an These are similar to fixed annuities, in that the contract holder pays IFRS basis, divided by the current year interim dividend plus the the insurer a premium, which is credited to the contract holders proposed final dividend.
account, and periodically, interest is credited to the contract holders account and administrative charges are deducted, as Duration appropriate.
An annual minimum interest rate may be guaranteed, The number of years required to receive the present value of a although actual interest credited may be higher and is linked to an stream of future cash flow, which is often used as an indicator of a equity index over its indexed option period.
bonds price volatility resulting from changes in interest rates.
Funds under management Earnings per share EPS These comprise funds of the Group held in the statement of Total earnings divided by the number of shares outstanding.
Basic financial position and external funds that are managed by EPS uses a weighted average number of shares outstanding during Prudential asset management operations.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all Generally accepted accounting principles GAAP dilutive potential ordinary shares.
A widely accepted set of rules, conventions, standards and procedures for reporting financial information of a national Economic assumptions standard setter.
Assumptions about economic variables such as interest rates, economic growth and inflation.
Guaranteed annuities Policies that pay out a fixed amount of benefit for a defined period.
Endowment product An ordinary individual life insurance product that provides the Guaranteed investment contract GIC US insured party with various guaranteed benefits if it survives An investment contract between an insurance company and an specific maturity dates or periods stated in the policy.
Upon the institutional investor, which provides a stated rate of return on death of the insured party within the coverage period, a deposits over a specified period of time.
They typically provide for designated beneficiary receives the face value of the policy.
partial or total withdrawals at book value if needed for certain liquidity needs of the plan.
European Embedded Value or EEV Financial results prepared in accordance with a set of Principles Guaranteed minimum accumulation benefit GMAB US issued by the Chief Financial Officers Forum of European Insurance A guarantee that ensures that the contract value of a variable Companies in May 2004 and expanded by the Additional annuity contract will be at least equal to a certain minimum amount Guidance of EEV Disclosures published in October 2005. after a specified number of years.
Fair value Guaranteed minimum death benefit GMDB US The price that a reasonable buyer would be willing to pay and a The basic death benefit offered under variable annuity contracts, reasonable seller would be willing to accept for a product on the which specifies that if the owner dies before annuity income open market.
payments begin, the beneficiary will receive a payment equal to the greater of the contract value or purchase payments less First year premiums withdrawals.
These are premiums received in the first year of a recurring premium policy.
Guaranteed minimum income benefit GMIB US A guarantee that ensures, under certain conditions, that the owner Fixed annuities may annuitise the variable annuity contract based on the greater of Fixed annuity contracts written in the US which allow for a the actual account value or b a payout base equal to premiums tax-deferred accumulation of funds, are used for asset credited with some interest rate, or the maximum anniversary accumulation in retirement planning and for providing income value of the account prior to annuitisation.
in retirement and offer flexible payout options.
The contract holder pays the insurer a premium, which is credited to the Guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit GMWB US contract holders account.
Periodically, interest is credited to A guarantee in a variable annuity that promises that the owner may the contract holders account and administrative charges are make annual withdrawals of a defined amount for the life of the deducted, as appropriate.
owner or until the total guaranteed amount is recovered, regardless of market performance or the actual account balance.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Additional information 473 Group free surplus International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Group free surplus at the end of the period comprises free surplus Accounting standards that all publicly listed groups in the for the insurance businesses, representing the excess of the net European Union are required to apply in preparing consolidated worth over the required capital included in the EEV results, and financial statements.
IFRS net assets for the asset management businesses excluding goodwill.
The free surplus generated during the period comprises Investment funds the movement in this balance excluding foreign exchange, capital Pools of funds held for collective investment purposes.
movements and other reserve movements.
Specifically, it includes amounts maturing from the in-force operations during the period Investment grade less the investment in new business, the effect of market Investments rated BBBor above for S&P or Baa3 or above for movements and other one-off items.
Generally they are bonds that are judged by the rating agency as likely enough to meet payment obligations that banks Health and protection are allowed to invest in them.
These comprise health and personal accident insurance products, which provide morbidity or sickness benefits and include health, Investment-linked products or contracts disability, critical illness and accident coverage.
Health and Insurance products where the surrender value of the policy is protection products are sold both as standalone policies and as linked to the value of underlying investments such as collective riders that can be attached to life insurance products.
Health and investment schemes, internal investment pools or other property Protection riders are presented together with ordinary individual or fluctuations in the value of underlying investment or indices.
life insurance products for purposes of disclosure of financial Investment risk associated with the product is usually borne by the information.
Insurance coverage, investment and administration services are provided for which the charges are deducted from the Holding company cash flow investment fund assets.
Benefits payable will depend on the price The cash flow of Prudential plc, the ultimate parent company, and of the units prevailing at the time of surrender, death or the its central finance subsidiaries.
maturity of the product, subject to surrender charges.
These are also referred to as unit-linked products or unit linked contracts.
IGD surplus The Prudential Groups solvency surplus, measured in accordance Investment property with the EU Insurance Groups Directive.
Property land and or a building or part of a building held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation or both, rather than for use by the Immediate annuity Prudential Groups operations.
An annuity in which payments to the annuitant or beneficiary start at once upon establishment of the annuity plan or scheme.
Loans Such annuities are almost always purchased with a single lump Policy loans, mortgage loans on residential and commercial real sum payment.
estate and other loans outside of Prudential Group.
In-force Market value reduction MVR An insurance policy or contract reflected on records that has not A reduction applied to the payment on with-profits bonds when expired, matured or otherwise been surrendered or terminated.
policyholders surrender in adverse market conditions.
Inherited estate Medium term note MTN For life insurance proprietary companies, surplus capital available A general obligation of a company, sold through investment banks, on top of what is necessary to cover policyholders reasonable with maturities generally in the three to 10-year range.
An inherited orphan estate is effectively surplus capital on a realistic basis built over time and not allocated to Money Market Fund MMF policyholders or shareholders.
A MMF is an open-ended mutual fund that invests in short-term debt securities such as US treasury bills and commercial paper.
Internal rate of return IRR The purpose of an MMF is to provide investors with a safe place The IRR is equivalent to the discount rate at which the present to invest easily accessible cash-equivalent assets characterised EEV value of the post-tax cash flows expected to be earned over as a low-risk, low-return investment.
the life time of the business written in shareholder-backed life funds is equal to the total invested capital to support the writing Mortality rate of the business.
The capital included in the calculation of the IRR Rate of death, varying by such parameters as age, gender is equal to the amount required to pay acquisition costs and set up and health, used in pricing and computing liabilities for future reserves less premiums received, plus encumbered capital.
The policyholders of life and annuity products, which contain impact of the time value of options and guarantees is included in mortality risks.
474 Additional information | Glossary | continued Glossary Net asset value per share Participating funds Shareholders equity divided by the number of ordinary shares Distinct portfolios where the policyholders have a contractual right in issue.
to receive, at the discretion of the insurer, additional benefits based on factors such as the performance of a pool of assets held within Net premiums the fund, as a supplement to any guaranteed benefits.
The insurer Life insurance premiums net of reinsurance premiums ceded may either have discretion as to the timing of the allocation of those to third party reinsurers.
benefits to participating policyholders, or may have discretion as to the timing and the amount of the additional benefits.
For Prudential Net worth the most significant participating funds are with-profits funds for Regulatory basis net assets for EEV reporting purposes.
These net business written in the UK, Hong Kong, Malaysia and Singapore.
assets are sometimes subject to minor adjustment to achieve consistency with the IFRS treatment of certain items.
Participating policies or participating business Contracts of insurance where the policyholders have a contractual New business contribution right to receive, at the discretion of the insurer, additional benefits The profits, calculated in accordance with European Embedded based on factors such as investment performance, as a supplement Value Principles, from business sold in the financial reporting to any guaranteed benefits.
This is also referred to as with-profits period under consideration.
New business margin Present value of new business premiums or PVNBP The value of new business on an EEV basis, expressed as a The present value of new business premiums is calculated as percentage of the present value of new business premiums equalling single premiums plus the present value of expected expected to be received from the new business.
premiums of new regular premium business, allowing for lapses and other assumptions made in determining the EEV new business Non-participating business contribution.
A life insurance policy where the policyholder is not entitled to a share of the companys profits and surplus, but receives certain Regular premium product guaranteed benefits.
Also known as non-profit in the UK.
A life insurance product with regular periodic premium payments.
Examples include pure risk policies eg fixed annuities, term insurance, critical illness and unit-linked insurance contracts.
Reinsurance The practice whereby an insurer, in consideration of a premium Open ended investment company OEIC paid to it, agrees to indemnify another party for part or all of the A collective investment fund structured as a limited company in liabilities assumed by the reinsured party under an insurance which investors can buy and sell shares.
contract, which the reinsured party has issued.
Operating profits based on longer-term Renewal premiums investment returns Premiums receivable in subsequent years of a multi-year IFRS basis operating profits based on longer-term investment insurance policy.
returns are IFRS profit before tax attributable to shareholders, which, inter alia, excludes short-term fluctuations in investment Rider returns, the shareholders share of actuarial gains and losses A supplemental plan that can be attached to a basic insurance on defined benefit pension schemes, profits and losses on the policy, with payment of additional premium.
sale or dilution of the Groups businesses and other significant non-operational items included in the total profit.
Risk margin reserve RMR charge EEV basis similar to as described under IFRS but under EEV An RMR is included within operating profit based on longer-term basis, where additional profit and loss effects arise, operating investment returns and represents a charge for long-term profit based on longer-term investment returns also excludes the expected defaults of debt securities, determined by reference to mark to market value movements on core structural borrowings the credit quality of the portfolio.
and the effect in changes in economic assumptions and changes in the time value of cost of options and guarantees arising from Sarbanes-Oxley changes in economic factors.
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, officially named the Public Company Accounting Reform and Investor Protection Act of 2002, became Operational borrowings law on 30 July 2002 in response to high-profile business failures, Borrowings which arise in the normal course of the business.
in order to reinforce investor confidence and protect investors by improving the accuracy and reliability of corporate disclosure.
All companies both foreign and domestic in the US, including Prudential, that have registered equity or debt securities under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Additional information 475 Scottish Amicable Insurance Fund SAIF Unallocated surplus SAIF is a ring-fenced sub-fund of the Prudential Assurance Unallocated surplus is recorded wholly as a liability and represents Companys long-term fund following the acquisition of the the excess of assets over policyholder liabilities for Prudentials mutually owned Scottish Amicable Life Assurance Society with-profits funds.
The balance retained in the unallocated surplus in 1997.
The fund is solely for the benefit of policyholders represents cumulative income arising on the with-profits business of SAIF.
Shareholders of Prudential plc have no interest in the that has not been allocated to policyholders or shareholders.
profits of this fund, although they are entitled to asset management fees on this business.
Underwriting The process of examining, accepting or rejecting insurance risks, Separate account and classifying those accepted, in order to charge an appropriate A separate account is a pool of investments held by an insurance premium for each accepted risk.
company not in or separate from its general account.
The returns from the separate account generally accrue to the policyholder.
Unit-linked products or unit-linked contracts A separate account allows an investor to choose an investment See investment-linked products or investment-linked contracts category according to his individual risk tolerance, and desire above.
Universal life Single premiums An insurance product where the customer pays flexible premiums, Single premium policies of insurance are those that require only subject to specified limits, that are accumulated in an account and a single lump sum payment from the policyholder.
are credited with interest at a rate either set by the insurer or reflecting returns on a pool of matching assets.
The customer Stochastic techniques may vary the death benefit and the contract may permit the Stochastic techniques incorporate results from repeated customer to withdraw the account balance, typically subject to simulations using key financial parameters which are subject a surrender charge.
to random variations and are projected into the future.
Value of new business VNB Subordinated debt Embedded value of new insurance contracts written in the year.
A fixed interest issue or debt that ranks below other debt in order of priority for repayment if the issuer is liquidated.
Holders are Variable annuity VA US compensated for the added risk through higher rates of interest.
An annuity whose value is determined by the performance of Under EU insurance regulation, subordinated debt is not treated underlying investment options that frequently includes securities.
as a liability and counts towards the coverage of the required A variable annuitys value is not guaranteed and will fluctuate, minimum margin of solvency, with limitations.
depending on the value of its underlying investments.
The holder of a variable annuity assumes the investment risk and the funds Surrender backing a variable annuity are held in the insurance companys The termination of a life insurance policy or annuity contract at the separate account.
VAs are similar to unit-linked annuities in the UK.
request of the policyholder, after which the policyholder receives the cash surrender value, if any, of the contract.
Whole of life A type of life insurance policy that provides lifetime protection, Surrender charge or surrender fee premiums must usually be paid for life.
The sum assured is paid out The fee charged to a policyholder when a life insurance policy whenever death occurs.
Commonly used for estate planning or annuity contract is surrendered for its cash surrender value purposes.
prior to the end of the surrender charge period.
With-profits funds Takaful See participating funds above.
Insurance that is compliant with Islamic principles.
Yield Time value of options and guarantees A measure of the income received from an investment compared The value of financial options and guarantees comprises two parts, to the price paid for the investment.
Normally expressed as a the intrinsic value and the time value.
The intrinsic value is given by percentage.
a deterministic valuation on best estimate assumptions.
The time value is the additional value arising from the variability of economic outcomes in the future.
Total shareholder return TSR TSR represents the growth in the value of a share, plus the value of dividends paid, assuming that the dividends are reinvested in the Companys shares on the ex-divided date.
