2011 operations Governance Financial statements Cape plc Annual Report 2011 49 1.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Basis of consolidation I FRS 12, Disclosures of interests in other entities includes the a A business combination is recognised where separate disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other legal entities or businesses have been brought together within entities, including joint arrangements, associates, special theGroup.
purpose vehicles and other off balance sheet vehicles.
The Group is yet to assess IFRS 12s full impact and intends to Subsidiaries are all entities including special purpose entities adopt IFRS 12 no later than the accounting period beginning over which the Group has the power to govern the financial on or after 1 January 2013, subject to endorsement by the EU.
and operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding IFRS 13, Fair value measurement, aims to improve of more than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and consistency and reduce complexity by providing a precise effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or definition of fair value and a single source of fair value convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group measurement and disclosure requirements for use across controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from IFRSs.
The requirements, which are largely aligned between the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are IFRSs and US GAAP, do not extend the use of fair value fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
accounting but provide guidance on how it should be applied where its use is already required or permitted by The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to other standards within IFRSs or US GAAP.
The Group is yet account for business combinations.
The consideration to assess IFRS13s full impact, however the Group does not transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value of expect it to have a significant impact and intends to adopt the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity IFRS13 no later than the accounting period beginning on or interests issued by the Group.
The consideration transferred after 1 January 2013, subject to endorsement by the EU.
includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a Amendment to IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures contingent consideration arrangement.
Acquisition-related on derecognition is effective for annual periods costs are expensed as incurred.
beginning on or after 1 July 2011.
Amendment to IFRS 1, First time adoption on fixed assets Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent and hyperinflation is effective for annual periods liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured beginning on or after 1 July 2011. initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
On an Amendment to IAS 12, Income taxes on deferred tax  basis, the Group recognises any is effective for annual periods beginning on or after non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or 1January2012.
at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the Amendment to IAS 1, Financial statement presentation acquirees net assets.
regarding other comprehensive income is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012.
Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at cost less IFRS 11, Joint arrangements is effective for annual impairment.
Cost is adjusted to reflect changes in consideration periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. arising from contingent consideration amendments.
2011 revision to IAS 27, Separate financial statements is effective for annual periods beginning on or after The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount 1January2013.
of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the 2011 revision to IAS 28, Associates and joint ventures acquisition-date fair value of any previous equity interest in is effective for annual periods beginning on or after the acquiree over the fair value of the Groups share of the 1 January 2013. identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If this is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are not acquired in the case of a bargain purchase, the difference is yet effective that would be expected to have a material recognised directly in the statement of comprehensive income.
b The Group treats transactions with non-controlling 2.
Accounting policies interests as transactions with equity owners of the Group.
The Groups key accounting policies are set out below.
These For purchases from non-controlling interests, the difference policies have been prepared on a historic cost basis and under between any consideration paid and the relevant share recognition and measurement requirements of IFRS standards acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary in effect that apply to accounting periods beginning on or after is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on disposals to non- 1 January 2011. controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
When the Group ceases to have control or significant influence, any retained interest in the entity is remeasured to its fair value, with the change in carrying amount recognised in the Income Statement.
