88 Cape plc Annual Report 2011 Parent Company Notes to the financial statements UK GAAP 1.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation The financial statements are prepared on the going concern basis under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of derivatives at fair value, and in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
Although the Company is incorporated and registered in Jersey, the Parent Company financial statements are designed to include disclosures sufficient to comply with those parts of the UK Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under UK GAAP.
The Companys financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom and are therefore being presented separately from the consolidated financial statements of Cape plc, which have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC Interpretations.
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company has elected not to present its own profit and loss account for the year.
The Company has decided not to prepare a cash flow statement.
In accordance with FRS 8 the Company has taken the exemption not to disclose related party transactions with entities that are part of the Cape plc Group.
FRS 29 Financial instruments: Disclosures became effective from 1 January 2008.
As the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS 7, the Company is exempt from the disclosure requirements of FRS 29.
Other new accounting standards issued by the Accounting Standards Board and effective from 1 January 2011 have had no impact on the accounts of the Company.
Dividend income Dividend income is recognised in the income statement as part of other income when the Companys right to receive payments is established.
Fixed asset investments Investments are held at cost less impairment.
Impairment reviews are performed by Directors when there has been an indication of potential impairment.
Deferred income taxation Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less, tax in the future.
Resultant deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the underlying timing differences can be deducted, or where there are deferred tax liabilities against which the assets can be recovered.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Share capital Ordinary shares and deferred shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Employees and Directors Employment costs, including Directors emoluments amounted to 44,640.
Other income Relates to a gain earned as a result of Group restructuring where the Company acquired 100% of Cape Intermediate Holdings plc in exchange for the issue of share capital of 29.5 million.
Fixed asset investments Group Companies m Cost: At 19 April 2011 Additions 62.7 At 31 December 2011 62.7 Net book amount: At 31 December 2011 62.7 The Directors believe that the carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying net assets.
