50 Cape plc Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued b Transactions and balances The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional of subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an currency using exchange rates prevailing at the date of the associate, joint venture or financial asset.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at income in respect of that entity are accounted for as if the period end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities Group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities.
denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the This may mean that amounts previously recognised in income statement, except when deferred in equity as other comprehensive income are reclassified to the qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment Income Statement.
Foreign exchange gains and losses that relate to borrowings and cash and cash equivalents are presented c Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method in the income statement within finance income or cost.
of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups All other foreign exchange gains and losses are presented investment in the joint venture includes goodwill identified on in the income statement within other losses gains net.
acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment loss.
Changes in the fair value of monetary securities denominated in foreign currency classified as available for The Groups share of the joint ventures post-acquisition profits sale areanalysed between translation differences resulting or losses is recognised in the income statement, and its share from changes in the amortised cost of the security and other of post-acquisition movements is recognised in other changes in the carrying amount of the security.
The cumulative post-acquisition differences related to changes in amortised cost are movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the recognised in profit or loss, and other changes in carrying investment.
When the Groups share of losses in a joint venture amount are recognised in other comprehensive income.
equals or exceeds its interest in the joint venture, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise c Group companies further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made The results and financial position of all Group entities that have payments on behalf of the joint venture.
a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: If the ownership interest in a joint venture is reduced but significant influence is retained, only a proportionate share of a ssets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are the amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive translated at the closing exchange rate at the date of the income are reclassified to profit or loss where appropriate.
balance sheet: i ncome and expenses for each income statement are Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and the translated at average exchange rates unless this average joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect interest in the joint venture.
Unrealised losses are also of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an case the income and expenses are translated at the rate impairment of the asset transferred.
on the dates of the transaction : and a ll resulting exchange differences are recognised as a Dilution gains and losses arising in joint ventures are separate component of equity.
recognised in the income statement.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the d Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains translation of the net investment in foreign operations, and of on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
borrowings and other currency instruments designated as Unrealised losses are also eliminated.
Accounting policies of hedges of such investments, are taken to other comprehensive subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure income.
When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
sold, exchange differences that were recognised in equity are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss e All subsidiary undertakings have year-end dates of on sale.
31December except Cape Industrial Services Group Limited which prepares accounts to 31 March and last prepared Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition annual accounts to 31 March 2011. of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing exchange rate.
Foreign currencies a Functional and presentational currency Goodwill Items included in the financial statements of each of the Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition Groups entities are measured using the currency of the over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net primary economic environment in which the entity operates assets acquired.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
are presented in GB pound, which is the Companys functional Goodwill is allocated to the appropriate cash generating unit and presentation currency.
for the purpose of impairment testing.
Any impairment is recognised immediately through the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
The allocation is made to those cash generating units or groups of cash generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
2011 operations Governance Financial statements Cape plc Annual Report 2011 51 2.
Accounting policies continued Trade receivables Intangible assets Trade receivables are recognised and carried at fair value and Intangible assets are recognised if it is probable that there will subsequently measured at amortised cost, less any provision be future economic benefits attributable to the asset, the cost for impairment.
The amount of the provision is the difference of the asset can be measured reliably, the asset is separately between the assets carrying amount and the present value of identifiable and there is control over the use of the asset.
Intangible assets are measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
The assets are amortised on Trade payables a straight line basis over the period over which the Group Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and expects to benefit from these assets, ranging from three subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Leases Property, plant and equipment a Finance leases Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost net of Where assets are financed by leasing agreements that give accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
rights approximating to ownership, the amount representing Cost comprises purchase cost together with any incidental the outright purchase price is capitalised and the costs of acquisition.
Interest is capitalised on qualifying assets corresponding leasing commitments are shown as obligations as defined by IAS 23R.
Certain land and buildings are held at to the lessor.
The relevant assets are depreciated in previous revalued amounts less accumulated depreciation as accordance with the Groups depreciation policy or over the these amounts have been taken as their deemed cost at the lease term if shorter.
Net finance charges, calculated on the date of transition to IFRS in accordance with the exemption reducing balance method, are included in finance costs.
under IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of IFRS.
b Operating leases Depreciation is provided to write off the cost less the estimated Payments made under operating leases, net of any incentives residual value of tangible fixed assets by equal instalments received from the lessor, are charged to the income statement over their estimated useful economic lives with the exception on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
that no depreciation is provided on freehold land.
The assets residual values and useful economic lives are reviewed, and Dividend distribution adjusted as appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
The Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is following rates are applied: recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the freehold buildings 50 years: Companys shareholders.
leasehold land and buildings the shorter of 50 years the period of the lease: and Compensation for industrial disease plant, machinery, and fixtures and fittings 1-10 years.
Provision is made for compensation for industrial disease where it is possible to estimate the liability with sufficient The entity applies the cost model in accounting for investment reliability.
This is in respect of both claims lodged and property.
The investment property relates to land held at cost outstanding at the period end and future potential claims.
less any provision for impairment.
Benefit is recognised for insurance recoveries for claims provided when they are anticipated with virtual certainty.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised Provisions within other losses gains net, in the income statement.
Other provisions relate to property held provisions, contingent When revalued assets are sold, the amounts included in other consideration and National Insurance in respect of share reserves are transferred to retained earnings.
There is sufficient uncertainty as to the timing of these obligations to recognise as a provision rather Impairment of assets excluding goodwill than within creditors.
The entity assesses at each reporting date whether an asset may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, the Group Provisions for liabilities are made where the timing or amount makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
An of settlement is uncertain.
A provision is recognised when: the assets recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result value less costs to sell and its value in use.
In assessing value of past events: it is probable that an outflow of resources will in use, the estimated future cash flows attributable to the asset be required to settle the obligation and the amount has been are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount reliably estimated.
rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation Where the recoverable amount is estimated to be less than using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments its carrying amount, the carrying amount is reduced to its of the time value of money and risks specific to the obligation.
An impairment loss is recognised The charge incurred in respect of the unwind of the discount is immediately in the income statement.
recognised in finance costs in the income statement.
52 Cape plc Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued Taxation Any contingent consideration is recognised at fair value at the Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using contingent consideration that is deemed to be an asset or the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively liability is recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in enacted by the balance sheet date.
profit or loss or as a change to other comprehensive income.
Deferred income tax is recognised, using the full liability Inventories method, on temporary differences arising between the tax Inventories which include raw materials and work in progress bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amount in the are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Deferred income tax is materials are valued based on first-in, first-out FIFO method.
determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted, Cost is determined using the FIFO method.
The cost of or substantially enacted, by the balance sheet date and are finished goods and work in progress comprises raw materials, expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is direct labour, other direct costs and related production realised or deferred tax liability is settled.
overheads based on normal operating capacity.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the is probable that future taxable profits will be available against ordinary course of business less selling expenses.
Allowance which the temporary differences can be utilised.
is made for obsolete and slow moving items based on annualusage.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except Revenue recognition where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary or receivable for the sale of goods and services in the ordinary difference will not be reversed in the foreseeable future.
course of the Groups activities.
Revenue is shown net of value added tax, returns, rebates and discounts and after eliminating Other items sales within the Group.
Revenue recognition in relation to Other items represent income and expenses relating to construction contracts is described in the accounting policy non-recurring transactions that are significant, by virtue of for construction contracts.
Revenue is recognised in relation to their size or nature, and therefore relevant to understanding non-construction contracts when the service is rendered and is the Groups financial performance and are shown separately described in the accounting policy for maintenance contracts.
to provide a better indication of the underlying results of the business.
Construction contracts Contracts are undertaken for customers either on a short or Employee benefits long-term basis.
For short-term contracts, work done is The Group operates both defined benefit and defined substantially billed as performed and for long-term contracts, contribution schemes.
work is carried out on a substantially fixed basis.
For shortterm contracts, revenue and profit are recognised according to A defined contribution scheme is a pension scheme under work executed.
Amounts taken to revenue in respect of work which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
done but not billed are included within amounts recoverable on The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to pay contracts.
Costs incurred, including an appropriate allocation further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets of overheads and attributable profits, in respect of long-term to pay all employees the benefits relating to employment in the contracts are included in work in progress net of progress current or prior periods.
The pension expense for defined payments received and provisions for foreseeable losses.
contribution schemes represents contributions payable in Provision is made in full for any losses as soon as they can theyear.
Any payments on account or provisions for foreseeable losses in excess of contract balances are included A defined benefit scheme is a pension scheme that is not in trade and other payables.
Revenue and attributable profit on a defined contribution scheme.
The liability recognised long-term contracts is recognised according to the percentage in the balance sheet in respect of the defined benefit scheme of estimated total contract value completed or the achievement is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the of contractual milestones provided that the outcome of the balance sheet date less the fair value of the plan assets.
contract can be assessed with reasonable certainty.
The defined benefit scheme is closed.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated tri-annually by independent actuaries Maintenance contracts using the projected unit method and this valuation is updated Revenues from maintenance contracts are recognised as at each balance sheet date.
The present value of the defined standalone work packages in the period in which the services benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated are provided based on the agreed contract schedule of rates.
future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality The client is regularly billed throughout the period and revenue corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in is recognised as invoiced.
which the benefits will be paid and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pensionliability.
2011 operations Governance Financial statements Cape plc Annual Report 2011 53 2.
Accounting policies continued a Net investment hedges Current and past service costs, finance costs and expected For net investment hedges, the gain or loss on the hedging returns on assets are charged to operating profit.
Actuarial instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is gains and losses arising from new valuations and from recognised directly in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the updating the latest actuarial valuation to reflect conditions at ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income the balance sheet date are recognised in full in the statement statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the The pension schemes deficits or surpluses to the extent that income statement when the foreign operation is partially any surpluses are considered recoverable are recognised disposed of or sold.
in full and presented on the face of the balance sheet.
b Cash flow hedges Under IFRIC 14 the recoverability of a surplus must be For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss assessed against the minimum funding requirements of the on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, pension scheme.
while the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the The Group operates gratuity schemes in certain overseas income statement when the hedged transaction affects the countries.
These are accounted for in accordance with IAS 19 income statement.
and accounting follows the same principles as for a defined benefit scheme.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation Accounting for derivative financial instruments and as a hedge is revoked, any cumulative gain or loss existing in hedging activities equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income interest rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with foreign statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected currency and interest rate fluctuations.
Derivatives are initially to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in recognised at fair value on the date the contract is entered into equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
Borrowings The fair value of interest rate swaps is determined by reference Borrowings are recognised initially at the amount of the to market values of similar instruments.
consideration received after deduction of issue costs.
Issue costs together with finance costs are charged to the income For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: statement over the term of the borrowings and represent a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments net investment hedges when hedging the exposure to outstanding.
changes in the value of the Groups interests in the net assets of foreign operations: and Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk carried at amortised cost: any difference between the associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value probable forecast transaction.
is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
The Group formally designates and documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item at the Cumulative preference shares are classified as liabilities.
inception of the transaction, as well as its risk management The dividends on these preference shares are recognised objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedge in the income statement as interest expense.
The documentation also includes identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group nature of the risk being hedged and how the Group will assess has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for the effectiveness of the hedging instruments in offsetting the at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
exposure to changes in the fair value of the hedge or the cash flows attributable to the hedged risk.
The Group also Cash and cash equivalents documents its assessment, both at inception and on an Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in the on call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes with original maturities of three months or less, and bank in fair values or cash flows of the hedged items.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken Restricted cash relating to the Scheme of Arrangement see to the income statement.
The treatment of gains and losses notes 20 and 34 is excluded from cash and cash equivalents arising from revaluing derivatives designated as hedging for the purpose of the Group statement of cash flows.
instruments depends on the nature of the hedging relationship, as follows: 54 Cape plc Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued Changes in the fair value of monetary securities denominated Financial assets in a foreign currency and classified as available for sale are Classification analysed between translation differences resulting from The Group classifies its financial assets in the following changes in amortised cost of the security and other changes categories: at fair value through profit or loss, loans and in the carrying amount of the security.
The translation receivables, and available for sale.
The classification depends differences on monetary securities are recognised in profit or on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
loss: translation differences on non-monetary securities are Management determines the classification of its financial recognised in equity.
Changes in the fair value of monetary assets at initial recognition.
and non-monetary securities classified as available for sale are recognised in equity.
a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial When securities classified as available for sale are sold or assets held for trading.
A financial asset is classified in this impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the in equity are included in the income statement as gains and short term.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading losses from investment securities.
unless they are designated as hedges.
Assets in this category are classified as current assets.
Interest on available-for-sale securities calculated using the effective interest method is recognised in the income b Loans and receivables statement as part of other income.
Dividends on Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets available-for-sale equity instruments are recognised with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in in the income statement as part of other income when an active market.
They are included in current assets, except the Groups right to receive payments is established.
for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
These are classified as non-current assets.
The Groups The fair values of quoted investments are based on current loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables bid prices.
If the market for a financial asset is not active and cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
and for unlisted securities, the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques.
These include the use of recent c Available-for-sale financial assets arms-length transactions, reference to other instruments that Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are are substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis, and either designated in this category or not classified in any of option pricing models, making maximum use of market inputs the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets and relying as little as possible on entity-specific inputs.
unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group Recognition and measurement of financial assets is impaired.
In the case of equity securities Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised classified as available for sale, a significant or prolonged on the trade-date the date on which the Group commits to decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is purchase or sell the asset.
Investments are initially recognised considered as an indicator that the securities are impaired.
at fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial carried at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial assets assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, at fair value, and transaction costs are expensed in the income less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously statement.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights recognised in profit or loss is removed from equity and to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses have been transferred and the Group has transferred recognised in the income statement on equity instruments substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
are not reversed through the income statement.
Available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are subsequently carried at fair Share capital value.
Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost Ordinary shares and deferred shares are classified as equity.
using the effective interest method.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss category are tax, from the proceeds.
presented in the income statement within other losses gains net in the period in which they arise.
Dividend income from financial assets at fair value through profit or loss is recognised in the income statement as part of other income when the Groups right to receive payments is established.
2011 operations Governance Financial statements Cape plc Annual Report 2011 55 2.
Accounting policies continued the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue Share based payments during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from The Group issues equity settled share based payments to these estimates.
Information about such judgements and certain employees which must be measured at fair value and estimations are contained in individual accounting policies.
recognised as an expense in the income statement with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair values of these The key judgements and sources of estimation uncertainty payments are measured at the dates of grant using option that could cause an adjustment to be required to the carrying pricing models, taking into account the terms and conditions amount of asset or liabilities within the next accounting period upon which the awards are granted.
The fair value is are outlined below: recognised over the period during which employees become unconditionally entitled to the awards subject to the Groups a Carrying amount of certain assets and goodwill estimate of the number of awards which will lapse, either due In reviewing the carrying value of certain assets and goodwill, to employees leaving the Group prior to vesting or due to estimates of future financial performance of the assets and non-market based performance conditions not being met.
businesses concerned are taken into account.
The estimates inherently include assumptions about internal and external At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its factors that, whilst considered reasonable at the date of these estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest accounts, may change in the future from those levels currently based on the non-market vesting conditions.
The carrying value of goodwill has been considered impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income fully in note 13. statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
When the options are exercised, the Company issues new shares.
b Pensions and other post retirement costs Proceeds received on the exercise of share options are The liability in respect of the Groups retirement benefit credited to share capital and share premium.
obligations is dependent on a number of estimates including those relating to mortality, inflation, salary increases and the The social security contributions payable in connection with rate at which liabilities are discounted.
Any change in these the grant of the share options is considered an integral part assumptions would impact the retirement benefit obligation of the grant itself, and the charge will be treated as a cash recognised.
Further information on the assumptions used is settled transaction.
Segment reporting c Revenue recognition and assessment of construction Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with contract performance the internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision Revenue and profit on long-term construction contracts are Maker CODM.
The CODM, who is responsible for allocating usually recognised according to the stage of completion of resources and assessing performance of the operating the contract, which is calculated by reference to the estimated segments, has been identified as the Group Board.
contract revenues and expected costs including provisions.
The judgements made in this process are considered to be Financial risk factors appropriate: however, a change in these estimates would have The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: an impact on the amount of revenue, costs and profits market risk including currency risk, cash flow interest rate risk recognised.
and fair value interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall risk management programme focuses on d Industrial disease claims the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise Provision is made for compensation for industrial disease potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
claims where it is possible to estimate the liability with sufficient The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge reliability.
The key critical accounting estimates and certain risk exposures.
assumptions in respect of the provisions for industrial disease are detailed in note 25.
Judgement is involved in order to Risk management is carried out by the Group treasury assess the size of the provision and consider the potential department under policies approved by the Board of Directors.
impact that current claims and ongoing legal cases both with Group treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks the Group and relevant third party cases could have on the in close co-operation with the Groups operating units.
The potential impact of future claims.
Board provides written principles for overall risk management, as well as written policies covering specific areas, such as e Deferred tax assets foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of Deferred tax has only been recognised where it is assumed derivative financial instruments and non-derivative financial that the deferred tax asset is recoverable.
The accumulated instruments, and investment of excess liquidity.
A summary losses reported by the Group for tax purposes in various of the Groups financial risk factors is given on page 74. tax jurisdictions have not been recognised as deferred tax assets where the Directors hold the view that it is unlikely that Critical accounting estimates and judgements the Group will be able to utilise them in the future.
Further The preparation of these financial statements requires information on the assumptions used is disclosed in note 17. management to make judgements and estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of
