50 Cape plc Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued b Transactions and balances The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional of subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an currency using exchange rates prevailing at the date of the associate, joint venture or financial asset.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at income in respect of that entity are accounted for as if the period end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities Group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities.
denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the This may mean that amounts previously recognised in income statement, except when deferred in equity as other comprehensive income are reclassified to the qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment Income Statement.
Foreign exchange gains and losses that relate to borrowings and cash and cash equivalents are presented c Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method in the income statement within finance income or cost.
of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups All other foreign exchange gains and losses are presented investment in the joint venture includes goodwill identified on in the income statement within other losses gains net.
acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment loss.
Changes in the fair value of monetary securities denominated in foreign currency classified as available for The Groups share of the joint ventures post-acquisition profits sale areanalysed between translation differences resulting or losses is recognised in the income statement, and its share from changes in the amortised cost of the security and other of post-acquisition movements is recognised in other changes in the carrying amount of the security.
The cumulative post-acquisition differences related to changes in amortised cost are movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the recognised in profit or loss, and other changes in carrying investment.
When the Groups share of losses in a joint venture amount are recognised in other comprehensive income.
equals or exceeds its interest in the joint venture, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise c Group companies further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made The results and financial position of all Group entities that have payments on behalf of the joint venture.
a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: If the ownership interest in a joint venture is reduced but significant influence is retained, only a proportionate share of a ssets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are the amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive translated at the closing exchange rate at the date of the income are reclassified to profit or loss where appropriate.
balance sheet: i ncome and expenses for each income statement are Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and the translated at average exchange rates unless this average joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect interest in the joint venture.
Unrealised losses are also of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an case the income and expenses are translated at the rate impairment of the asset transferred.
on the dates of the transaction : and a ll resulting exchange differences are recognised as a Dilution gains and losses arising in joint ventures are separate component of equity.
recognised in the income statement.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the d Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains translation of the net investment in foreign operations, and of on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
borrowings and other currency instruments designated as Unrealised losses are also eliminated.
Accounting policies of hedges of such investments, are taken to other comprehensive subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure income.
When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
sold, exchange differences that were recognised in equity are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss e All subsidiary undertakings have year-end dates of on sale.
31December except Cape Industrial Services Group Limited which prepares accounts to 31 March and last prepared Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition annual accounts to 31 March 2011. of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing exchange rate.
Foreign currencies a Functional and presentational currency Goodwill Items included in the financial statements of each of the Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition Groups entities are measured using the currency of the over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net primary economic environment in which the entity operates assets acquired.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
are presented in GB pound, which is the Companys functional Goodwill is allocated to the appropriate cash generating unit and presentation currency.
for the purpose of impairment testing.
Any impairment is recognised immediately through the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
The allocation is made to those cash generating units or groups of cash generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
