48 Cape plc Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements 1.
Summary of significant accounting policies 1.3.
Going concern The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to These policies have been consistently applied to all the years continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Group therefore continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its consolidated financial statements.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in 1.4.
Changes in accounting policies and disclosures accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991, International a New and amended standards adopted by the Group.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC There is no significant financial impact on this consolidated interpretations as adopted by the European Union in response financial report of the new standards, amendments and to the IAS regulation EC 1606 2002.
The consolidated interpretations that are in issue and mandatory for the financial financial statements have been prepared under the historical year end to 31December 2011: cost convention as modified to include revaluation of certain financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative I AS 24 revised Related party disclosures effective instruments at fair value through the profit and loss and held 1January 2011. at fair value as described below.
A mendments IAS 32 Financial instruments: Presentation on classification of rights issues effective 1 February 2010.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with A mendment to IFRS 1, First time adoption on financial IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the A nnual improvements 2010 effective 1 January 2011. process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The A mendment to IFRIC 14, Pre-payments of a Minimum areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, Funding Requirement effective January 2011. or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to I FRIC 19, Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity the consolidated financial statements are disclosed in note 2. instruments effective 1 July 2010.
The accounts for the Parent Company, Cape plc, have been b New standards, amendments and interpretations issued prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted but not effective for the financial year beginning 1 January Accounting Practice GAAP.
The Company accounts are 2011 and not early adopted.
presented in separate financial statements on pages 85 to 90.
I AS 19, Employee benefits was amended in June 2011.
1.2 Changes in composition of the entity An initial assessment of the impact of amendments has On 17 June 2011, pursuant to a Scheme of Arrangement under indicated no material change to the pension costs charge.
Part 26 of the Companies Act 2006, a new parent company IFRS 9, Financial instruments, addresses the classification, was introduced which is now called Cape plc the Company.
measurement and recognition of financial assets and The previous parent company has been renamed as Cape financial liabilities.
IFRS 9 was issued in November 2009 and Intermediate Holdings plc Old Cape.
It replaces the parts of IAS 39 that relate to the classification and measurement of financial instruments.
Immediately after the Scheme of Arrangement became IFRS 9 requires financial assets to be classified into two effective the Company had the same business and operations measurement categories: those measured as at fair value as Old Cape.
The consolidated assets and liabilities of the and those measured at amortised cost.
The determination Company immediately after the effective date of the Scheme is made at initial recognition.
The classification depends on of Arrangement are the same as the consolidated assets and the entitys business model for managing its financial liabilities of Old Cape immediately before.
instruments and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the instrument.
For financial liabilities, the standard retains The introduction of a new holding company constitutes a group most of the IAS 39 requirements.
The main change is that, reconstruction and has been accounted for using merger in cases where the fair value option is taken for financial accounting principles.
As a result, the financial statements are liabilities, the part of a fair value change due to an entitys shown as if the new group had always been in existence.
The own credit risk is recorded in other comprehensive income statement of changes in equity shows that the net impact of the rather than the income statement, unless this creates an changes to the composition of the entity is that the share accounting mismatch.
The Group is yet to assess IFRS 9s premium of old Cape on 17 June 2011 has been reclassified to full impact and intends to adopt IFRS 9 no later than the other reserves.
The details of movements in share capital are accounting period beginning on or after 1 January 2015, shown in note 27.
The disclosures required by IAS 24 Related subject to endorsement by the EU.
party Transactions of this transaction are also given in note 35.
IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements builds on existing principles by identifying the concept of control as the The Company is incorporated in Jersey under the Companies determining factor in whether an entity should be included Jersey Law 1991 and is headquartered in Singapore.
within the consolidated financial statements of the Parent Company.
The standard provides additional guidance to assist in the determination of control where this is difficult to assess.
The Group is yet to assess IFRS 10s full impact and intends to adopt IFRS 10 no later than the accounting period beginning on or after 1 January 2013, subject to endorsement by the EU.
