Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 Principal accounting policies Rathbone Brothers Plc the Company is a public company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales under the Companies Act 2006.
The consolidated and Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRS.
The Company financial statements are presented on pages 116 to 133.
Changes in accounting policies and disclosures a Presentation of primary statements Two changes have been made to the presentation of the primary statements in these consolidated financial statements compared to the previous year.
The consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income have been re-presented this year as a combined consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
In addition, other reserves are now shown individually on the face of the balance sheet rather than in aggregate.
The consolidated statement of cash flows now separately discloses the net change in provisions through profit or loss as a single line item in cash flows from operating activities.
There has been no change to the net cash inflow from operating activities or the net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents.
The comparative balances have been reclassified to be consistent with this presentation.
b Segmental information As described in note 3, the presentation of segmental information has been changed to reflect changes in the segmental information provided to the Group executive committee, which is the Groups chief operating decision maker.
The results of the business areas previously reported as Trust and Tax Services are now included within the Investment Management segment for reporting segmental results note 3, fee and commission income note 5 and headcount note 9 and 36.
In addition, fee income from trust, tax and pensions advisory activities are now reported separately as fees from advisory services.
Total net fee and commission income included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income is now comprised of net investment management fee income, net commission and fees from advisory services.
Comparative balances in the segmental analysis for the full year to 31 December 2010 have been reclassified to be consistent with the revised presentation.
Developments in reporting standards and interpretations Standards affecting the financial statements In the current year, there have been no new or revised standards and interpretations that have been adopted and have affected the amounts reported in these financial statements.
Standards not affecting the reported results or the financial position The following new and revised standards and interpretations have been adopted in the current year.
Their adoption has not had any significant impact on the amounts reported in these financial statements but may impact the accounting for future transactions and arrangements: IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures revised 2009 Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures as part of Improvements to IFRS 2010 Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements as part of Improvements to IFRS 2010 Amendments to IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting as part of Improvements to IFRS 2010 Amendments to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement have been adopted in the current year but have had no material impact on these financial statements.
New standards and interpretations A number of new standards and amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning after 1 January 2011, and therefore have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements.
None of these is expected to have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements of the Group, except for IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IAS19 Employee Benefits, which are not yet adopted by the EU and are not expected to become mandatory for periods commencing before 1 January 2013.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments could change the classification and measurement of financial assets.
The Group does not plan to adopt this standard early and the extent of the impact has not been determined.
70 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued Developments in reporting standards and interpretations continued IAS 19 Employee Benefits is not yet adopted by the EU but is expected to become mandatory for the Groups consolidated financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2013.
The amendments to IAS 19, if applied for the year ended 31 December 2011, would reduce profit after tax by approximately 1,118,000 and increase actuarial gains in other comprehensive income by the same amount.
There would be no effect on total equity.
The Group does not plan to adopt this standard early.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries, together the Group, made up to 31 December each year.
Subsidiaries are all entities in which the Company has a controlling interest, generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether an entity is a subsidiary of the Company.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is obtained.
They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
The results of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements up to the date that control ceases.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in profit or loss.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of impairment of the asset transferred.
For subsidiaries with non-coterminous year ends, financial statements are drawn up to 31 December for the purposes of consolidation.
Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for certain financial instruments that are measured at fair value.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in the consolidated financial statements.
The directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Further detail is contained in the financial review on page 17.
Net interest income Interest income and expense are recognised in other comprehensive income for all instruments measured at amortised cost and for available for sale debt instruments using the effective interest method.
Dividends receivable from money market funds are included within net interest income.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or a financial liability and of allocating the interest income or interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument or, when appropriate, a shorter period to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or financial liability.
When calculating the effective interest rate, the Group estimates cash flows considering all contractual terms of the financial instrument but does not consider future credit losses.
The calculation includes all fees and interest paid or received between parties to the contract that are an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and all other premiums or discounts.
Once a financial asset or a group of similar financial assets has been written down as a result of an impairment loss, interest income is recognised using the rate of interest used to discount the future cash flows for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss.
Dividend income Dividend income from final dividends on equity securities is accounted for on the date the security becomes ex-dividend.
Interim dividends are recognised when received.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2011 71 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued Operating leases Lease agreements which do not transfer substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased assets to the Group are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in other comprehensive income on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease expense recognised in other comprehensive income is adjusted for the impact of any lease incentives.
Fees and commissions Portfolio and other management advisory and service fees are recognised on a continuous basis over the period the service is provided.
Asset management fees are recognised evenly over the period the service is provided.
Trail commissions receivable and payable are accounted for on a continuous basis over the period in which they are earned.
Commission charges for executing transactions on behalf of clients are recognised when the transaction is dealt.
To the extent that initial charges received on the sale of units arise from an identifiable brokerage service, the income is recognised on the performance of that service.
Other initial charges are deferred and recognised as income on a straight line basis over the estimated average life of the unit holding.
Property, plant and equipment All property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of assets to their estimated residual value over their estimated useful lives, using the straight line method, on the following bases: Leasehold property: over the lease term Plant, equipment and computer hardware: over three to ten years The assets residual lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with the carrying amount.
These are included in profit or loss.
Intangible assets a Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and is reviewed for impairment at least annually, or when other occasions or changes in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is allocated to groups of cash generating units that correspond with the Groups segments, as these represent the lowest level within the Group at which management monitor goodwill for purposes of impairment testing.
Cash generating units are identified as the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
On disposal of a subsidiary the attributed amount of goodwill that has not been subject to impairment is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date and annually thereafter.
b Computer software and software development costs Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software.
These costs are amortised on the basis of the expected useful lives three to four years.
Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group are recognised as intangible assets when the recognition requirements of IAS 38 are met.
Computer software development costs recognised as assets are amortised using the straight line method over their useful lives not exceeding four years.
Costs associated with developing or maintaining computer software programs that are not recognised as assets are recognised as an expense as incurred.
72 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued c Client relationships Client relationships acquired are initially recognised at cost.
Those recognised in respect of business combinations are initially recognised at fair value.
Client relationships have a finite useful life and are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation is calculated using the straight line method to allocate the cost of the client relationships over their estimated useful lives ten to fifteen years.
When client relationships are lost the full amount of unamortised cost is recognised immediately and the intangible asset is derecognised.
Financial assets The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held to maturity investments and available for sale financial assets.
The classification of financial assets is determined at initial recognition.
Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value.
a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss This category has two sub-categories: financial assets held for trading, and those designated at fair value through profit or loss at inception.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term or if so designated.
Derivatives, which are categorised as fair value through profit or loss, are reported within other assets or other liabilities.
b Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They arise when the Group provides money, goods or services to a debtor or purchases a loan with no intention of trading the receivable.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
c Held to maturity Held to maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities that the Groups management has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity, other than those that meet the definition of loans and receivables or that the Group has classified as available for sale or fair value through profit or loss.
Held to maturity investments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any impairment, with revenue recognised on an effective yield basis.
d Available for sale Available for sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
Available for sale investments are those intended to be held for an indefinite period of time, which may be sold in response to needs for liquidity or changes in interest rates, exchange rates or equity prices.
Purchases and sales of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, held to maturity and available for sale are recognised on trade-date the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Loans are recognised when cash is advanced to the borrowers.
Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not carried at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the financial assets have expired or been effectively transferred, or where the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Available for sale financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are subsequently carried at fair value.
Loans and receivables and held to maturity investments are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are included in profit or loss in the period in which they arise.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of available for sale financial assets are recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the available for sale reserve in equity, until the financial asset is sold, derecognised or impaired at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity should be recognised in profit or loss.
However, interest calculated using the effective interest method is recognised in profit or loss.
The fair values of quoted financial instruments in active markets are based on current bid prices.
If the market for a financial asset is not active and for unlisted securities, the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques.
These include the use of recent arms length transactions, discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing models and other valuation techniques commonly used by market participants.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2011 73 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued Impairment Goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment annually, and when there is an indication of impairment.
Financial assets and other assets with finite useful lives are assessed for impairment when there is objective evidence of impairment during the accounting period.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Held to maturity investment securities and loans and receivables are considered individually for impairment.
The recoverable amount of non-financial assets is the higher of fair value less any cost to sell and value-in-use.
In assessing value-in-use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present values using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
The recoverable amount of held to maturity investment securities and loans and receivables is calculated as the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the effective interest rate of the asset on recognition.
Where an asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Company estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Impairment of available for sale securities is calculated as the cumulative loss that has been previously recognised directly in equity at the time that objective evidence of impairment is identified.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or cash generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised as an expense immediately.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of any asset, except for goodwill, equity instruments or cash generating units, is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, which is no greater than the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or cash generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
An impairment loss in respect of a held to maturity investment security or loans and receivables is reversed only if the value increase can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised.
An impairment loss in respect of an investment in equity instruments classified as available for sale is not reversed through profit or loss.
If the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available for sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in profit or loss, the impairment is reversed through profit or loss.
Deposits and borrowings All deposits and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received.
After initial recognition, deposits and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs and any discounts or premiums on settlement.
Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event which it is probable will result in an outflow of economic benefits that can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation.
The increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised within interest expense.
Foreign currencies The Companys functional and the Groups presentational currency is Sterling.
Transactions in currencies other than the relevant Group entitys functional currency are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary financial assets carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in net profit or loss for the period, except for exchange differences arising on non-monetary assets and liabilities, where the changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity.
74 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued Foreign currencies continued Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Gains and losses arising on translation are taken to the Groups translation reserve.
The Group has elected to treat goodwill and fair value adjustments denominated in a currency other than the Groups functional currency arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS as non-monetary foreign currency items and they are translated using the exchange rate applied on the date of acquisition.
Retirement benefit obligations The cost of providing benefits under defined benefit plans are determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur in other comprehensive income.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straight line basis over the average period until the amended benefits become vested.
The amount recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligations reduced by the fair value of plan assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Death in service benefits are provided to all employees through the pension schemes.
The amount recognised in the balance sheet for death in service benefits represents the present value of the estimated obligation, reduced by the extent to which any future liabilities will be met by insurance policies.
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Taxation Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax receivable or payable is the expected tax receivable or payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax receivable or payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method in respect of temporary differences arising from differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax basis used in the computation of taxable profit.
In principle, deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences may be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises: from the initial recognition of goodwill for which amortisation is not deductible for tax purposes: or from the initial recognition of other assets and liabilities in a transaction, which affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit, other than in a business combination.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is the Groups intention not to reverse the temporary difference in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amounts of deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the liability is settled or when the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited to profit or loss, except when it relates to items credited or charged directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2011 75
