Capita plc Governance 75 Remuneration Chairs report and consulted fully with our major shareholders, to retain, motivate and help Remuneration bridge the competitive pay gap with Pauls annualised total compensation The following information is not subject to audit.
increasing to around the median of market practice in four years time.
Further report It is my pleasure to report on the activities of the Remuneration Committee for details on this plan are detailed on page 79. the period to 31 December 2011.
This report will be presented for approval by The Committee met during the year to consider the performance of the various shareholders at the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
elements of the remuneration such as the Long Term Incentive Plan and the This report sets out the remuneration policy and remuneration details of the Deferred Annual Bonus to understand how these plans were performing against Executive and Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
The report has been the targets set.
prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 of The Large and Medium-sized The Committee also met in August to specifically discuss the Remuneration Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and also Policy that was adopted by the subsidiaries who were identified as firms meets the requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
captured by the FSAs Remuneration Code.
The long term strategy of Capita is to attract and retain the best employees to fulfil the overall business plan of the Group and ensuring that this aligns with our Members of the Committee shareholders, external stakeholders, and our risk policies and systems.
Our The following Non-Executive Directors were members of the Committee during remuneration strategy and policy for Executive Directors is to set base salary at lower 2011: quartile level and reward upper quartile performance with upper quartile rewards.
Martina King Chair, Nigel Wilson, Paul Bowtell During 2011, following shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting, we The Committee met five times during 2011 and the attendance of the introduced a one off Co-Investment Plan CIP for Paul Pindar.
It was part of the Committee is shown in the attendance table on page 67. benchmarking exercise undertaken in 2010 and was devised with our advisers Summary of remuneration and share awards in respect of 2011 The table below shows how the areas of salary and other benefits are broken down between fixed and variable pay.
Strategy Policy Package Risk Alignment to shareholders interests Set base pay at lower quartile level Base salary Low Cash bonus Low medium Competitive in the current market and our Reward upper quartile performance Deferred Annual Bonus plan Low medium business sector Long Term Incentive Plan Medium to high Encourages and supportive of a high Balance between short and long term rewards Share Matching Plans Medium performance culture with a balance on longer term rewards Attract, retain and motivate Competitive package of benefits Pension provision Low medium Car allowance Healthcare All employee plans Below is a summary of the remuneration for the Executive Directors awarded during 2011.
