2 Business review Governance Accounts Capita plc Delivering value How we grow We generate and 1 and deliver value support growth by... Our business goal is to continue... targeting building a sustainable business growing markets that meets the needs of all our Capita leads the fast growing business process outsourcing stakeholders.
We have developed a broad based services business with multiple relationships We achieve this goal through covering a wide range of different sectors and we continually explore new market areas, such as health and our business strategy of growing the emergency services, where we believe there is the business in a controlled and potential to add value.
We currently target 10 markets across the public and private sectors.
profitable manner across our See page 12 target markets.
Outsourced and potential UK BPO market Our UK BPO market share We maintain existing relationships 1 1 and win new clients by actively 8.1bn 23% currently outsourced developing our capability and 2010: 7.8bn 2010: 23% scale, both internally and through Our revenue split complementary acquisitions, Private sector Public sector 2 continuously enriching our 117bn 52% 48% service offering and generating potential market 2010: 50% 2010: 50% further growth.
indd 2 12 03 2012 21:04 Capita plc Business review 3 Delivering value... securing organic... building our growth and acquisitions capability and scale 26 major contract wins The key driver of our organic growth is securing long term Capita has grown steadily over the past 28 years and we BPO contracts with new and existing clients principally in now have over 46,500 people at more than 350 business the UK and Ireland.
We reduce our clients running costs sites onshore, nearshore and offshore, including 68 2.0bn and add value to their operations while generating specialist business centres.
We actively develop our defined revenues to Capita over the life of the contract.
capability and scale so that we are continually enhancing 2010: 0.8bn Over two-thirds of our revenue is derived from our offering to clients and ensuring that we remain at the outsourcing relationships with additional revenues forefront of responsible, high quality service delivery.
generated from specialist services delivered by our See page 27 extensive network of niche businesses.
Flexible solutions and infrastructure: See page 17 effective people management efficient processes Invested in 21 acquisitions Acquisitions play a vital role in supporting our growth.
appropriate shared bespoke ICT platforms We acquire small to medium sized companies which add extensive delivery network further expertise or scale to our operations or which help 341m us enter new markets.
Our acquisition approach is Our business centre network underpinned by strict criteria and this, together 2010: 301m Onshore: Nearshore: Offshore: UK Continental India with our extensive experience of integrating new 55 6 7 Europe, Dubai companies into the Capita model, ensures that we add Ireland, Channel Islands real value to the Group.
