78 Business review Governance Accounts Capita plc Remuneration Short term incentives Annual bonus scheme The annual bonus scheme is reviewed annually and designed to drive performance and profitability across the organisation.
The cash bonus potential for 2011 for Executive Directors was 85% of salary.
For the period to 31 December 2011 nothing was paid as the stretching performance conditions were not met.
The performance target was set, during the business planning process for 2011, at a level of profit before tax with a stretch target to achieve the full potential.
This was set using market expectations and forecasts submitted within the business planning process.
Share Plans Plan name Plan background and objective Plan operation Performance period and criteria Deferred Annual Bonus plan The DAB was approved and adopted at the Annual General Meeting on 28 April The value of the Deferred Shares is determined by the entitlement under the 2009 and before DAB 2005 and new rules were adopted at the Annual General Meeting in May 2010. annual bonus scheme, half of the bonus entitlement is paid in cash and the EPS growth of RPI 6% per annum The DAB is comprised of Deferred Shares, which form part of the annual bonus remainder is deferred as determined by the Committee.
The remainder is 33% of the award vests scheme, and Matching Shares.
deferred on a gross basis into Deferred Shares or as a net restricted share award.
EPS growth of RPI 16% per annum The Deferred Shares are held for a period of three years from the date of award.
The Committee believes that this plan focuses participants on delivering strong 100% of the award vests They are only forfeited in the case of dismissal for gross misconduct.
year on year performance, which in turn drives long term shareholder value Straight-line vesting occurs between creation.
Executive and Divisional Directors are eligible to participate in the DAB.
A conditional award of Matching Shares is made at the same time as the award of these points.
Participants are eligible to receive up to 1.5 Matching Shares for The DAB is split into two elements: every Deferred Share.
Matching Shares vest after a three year holding period to 2010 Deferred Award this is the compulsory deferral of the bonus awarded.
the extent to which performance criteria have been met.
During the year an EPS growth of RPI 4% per annum This part is not subject to performance conditions.
aggregate of 183,523 Matching Shares were awarded to Executive Directors as 33% of the award vests Matching Award which is subject to performance conditions.
This is awarded detailed on pages 82 and 83 and subject to the following performance conditions.
EPS growth of RPI 14% per annum at a ratio of 1.5 shares for each gross share awarded under the Deferred Award.
The Committee has decided that the performance condition that will apply to 100% of the award vests Although this is a fixed amount the calculation is based on a percentage of the Matching Shares is earnings per share EPS growth against the UK Retail salary.
In 2011 for the year ending December 2010 this was 70% of base Straight-line vesting occurs between Price Index RPI.
The Committee continues to believe that long term EPS growth salary which is the maximum that could be awarded at that time.
is the most appropriate performance condition for the Company, as it is a key In February 2011, 122,350 Deferred Shares were awarded to Executive Directors indicator of shareholder value creation.
The review of the EPS target for 2010 2011 onwards at a price of 718p being the market price determined at grant.
and 2011 was to ensure that the target continued to be no less challenging than EPS growth of RPI 4% per annum the original conditions.
The Committee continues to believe that these targets No award will be made in 2012 as no bonus was awarded in respect of the 2011 33% of the award vests are very challenging given Capitas earnings growth over the last five years.
EPS growth of RPI 12% per annum There are no non-financial targets for this plan, however the annual appraisal From awards in 2012 the Matching Award is increased to a ratio of two shares for 100% of award vests process considers non-financial measures and awards consider the prior year each deferred share awarded.
Straight-line vesting occurs between performance as a whole.
