Capita plc Governance 79 Remuneration Share plans Plan name Plan background and objective Plan operation Performance period and criteria At the Annual General Meeting in 2008 the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP was The vesting of awards will depend on the share price growth and EPS targets 2009 and before Long Term Incentive Plan approved by shareholders.
In calculating the LTIP awards granted to Executive measured over a three year period.
An award will not vest if Capitas average share 2008 LTIP EPS growth of RPI 4% per annum Directors, the Committee considered that a fixed number of shares was preferable price at the date of vesting is below the average share price at the date of grant.
20% of the award vests than fixing awards as a percentage of salary.
Under the plan rules the Committee The proportion of awards that vest will be determined by the following criteria EPS growth of RPI 16% per annum can award up to three times salary or a maximum of 165,000 shares.
100% of the award vests has been awarded the maximum of 165,000 shares in all years.
The Committee may vary the performance conditions if it considers that the Straight-line vesting occurs between On 25 February 2011, 565,000 shares were awarded to the Executive Directors as original conditions are not appropriate and a fair measure of performance.
detailed in the table on pages 82 and 83. the performance conditions are not met, the award will lapse.
There will be no 2010 re-testing of performance.
The Committee has considered the targets set for both Executive Directors and other participants of the scheme and feels that they are EPS growth of RPI 4% per annum very challenging especially in the current market.
20% of the award vests Although there are no non-financial targets for this plan the annual appraisal EPS growth of RPI 14% per annum process considers non-financial measures and awards considers the prior 100% of the award vests performance as a whole.
Straight-line vesting occurs between these points.
2011 onwards EPS growth of RPI 4% per annum 20% of the award vests EPS growth of RPI 12% per annum 100% of the award vests Straight-line vesting occurs between these points.
Co-Investment Plan CIP The Co-Investment Plan CIP was approved and adopted at the Annual General The value of the Pledged Shares was determined by the share price, and one third Capitas TSR over the performance Meeting on 10 May 2011.
The CIP is comprised of Pledged Shares and Matching of the Pledged Shares were required to be purchased as new shares.
The remainder period to be at upper quartile to the Shares.
could be pledged from the existing shareholding.
The Pledged Shares do not have constituents of the FTSE 100 Index.
The Committee believes that this plan will provide a one off plan for Paul Pindar One third will vest for achieving and is an opportunity to retain, motivate and help bridge the competitive pay gap The Matching Award was made following the pledging of the shares and the median TSR and straight line vesting and increase the annualised compensation to around median of market practice approval of the plan by shareholders.
The Matching Shares have a performance between median and upper quartile.
within the four years from grant.
target of Total Shareholder Return compared to the FTSE 100 Index over a fixed There will be no vesting of the four year period.
In addition, the Committee may consider various factors when The CIP is split into two elements.
Paul Pindar pledged the value of 1m of shares, Matching Award below median TSR assessing the underlying performance but the minimum requirement for any made up of new and existing shares.
These Pledged Shares do not have any vesting is that the earnings per share of the Company must have grown over the performance conditions as they are part of Paul Pindars personal shareholding.
The second part is awarded as a Matching Award with performance conditions Clawback In circumstances where the Committee considers in good faith that over a four year period.
the vesting of the Matching Award was determined on the basis of materially In May 2011 412,087 Matching Shares were awarded to Paul Pindar and the misstated or other financial data, it shall take such steps as it considers appropriate market price at award was 741p.
to recover the difference in value between the incorrect Matching Award and the Matching Award that would have vested had the correct data been used.
Long Term Indexed Share The LTISAS was only open to the Executive Directors and Divisional Directors.
The criteria were the same for each of these grants and therefore both tranches As growth in the Companys EPS over Appreciation Scheme Under the scheme, participants were provided with two equal tranches of had performance periods that ended on 31 December 2006.
The exercise price of the three year period to 31 December LTISAS 600,000 options.
the option was adjusted in line with the movement in the FTSE All Share Index 2006 exceeded RPI growth by 17.6%, from the date of grant to 25 November 2007.
The adjusted exercise prices were 100% of the options vested The last award under the LTISAS was made in November 2004 and vested in full 348p for the 2002 award and 474p for the 2004 award.
This feature ensured that representing 1,200,000 shares per on 31 December 2006 and no further awards have or will be made under this plan.
participants only gained if the share price out-performed the index.
participant and became exercisable Paul Pindar remains the only Executive Director with outstanding options within on 25 November 2007. this scheme.
