Capita plc Governance 73 Corporate governance The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate Statement of parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and and financial information included on the Companys website.
UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may Directors differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company responsibilities financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to Details of the principal risk categories can be found on page 34. prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by in respect of the Rights and restrictions attaching to shares the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company Under the Companys Articles of Association, holders of ordinary shares are financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable Annual Report entitled to participate in the receipt of dividends pro rata to their holding.
The law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Board may propose and pay an interim dividend and recommend a final and the financial Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements dividend, in respect of any accounting period out of the profits available for unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs statements distribution under English law.
A final dividend may be declared by the of the Group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In shareholders in the General Meeting by ordinary resolution, but no dividend may preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the be declared in excess of the amount recommended by the Board.
Directors are required to: At any General Meeting a resolution put to vote at the meeting shall be decided select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently on a poll.
On a poll every member who is present in person or by proxy shall make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent have one vote for every share of which they are the holder.
for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures on voting rights.
disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements Restrictions on transfer of shares prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is The Companys Articles of Association allow Directors to, in their absolute inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will discretion, refuse to register the transfer of a share in certificated form unless the continue in business.
instrument of transfer is lodged, duly stamped, at the registered office of the The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are Company, or at such other place as the Directors may appoint and except in the sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose case of a transfer by a recognised person where a certificate has not been issued with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent in respect of the share is accompanied by the certificate for the share to which it company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with relates and such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require to show the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps the right of the transferor to make the transfer.
They may also refuse to register as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to any such transfer where it is in favour of more than four transferees or in respect prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
of more than one class of shares.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a share in uncertificated form in preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate any case where the Company is entitled to refuse or is exempted from the Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
requirement under the Uncertificated Securities Regulations to register the transfer.
indd 73 12 03 2012 21:14 74 Business review Governance Accounts Capita plc Corporate governance Annual General Meeting The 2012 Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company will be held at Deutsche Bank, Winchester House, 1 Great Winchester Street, London, EC2N 2DB, on 15 May 2012.
At the AGM a number of resolutions will be proposed.
The resolutions are set out in the Notice of Meeting, which was sent to shareholders with the 2011 Annual Report and Accounts and includes notes explaining the business to be transacted.
In May 2011 shareholders granted authority for the Company to purchase up to 62,298,429 ordinary shares which will expire at the conclusion of the 2012 AGM.
No shares were purchased during 2011.
A resolution to renew this authority will be put to shareholders at the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
Approval of the Annual Accounts These Annual Accounts have been approved by the Directors of Capita plc.
The Directors confirm that the Annual Accounts have been prepared in accordance with applicable law and regulations and that they include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the parent company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
We, the Directors of the Company, confirm that to the best of our knowledge: The financial statements prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation as a whole The Directors Report, including content contained by reference, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
