Capita plc Accounts 93 Notes Notes to the consolidated Notes to the consolidated 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued In these contracts these activities are treated separately where appropriate, with the relevant 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Acquisitions between 1 January 2004 IFRS transition date and 1 January 2010 financial statements financial statements The Group operates a number of diverse businesses and therefore it has to use a variety of accounting policy for revenue recognition, as detailed previously, being applied to each The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events For acquisitions between the Groups IFRS transition date of 1 January 2004 and 1 January methods for revenue recognition see f below.
The following table illustrates which policies are currently predominately or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such 2010, goodwill represents the excess of the cost of the acquisition over the Groups interest in In all cases revenue is recognised when the services have been performed and it is probable used in each segment.
indication exists and where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the the recognised amount of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the that the economic benefits resulting from this performance will flow to the Group and the assets are written down to their recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of property, acquiree.
When the excess was negative, a bargain purchase gain was recognised immediately Ongoing Time & Percentage material complete long service Brownfield Construction Greenfield revenue can be reliably measured.
plant and equipment is the greater of net selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use, in the income statement.
Segment contracts contracts contracts term contracts contracts contracts Costs incurred prior to the Group being awarded a contract or achieving preferred bidder the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, status are expensed to the income statement.
Health rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific that the Group incurred in connection with business combinations were capitalised as part of to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the the cost of the acquisition.
Property Services f Revenue recognition recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Contingent consideration was recognised only where the Group had a present obligation General Insurance The main accounting policies for recognition are: Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement in the administrative expenses and the economic outflow was more likely than not and a reliable estimate was determinable.
Any subsequent adjustment to the contingent consideration was recognised as part of Ongoing service contracts Services An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future goodwill.
Revenue is recognised over the period the services are delivered to the client.
Integrated Services economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss Acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004 IFRS transition date Time and materials contracts IT Services & Consulting arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal On transition to the adoption of IFRS, the Group took advantage of the exemption allowed in Where Capita provide staff to clients at hourly or daily rates, revenue is recognised on the basis proceeds and the carrying amount of the item is included in the income statement in the year Life & Pensions Services IFRS 1 not to restate business combinations which took place prior to the date of transition.
in which the item is derecognised.
Professional Services Goodwill recognised under UK GAAP prior to the date of transition to IFRS is stated at net book Brownfield contracts i Borrowing costs value as at this date deemed cost.
This goodwill had been amortised on a straight-line basis Workplace Services A brownfield contract is one where there is a transfer of an existing operation to the Group.
All Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset over its useful economic life ranging from 5 to 20 years.
costs incurred prior to service commencement are expensed as incurred and revenue represents that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are g Foreign currency translation Goodwill fee income in respect of the services provided.
capitalised as part of the cost of the respective assets.
All other borrowing costs are expensed in The functional and presentation currency of Capita plc and its United Kingdom subsidiaries is Following initial recognition goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs Percentage complete long term contracts the pound sterling.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the functional Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in in connection with the borrowing of funds.
Revenue reflects the sales value of work performed in the year, including fees invoiced and currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
Goodwill arising on The Group capitalises borrowing costs for all qualifying assets where construction estimates in respect of amounts to be invoiced after the year-end long term contracts.
Where in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the acquisitions prior to 31 December 1997 remains set off directly against reserves and does not commenced on or after 1 January 2009.
The Group continues to expense borrowing costs contracts are long term and the profit to be earned on the contract can be determined with balance sheet date.
All differences are taken to the consolidated income statement with the get recycled through the income statement.
relating to construction projects that commenced prior to 1 January 2009. reasonable certainty, the amount of revenue recognised is calculated on the basis of the stage exception of differences on foreign currency borrowings that provide a hedge against a net As at the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to each of the cashof completion.
This is determined by measuring the costs incurred to date as a proportion of investment in a foreign operation.
These are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the net j Business combinations and goodwill generating units which are expected to benefit from the combinations synergies.
Impairment is the full cost of completing the contract and then applying the percentage to the total revenue investment, at which time they are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Business combinations are accounted for by applying the acquisition method as at the determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the expected to be earned.
The costs incurred within a contract include all direct costs and outlays.
Tax charges and credits attributable to exchange differences on those borrowings are also acquisition date, which is the date on which control is passed to the Group.
Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the If, on the review of the performance of the contract, a loss is anticipated then the full value of dealt with in equity.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised.
Where goodwill forms part of a cashAcquisitions on or after 1 January 2010 this expected loss to the end of the contract is booked immediately in the income statement.
foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate as at the date of initial transaction.
generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, the acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when Construction contracts fair value of the consideration transferred plus the recognised amount of any non-controlling exchange rates at the date when the fair value was determined.
determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in these The Groups property consultancy provides professional services to clients as a subcontractor.
For each business combination on a transaction by transaction basis, The functional currencies of overseas operations include the euro and the Indian rupee.
As circumstances is measured on the basis of the relative values of the operation disposed of and The services provided are architectural, structural or other services that result in the the Group elects to measure the non-controlling interests either at its fair value or at its at the reporting date, the assets and liabilities of the overseas operations are retranslated into the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
In line with the requirements of IAS 11 gross amounts due from proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets at the date of acquisition.
the presentation currency of Capita plc at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date customers are stated at the proportion of the anticipated net sales value earned to date less Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or Acquisitions and disposals of non-controlling interests and their income statements are translated at the weighted average exchange rate for the year.
To the extent that fees paid on account exceed the value of work securities, are expensed as incurred and included within administrative expenses and included Acquisitions and disposals of non-controlling interests that do not result in a change of control The exchange differences arising on the retranslation are taken directly to a separate performed, they are included in creditors as gross amounts due to customers.
are accounted for as transactions with owners in their capacity as owners and therefore no component of equity.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the deferred cumulative amount Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
If goodwill is recognised as a result of such transactions.
The adjustments to non-controlling Greenfield contracts recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign operation shall be recognised in the the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it is not re-measured and settlement is interests are based on a proportionate amount of the net assets of the subsidiary.
Any A greenfield contract is one in which an entirely new service is being established for a client.
Otherwise, subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent difference between the price paid or received and the amount by which non-controlling these contracts no profit is recognised until service delivery has commenced and is being The Group has elected not to record cumulative translation differences arising prior to the consideration are recognised in the income statement.
interests are adjusted is recognised directly in equity and attributed to the owners of the parent.
On commencement, revenue represents fees invoiced in respect of services provided.
transition date as permitted by IFRS 1.
In utilising this exemption, all cumulative translation In a business combination achieved in stages, the Group re-measures its previously held Prior to the adoption of IAS 27 Amended, goodwill was recognised on the acquisition of Direct incremental costs incurred prior to service commencement and reimbursable during the differences are deemed to be zero as at 1 January 2004 and all subsequent disposals shall equity interest in the acquiree at its acquisition-date fair value and recognises the resulting gain non-controlling interests in a subsidiary, which represented the excess of the cost of the contract, excluding any overheads, are included in prepayments and amortised over the exclude any translation differences arising prior to the date of transition.
or loss, if any, in the income statement.
additional investment over the carrying amount of the interest in the net assets acquired at the contracts life.
h Property, plant and equipment Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the aggregate of the fair value of date of the transaction.
On some contracts non-refundable payments are received prior to full service Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any the consideration transferred and the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests plus commencement on the achievement of agreed contract delivery milestones: these are k Intangible assets impairment in value.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated the fair value of any existing equity interest over the net recognised amount of the identifiable recognised as revenue when the associated milestone has been achieved.
Intangible assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost and those identified in a business useful life of the asset as follows: assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is acquisition are capitalised at fair value as at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, Contracts with multiple elements Freehold buildings and long leasehold property over 50 years recognised immediately in the income statement.
the carrying amount of an intangible asset is its cost less any accumulated amortisation and Within some contracts there are multiple services to be delivered such as transformation of Leasehold improvements period of the lease any accumulated impairment losses.
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be the existing service delivery model, transitions of processes, people or data and the delivery Plant and equipment 3 to 10 years either finite or indefinite.
There were no indefinite-lived assets in 2010 or 2011.
Amortisation is of administration services, which have to be undertaken over the course of the contract.
charged on assets with finite lives, this expense is taken to the income statement through the administrative expenses line item.
