94 Business review Governance Accounts Capita plc Notes Notes to the consolidated Notes to the consolidated 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued q Provisions 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated life of the asset or financial statements financial statements Intangible assets with finite lives are only tested for impairment, either individually or at the Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a Actuarial gains and losses are fully recognised in equity through the statement of comprehensive the lease term.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of cash-generating unit level, where there is an indicator of impairment.
result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic income such that the balance sheet reflects the schemes surplus or liability at the balance sheet ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease payments are Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset are measured as the benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the date.
Current and past service costs are charged to operating profit with the interest cost, net of recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and are amount of the obligation.
Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be expected return on assets in the plans, included within administrative expenses.
Group as a lessor: Leases where the Group does not transfer substantially all the risks and benefits recognised in the income statement when the asset is derecognised.
reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a The liability on the balance sheet in respect of the defined benefit pension schemes of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Rental income arising from operating separate asset but only when recovery is virtually certain.
The expense relating to any provision comprises the total for each scheme, or group of schemes, of the present value of the defined Intangible assets identified and recognised since transition to IFRS are profiled, on a straight-line leases is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
is presented in the income statement net of any reimbursement.
If the effect of the time value benefit obligation using a discount rate based on high quality corporate bonds, less any past basis, as follows: of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows service cost not yet recognised and less the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations w Income tax brands are amortised over their useful economic lives of between 5 and 10 years at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, are to be settled directly.
Fair value is based on market price information and in the case of Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method, on all temporary differences at the software and licences are amortised over their useful economic lives of 5 years where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in quoted securities is the published bid price.
The value of a net pension benefit asset is restricted balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for contracts and committed sales are amortised over their useful economic lives of between 1.5 the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a borrowing cost.
The Group provides, to the sum of any unrecognised past service costs and the present value of any amount the financial reporting purposes.
and 15 years on a discounted basis, for the future rent expense and related cost of leasehold property net of Group expects to recover by way of refunds from the plan or reductions in the future Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences: client lists and relationships are amortised over their useful economic lives of between 4 and estimated sub-lease income where the space is vacant or currently not planned to be used for contributions.
except where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill 10 years ongoing operations.
except where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition of an asset u Derivative financial instruments other intangibles are amortised over their useful economic lives of 15 years.
or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the r Onerous contracts The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps and foreign l Recoverable amount of non-current assets transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss The Group reviews its long term contracts to ensure that the expected economic benefits to be currency contracts to hedge risks associated with interest and exchange rate fluctuations.
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that an asset may in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, received are in excess of the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract.
Such derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The fair values of interest rate be impaired.
Where an indicator of impairment exists, the Group makes a formal estimate associates and interests in joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the The unavoidable costs are the lower of the net costs of termination or the costs of fulfilment of swaps and foreign currency contracts are determined by reference to market rates for of the assets recoverable amount.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences the contractual obligations.
The Group recognises the excess of the unavoidable costs over similar instruments.
recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
economic benefits due to be received, as an onerous contract provision.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as either: fair value hedges when amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets or cash-generating units fair value they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability: or cash Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carrys Pre-contract costs less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset flow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to a forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that Pre-contract award bidding costs are expensed as incurred.
does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or particular risk associated with either a recognised asset or liability or a forecast transaction.
taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences and the groups of assets.
In relation to fair value hedges e. g. fixed to floating interest rate swaps held as fair value t Pension schemes carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can be utilised, except where the hedges against fixed interest rate borrowings which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, The Group maintains a number of defined contribution pension schemes and for these schemes m Investments and other financial assets deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial any gain or loss from re-measuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised the Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The All investments are initially recorded at their fair value.
Subsequently they are reviewed for recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the immediately in the income statement.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense in the income statement for the impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss.
hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and recognised in the year when they are due.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date income statement.
In addition, the Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme and participates in a Investment loans are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be In relation to cash flow hedges the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging number of other defined benefit pension schemes, all of which require contributions to be Available-for-sale financial assets are measured at their fair value with unrealised gains or available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
instrument is recognised directly in equity, while any ineffective portion is recognised immediately made to separate trustee-administered funds.
The costs of providing benefits under these losses being recognised directly in equity.
When the investment is disposed of, the cumulative Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected in the income statement.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement when schemes are determined separately for each scheme using the projected unit credit method, gain or loss previously recorded in equity is recognised in the income statement.
to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and the hedged transaction affects the income statement, such as when the hedged financial income which attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period to determine current service Financial assets at fair value through the income statement disclosed in investment tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
or financial expense is recognised or when a forecast transaction occurs.
Where the hedged item is cost and to the current and prior periods to determine the present value of the defined benefit income include financial assets designated upon initial recognition as at fair value through the Income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the cost of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the amounts taken to equity are obligation and is based on actuarial advice.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in income statement.
transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
the income statement, unless the changes are conditional on employees remaining in service Financial assets may be designated upon initial recognition as at fair value through profit or x Share based payments If the forecast transaction or firm commitment is no longer expected to occur, amounts for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past service costs are loss if the assets are part of a group of financial assets which are managed and their performance The Group operates a number of executive and employee share schemes.
previously recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement.
If the hedging amortised on a straight-line basis over the average vesting period.
evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with a documented risk management strategy.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its When a settlement eliminating all obligations for benefits already accrued or a n Trade and other receivables value at the date at which they are granted and is recognised as an expense over the vesting designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity curtailment reducing future obligations as a result of a material reduction in the scheme Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the until the forecast transaction or firm commitment occurs.
membership or a reduction in future entitlement occurs the obligation and related plan assets any uncollectable amounts.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full award.
Fair value is determined using an option pricing model.
In valuing equity-settled For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising from are re-measured using current actuarial assumptions and the resultant gain or loss recognised amount is no longer probable.
Bad debts are written off when identified.
transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than conditions linked to the changes in fair value are taken directly to the income statement and are presented as nonin the income statement during the period in which the settlement or curtailment occurs.
price of the shares of the Company market conditions.
The interest cost element of the defined benefit pension charge represents a change in the o Cash and cash equivalents No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where present value of scheme obligations resulting from the passage of time and is determined by Cash and short term deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short v Leasing vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of applying the discount rate to the opening present value of the benefit obligation taking into term deposits with an original maturity of 3 months or less.
The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions account material changes in the obligation during the year.
The expected return on plan assets For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of the arrangement at inception date and is concerned with whether the fulfilment of the are satisfied.
is based on an assessment made at the beginning of the year of long term market returns on of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
arrangement is dependent upon the use of a specific asset or assets and the arrangement At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, scheme assets, adjusted for the effect on fair value of plan assets of contributions received and conveys a right to use the asset.
p Interest-bearing loans and borrowings representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and managements best benefits paid during the year.
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at their fair value.
estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions, the number of equity In respect of 3 of the defined benefit pension schemes in which the Group participates, the Group as a lessee: Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and After initial recognition loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised instruments that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an instrument subject to a market Group accounts for its legal and constructive obligation over the period of its participation benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease cost using the effective interest method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account condition, be treated as vesting as described above.
The movement in cumulative expense since which is for a fixed period only.
at the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease any issue costs, and any discount or premium on settlement.
the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are entry in equity.
lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the derecognised, as well as through the amortisation process.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
