EXPLANATORY NOTES 95 RESOLUTION 1 REPORT AND ACCOUNTS The Directors of the Company are required by company law to present the accounts, the Directors report and the auditors report on the accounts to the meeting.
RESOLUTION 2 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Sections 439 and 440 of the Companies Act 2006 require that the Directors Remuneration Report be put to a vote by shareholders.
The Report is set out on pages 33 to 38 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
p RESOLUTIONS 3 TO 12 ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS The UK Corporate Governance Code stipulates that all directors of FTSE 350 companies should stand for re-election annually.
Accordingly, all directors of the Company are standing for election or re-election at the Annual General Meeting, other than Mr Elkann who has indicated his wish not to stand for re-election.
Non-executive Directors of the Company are chosen on the basis of their background and experience and for the contribution that they can make both generally and in specific areas relevant to the business of the Company.
Following the performance evaluation of the Board, it is confirmed that the performance of each Director, including those standing for re-election, continues to be satisfactory and that each continues to demonstrate commitment in the role.
Biographical information on all the directors, including those standing for election or re-election, is shown on pages 19 and 20 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
RESOLUTION 13 REAPPOINTMENT OF AUDITORS Company law requires all companies, at each general meeting at which accounts are laid, to appoint auditors who will remain in office until the next general meeting at which accounts are laid.
The Board, having accepted the recommendation of the Audit and Risk Committee, propose that  LLP be reappointed as the Companys auditors.
RESOLUTION 14 REMUNERATION OF AUDITORS This resolution authorises the Directors to fix the remuneration of  LLP as the Companys auditors and is proposed separately from the resolution for the reappointment of auditors in accordance with best practice guidelines.
RESOLUTION 15 RENEWAL OF DIRECTORS AUTHORITY TO ALLOT SHARES This resolution which will be proposed as an ordinary resolution will, if approved, allow the Directors to allot ordinary shares in RIT Capital Partners plc.
The authority in paragraph i of Resolution 15 will allow the Directors to allot new shares and grant rights to subscribe for, or convert other securities into, shares up to a nominal value of 51,288,687, which is equivalent to approximately 33 per cent of the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 1 June 2011.
The authority in paragraph ii in Resolution 15 will allow the Directors to allot new shares and grant rights to subscribe for, or convert other securities into, shares only in connection with a rights issue up to a further nominal value of 51,288,687, which is equivalent to approximately 33% of the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company, as at 1 June 2011.
This is in line with corporate governance guidelines.
There are no present plans to undertake a rights issue or to allot new shares.
The Directors consider it desirable to have the maximum flexibility permitted by corporate governance guidelines to respond to market developments and to enable allotments to take place to finance business opportunities as they arise.
If the resolution is passed the authority will expire on the earlier of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2012 or on 30 September 2012.
RIT CAPITAL PARTNERS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 EXPLANATORY NOTES 96 RESOLUTION 16 AMENDMENT OF SAR PLAN Introduction The operation of the J. Rothschild Capital Management JRCM Share Appreciation Rights Plan the SAR Plan was last approved by shareholders of the Company on 17 July 2008.
The SAR Plan provides for the grant of Share Appreciation Rights SARs over a notional number of shares in the Company.
Employees and persons seconded or engaged to work for the Group are eligible to participate in the SAR Plan at the discretion of the JRCM Directors.
Following the expiry of a three year vesting period, participants in the SAR Plan are entitled to exercise their SARs and receive a payment the Share Appreciation Amount.
The Share Appreciation Amount is equal to the growth in value of the notional shares over the vesting period as measured from the SAR price.
The SAR price is determined by the JRCM Directors at the time of grant.
It is normally the market price of the Companys shares at the close of business on the day before grant.
The exercise of a SAR is ordinarily subject to the participants continued service over the vesting period and the extent to which the performance condition applying to the SAR is satisfied.
Details of the performance condition that applies to the SARs granted to the Companys executive directors are disclosed in the Remuneration Report section of the Companys Report and Accounts.
Authority to grant further SARs under the SAR Plan will expire on 10 July 2018.
No payment is required for the grant of a SAR.
SARs are not transferable, except on death.
The SAR Plan is currently restricted to using cash to meet the payment of the Share Appreciation Amount.
SARs may be adjusted following any variation in the share capital of the Company.
The JRCM Directors may, at any time, amend the Plan in any respect, provided that the prior approval of shareholders is obtained for any amendments that are to the advantage of participants in respect of the rules governing eligibility, adjustments of SARs on variation in the Companys share capital: and the amendment powers.
The requirement to obtain the prior approval of shareholders does not, however, apply to any minor alteration made to benefit the administration of the SAR Plan, to take account of a change in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for participants or for any company in the Companys group.
Proposed amendments to the SAR Plan Further to a review of the SAR Plan by the Remuneration Committee, which included consultation with major investors, it is proposed that the SAR Plan be updated to provide scope to use ordinary shares in the capital of the Company to settle the Share Appreciation Amount for future and subsisting awards granted under the SAR Plan.
Resolution 16 being put to shareholders at the 2011 AGM seeks shareholder approval for the SAR Plan to provide for such scope to use shares.
Impact of proposed amendments The impact of the proposed changes would be that the terms of the SAR Plan will provide that on the exercise of a SAR, the Share Appreciation Amount will ordinarily be settled using newly issued shares, treasury shares and or shares purchased in the market, in each case of market value equal to the Share Appreciation Amount.
Share settling long-term incentive arrangements is in line with market practice.
The terms of the SAR Plan will also continue to provide scope for SARs to be cash settled.
Limit on the use of newly issued shares In the event that any newly issued shares are used under the SAR Plan, the Company will operate a policy where it shall not, in any ten calendar year period, issue or grant rights to issue more than: 97 a 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company under the SAR Plan and any other discretionary share based plan or all-employee share based plan adopted within the Group: b 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company under the SAR Plan and any other discretionary share based plan adopted within the Group.
Treasury shares will count as new issue shares for the purposes of such limits unless institutional investors decide that they need not count.
Any shares allotted when a SAR is exercised will rank equally with shares then in issue except for rights arising by reference to a record date prior to their allotment.
The intention is that the basis for the dilution calculations will be consistent with institutional investor guidelines.
Other amendments to the SAR Plan In addition to the proposed amendments described above, as a result of the Remuneration Committees review of the SAR Plan, to reflect best practice, the terms of the SAR Plan have been updated to include claw-back provisions which provide scope for the Company within four years of the start of a SARs peformance period to seek to recover value from awards made under the SAR Plan in the event of a material misstatement of the Companys accounts, flawed calculation of a performance condition or in the event of dismissal for gross misconduct.
Other terms of the SAR Plan to remain identical Other than as described above, all terms of the SAR Plan as currently approved by shareholders of the Company will remain the same.
RESOLUTION 17 DISAPPLICATION OF PRE-EMPTION RIGHTS This special resolution will renew the Directors authority to allot shares for cash, free from the pre-emption restrictions set out in the Companies Act 2006.
Paragraph a of Resolution 17 is to authorise the Directors to allot new shares pursuant to the authority given by paragraph i of Resolution 15, or sell treasury shares, for cash I in connection with a pre-emptive offer or rights issue or II otherwise up to a nominal value of 7,693,303, equivalent to five per cent of the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 1 June 2011, in each case without the shares first being offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
Paragraph b of Resolution 17 authorises the Directors to allot new shares pursuant to the authority given in Resolution 15, or sell treasury shares, for cash only in connection with a rights issue without the shares first being offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holding.
This authority will expire at the end of the Annual General Meeting in 2012, or on 30 September 2012 if earlier.
The Directors consider the authority in Resolution 17 to be appropriate in order to allow the Company flexibility to finance business opportunities or to conduct a pre-emptive offer or rights issue without the need to comply with the strict requirements of the statutory pre-emption provisions.
This power remains in line with the guidelines of the Pre-emption Group, which is supported by the Association of British Insurers and National Association of Pension Funds.
The Directors intend to observe the institutional guidelines not to allot shares for cash on a non pre-emptive basis other than pursuant to a rights issue or pre-emptive offer in excess of an amount equal to 7.5% of the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company within a rolling 3-year period without prior consultation with shareholders.
RESOLUTION 18 PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES This resolution will be proposed as a special resolution and will allow RIT Capital Partners plc to make market purchases of up to 23,064,523 of its own ordinary shares or such a number of ordinary shares as represents 14.99% of the Companys issued capital at the date of the meeting, whichever is less at prices not less than 1 per share and not more than a 5% above the average of the middle market quotations as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days preceding such a purchase, or b the higher of the current bid for the Companys ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange at the time of the purchase and the price of the last independent trade in the ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange at the time of purchase.
RIT CAPITAL PARTNERS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 EXPLANATORY NOTES 98 Pursuant to the Companies Act 2006, the Company can hold the shares which have been repurchased itself as Treasury Shares and either resell them for cash or cancel them, either immediately, or at a point in the future.
Accordingly, if the Company were to purchase any of its own shares under the authority conferred by this resolution, the Directors may consider holding them as Treasury Shares or the Directors may cancel the shares.
Such a decision will be made by the Directors at the time of purchase on the basis of the Companys and shareholders best interests.
The Directors only intend to exercise the authority conferred in this resolution in limited circumstances and will only purchase shares for the purposes of the Groups employees share schemes, and in other circumstances where, after taking account of the overall financial position of the Group the Directors consider the effect will be to increase the net asset value per share, and that it is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
RESOLUTION 19 NOTICE OF GENERAL MEETINGS Under the Companies Act 2006, as amended, the notice period required for all general meetings of the Company is 21 days.
Annual General Meetings will continue to be held on at least 21 clear days notice but shareholders can approve a shorter notice period for other general meetings, which cannot however be less than 14 clear days.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next Annual General Meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
It is proposed in this resolution to adopt new Articles of Association the New Articles in order to update the Companys current Articles of Association the Current Articles primarily to take account of the coming into force of the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 the Shareholders Rights Regulations.
The principal changes introduced in the New Articles are summarised below.
Other changes, which are of a minor, technical or clarifying nature and also some more minor changes which merely reflect changes made by the Companies Act 2006 or, the Shareholders Rights Regulations, or conform the language of the New Articles with that used in the model articles for public companies set out in The Companies Model Articles Regulations 2008 have not been noted below.
The New Articles showing all the changes to the Current Articles are available for inspection, as noted on page 98 of this document.
Voting by proxies on a show of hands The Shareholders Rights Regulations have amended the Companies Act 2006 so that it now provides that each proxy appointed by a member has one vote on a show of hands unless the proxy is appointed by more than one member in which case the proxy has one vote for and one vote against if the proxy has been instructed by one or more members to vote for the resolution and by one or more members to vote against the resolution.
It is proposed that the Current Articles be amended to reflect these changes.
Adjournments for lack of quorum Under the Companies Act 2006, as amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations, general meetings adjourned for lack of quorum must be held at least 10 clear days after the original meeting.
It is proposed that the Current Articles be changed to reflect this requirement.
Voting record date Under the Companies Act 2006, as amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations the Company must determine the right of members to vote at a general meeting by reference to the register not more than 48 hours before the time for the holding of the meeting, not taking account of days which are not working days.
It is proposed that the Current Articles be amended to reflect this requirement.
Adjournment This proposed change will update the chairmans power to adjourn general meetings to bring the New Articles in line with common law, market practice and the Model Articles.
This proposed change will in particular confirm the power of the chairman to adjourn the meeting in order to restore order or protect the safety of the attendees.
Satellite Meetings Amendments made to the Companies Act 2006 by the Shareholders Rights Regulations specifically provide for the holding and conducting of electronic meetings.
This proposed amendment will enable the Company to make arrangements that will be more convenient to shareholders and will bring the New Articles in line with market practice.
Security and orderly conduct 99 This proposed change will confirm that the Directors may put in place security procedures at general meetings, including requiring members to submit to bag searches.
This will bring the New Articles in line with market practice.
Remuneration for non-executive directors ABI guidelines stipulate that a companys articles of association must provide for an annual cap on aggregate fees payable to the companys non-executive directors.
The New Articles provide for a cap of 400,000.
This cap will have been increased from 300,000 to 400,000.
The total directors fees payable vary with the number of non-executive directors and the amount of the directors base fee.
The Company wishes to take this opportunity to create additional flexibility in respect of payment of non-executive directors fees and is therefore seeking the higher limit, taking into account comparable fees at other UK public listed companies.
RESOLUTION 14: NOTICE OF GENERAL MEETINGS Changes made to the Companies Act 2006 by the Shareholders Rights Regulations increase the notice period required for general meetings of the Company to 21 days unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which cannot however be less than 14 clear days.
AGMs will continue to be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
Before the coming into force of the Shareholders Rights Regulations on 3 August 2009, the Company was able to call general meetings other than an AGM on 14 clear days notice without obtaining such shareholder approval.
In order to preserve this ability, Resolution 14 seeks such approval.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next annual general meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed
