Notes on the consolidated accounts continued 30 Securitisations and asset transfers Secured funding Covered bond programme The Group has access to secured funding markets through own-asset Certain loans and advances to customers have been assigned to securitisation and covered bond funding programmes to complement bankruptcy remote limited liability partnerships to provide security for existing wholesale funding programmes and access to the repo markets.
issues of covered bonds by the Group.
The Group retains all of the risks The Group monitors and manages encumbrance levels related to these and rewards of these loans, the partnerships are consolidated, the loans secured funding programmes.
This includes the potential encumbrance of retained on the Groups balance sheet and the related covered bonds Group assets that could be used in own-asset securitisations and or included within debt securities in issue.
covered bonds that could be used as contingent liquidity.
The following table shows: Own-asset securitisations i the asset categories that have been pledged to secured funding The Group has a programme of own-asset securitisations where assets structures, including assets backing publicly issued own-asset are transferred to bankruptcy remote SPEs funded by the issue of debt securitisations and covered bonds: and securities.
The majority of the risks and rewards of the portfolio are ii any currently unencumbered assets that could be substituted into retained by the Group and these SPEs are consolidated and all of the those portfolios or used to collateralise debt securities which may be transferred assets retained on the Groups balance sheet.
In some ownretained by the Group for contingent liquidity purposes.
asset securitisations, the Group may purchase all the issued securities which are available to be pledged as collateral for repurchase agreements with major central banks.
2 Debt securities that have been sold to third party investors and represents a source of external wholesale funding.
3 Debt securities issued pursuant to own-asset securitisations where the debt securities are retained by the Group as a source of contingent liquidity where those securities can be used in repurchase agreements with central banks.
4 Comprises corporate, social housing and student loans.
5 At 31 December 2011, cash deposits comprised 11.2 billion from mortgage repayments and 0.8 billion from other loan repayments held in the SPEs, to repay debt securities issued by the ownasset securitisation vehicles 2010 - 12.3 billion and 0.8 billion: 2009 - 11.1 billion and 0.9 billion respectively.
RBS Group 2011 396 Continuing involvement perform on the securitised loans or securities, effectively transferring the In certain securitisations of US residential mortgages, substantially all the risk of future credit losses to the purchasers of the securities issued by risks and rewards have been neither transferred nor retained, but the the trust.
The value of retained interest varies and is subject to credit, Group has retained control, as defined by IFRS, of the assets and interest rate, prepayment, and other risks of the transferred assets.
In continues to recognise the assets to the extent of its continuing the ordinary course of business, the Group does not provide any other involvement which takes the form of retaining certain subordinated bonds financial support to the securitisation trusts other than holding these issued by the securitisation SPEs.
These bonds have differing rights and, retained interests.
depending on their terms, they may expose the Group to interest rate risk where they carry a fixed coupon or to credit risk depending on the extent Securities repurchase agreements and lending transactions of their subordination.
Certain bonds entitle the Group to additional The Group enters into securities repurchase agreements and securities interest if the portfolio performs better than expected and others give the lending transactions under which it transfers securities in accordance with Group the right to prepayment penalties received on the securitised normal market practice.
Generally, the agreements require additional mortgages.
At 31 December 2011, securitised assets were 0.6 billion collateral to be provided if the value of the securities falls below a 2010 - 2.3 billion: 2009 - 3.1 billion : retained interest 72 million predetermined level.
Under standard terms for repurchase transactions 2010 - 286 million: 2009 - 102 million : subordinated assets 3 million in the UK and US markets, the recipient of collateral has an unrestricted 2010 - 4 million: 2009 - 91 million : and related liabilities 3 million right to sell or repledge it, subject to returning equivalent securities on 2010 - 4 million: 2009 - 33 million.
The Group retained interests in securitised financial assets take the form Securities sold under repurchase transactions are not derecognised if the of senior or subordinated securities.
These interests predominantly relate Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
The to mortgage-backed securities which were re-securitised.
Retained fair value and carrying value of securities transferred under such interests are generally not held to maturity and are typically sold after repurchase transactions included within debt securities on the balance settlement of the securitisation.
Retained interests may be subordinated sheet, are set out below.
All of these securities could be sold or to other investors' interests.
Third party investors and securitisation trusts repledged by the holder.
have no recourse to the Group's other assets for failure of debtors to 2011 2010 2009 Assets pledged against liabilities m m m Debt securities 79,480 80,104 66,883 Equity shares 6,534 5,148 3,409 Other collateral given This primarily relates to cash collateral relating to derivative contracts as well as assets pledged for bank and other borrowings.
