Bank of England facilities Other related parties The Group also participates in a number of schemes operated by the a In their roles as providers of finance, Group companies provide Bank of England available to eligible banks and building societies.
development and other types of capital support to businesses.
These investments are made in the normal course of business and on arm's Open market operations - these provide market participants with length terms.
In some instances, the investment may extend to funding at market rates on a tender basis in the form of short and ownership or control over 20% or more of the voting rights of the long-term repos on a wide range of collateral and outright purchases investee company.
However, these investments are not considered of high-quality bonds to enable them to meet the reserves that they to give rise to transactions of a materiality requiring disclosure under must hold at the Bank of England.
The special liquidity scheme - this was launched in April 2008 to b The Group recharges The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Pension allow financial institutions to swap temporarily illiquid assets for Fund with the cost of administration services incurred by it.
The treasury bills, with fees charged based on the spread between 3- amounts involved are not material to the Group.
month LIBOR and the 3-month gilt repo rate.
The scheme officially closed on 30 January 2012. c In accordance with IAS 24, transactions or balances between Group entities that have been eliminated on consolidation are not reported.
At 31 December 2011, the Group had no amounts outstanding under these facilities 2010 - 16.1 billion: 2009 - 21.4 billion.
d The captions in the primary financial statements of the parent company include amounts attributable to subsidiaries.
These Government credit and asset-backed securities guarantee schemes amounts have been disclosed in aggregate in the relevant notes to These schemes guarantee eligible debt issued by qualifying institutions the financial statements.
The fee, payable to HM Treasury is based on a per annum rate of 25 asset-backed securities guarantee scheme and 50 credit 42 Post balance sheet events guarantee scheme basis points plus 100% of the institution's median There have been no significant events between the year end and the five-year credit default swap spread during the twelve months to 1 July date of approval of these accounts which would require a change to or 2008.
The asset-backed securities scheme closed to new issuance on 31 disclosure in the accounts.
December 2009 and the credit guarantee scheme on 28 February 2010.
At 31 December 2011, the Group had issued debt guaranteed by the Government totalling 21.3 billion 2010 - 41.5 billion: 2009 - 51.5 billion.
