A transfer of PROs by a US Holder will not give rise to a charge to UK tax passive income or are held for the production of passive income.
The on accrued but unpaid interest payments, unless the US Holder is an company does not believe that it was a PFIC for its 2011 taxable year.
individual or other non-corporate taxpayer and at any time in the relevant Although interest income is generally passive income, a special rule year of assessment or accounting period carries on a trade, profession or allows banks to treat their banking business income as non-passive.
vocation in the UK through a branch or agency to which the PROs are To qualify for this rule, a bank must satisfy certain requirements regarding attributable.
The company's possible status as a PFIC must be determined annually, however, and may be subject to change if the Annual tax charges company fails to qualify under this special rule for any year in which a US Corporate US Holders of PROs may be subject to annual UK tax charges Holder holds ordinary shares, ordinary ADSs, preference ADSs or PROs.
or tax relief by reference to fluctuations in exchange rates and in If the company were to be treated as a PFIC in any year during which a respect of profits, gains and losses arising from the PROs, but only if US Holder holds ordinary shares, ordinary ADSs, preference ADSs or such corporate US Holders carry on a trade in the UK through a UK PROs, US Holders would generally be subject to adverse US federal permanent establishment to which the PROs are attributable.
Holders should consult their own tax advisers as to the potential application of the PFIC rules to the ownership and Inheritance tax disposition of the company's ordinary shares, ordinary ADSs, preference In relation to PROs held through Depository Trust Company DTC or ADSs or PROs.
any other clearing system, the UK inheritance tax position is not free from doubt in respect of a lifetime transfer, or death of, a US Holder who Foreign financial assets reporting is not domiciled nor deemed to be domiciled in the UK for inheritance tax For taxable years beginning after 18 March 2010, certain US Holders purposes: HM Revenue & Customs is known to consider that the situs of who are individuals may be required to report information relating to the securities held in this manner is not necessarily determined by the place companys securities, subject to certain exceptions including an where the securities are registered.
In appropriate circumstances, there exception for securities held in accounts maintained by US financial may be a charge to UK inheritance tax as a result of a lifetime transfer at institutions.
US Holders are urged to consult their tax advisers regarding less than market value by, or on the death of, such US Holder.
the application of these rules in the US Holders particular circumstances.
Inheritance tax is not generally chargeable on gifts to individuals made more than seven years before the death of the donor.
However, Exchange controls exemption from, or a reduction of, any such UK tax liability may be The company has been advised that there are currently no UK laws, available under the Estate Tax Treaty see below.
US Holders should decrees or regulations which would prevent the import or export of consult their professional advisers in relation to such potential liability.
capital, including the availability of cash or cash equivalents for use by PROs beneficially owned by an individual, whose domicile is determined the Group, or the remittance of dividends, interest or other payments to to be the United States for the purposes of the Estate Tax Treaty and non-UK resident holders of the company's securities.
who is not a national of the UK, will not be subject to UK inheritance tax on the individual's death or on a lifetime transfer of the PRO, except in There are no restrictions under the Articles of Association of the company certain cases where the PRO i is comprised in a settlement unless, at or under UK law, as currently in effect, which limit the right of non-UK the time of the settlement, the settlor was domiciled in the United States resident owners to hold or, when entitled to vote, freely to vote the and was not a national of the UK : ii is part of the business property of a company's securities.
UK permanent establishment of an enterprise: or iii pertains to a UK fixed base of an individual used for the performance of independent Memorandum and Articles of Association personal services.
The Estate Tax Treaty generally provides a credit The company's Memorandum and Articles of Association as in effect at against US federal estate or gift tax liability for the amount of any tax paid the date of this annual report are registered with the Registrar of in the UK in a case where the PRO is subject to both UK inheritance tax Companies of Scotland.
The Articles of Association were last amended and US federal estate or gift tax.
Copies can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or from the Groups website www.
Stamp duty and SDRT No stamp duty, SDRT or similar tax is imposed in the UK on the issue, Incorporation and registration transfer or redemption of the PROs.
The company was incorporated and registered in Scotland under the Companies Act 1948 as a limited company on 25 March 1968 under the Passive Foreign Investment Company PFIC considerations name National and Commercial Banking Group Limited, and changed its A foreign corporation will be a PFIC in any taxable year in which, after name to The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Limited on 3 September taking into account the income and assets of the corporation and certain 1979.
On 10 March 1982 it was re-registered under the Companies Acts subsidiaries pursuant to applicable 'look-through rules', either i at least 1948 to 1980 as a public company with limited liability.
The company is 75% of its gross income is 'passive income' or ii at least 50% of the registered under Company No.
average value of its assets is attributable to assets which produce RBS Group 2011 475
