Description of property and equipment Material contracts The Group operates from a number of locations worldwide, principally in The company and its subsidiaries are party to various contracts in the the UK.
At 31 December 2011, the Royal Bank and NatWest had 627 and ordinary course of business.
Material contracts include the following: 1,493 retail branches, respectively, in the UK.
Ulster Bank has a foot print of 236 branches and an extensive network of business banking offices Consortium and Shareholders Agreement CSA across Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.
US Retail & On 28 May 2007, Fortis Bank Nederland, the company, Santander and Commercial had 1,519 retail banking offices including in-store branches RFS Holdings entered into the CSA.
Fortis Bank Nederland acceded to covering Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Massachusetts, Michigan, New the CSA on 26 July 2007.
On 3 October 2008, the Dutch State acquired Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island Fortis Bank Nederland.
On 24 December 2008 the Dutch State acceded and Vermont.
A substantial majority of the UK branches are owned by the to the CSA following its acquisition of the shares held by Fortis Bank Royal Bank, NatWest and their subsidiaries or are held under leases with Nederland in RFS Holdings pursuant to a Deed of Accession entered into unexpired terms of over 50 years.
The Group's principal properties between RFS Holdings, the company, Fortis Bank Nederland, Santander include its headquarters at Gogarburn, Edinburgh, its principal offices in and the Dutch State.
On 1 April 2010 the CSA was restated.
It was the London at 135 and 280 Bishopsgate and the Drummond House subject of a further amendment on 18 July 2011.
The CSA as amended administration centre located at South Gyle, Edinburgh.
and restated governs the relationships amongst the parties thereto in relation to the acquisition by RFS Holdings of ABN AMRO now RBS Total capital expenditure on premises excluding investment properties, Holdings N. V..
The CSA as amended and restated details, inter alia, computers and other equipment in the year ended 31 December 2011 the equity interests in RFS Holdings, the governance of RFS Holdings, was 820 million 2010 - 656 million: 2009 - 1,215 million.
the arrangements for the transfer of certain ABN AMRO businesses, assets and liabilities to the Dutch State previously Fortis Bank Major shareholders Nederland, the company and Santander, further funding obligations of In December 2008, The Solicitor for the Affairs of Her Majesty's Treasury the Dutch State, the company and Santander where funding is required HM Treasury acquired 22,854 million ordinary shares representing by regulatory authorities in connection with the ABN AMRO businesses, 57.9% of the company's issued ordinary share capital.
During 2009, HM the allocation of taxes and conduct of tax affairs and the steps that the Treasury acquired a further 16,791 million ordinary shares raising their Dutch State, the company and Santander expect to take to enable the holding to 70.3% of the company's issued ordinary share capital.
company to become the sole shareholder of RFS Holdings.
In December 2009, HM Treasury acquired 51 billion B shares in the Second Placing and Open Offer Agreement company representing the entire issued B share capital.
At 31 December Pursuant to a placing and open offer agreement dated 19 January 2009 2011, HM Treasurys holding in the companys ordinary shares was entered into between the company, UBS, Merrill Lynch International and 66.9%.
HM Treasury, i the company agreed to invite qualifying shareholders to apply to subscribe for new shares at the issue price of 31.75 pence per Other than detailed above, there have been no significant changes in the new share by way of the Second Open Offer, ii UBS and Merrill Lynch percentage ownership of major shareholders of the company's ordinary, International were appointed as joint sponsors, joint bookrunners and B and preference shares during the three years ended 22 February 2012. joint placing agents and agreed to use reasonable endeavours to procure All shareholders within a class of the company's shares have the same placees to subscribe for the new shares on such terms as may be agreed voting rights.
by the company and HM Treasury at not less than the issue price of 31.75 pence per new share on the basis that the new shares placed will At 22 February 2012, the directors of the company had options to be subject to clawback to the extent they are taken up under the Second purchase a total of 10,455,306 ordinary shares of the company.
Open Offer and iii HM Treasury agreed that, to the extent not placed or taken up under the Second Open Offer and subject to the terms and As at 31 December 2011, almost all of the company's US$ denominated conditions set out in the Second Placing and Open Offer Agreement, HM preference shares and American Depository Shares representing Treasury would subscribe for such new shares itself at the issue price of ordinary shares were held by shareholders registered in the US.
All other 31.75 pence per new share.
shares were predominantly held by shareholders registered outside the US.
