Accounting policies continued The Group enters into three types of hedge relationship: hedges of Hedge of net investment in a foreign operation - in the hedge of a net changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability or firm investment in a foreign operation, the portion of foreign exchange commitment fair value hedges : hedges of the variability in cash flows differences arising on the hedging instrument determined to be an from a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast effective hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income.
Any transaction cash flow hedges : and hedges of the net investment in a ineffective portion is recognised in profit or loss.
liabilities as well as derivatives may be the hedging instrument in a net investment hedge.
On disposal or partial disposal of a foreign operation, Hedge relationships are formally designated and documented at the amount accumulated in equity is reclassified from equity to profit or inception.
The documentation identifies the hedged item and the hedging loss.
instrument and details the risk that is being hedged and the way in which effectiveness will be assessed at inception and during the period of the 25.
If the hedge is not highly effective in offsetting changes in fair The Group operates a number of share-based compensation schemes values or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk, consistent with the under which it awards RBSG shares and share options to its employees.
documented risk management strategy, hedge accounting is Such awards are generally subject to vesting conditions: conditions that discontinued.
Hedge accounting is also discontinued if the Group vary the amount of cash or shares to which an employee is entitled.
revokes the designation of a hedge relationship.
Vesting conditions include service conditions requiring the employee to complete a specified period of service and performance conditions Fair value hedge - in a fair value hedge, the gain or loss on the hedging requiring the employee to complete a specified period of service and instrument is recognised in profit or loss.
The gain or loss on the hedged specified performance targets to be met.
Other conditions to which an item attributable to the hedged risk is recognised in profit or loss and, award is subject are non-vesting conditions such as a requirement to where the hedged item is measured at amortised cost, adjusts the save throughout the vesting period.
carrying amount of the hedged item.
Hedge accounting is discontinued if the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting: or if the The cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised: or if hedge shares or share options granted is measured by reference to the fair designation is revoked.
If the hedged item is one for which the effective value of the shares or share options on the date the award is granted and interest rate method is used, any cumulative adjustment is amortised to takes into account non-vesting conditions and market performance profit or loss over the life of the hedged item using a recalculated conditions conditions related to the market price of RBSG shares : an effective interest rate.
award is treated as vesting irrespective of whether any market performance condition or non-vesting condition is met.
The fair value of Cash flow hedge - in a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the gain options granted is estimated using valuation techniques which or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in other comprehensive incorporate exercise price, term, risk-free interest rates, the current share income and the ineffective portion in profit or loss.
When the forecast price and its expected volatility.
The cost is expensed on a straight-line transaction results in the recognition of a financial asset or financial basis over the vesting period the period during which all the specified liability, the cumulative gain or loss is reclassified from equity to profit or vesting conditions must be satisfied with a corresponding increase in loss in the same periods in which the hedged forecast cash flows affect equity in an equity-settled award, or a corresponding liability in a cashprofit or loss.
Otherwise the cumulative gain or loss is removed from settled award.
The cost is adjusted for vesting conditions other than equity and recognised in profit or loss at the same time as the hedged market performance conditions so as to reflect the number of shares or transaction.
Hedge accounting is discontinued if the hedge no longer share options that actually vest.
meets the criteria for hedge accounting: if the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised: if the forecast transaction is no longer If an award is modified, the original cost continues to be recognised as if expected to occur: or if hedge designation is revoked.
On the there had been no modification.
Where modification increases the fair discontinuance of hedge accounting except where a forecast transaction value of the award, this increase is recognised as an expense over the is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss in modified vesting period.
A new award of shares or share options is equity is recognised in profit or loss when the hedged cash flows occur treated as the modification of a cancelled award if, on the date the new or, if the forecast transaction results in the recognition of a financial asset award is granted, the Group identifies them as replacing the cancelled or financial liability, when the hedged forecast cash flows affect profit or award.
The cancellation of an award through failure to meet non-vesting loss.
Where a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the conditions triggers an immediate expense for any unrecognised element cumulative unrealised gain or loss in equity is recognised in profit or loss of the cost of an award.
