Accounting policies continued Life assurance 14.
Tax The Group's long-term assurance contracts include whole-life term Income tax expense or income, comprising current tax and deferred tax, assurance, endowment assurance, flexible whole-life, pension and is recorded in the income statement except income tax on items annuity contracts that are expected to remain in force for an extended recognised outside profit or loss which is credited or charged to other period of time.
Long-term assurance contracts under which the Group comprehensive income or to equity as appropriate.
does not accept significant insurance risk are classified as financial instruments.
Current tax is income tax payable or recoverable in respect of the taxable profit or loss for the year arising in income or in equity.
Provision is made The Group recognises the value of in-force long-term assurance for current tax at rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance contracts as an asset.
Cash flows associated with in-force contracts and sheet date.
related assets, including reinsurance cash flows, are projected, using appropriate assumptions as to future mortality, persistency and levels of Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable in respect expenses and excluding the value of future investment margins, to of temporary differences between the carrying amount of an asset or estimate future surpluses attributable to the Group.
These surpluses, liability for accounting purposes and its carrying amount for tax purposes.
discounted at a risk-adjusted rate, are recognised as a separate asset.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary Changes in the value of this asset are included in profit or loss.
differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax is not recognised on Premiums on long-term insurance contracts are recognised as income temporary differences that arise from initial recognition of an asset or a when receivable.
Claims on long-term insurance contracts reflect the cost liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the of all claims arising during the year, including claims handling costs.
time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or Claims are recognised when the Group becomes aware of the claim.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates expected to apply in the periods when the assets will be realised or the liabilities settled, based on Reinsurance tax rates and laws enacted, or substantively enacted, at the balance The Group has reinsurance treaties that transfer significant insurance sheet date.
Liabilities for reinsured contracts are calculated gross of reinsurance and a separate reinsurance asset recorded.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where the Group has a legally enforceable right to offset and where they relate to income taxes 13.
Provisions levied by the same taxation authority either on an individual Group The Group recognises a provision for a present obligation resulting from company or on Group companies in the same tax group that intend, in a past event when it is more likely than not that it will be required to future periods, to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis or transfer economic benefits to settle the obligation and the amount of the on a gross basis simultaneously.
obligation can be estimated reliably.
Financial assets Provision is made for restructuring costs, including the costs of On initial recognition, financial assets are classified into held-to-maturity redundancy, when the Group has a constructive obligation to restructure.
investments: held-for-trading: designated as at fair value through profit or An obligation exists when the Group has a detailed formal plan for the loss: loans and receivables: or available-for-sale financial assets.
restructuring and has raised a valid expectation in those affected by Regular way purchases of financial assets classified as loans and starting to implement the plan or announcing its main features.
receivables are recognised on settlement date: all other regular way transactions in financial assets are recognised on trade date.
If the Group has a contract that is onerous, it recognises the present obligation under the contract as a provision.
An onerous contract is one Held-to-maturity investments - a financial asset may be classified as a where the unavoidable costs of meeting the Groups contractual held-to-maturity investment only if it has fixed or determinable payments, obligations exceed the expected economic benefits.
When the Group a fixed maturity and the Group has the positive intention and ability to vacates a leasehold property, a provision is recognised for the costs hold to maturity.
Held-to-maturity investments are initially recognised at under the lease less any expected economic benefits such as rental fair value plus directly related transaction costs.
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method see Accounting policy 3 less any impairment losses.
Contingent liabilities are possible obligations arising from past events, whose existence will be confirmed only by uncertain future events, or Held-for-trading - a financial asset is classified as held-for-trading if it is present obligations arising from past events that are not recognised acquired principally for sale in the near term, or forms part of a portfolio of because either an outflow of economic benefits is not probable or the financial instruments that are managed together and for which there is amount of the obligation cannot be reliably measured.
Contingent evidence of short-term profit taking, or it is a derivative not in a qualifying liabilities are not recognised but information about them is disclosed hedge relationship.
Held-for-trading financial assets are recognised at unless the possibility of any outflow of economic benefits in settlement is fair value with transaction costs being recognised in profit or loss.
Subsequently they are measured at fair value.
Gains and losses on heldfor-trading financial assets are recognised in profit or loss as they arise.
