Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Balance sheet management Monitoring and maintenance All disclosures in this section pages 110 to 133 are audited unless Based on these determinations, which are continually reassessed, the otherwise indicated by an asterisk.
Group aims to maintain capital adequacy both at Group level and in each regulated entity.
Two of the Groups four key strategic risk objectives relate to the maintenance of capital adequacy and ensuring stable and efficient The Group operates a rigorous capital planning process aimed at access to liquidity and funding.
This section on balance sheet ensuring the capital position is controlled within the agreed parameters.
management explains how the Group is performing on achieving these This incorporates regular re-forecasts of the capital positions of the objectives.
regulated entities and the overall Group.
In the event that the projected position deteriorates beyond acceptable levels, the Group would issue Capital management further capital and or revise business plans accordingly.
Introduction The Group aims to maintain an appropriate level of capital to meet its Stress testing approaches are used to determine the level of capital business needs and regulatory requirements as capital adequacy and required to ensure the Group remains adequately capitalised.
risk management are closely aligned.
The Group operates within an agreed risk appetite whilst optimising the use of shareholders funds to Capital allocation deliver sustainable returns.
Capital resources are allocated to the Groups businesses based on key performance parameters agreed by the Group Board in the annual The appropriate level of capital is determined based on the dual aims of: strategic planning process.
Principal among these is a profitability metric i meeting minimum regulatory capital requirements: and ii ensuring the which assesses the effective use of the capital allocated to the business.
Group maintains sufficient capital to uphold investor and rating agency Projected and actual return on equity is assessed against target returns confidence in the organisation, thereby supporting the business franchise set by the Group Board.
The allocations also reflect strategic priorities and funding capacity.
and balance sheet and funding metrics.
Governance Economic profit is also planned and measured for each division during The Group Asset and Liability Management Committee GALCO is the annual planning process.
It is calculated by deducting the cost of responsible for ensuring the Group maintains adequate capital at all equity utilised in the particular business from its operating profit and times.
The newly established Capital and Stress Testing Committee measures the value added over and above the cost of equity.
CAST is a cross-functional body driving and directing integrated risk capital activities including stress testing economic capital and capital The Group aims to deliver sustainable returns across the portfolio of allocation.
These activities have linkages to capital planning, risk appetite businesses with projected business returns stressed to test key and regulatory change.
CAST reports through GALCO and comprises vulnerabilities.
senior representatives from Risk Management, Group Finance and Group Treasury.
The divisions use return on capital metrics when making pricing decisions on products and transactions with a view to ensuring customer activity is Determining appropriate capital appropriately aligned with Group and divisional targets and allocations.
The minimum regulatory capital requirements are identified by the Group through the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process and then The FSA uses the risk asset ratio as a measure of capital adequacy in agreed between the Group Board and the appropriate supervisory the UK banking sector, comparing a banks capital resources with its authority.
RWAs the assets and off-balance sheet exposures are weighted to reflect the inherent credit and other risks : by international agreement the The Groups own determination of how much capital is sufficient is risk asset ratios should not be less than 8% with a Tier 1 component of derived from the desired credit rating level and the application of both not less than 4%.
internally and externally defined stress tests that identify potential changes in capital ratios over time.
