Supervision Anti-money laundering, anti-terrorism and economic sanctions United Kingdom regulations are a major focus of the US government for financial The UK Financial Services Authority FSA is the consolidated supervisor institutions and are rigorously enforced by US government agencies.
As at 31 December 2011, 26 companies in the Group excluding subsidiaries of RBS NV, spanning a range of financial The Group's US bank and non-bank subsidiaries and the Royal Bank's services sectors banking, insurance and investment business, were US branches are also subject to supervision and regulation by a variety authorised to conduct financial activities regulated by the FSA.
of other US regulatory agencies.
RBS Citizens NA is supervised by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which is charged with the The UK authorised banks in the Group include the Royal Bank, NatWest, regulation and supervision of nationally chartered banks.
Citizens Bank of Coutts & Co and Ulster Bank Limited.
Wholesale activities, other than Pennsylvania is subject to the regulation and supervision of the US Group Treasury activities, are concentrated in the Group's Global Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Pennsylvania Department Banking & Markets and UK Corporate divisions, and are undertaken of Banking and Insurance.
Citizens Financial Group is under the under the names of the Royal Bank and NatWest.
UK retail banking supervision of the Federal Reserve as a bank holding company.
The activities are managed by the UK Retail division.
The exception is Ulster Royal Bank's New York branch is supervised by the New York State Bank Limited, which is run as a separate division within the Group.
Ulster Banking Department, and its Connecticut branch is supervised by the Bank Limited provides banking services in Northern Ireland while the Connecticut Department of Banking.
Both branches are also subject to banking service in the Republic of Ireland is provided by Ulster Bank supervisory oversight by the Federal Reserve, through the Federal Ireland Limited, which is primarily supervised by the Central Bank of Reserve Bank of Boston.
The Group's US broker dealer, RBS Securities Inc. RBSSI, formerly Investment management business is principally undertaken by known as Greenwich Capital Markets, Inc. is subject to regulation and companies in the Wealth division, including Coutts & Co, Adam & supervision by the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC and Company Investment Management Limited, and in the Global Banking & the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority FINRA with respect to its Markets division, through RBS Asset Management Limited.
The futures activities of RBSSI are subject to regulation and oversight by the US Commodity Futures Trading General insurance business was principally undertaken by Direct Line Commission CFTC and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange CME Insurance plc and Churchill Insurance Company Limited.
The Group's US commodities business, RBS December 2011, the assets and liabilities of these companies were Sempra Commodities LLP and its subsidiaries, which was largely sold in transferred under Part VII of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 2010, are primarily regulated by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, the to UK Insurance Limited, who now undertake general insurance Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FERC, the Commodity Futures business.
Trading Commission CFTC, the CME Group-owned exchanges, and The Intercontinental Exchange.
The Group is subject to extensive regulations that impose obligations on financial institutions to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and Netherlands controls to ensure compliance with the rules and regulations to which The consolidated supervisor of RBS N. V. is the Dutch Central Bank, fide they are subject.
The DNB operates as prudential supervisor of banks, insurance companies, pension funds and securities firms, and United States also as part of the European System of Central Banks.
The Group is both a bank holding company and a financial holding company within the meaning of the US Bank Holding Company Act of Other jurisdictions 1956.
As such, it is subject to the regulation and supervision of the Board The Group operates in over 30 countries through a network of branches, of Governors of the Federal Reserve System the Federal Reserve.
local banks and non-bank subsidiaries and these activities are subject to Among other things, the Group's direct and indirect activities and supervision in most cases by a local regulator or central bank.
investments in the United States are limited to those that are 'financial in nature' or 'incidental' or 'complementary' to a financial activity, as determined by the Federal Reserve.
The Group is also required to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before acquiring directly or indirectly, the ownership or control of more than 5% of any class of the voting shares of any US bank or holding company.
Under current Federal Reserve policy, the Group is required to act as a source of financial strength for its US bank subsidiaries.
Among other things, this source of strength obligation could require the Group to inject capital into any of its US bank subsidiaries if any of them became undercapitalised.
