Foreign currencies Rental income from operating leases is recognised in income on a The Group's consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling straight-line basis over the lease term unless another systematic basis which is the functional currency of the company.
better represents the time pattern of the assets use.
Operating lease assets are included within Property, plant and equipment and depreciated Group entities record transactions in foreign currencies in the currency of over their useful lives see Accounting policy 7.
Operating lease rentals the primary economic environment in which they operate their functional receivable are included in Other operating income.
currency at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign As lessee currencies are translated into the relevant functional currency at the The Groups contracts to lease assets are principally operating leases.
foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Foreign Operating lease rental expense is included in Premises and equipment exchange differences arising on the settlement of foreign currency costs and recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities lease term unless another systematic basis better represents the benefit are reported in income from trading activities except for differences to the Group.
arising on cash flow hedges and hedges of net investments in foreign operations see Accounting policy 24.
Insurance General insurance Non-monetary items denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at General insurance comprises short-duration contracts where the Group fair value are translated into the relevant functional currency at the the insurer has accepted significant insurance risk from another party foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the values are determined.
the policyholder by agreeing to compensate the policyholder if a Translation differences arising on non-monetary items measured at fair specified uncertain future event the insured event adversely affects the value are recognised in profit or loss except for differences arising on policyholder.
Due to the nature of the products sold - predominantly available-for-sale non-monetary financial assets, for example equity property and motor - the insurance protection is provided on an even shares, which are recognised in other comprehensive income unless the basis throughout the term of the policy.
Consequently, written premiums asset is the hedged item in a fair value hedge.
are recognised over the period of the policy.
Insurance premiums exclude insurance premium tax.
Unearned premiums represent the proportion of Assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair the net premiums that relate to periods of insurance after the balance value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated into sterling at sheet date and are calculated over the period of exposure under the foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Income and policy, on a daily or 24th's basis, or allowing for the estimated incidence expenses of foreign operations are translated into sterling at average of exposure under policies which are longer than twelve months.
exchange rates unless these do not approximate to the foreign exchange Provision is made where necessary for the estimated amount of claims rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange over and above unearned premiums including that in respect of future differences arising on the translation of a foreign operation are written business on discontinued lines under the run-off of delegated recognised in other comprehensive income.
The amount accumulated in underwriting authority arrangements.
The provision is designed to meet equity is reclassified from equity to profit or loss on disposal or partial future claims and related expenses and is calculated across related disposal of a foreign operation.
classes of business on the basis of a separate carry forward of deferred acquisition expenses after making allowance for investment income.
Leases As lessor Acquisition expenses relating to new and renewed business for all Contracts with customers to lease assets are classified as finance leases classes of general insurance business are expensed over the period if they transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the during which the premiums are earned.
The principal acquisition costs so asset to the customer: all other contracts with customers to lease assets deferred are commissions payable, and costs associated with the are classified as operating leases.
Claims and the related reinsurance are recognised in the accounting period in which the loss occurs.
The Group Finance lease receivables are included in the balance sheet, within cedes insurance risk in the normal course of business.
Reinsurance Loans and advances to banks and Loans and advances to customers, at assets represent balances due from reinsurance companies.
Amounts the amount of the net investment in the lease being the minimum lease recoverable from reinsurers are estimated on a basis consistent with the payments and any unguaranteed residual value discounted at the interest outstanding claims provision or settled claims associated with the rate implicit in the lease.
Finance lease income is allocated to accounting reinsurer's policies and are in accordance with the related reinsurance periods so as to give a constant periodic rate of return before tax on the contract.
Reinsurance assets are reviewed for impairment at each net investment and included in Interest receivable.
Unguaranteed reporting date or more frequently when an indication of impairment arises residual values are subject to regular review: if there is a reduction in during the reporting year.
Provision is made for the cost of settling their value, income allocation is revised and any reduction in respect of outstanding claims at the balance sheet date, including claims estimated amounts accrued is recognised immediately.
to have been incurred but not yet reported at that date, and claims handling expenses.
Provisions are only discounted where claims, principally motor, either have been or are expected to be settled by periodical payments.
Related reinsurance receivables are recognised on the same basis and at the same time.
