Designated as at fair value through profit or loss - financial assets may be Reclassifications - held-for-trading and available-for-sale financial assets designated as at fair value through profit or loss only if such designation that meet the definition of loans and receivables non-derivative financial a eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an inconsistency: or b applies to a group of financial assets, financial active market may be reclassified to loans and receivables if the Group liabilities or both, that the Group manages and evaluates on a fair value has the intention and ability to hold the financial asset for the foreseeable basis: or c relates to an instrument that contains an embedded future or until maturity.
The Group typically regards the foreseeable future derivative which is not evidently closely related to the host contract.
as twelve months from the date of reclassification.
Additionally, held-forFinancial assets that the Group designates on initial recognition as being trading financial assets that do not meet the definition of loans and at fair value through profit or loss are recognised at fair value, with receivables may, in rare circumstances, be transferred to  costs being recognised in profit or loss, and are subsequently sale financial assets or to held-to-maturity investments.
Reclassifications measured at fair value.
Gains and losses on financial assets that are are made at fair value.
This fair value becomes the asset's new cost or designated as at fair value through profit or loss are recognised in profit amortised cost as appropriate.
Gains and losses recognised up to the or loss as they arise.
date of reclassification are not reversed.
In 2009, financial assets designated as at fair value through profit or loss Fair value for a net open position in a financial asset that is quoted in an included policyholders' assets underpinning insurance and investment active market is the current bid price times the number of units of the contracts issued by the Group's life assurance businesses.
Fair values for financial assets not quoted in an active designation significantly reduces the measurement inconsistency that market are determined using appropriate valuation techniques including would arise if these assets were classified as available-for-sale.
discounting future cash flows, option pricing models and other methods that are consistent with accepted economic methodologies for pricing Loans and receivables - non-derivative financial assets with fixed or financial assets.
determinable repayments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as loans and receivables, except those that are classified as 16.
Impairment of financial assets available-for-sale or as held-for-trading, or designated as at fair value The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is any through profit or loss.
Loans and receivables are initially recognised at objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets fair value plus directly related transaction costs.
They are subsequently classified as held-to-maturity, available-for-sale or loans and receivables measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method see is impaired.
A financial asset or portfolio of financial assets is impaired Accounting policy 3 less any impairment losses.
and an impairment loss incurred if there is objective evidence that an event or events since initial recognition of the asset have adversely Available-for-sale financial assets - financial assets that are not classified affected the amount or timing of future cash flows from the asset.
as held-to-maturity: held-for-trading: designated as at fair value through profit or loss: or loans and receivables are classified as available-for-sale.
Financial assets carried at amortised cost - if there is objective evidence Financial assets can be designated as available-for-sale on initial that an impairment loss on a financial asset or group of financial assets recognition.
Available-for-sale financial assets are initially recognised at classified as loans and receivables or as held-to-maturity investments fair value plus directly related transaction costs.
They are subsequently has been incurred, the Group measures the amount of the loss as the measured at fair value.
Unquoted equity investments whose fair value difference between the carrying amount of the asset or group of assets cannot be measured reliably are carried at cost and classified as and the present value of estimated future cash flows from the asset or available-for-sale financial assets.
Impairment losses and exchange group of assets discounted at the effective interest rate of the instrument differences resulting from retranslating the amortised cost of foreign at initial recognition.
For collateralised loans and receivables, estimated currency monetary available-for-sale financial assets are recognised in future cash flows include cash flows that may result from foreclosure less profit or loss together with interest calculated using the effective interest the costs of obtaining and selling the collateral, whether or not method see Accounting policy 3 as are gains and losses attributable to foreclosure is probable.
the hedged risk on available-for-sale financial assets that are hedged items in fair value hedges see Accounting policy 24.
Other changes in Where, in the course of the orderly realisation of a loan, it is exchanged the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets and any related tax are for equity shares or property, the exchange is accounted for as the sale reported in other comprehensive income until disposal, when the of the loan and the acquisition of equity securities or investment property.
cumulative gain or loss is reclassified from equity to profit or loss.
Where the Groups interest in equity shares following the exchange is such that the Group controls an entity, that entity is consolidated.
