Payment services - this comprises income received for payment services The results of discontinued operations - comprising the post-tax profit or including cheques cashed, direct debits, Clearing House Automated loss of discontinued operations and the post-tax gain or loss recognised Payments the UK electronic settlement system and BACS payments either on measurement to fair value less costs to sell or on the disposal of the automated clearing house that processes direct debits and direct the discontinued operation - are shown as a single amount on the face of credits.
These are generally charged on a per transaction basis.
A discontinued operation is a cash-generating unit income is earned when the payment or transaction occurs.
Charges for or a group of cash-generating units that either has been disposed of, or is payment services are usually debited to the customer's account monthly classified as held for sale, and a represents a separate major line of or quarterly in arrears.
Income is accrued at period end for services business or geographical area of operations, b is part of a single coprovided but not yet charged.
ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations or c is a subsidiary acquired exclusively Card related services - fees from credit card business include: with a view to resale.
Commission received from retailers for processing credit and debit 5.
Employee benefits card transactions: income is accrued to the income statement as the Short-term employee benefits, such as salaries, paid absences, and service is performed.
other benefits are accounted for on an accruals basis over the period in which the employees provide the related services.
Group employees Interchange received: as issuer, the Group receives a fee may receive variable compensation satisfied by cash, by debt interchange each time a cardholder purchases goods and services.
instruments issued by the Group or by shares in The Royal Bank of The Group also receives interchange fees from other card issuers Scotland Group plc.
The treatment of share-based compensation is set for providing cash advances through its branch and automated teller out in Accounting policy 25.
Variable compensation that is settled in cash machine networks.
These fees are accrued once the transaction has or debt instruments is charged to profit or loss over the period from the taken place.
start of the year to which the variable compensation relates to the expected settlement date taking account of forfeiture and claw back An annual fee payable by a credit card holder is deferred and taken criteria.
to profit or loss over the period of the service i. e. 12 months.
The Group provides post-retirement benefits in the form of pensions and Insurance brokerage - this is made up of fees and commissions received healthcare plans to eligible employees.
from the agency sale of insurance.
Commission on the sale of an insurance contract is earned at the inception of the policy, as the For defined benefit schemes, scheme liabilities are measured on an insurance has been arranged and placed.
However, provision is made actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method and discounted at a where commission is refundable in the event of policy cancellation in line rate determined by reference to market yields at the end of the reporting with estimated cancellations.
period on high quality corporate bonds of equivalent term and currency to the scheme liabilities.
Scheme assets are measured at their fair value.
Investment management fees - fees charged for managing investments The difference between scheme assets and scheme liabilities is are recognised as revenue as the services are provided.
Incremental recognised in the balance sheet as an asset surplus or liability deficit.
costs that are directly attributable to securing an investment management A net surplus is limited to any unrecognised past service cost plus the contract are deferred and charged as expense as the related revenue is present value of any economic benefits available to the Group in the form recognised.
of refunds from the plan or reduced contributions to it.
The current service cost, curtailments and any past service costs together with the expected Insurance premiums - see Accounting policy 12. return on scheme assets less the unwinding of the discount on scheme liabilities are charged to operating expenses.
Assets held for sale and discontinued operations curtailment is recognised in profit or loss when the curtailment occurs.
A A non-current asset or disposal group is classified as held for sale if the curtailment occurs when the Group is committed to making a significant Group will recover its carrying amount principally through a sale reduction in the number of employees covered by a plan or a plan is transaction rather than through continuing use.
A non-current asset or amended such that future service qualifies for no or reduced benefits.
disposal group classified as held for sale is measured at the lower of its Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
If the asset or disposal they arise in other comprehensive income.
Contributions to defined group is acquired as part of a business combination it is initially contribution pension schemes are recognised in profit or loss when measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Assets and liabilities of disposal payable.
groups classified as held for sale and non-current assets classified as held for sale are shown separately on the face of the balance sheet.
