Description of property and equipment Material contracts The Group operates from a number of locations worldwide, principally in The company and its subsidiaries are party to various contracts in the the UK.
At 31 December 2011, the Royal Bank and NatWest had 627 and ordinary course of business.
Material contracts include the following: 1,493 retail branches, respectively, in the UK.
Ulster Bank has a foot print of 236 branches and an extensive network of business banking offices Consortium and Shareholders Agreement CSA across Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.
US Retail & On 28 May 2007, Fortis Bank Nederland, the company, Santander and Commercial had 1,519 retail banking offices including in-store branches RFS Holdings entered into the CSA.
Fortis Bank Nederland acceded to covering Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Massachusetts, Michigan, New the CSA on 26 July 2007.
On 3 October 2008, the Dutch State acquired Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island Fortis Bank Nederland.
On 24 December 2008 the Dutch State acceded and Vermont.
A substantial majority of the UK branches are owned by the to the CSA following its acquisition of the shares held by Fortis Bank Royal Bank, NatWest and their subsidiaries or are held under leases with Nederland in RFS Holdings pursuant to a Deed of Accession entered into unexpired terms of over 50 years.
The Group's principal properties between RFS Holdings, the company, Fortis Bank Nederland, Santander include its headquarters at Gogarburn, Edinburgh, its principal offices in and the Dutch State.
On 1 April 2010 the CSA was restated.
It was the London at 135 and 280 Bishopsgate and the Drummond House subject of a further amendment on 18 July 2011.
The CSA as amended administration centre located at South Gyle, Edinburgh.
and restated governs the relationships amongst the parties thereto in relation to the acquisition by RFS Holdings of ABN AMRO now RBS Total capital expenditure on premises excluding investment properties, Holdings N. V..
The CSA as amended and restated details, inter alia, computers and other equipment in the year ended 31 December 2011 the equity interests in RFS Holdings, the governance of RFS Holdings, was 820 million 2010 - 656 million: 2009 - 1,215 million.
the arrangements for the transfer of certain ABN AMRO businesses, assets and liabilities to the Dutch State previously Fortis Bank Major shareholders Nederland, the company and Santander, further funding obligations of In December 2008, The Solicitor for the Affairs of Her Majesty's Treasury the Dutch State, the company and Santander where funding is required HM Treasury acquired 22,854 million ordinary shares representing by regulatory authorities in connection with the ABN AMRO businesses, 57.9% of the company's issued ordinary share capital.
During 2009, HM the allocation of taxes and conduct of tax affairs and the steps that the Treasury acquired a further 16,791 million ordinary shares raising their Dutch State, the company and Santander expect to take to enable the holding to 70.3% of the company's issued ordinary share capital.
company to become the sole shareholder of RFS Holdings.
In December 2009, HM Treasury acquired 51 billion B shares in the Second Placing and Open Offer Agreement company representing the entire issued B share capital.
At 31 December Pursuant to a placing and open offer agreement dated 19 January 2009 2011, HM Treasurys holding in the companys ordinary shares was entered into between the company, UBS, Merrill Lynch International and 66.9%.
HM Treasury, i the company agreed to invite qualifying shareholders to apply to subscribe for new shares at the issue price of 31.75 pence per Other than detailed above, there have been no significant changes in the new share by way of the Second Open Offer, ii UBS and Merrill Lynch percentage ownership of major shareholders of the company's ordinary, International were appointed as joint sponsors, joint bookrunners and B and preference shares during the three years ended 22 February 2012. joint placing agents and agreed to use reasonable endeavours to procure All shareholders within a class of the company's shares have the same placees to subscribe for the new shares on such terms as may be agreed voting rights.
by the company and HM Treasury at not less than the issue price of 31.75 pence per new share on the basis that the new shares placed will At 22 February 2012, the directors of the company had options to be subject to clawback to the extent they are taken up under the Second purchase a total of 10,455,306 ordinary shares of the company.
Open Offer and iii HM Treasury agreed that, to the extent not placed or taken up under the Second Open Offer and subject to the terms and As at 31 December 2011, almost all of the company's US$ denominated conditions set out in the Second Placing and Open Offer Agreement, HM preference shares and American Depository Shares representing Treasury would subscribe for such new shares itself at the issue price of ordinary shares were held by shareholders registered in the US.
All other 31.75 pence per new share.
shares were predominantly held by shareholders registered outside the US.
445 RBS Group 2011 Additional information continued Material contracts continued Proposed Assets is in accordance with usual business practices and Pursuant to the terms of the Second Placing and Open Offer Agreement, also without regard to the possible benefits under the APS: the aggregate proceeds of the Second Placing and Open Offer net of vi develop and, subject to market conditions, implement a liability expenses were used in full to fund the redemption on Admission as management plan which is designed to enable the Group to meet defined in the Second Placing and Open Offer Agreement of the certain Core Tier 1 capital targets for 2009: and preference shares held by HM Treasury at 101 per cent of their issue price 5.05 billion together with the accrued dividend on the preference vii use best endeavours giving regard to reasonable operational shares from and including 1 December 2008 to but excluding the Date of requirements to maintain regular, adequate and effective monitoring, Admission as defined in the Second Placing and Open Offer reporting, risk management and audit controls and procedures in Agreement and the commissions payable to HM Treasury under the order, among other things, to ensure that risks relating to key Second Placing and Open Offer Agreement.
business processes which affect the Proposed Assets are identified, assessed and reported and are managed and mitigated HM Treasury is entitled to novate its rights under the Second Placing and appropriately.
Open Offer Agreement to any entity that is owned, directly or indirectly, by HM Treasury.
"In addition, the Royal Bank agreed in principle that, if and only if the Royal Bank accedes to the APS, it would not claim, and would disclaim, Pre-accession Commitments Letter certain UK tax losses and allowances arising to members of the Group in On 26 February 2009, the Royal Bank entered into a deed poll in favour respect of any accounting period ending on or after 31 December 2008, of HM Treasury, pursuant to which the Royal Bank gave a series of provided that this undertaking would not apply in respect of any such tax undertakings on behalf of each member of the Group, with immediate benefits arising in the earlier of a the first accounting period beginning effect unless otherwise agreed, in relation to the provision of information more than five years after the relevant accession date and b the first and the management of the assets, commitments and exposures the accounting period beginning after the relevant accession date in which ""Proposed Assets"" in the period prior to the Royal Bank's proposed the Group becomes profitable."
accession to and participation in the UK Government's Asset Protection Scheme APS.
The company's commitments described in this section have been superseded by the Scheme Rules and the Accession Agreement for The Royal Bank undertook to HM Treasury, among other things, to: details of the Accession Agreement see page 448, with the exception of a commitment to inform the Department for Business, Innovation and i provide all such assistance and information and data as is reasonably Skills prior to making significant reductions in the level of lending being requested which is pertinent to the implementation of the APS and made available to certain borrowers or counterparties, which will apply the Royal Bank's potential participation in the APS: until 28 February 2011, in line with the duration of the commitments under the Lending Commitments Letter described below.
ii provide, as soon as practicable, an indicative list of the assets, commitments and exposures that the Royal Bank propose to include Lending Commitments Letter within the APS with a view to agreeing such list by 30 April 2009: On 26 February 2009, the company entered into a deed poll in favour of certain UK Government departments under which it undertook to support iii provide, as promptly as practicable, information and data relating to lending to creditworthy borrowers in the UK in a commercial manner with the Proposed Assets reasonably requested for due diligence effect from 1 March 2009.
On 18 May 2009, the company entered into an purposes and to provide certain other information concerning the amendment to this deed poll which took effect from 29 May 2009 and on Group's business and the financial performance and risk of the 20 November 2009, the company executed a further amendment to this Proposed Assets: deed poll.
This lending commitment was a pre-requisite to the company's participation in the APS and other Government backed schemes, the iv provide access to the Group's premises, books, records, senior objective of which was to reinforce the stability of the financial system executives, relevant personnel and professional advisers on and support the recovery of the economy.
reasonable terms: Pursuant to this lending commitment, the company agreed to increase its v consult with HM Treasury regarding the management and operations lending in the 12 months commencing 1 March 2009 from its UK banking of the Proposed Assets and to ensure that the management of the operations to UK businesses by, in aggregate, 16 billion above the amount previously budgeted.
446 RBS Group 2011 The company also made a commitment to increase lending to The company and HM Treasury further agreed the terms of the 8 billion homeowners, including first time buyers, in the United Kingdom.
The Contingent Subscription of the Contingent B shares in the Acquisition and company undertook to increase its residential mortgage lending by at Contingent Capital Agreement.
"For a period of five years from 22 least 9 billion above the amount previously budgeted in the 12 months December 2009 or, if earlier, until the occurrence of a termination event commencing 1 March 2009. or until the company decides with FSA consent to terminate such Contingent Subscription the ""Contingent Period"", if the Core Tier 1 ratio Such additional lending was subject to the company's ordinary course of the company falls below five per cent and if certain other conditions pricing and other terms, and certain commercial, risk, credit and are met HM Treasury has committed to subscribe for the Contingent B regulatory considerations."
shares in no fewer than two tranches of 6 billion and 2 billion or such smaller amounts as the company and HM Treasury may agree.
Any The company's compliance with its lending commitments is monitored by unused portion of the 8 billion may be subscribed in one or more further the UK Government, and is subject to a reporting process.
The company also made certain undertakings as regards marketing in The company may, subject to certain conditions, at any time terminate support of its lending commitments and certain other matters relating to the Contingent Subscription in whole or in part, with the consent of the its business and residential lending practices and policies.
The company is required to pay an annual fee, for the Contingent commitments made in the deed poll supersede the commitments given Period, in relation to the Acquisitions and the Contingent Subscription of by the company in the First Placing and Open Offer Agreement and the 320 million less four per cent per annum of the value of any B shares Second Placing and Open Offer Agreement.
subscribed for under the Contingent Subscription.
Such fee is payable in cash or, with HM Treasury's consent, by waiving certain UK tax reliefs On 23 March 2010, the company agreed with the UK government certain that are treated as deferred tax assets or through a further issue of B adjustments to the above lending commitments for the 2010 commitment shares to HM Treasury.
The annual fee ceases to be payable on period the 12 month period commencing 1 March 2010, to reflect termination of the Contingent Subscription and if the company terminates expected economic circumstances over the period.
As part of the the Contingent Subscription in part, the fee will reduce proportionately.
amended lending commitments, the company committed, among other things, to make available gross new facilities, drawn or undrawn, of 50 The company gave certain representations and warranties to HM billion to UK businesses in the period 1 March 2010 to 28 February 2011.
Treasury on the date of the Acquisition and Contingent Capital In addition, the company agreed with the UK government to make Agreement, on the date the circular was posted to shareholders, on the available 8 billion of net mortgage lending in the 2010 commitment first date on which all of the conditions precedent were satisfied, or period.
This was a decrease of 1 billion on the net mortgage lending waived, and on the date of the Acquisitions.
The company has agreed to target that previously applied to the 2010 commitment period which give such representations and warranties again on each date if any a ended on 28 February 2011, to reflect that the mortgage lending Contingent Subscription is triggered and on each date if any on which B commitment for the 2009 commitment period was increased from 9 shares are issued pursuant to a Contingent Subscription.
In the Budget of 23 March 2011, the Chancellor of the Exchequer confirmed that RBS had met these lending commitments, The company agreed to reimburse HM Treasury for its expenses incurred providing 30 billion of gross new facilities to SMEs and 26.9 billion to in connection with the Acquisitions and agreed to do so in connection larger businesses a total of 56.9 billion and delivering 9.4 billion of net with the Contingent B shares, if the Contingent Subscription is exercised.
"The company agreed to a number of undertakings, including with respect B Share Acquisition and Contingent Capital Agreement to: i restrictions on the payment of dividends or other distributions on, On 26 November 2009, the company and HM Treasury entered into the and the redemption of, certain securities: ii expectations regarding the Acquisition and Contingent Capital Agreement pursuant to which HM repurchase of the B shares by the company: iii renegotiations of the Treasury subscribed for the initial B shares and the Dividend Access terms of the Contingent Subscription as a result of future legislative or Share the ""Acquisitions"" and agreed the terms of HM Treasury's regulatory changes: iv negotiating in good faith to maintain the status of subscription for an additional 8 billion in aggregate in the form of further the B shares and Dividend Access Share as Core Tier 1 capital: and v B shares the ""Contingent B shares"", which will be issued on the same restrictions in relation to the company's share premium account."
terms as the initial B shares.
The Acquisitions were subject to the satisfaction of various conditions, including the company having obtained the approval of its shareholders in relation to the Acquisitions.
"447 RBS Group 2011 Additional information continued Material contracts continued Under the APS, HM Treasury is liable to make payments to the company HM Treasury has agreed to waive its statutory pre-emption rights arising in respect of a pre-defined pool of assets and exposures the ""Covered out of the B shares and the Dividend Access Share in respect of any Assets""."
Payments under the APS are intended to protect the company, future issue of equity securities by the company other than B shares and over time, for 90% of the amount by which cumulative losses on the has agreed to vote its B shares and the Dividend Access Share, as whole portfolio of Covered Assets as reduced by cumulative recoveries applicable, in favour of each special resolution to disapply its preon the portfolio exceed a fixed first loss threshold of 60 billion.
emption rights under the B shares and or the Dividend Access Share Cumulative losses as reduced by cumulative recoveries below the first then held by HM Treasury every time they arise.
The pre-emption rights loss threshold, and a 10% vertical slice of any cumulative losses as arising out of the B shares and the Dividend Access Share have also reduced by cumulative recoveries exceeding the first loss threshold, are been disapplied in the Articles of Association.
for the account of the company.
HM Treasury has agreed that it shall not be entitled to exercise its option Protection under the APS is, subject to various requirements under the to convert B shares into ordinary shares to the extent that it holds more Scheme Conditions, provided in respect of the Covered Assets on the than 75 per cent of the ordinary shares of the company or to the extent company's consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2008 with an that the exercise of such option would result in it holding more than 75 aggregate covered amount of 282 billion the covered pool has since per cent of the ordinary shares of the company.
Protection under the APS may be lost or limited in certain specified circumstances, including the failure of a Covered Asset HM Treasury has agreed that it shall not be entitled to vote the B shares to satisfy certain asset eligibility criteria set out in the Scheme Conditions.
or the Dividend Access Share to the extent that votes cast on such B shares and the Dividend Access Share, together with any other votes During the life of the APS, the company will pay HM Treasury a nonwhich HM Treasury is entitled to cast in respect of any other ordinary refundable annual fee payable in advance of 700 million per annum for shares held by or on behalf of HM Treasury, would exceed 75 per cent of the first three years of the APS and 500 million per annum until the the total votes eligible to be cast on a resolution proposed at a general earlier of i the date of termination of the APS and ii 31 December meeting of the company.
The annual fee can, subject to HM Treasury's consent, be paid wholly or partly by means of the waiver of certain UK tax reliefs that are For as long as it is a substantial shareholder of the company within the treated as deferred tax assets or funded by the issuance of additional B meaning of the UKLA's Listing Rules, HM Treasury has undertaken not shares to HM Treasury.
to vote on related party transaction resolutions at general meetings and to direct that its affiliates do not so vote.
The company has the right, in certain circumstances, to withdraw from the APS permanently all or part of a Covered Asset.
In addition, the Accession Agreement and the UK Asset Protection Scheme Terms and company contractually has the right to terminate the APS exercisable at Conditions any time provided that the FSA has confirmed in writing to HM Treasury The company acceded to the APS through an accession agreement the that it has no objection to the proposed termination.
"An exit fee and, ""Accession Agreement"" entered into with HM Treasury, which became potentially, a refund of HM Treasury's net payments under the APS may effective on 22 December 2009."
Supplemental agreements were signed be payable by the company upon such termination.
The Scheme on 27 August 2010, 20 December 2010, 25 January 2011, 10 February Conditions also contain various provisions and restrictions on the 2011, 30 June 2011, 22 July 2011 and 18 August 2011.
The Accession management and administration of the Covered Assets and certain Agreement incorporates by reference the terms and conditions of the related assets.
The company is obliged to manage certain such assets APS set out in the document entitled UK Asset Protection Scheme those that are identified by reference to a focus list in accordance with Terms and Conditions which is available on HM Treasury's website the the asset management objective, which is to maximise the expected net Scheme Conditions.
The Accession Agreement which incorporates the present value of such assets discounted at an HM Treasury rate, Scheme Conditions is accounted for as a credit derivative and it tailors including by minimising losses and potential losses and maximising the APS to the company by, amongst other things, setting applicable recoveries and potential recoveries.
The company also has monitoring bank-specific thresholds and addressing various other bank-specific and reporting obligations under the Scheme Conditions which are aimed issues.
at transparency in respect of the Covered Assets to enable HM Treasury to manage and assess its exposure under the APS.
In addition, the company has to establish a separate governance structure for the purposes of the APS.
Further, the Scheme Conditions and the Accession Agreement also contain requirements for the development of a remuneration policy for the Group and specific remuneration requirements for certain officers and employees of the company.
448 RBS Group 2011 HM Treasury has the right to appoint one or more step-in managers to The Group entered into a State Aid Commitment Deed with HM Treasury exercise extensive step-in rights in relation to all or some of the Covered which provides that the Group will comply or procure compliance with Assets upon the occurrence of certain specified trigger events.
these measures and behavioural commitments.
The Group agreed to do all acts and things necessary to ensure HM Treasury's compliance with Certain Scheme Conditions are subject to modification at any time with its obligations under any European Commission decision approving State retrospective effect at the discretion of HM Treasury without the Aid to the Group.
The modification rights arise broadly and subject to certain conditions where the operation, interpretation or application of The State Aid Commitment Deed also provides that if the European such Scheme Conditions conflicts with any of the overriding general Commission adopts a decision that the UK Government must recover any principles set out in the Scheme Conditions.
"State Aid a ""Repayment Decision"" and the recovery order of the Repayment Decision has not been annulled or suspended by the Court of There are material restrictions on the form and substance of First Instance now the General Court or the European Court of Justice, announcements or public statements including any required by law or then the Group must repay HM Treasury any aid ordered to be recovered the rules of any securities exchange made by the Group in relation to the under the Repayment Decision."
APS or to HM Treasury in connection with the APS without HM Treasury's consent.
The State Aid Commitment Deed also provides for the Group's undertakings in respect of State Aid to be modified in certain limited In connection with its participation in the APS, the company has agreed circumstances.
However, HM Treasury has undertaken that it will not, to a number of behavioural commitments in respect of lending for without the consent of the Group, agree modifications to the Group's businesses in the UK, personal current accounts in the UK as well as to undertakings with respect to State Aid which are significantly more develop and implement a capital optimisation exercise designed to onerous to the Group than those granted in order to obtain the State Aid increase the Groups Core Tier 1 capital.
The Tax Loss Waiver State Aid Costs Reimbursement Deed On 26 November 2009, the company entered into three agreements Under the State Aid Costs Reimbursement Deed, the Group has agreed together comprising the Tax Loss Waiver which provide the right, at the to reimburse HM Treasury for fees, costs and expenses associated with companys option, subject to HM Treasury consent, to satisfy all or part of the State Aid and State Aid approval.
the annual fee in respect of the APS or the Contingent Subscription arrangement, and the exit fee payable in connection with any termination Sale of RBS England and Wales and NatWest Scotland branch based of the Groups participation in the APS but not the refund of the net business to Santander UK plc payments it has received from HM Treasury under the APS, by waiving On 4 August 2010, the Royal Bank, NatWest Plc and National the entitlement to certain UK tax reliefs that are treated as deferred tax Westminster Home Loans Limited entered into a Sale and Purchase assets.
The Tax Loss Waiver contains undertakings designed to prevent Agreement with Santander UK plc pursuant to which the Royal Bank, the Group from engaging in arrangements which have a main purpose of NatWest Plc and National Westminster Home Loans Limited agreed to reducing the net cost to the Group of any waiver of tax reliefs pursuant to sell 311 Royal Bank of Scotland branded branches in England and the Tax Loss Waiver.
Wales, seven NatWest branded branches in Scotland, the retail and SME customer accounts attached to these branches, the Direct SME business, State Aid Commitment Deed and certain mid-corporate businesses and associated assets and As a result of the State Aid granted to the company, it was required to liabilities to Santander UK plc for a premium of 350 million to net assets work with HM Treasury to submit a State Aid restructuring plan to the at closing.
The parties agreed certain amendments to the Sale and European Commission, which has now been approved under the State Purchase Agreement on 30 August 2011.
The consideration will be paid Aid rules.
The company has agreed a series of measures to be in cash and is subject to certain closing adjustments, including those implemented over a four year period, which supplement the measures in relating to the performance of the business.
The transaction is subject to the company's strategic plan.
regulatory, anti-trust and other conditions.
449 RBS Group 2011 Additional information continued Material contracts continued its group companies sold 80.01 per cent of its Global Merchant Services RBS Sempra Commodities JV sales business for an enterprise value of up to 2.025 billion.
Approximately On 16 February 2010, the Group announced that RBS Sempra 1.45 billion subject to customary post-closing adjustments was Commodities JV, a joint venture owned by the Royal Bank and Sempra received in cash on closing of the sale of the 80.01 per cent interest.
Up Energy, had agreed to sell to J. P. Morgan Ventures Energy Corporation to 200 million is receivable in the future if the returns realised by Advent JPMorgan its metals, oils and European energy business lines.
The and Bain exceed certain thresholds.
The sale completed on 30 November Group announced completion of the transaction on 2 July 2010, for a total 2010. cash consideration of US$1.6 billion, post interim distributions of which the company's share is approximately 47 per cent.
The Royal Bank, in its capacity as holder of a retained interest in the Global Merchant Services business, also entered into an Investment On 20 September 2010, the Group announced that RBS Sempra Agreement on 6 August 2010 subsequently amended and restated on 29 Commodities JV had agreed to sell its Sempra Energy Solutions November 2010 with Ship Bidco Limited now WorldPay UK Limited, business line to Noble Americas Gas & Power Corp. for consideration of certain other acquisition vehicles, specified management and funds approximately US$317 million in cash, plus the assumption of operated by Advent International and Bain Capital relating to the approximately US$265 million in debt.
The Groups share of the operations of the joint venture company which is the uppermost of the consideration is approximately 51 per cent, or US$162 million.
The intermediate acquisition vehicles and the ultimate parent company of transaction closed on 1 November 2010.
The interests of the Royal Bank are insufficient to block major decisions of this joint venture company at the shareholder or On 7 October 2010, the Group announced that RBS Sempra board level.
Commodities JV had agreed to sell substantial assets of its commodities trading North American Power and Gas business lines to JPMorgan.
The Sale of RBS Aviation Capital to Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation transaction closed on 1 December 2010 and JPMorgan acquired these On 16 January 2012, the Royal Bank and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking net assets for consideration of US$220 million in cash based on the 30 Corporation SMBC entered into a Sale and Purchase Agreement June 2010 balance sheet, of which the Groups share is approximately 51 pursuant to which the Royal Bank agreed to sell its aircraft leasing per cent, i. e. US$112 million.
The value of the gross assets acquired by business, RBS Aviation Capital, to SMBC, acting on behalf of a JPMorgan was US$6 billion unaudited as of 30 June 2010. consortium comprising its parent, Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, and Sumitomo Corporation.
As a result of the sale, the consortium will acquire Sale of Global Merchant Services business RBS Aviation Capital for an approximate consideration of US$7.3 billion On 6 August 2010, the Royal Bank, Citizens Financial Group, Inc. RBS 4.7 billion.
The consideration will be paid in cash and will be subject to Netherlands Holdings B. V. Ulster Bank Limited, Ulster Bank Ireland certain closing adjustments.
The transaction is subject to regulatory and Limited, NatWest Plc and Ship Bidco Limited a company representing anti-trust conditions and it is expected that the sale will complete before Advent International Advent and Bain Capital Bain which has now the end of the third quarter of 2012. changed its name to WorldPay UK Limited entered into a Transfer Agreement pursuant to which the Royal Bank either directly or through 450 RBS Group 2011
