Notes on the consolidated accounts continued 32 Memorandum items Contingent liabilities and commitments The amounts shown in the table below are intended only to provide an indication of the volume of business outstanding at 31 December 2011.
Although the Group is exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance of the obligations undertaken by customers, the amounts shown do not, and are not intended to, provide any indication of the Group's expectation of future losses.
Banking commitments and contingent obligations, which have been Commitments entered into on behalf of customers and for which there are Commitments to lend - under a loan commitment the Group agrees to corresponding obligations from customers, are not included in assets and make funds available to a customer in the future.
The Group's maximum exposure to credit loss, in the event of which are usually for a specified term may be unconditionally cancellable non-performance by the other party and where all counterclaims, or may persist, provided all conditions in the loan facility are satisfied or collateral or security proves valueless, is represented by the contractual waived.
Commitments to lend include commercial standby facilities and nominal amount of these instruments included in the table above.
These credit lines, liquidity facilities to commercial paper conduits and unutilised commitments and contingent obligations are subject to the Group's overdraft facilities.
Other commitments - these include documentary credits, which are Contingent liabilities commercial letters of credit providing for payment by the Group to a Guar named beneficiary against presentation of specified documents, forward antees - the Group gives guarantees on behalf of customers.
A financial guarantee represents an irrevocable undertaking that the Group asset purchases, forward deposits placed and undrawn note issuance will meet a customer's obligations to third parties if the customer fails to and revolving underwriting facilities, and other short-term trade related do so.
The maximum amount that the Group could be required to pay transactions.
under a guarantee is its principal amount as disclosed in the table above.
The Group expects most guarantees it provides to expire unused.
Other contingent liabilities - these include standby letters of credit, supporting customer debt issues and contingent liabilities relating to customer trading activities such as those arising from performance and customs bonds, warranties and indemnities.
RBS Group 2011 400 Contractual obligations for future expenditure not provided for in the accounts The following table shows contractual obligations for future expenditure not provided for in the accounts at the year end.
2011 2010 2009 m m m Operating leases Minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable leases 1 - within 1 year 468 497 479 - after 1 year but within 5 years 1,453 1,515 1,691 - after 5 years 2,714 2,892 3,055 4,635 4,904 5,225 Property, plant and equipment Contracts to buy, enhance or maintain investment properties 2 Contracts to buy assets to be leased under operating leases 2,3 2,607 2,585 2,724 Other capital expenditure 35 150 89 2,642 2,737 2,813 Contracts to purchase goods or services 4 1,130 950 1,025 8,407 8,591 9,063 Notes: 1 Predominantly property leases.
3 At 31 December 2011, 2,607 million related to the RBS Aviation Capital business which is included in disposal groups.
Trustee and other fiduciary activities In its capacity as trustee or other fiduciary role, the Group may hold or The FSCS has borrowed from HM Treasury to fund the compensation place assets on behalf of individuals, trusts, companies, pension costs associated with Bradford & Bingley, Heritable Bank, Kaupthing schemes and others.
The assets and their income are not included in the Singer & Friedlander, Landsbanki Icesave and London Scottish Bank Group's financial statements.
The Group earned fee income of 502 plc.
These borrowings are on an interest-only basis until 31 March 2012. million 2010 - 629 million: 2009 - 1,355 million from these activities.
The annual limit on the FSCS interest and management expenses levy for the period September 2008 to March 2012 in relation to these The Financial Services Compensation Scheme institutions has been capped at 1 billion per annum.
The Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS, the UK's statutory fund of last resort for customers of authorised financial services The FSCS will receive funds from asset sales, surplus cash flow, or other firms, pays compensation if a firm is unable to meet its obligations.
The recoveries in relation to these institutions which will be used to reduce the FSCS funds compensation for customers by raising management principal amount of the FSCS's borrowings.
After the interest only period expenses levies and compensation levies on the industry.
In relation to a schedule for repayment of any outstanding borrowings will be agreed protected deposits, each deposit-taking institution contributes towards between the FSCS and HM Treasury in the light of market conditions at these levies in proportion to their share of total protected deposits on 31 that time and the FSCS will begin to raise compensation levies principal December of the year preceding the scheme year which runs from 1 repayments.
April to 31 March, subject to annual maxima set by the Financial Services Authority.
In addition, the FSCS has the power to raise levies on The Group has accrued 157 million for its share of FSCS levies for the a firm that has ceased to participate in the scheme and is in the process 2011 12 and 2012 13 scheme years.
of ceasing to be authorised for the costs that it would have been liable to pay had the FSCS made a levy in the financial year it ceased to be a participant in the scheme.
RBS Group 2011 401 Notes on the consolidated accounts continued 32 Memorandum items continued Litigation Litigation and Investigations Set out below are descriptions of the material legal proceedings involving RBSG and certain Group members are party to legal proceedings, the Group.
investigations and regulatory matters in the United Kingdom, the United States and other jurisdictions, arising out of their normal business Shareholder litigation operations.
All such matters are periodically reassessed with the RBSG and certain of its subsidiaries, together with certain current and assistance of external professional advisers, where appropriate, to former individual officers and directors have been named as defendants determine the likelihood of the Group incurring a liability.
The Group in purported class actions filed in the United States District Court for the recognises a provision for a liability in relation to these matters when it is Southern District of New York involving holders of RBSG preferred probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle an shares the Preferred Shares litigation and holders of American obligation which has arisen as a result of past events, and for which a Depositary Receipts the ADR claims.
reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
In the Preferred Shares litigation, the consolidated amended complaint In many proceedings, it is not possible to determine whether any loss is alleges certain false and misleading statements and omissions in public probable or to estimate the amount of any loss.
Numerous legal and filings and other communications during the period 1 March 2007 to 19 factual issues may need to be resolved, including through potentially January 2009, and variously asserts claims under Sections 11, 12 and 15 lengthy discovery and determination of important factual matters, and by of the US Securities Act of 1933, as amended the Securities Act.
The addressing novel or unsettled legal questions relevant to the proceedings putative class is composed of all persons who purchased or otherwise in question, before a liability can be reasonably estimated for any claim.
acquired Group Series Q, R, S, T and or U non-cumulative dollar The Group cannot predict if, how, or when such claims will be resolved or preference shares issued pursuant or traceable to the 8 April 2005 US what the eventual settlement, fine, penalty or other relief, if any, may be, Securities and Exchange Commission the SEC registration statement.
particularly for claims that are at an early stage in their development or Plaintiffs seek unquantified damages on behalf of the putative class.
The where claimants seek substantial or indeterminate damages.
defendants have moved to dismiss the complaint and briefing on the motions was completed in September 2011.
While the outcome of the legal proceedings, investigations and regulatory matters in which the Group is involved is inherently uncertain, With respect to the ADR claims, a complaint was filed in January 2011 management believes that, based on the information available to it, and a further complaint was filed in February 2011 asserting claims under appropriate provisions have been made in respect of legal proceedings, Sections 10 and 20 of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as investigations and regulatory matters as at 31 December 2011. amended the Exchange Act on behalf of all persons who purchased or otherwise acquired the Groups American Depositary Receipts ADRs Other than as set out in these sections entitled Litigation and between 1 March 2007 and 19 January 2009.
On 18 August 2011, these Investigations, reviews and proceedings, no member of the Group is or two ADR cases were consolidated and lead plaintiff and lead counsel has been involved in any governmental, legal or arbitration proceedings were appointed.
On 1 November 2011, the lead plaintiff filed a including any such proceedings which are pending or threatened of consolidated amended complaint asserting ADR-related claims under which RBSG is aware during the 12 months prior to the date of this Sections 10 and 20 of the Exchange Act and Sections 11, 12 and 15 of document which may have, or have had in the recent past, significant the Securities Act.
The defendants moved to dismiss the complaint in effects on the financial position or profitability of RBSG and or the Group January 2012 and briefing is ongoing.
The Group has also received notification of similar prospective claims in In each of the material legal proceedings and investigations, reviews and the United Kingdom and elsewhere but no court proceedings have been proceedings described below, unless specifically noted otherwise, it is not commenced in relation to these claims.
possible to reliably estimate with any certainty the liability, if any, or the effect these proceedings investigations and reviews, and any related The Group considers that it has substantial and credible legal and factual developments, may have on the Group.
However, in the event that any defences to the remaining and prospective claims and will defend itself such matters were resolved against the Group, these matters could, vigorously.
individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the Groups consolidated net assets, operating results or cash flows in any Other securitisation and securities related litigation in the United States particular period.
Recently, the level of litigation activity in the financial services industry focused on residential mortgage and credit crisis related matters has increased.
As a result, the Group has become and expects that it may further be the subject of additional claims for damages and other relief regarding residential mortgages and related securities in the future.
RBS Group 2011 402 To date, Group companies have been named as defendants in their In many of these actions, the Group has or will have contractual claims to various roles as issuer, depositor and or underwriter in a number of indemnification from the issuers of the securities where a Group claims in the United States that relate to the securitisation and securities company is underwriter and or the underlying mortgage originator underwriting businesses.
These cases include actions by individual where a Group company is issuer.
The amount and extent of any purchasers of securities and purported class action suits.
Together, the recovery on an indemnification claim, however, is uncertain and subject individual and class action cases involve the issuance of more than to a number of factors, including the ongoing creditworthiness of the US$83 billion of mortgage-backed securities MBS issued primarily from indemnifying party.
Although the allegations vary by claim, in general, plaintiffs in these actions claim that certain disclosures made in connection with With respect to the current claims described above, the Group considers the relevant offerings contained materially false or misleading statements that it has substantial and credible legal and factual defences to these and or omissions regarding the underwriting standards pursuant to which claims and will continue to defend them vigorously.
the mortgage loans underlying the securities were issued.
Group companies have been named as defendants in more than 30 lawsuits Madoff brought by purchasers of MBS, including five purported class actions.
In December 2010, Irving Picard, as trustee for the bankruptcy estates of Among the lawsuits are six cases filed on 2 September 2011 by the US Bernard L. Madoff and Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC filed Federal Housing Finance Agency FHFA as conservator for the Federal a claim against RBS N. V. for approximately US$271 million.
"This is a National Mortgage Association ""Fannie Mae"" and the Federal Home clawback action similar to claims filed against six other institutions in Loan Mortgage Corporation ""Freddie Mac""."
The primary FHFA lawsuit December 2010.
RBS N. V. or its subsidiaries invested in Madoff funds pending in the federal court in Connecticut relates to approximately through feeder funds.
The Trustee alleges that RBS N. V. received US$71 US$32 billion of AAA rated MBS for which Group entities acted as million in redemptions from the feeder funds and US$200 million from its sponsor depositor and or lead underwriter or co-lead underwriter.
swap counterparties while RBS N. V. knew or should have known of Madoffs possible fraud.
The Trustee alleges that those transfers were FHFA has also filed five separate lawsuits against Ally Financial Group, preferences or fraudulent conveyances under the US bankruptcy code Countrywide Financial Corporation, JP Morgan, Morgan Stanley and and New York law and he asserts the purported right to claw them back Nomura respectively in which RBS Securities Inc. is named as a for the benefit of Madoffs estate.
A further claim, for US$21.8 million, defendant by virtue of the fact that it was an underwriter of some of the was filed in October 2011.
The Group considers that it has substantial securities at issue.
and credible legal and factual defences to these claims and intends to defend itself vigorously.
Other lawsuits against Group companies include two cases filed by the National Credit Union Administration Board on behalf of US Central Unarranged overdraft charges Federal Credit Union and Western Corporate Federal Credit Union and In the US, Citizens Financial Group, Inc Citizens in common with other eight cases filed by the Federal Home Loan Banks of Boston, Chicago, US banks, has been named as a defendant in a class action asserting Indianapolis, Seattle and San Francisco.
that Citizens charges excessive overdraft fees.
The plaintiffs claim that overdraft fees resulting from point of sale and automated teller machine The purported MBS class actions in which Group companies are ATM transactions violate the duty of good faith implied in Citizens defendants include New Jersey Carpenters Vacation Fund et al.
v. The customer account agreement and constitute an unfair trade practice.
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc et al.
: New Jersey Carpenters Health Fund v. Group considers that it has substantial and credible legal and factual Novastar Mortgage Inc. et al.
: In re IndyMac Mortgage-Backed Securities defences to these claims and will defend them vigorously.
Litigation: Genesee County Employees Retirement System et al.
v. Thornburg Mortgage Securities Trust 2006-3, et al.
: and Luther v. London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR Countrywide Financial Corp. et al.
Certain members of the Group have been named as defendants in a number of class actions and individual claims filed in the US with respect Certain other institutional investors have threatened to bring claims to the setting of LIBOR.
The complaints are substantially similar and against the Group in connection with various mortgage-related offerings.
allege that certain members of the Group and other panel banks The Group cannot predict with any certainty whether any of these individually and collectively violated US commodities and antitrust laws individual investors will pursue these threatened claims or their and state common law by manipulating LIBOR and prices of LIBORoutcome, but expects that several may.
If such claims are asserted and based derivatives in various markets through various means.
The Group were successful, the amounts involved may be material.
considers that it has substantial and credible legal and factual defences to these and prospective claims.
RBS Group 2011 403 Notes on the consolidated accounts continued 32 Memorandum items continued may have on the Groups consolidated net assets, operating results or Litigation and Investigations continued cash flows in any particular period.
Summary of other disputes, legal proceedings and litigation In addition to the matters described above, members of the Group are Multilateral interchange fees engaged in other legal proceedings in the United Kingdom and a number In 2007, the EC issued a decision that while interchange is not illegal per of overseas jurisdictions, including the United States, involving claims by se, MasterCards current multilateral interchange fee MIF arrangements and against them arising in the ordinary course of business.
The Group for cross border payment card transactions with MasterCard and Maestro has reviewed these other actual, threatened and known potential claims branded consumer credit and debit cards in the European Union are in and proceedings and, after consulting with its legal advisers, does not breach of competition law.
MasterCard was required by the decision to expect that the outcome of any of these other claims and proceedings will withdraw the relevant cross-border MIF i. e. set these fees to zero by 21 have a significant effect on the Groups consolidated net assets, June 2008. operating results or cash flows in any particular period.
MasterCard appealed against the decision to the European Court of First Investigations, reviews and proceedings Instance subsequently re-named the General Court on 1 March 2008, The Groups businesses and financial condition can be affected by the and the Group has intervened in the appeal proceedings.
In addition, in fiscal or other policies and actions of various governmental and summer 2008, MasterCard announced various changes to its scheme regulatory authorities in the United Kingdom, the European Union, the arrangements.
The EC was concerned that these changes might be used United States and elsewhere.
The Group has engaged, and will continue as a means of circumventing the requirements of the infringement to engage, in discussions with relevant regulators, including in the United decision.
In April 2009, MasterCard agreed an interim settlement on the Kingdom and the United States, on an ongoing and regular basis level of cross-border MIF with the EC pending the outcome of the appeal regarding operational, systems and control evaluations and issues process and, as a result, the EC has advised it will no longer investigate including those related to compliance with applicable anti-bribery, antithe non-compliance issue although MasterCard is continuing with its money laundering and sanctions regimes.
It is possible that any matters appeal.
The appeal was heard on 8 July 2011 by the General Court and discussed or identified may result in investigatory or other action being judgment is awaited.
This could be delivered in spring or summer 2012, taken by the regulators, increased costs being incurred by the Group, although it may take longer.
remediation of systems and controls, public or private censure, restriction of the Groups business activities or fines.
Any of these events or Visas cross-border MIFs were exempted in 2002 by the EC for a period circumstances could have a significant effect on the Group, its business, of five years up to 31 December 2007 subject to certain conditions.
On 26 authorisations and licences, reputation, results of operations or the price March 2008, the EC opened a formal inquiry into Visas current MIF of securities issued by it.
arrangements for cross border payment card transactions with Visa branded debit and consumer credit cards in the European Union and on 6 Political and regulatory scrutiny of the operation of retail banking and April 2009 the EC announced that it had issued Visa with a formal consumer credit industries in the United Kingdom, United States and Statement of Objections.
At the same time Visa announced changes to elsewhere continues.
The nature and impact of future changes in policies its interchange levels and introduced some changes to enhance and regulatory action are not predictable and are beyond the Groups transparency.
There is no deadline for the closure of the inquiry.
control but could have a significant effect on the Groups consolidated net However, on 26 April 2010 Visa announced it had reached an agreement assets, operating results or cash flows in any particular period.
with the EC as regards immediate cross border debit card MIF rates only and in December 2010 the commitments were finalised for a four year The Group is cooperating fully with the investigations and proceedings period commencing December 2010 under Article 9 of Regulation described below.
The EC is continuing its investigations into Visas cross border MIF arrangements for deferred debit and credit transactions.
Retail banking In the European Union, regulatory actions included an inquiry into retail In the UK, the Office of Fair Trading OFT has carried out investigations banking initiated on 13 June 2005 in all of the then 25 member states by into Visa and MasterCard domestic credit card interchange rates.
The the European Commissions Directorate General for Competition.
The decision by the OFT in the MasterCard interchange case was set aside inquiry examined retail banking in Europe generally.
On 31 January 2007, by the Competition Appeal Tribunal CAT in June 2006.
The OFTs the European Commission EC announced that barriers to competition in investigations in the Visa interchange case and a second MasterCard certain areas of retail banking, payment cards and payment systems in interchange case are ongoing.
On 9 February 2007, the OFT announced the European Union had been identified.
The EC indicated that it will that it was expanding its investigation into domestic interchange rates to consider using its powers to address these barriers and will encourage include debit cards.
In January 2010 the OFT advised that it did not national competition authorities to enforce European and national anticipate issuing a Statement of Objections prior to the General Courts competition laws where appropriate.
In addition, in late 2010, the EC judgment, although it has reserved the right to do so if it considers it launched an initiative pressing for increased transparency in respect of appropriate.
The EC is currently proposing to legislate for the increased harmonisation of terminology across Member States, with proposals The outcome of these investigations is not known, but they may have a expected in 2012.
The Group cannot predict the outcome of these actions significant effect on the consumer credit industry in general and, at this stage and is unable reliably to estimate the effect, if any, that these therefore, on the Groups business in this sector.
RBS Group 2011 404 Payment Protection Insurance making charges prominent on monthly statements.
To improve the Having conducted a market study relating to Payment Protection switching process, a number of steps are being introduced following work Insurance PPI, in February 2007 the OFT referred the PPI market to the with Bacs, the payment processor, including measures to reduce the Competition Commission CC for an in-depth inquiry.
The CC published impact on consumers of any problems with transferring direct debits.
its final report in January 2009 and announced its intention to order a range of remedies, including a prohibition on actively selling PPI at point On 22 December 2009, the OFT published a further report in which it of sale of the credit product and for 7 days thereafter, a ban on single stated that it continued to have significant concerns about the operation premium policies and other measures to increase transparency in order of the PCA market in the United Kingdom, in particular in relation to to improve customers ability to search and improve price competition.
unarranged overdrafts, and that it believed that fundamental changes are Barclays Bank PLC subsequently appealed certain CC findings to the required for the market to work in the best interests of bank customers.
In October 2009, the CAT handed down a judgment remitting the The OFT stated that it would discuss these issues intensively with banks, matter back to the CC for review.
Following further review, in October consumer groups and other organisations, with the aim of reporting on 2010, the CC published its final decision on remedies following the progress by the end of March 2010.
On 16 March 2010, the OFT remittal which confirmed the point of sale prohibition.
In March 2011, the announced that it had secured agreement from the banks on four CC made a final order setting out its remedies with a commencement industry-wide initiatives, namely minimum standards on the operation of date of 6 April 2011.
The key remedies come into force in two parts.
A opt-outs from unarranged overdrafts, new working groups on information number came into force in October 2011, and the remainder come into sharing with customers, best practice for PCA customers in financial force in April 2012. difficulties and incurring charges, and PCA providers to publish their policies on dealing with PCA customers in financial difficulties.
The OFT The FSA conducted a broad industry thematic review of PPI sales also announced its plan to conduct six-monthly ongoing reviews, fully to practices and in September 2008, the FSA announced that it intended to review the market again in 2012 and to undertake a brief analysis on escalate its level of regulatory intervention.
Substantial numbers of barriers to entry.
customer complaints alleging the mis-selling of PPI policies have been made to banks and to the Financial Ombudsman Service FOS and The first six-monthly ongoing review was completed in September 2010. many of these are being upheld by the FOS against the banks.
The OFT noted progress in the areas of switching, transparency and unarranged overdrafts for the period March to September 2010, as well Following unsuccessful negotiations with the industry, the FSA issued as highlighting further changes the OFT expected to see in the market.
consultation papers on PPI complaint handling and redress in September On 29 March 2011, the OFT published its update report in relation to 2009 and in March 2010.
The FSA published its final policy statement in PCA.
This noted further progress in improving consumer control over the August 2010.
The new rules imposed significant changes with respect to use of unarranged overdrafts.
In particular, the Lending Standards Board the handling of mis-selling PPI complaints.
In October 2010, the British had led on producing standards and guidance to be included in a revised Bankers Association BBA filed an application for judicial review of the Lending Code.
The OFT stated it would continue to monitor the market FSAs policy statement and of related guidance issued by the FOS.
In and would consider the need for, and appropriate timing of, further April 2011 the High Court issued judgment in favour of the FSA and the update reports in light of other developments, in particular the work of the FOS and in May 2011 the BBA announced that it would not appeal that UK Governments Independent Commission on Banking ICB.
The Group then recorded an additional provision of 850 has indicated its intention to conduct a more comprehensive review of the million in respect of PPI.
During 2011, the Group reached agreement market in 2012. with the FSA on a process for implementation of its policy statement and for the future handling of PPI complaints.
On 26 May 2010, the OFT announced its review of barriers to entry.
The review concerned retail banking for individuals and small and medium Personal current accounts size enterprises up to 25 million turnover and looked at products which On 16 July 2008, the OFT published the results of its market study into require a banking licence to sell mortgages, loan products and, where Personal Current Accounts PCAs in the United Kingdom.
The OFT appropriate, other products such as insurance or credit cards where found evidence of competition and several positive features in the cross-selling may facilitate entry or expansion.
The OFT published its personal current account market but believed that the market as a whole report in November 2010.
It advised that it expected its review to be was not working well for consumers and that the ability of the market to relevant to the ICB, the FSA, HM Treasury and the Department for function well had become distorted.
Business, Innovation and Skills and to the devolved governments in the United Kingdom.
The OFT did not indicate whether it would undertake On 7 October 2009, the OFT published a follow-up report summarising any further work.
The report maintained that barriers to entry remain, in the initiatives agreed between the OFT and personal current account particular regarding switching, branch networks and brands.
At this stage, providers to address the OFTs concerns about transparency and it is not possible to estimate the effect of the OFTs report and switching, following its market study.
Personal current account providers recommendations regarding barriers to entry upon the Group.
will take a number of steps to improve transparency, including providing customers with an annual summary of the cost of their account and RBS Group 2011 405 Notes on the consolidated accounts continued 32 Memorandum items continued The Group will continue to participate in the debate and to consult with Private motor insurance the UK Government on the implementation of the recommendations set On 14 December 2011, the OFT launched a market study into private out in the Final Report and the Response, the effects of which could have motor insurance, with a focus on the provision of third party vehicle a negative impact on the Groups consolidated net assets, operating repairs and credit hire replacement vehicles to claimants.
The OFT aims results or cash flows in any particular period.
to complete its market study by spring 2012.
At this stage, it is not possible to estimate with any certainty the effect the market study and US dollar clearing activities any related developments may have on the Group.
In May 2010, following a criminal investigation by the United States Department of Justice DoJ into its dollar clearing activities, Office of Independent Commission on Banking Foreign Assets Control compliance procedures and other Bank Secrecy Following an interim report published on 11 April 2011, the ICB published Act compliance matters, RBS N. V. formally entered into a Deferred its final report to the Cabinet Committee on Banking Reform on 12 Prosecution Agreement DPA with the DoJ resolving the investigation.
The Final Report makes a number Pursuant to the DPA, RBS N. V. paid a penalty of US$500 million in 2010 of recommendations, including in relation to i the implementation of a and agreed to comply with the terms of the DPA and to co-operate fully ring-fence of retail banking operations, ii loss-absorbency including with any further investigations.
Payment of the penalty was made from a bail-in and iii competition.
provision established in April 2007 when an agreement in principle to settle was first announced.
On 20 December 2011, the DoJ filed a On 19 December 2011 the UK Government published a response to the motion with the US District Court to dismiss the criminal information Final Report the Response, reaffirming its intention to accept the underlying the DPA, stating that RBS N. V. had met the terms and majority of the ICBs recommendations.
The Government agreed that obligations of the DPA.
The US District Court granted the DoJs motion vital banking services - in particular the taking of retail deposits should on the same day, and this matter is now fully resolved.
only be provided by ring-fenced banks, and that these banks should be prohibited from undertaking certain investment banking activities.
It also Securitisation and collateralised debt obligation business broadly accepted the ICBs recommendations on loss absorbency and on In the United States, the Group is also involved in other reviews, competition.
investigations and proceedings both formal and informal by federal and state governmental law enforcement and other agencies and selfThe UK Government has now embarked on an extensive consultation on regulatory organisations relating to, among other things, mortgagehow exactly the general principles outlined by the ICB should be backed securities, collateralised debt obligations CDOs, and synthetic implemented, and intends to bring forward a White Paper in the spring of products.
In connection with these inquiries, Group companies have 2012.
Its intention is to complete primary and secondary legislation received requests for information and subpoenas seeking information before the end of the current Parliamentary term in May 2015 and to about, among other things, the structuring of CDOs, financing to loan implement the ring-fencing measures as soon as practicable thereafter originators, purchase of whole loans, sponsorship and underwriting of and the loss absorbency measures by 2019.
The Government also stated securitisations, due diligence, representations and warranties, its determination that changes to the account switching process should communications with ratings agencies, disclosure to investors, document be completed by September 2013, as already scheduled.
With regard to the competition aspects, the Government recommended a By way of example, in September and October 2010, the SEC requested number of initiatives aimed at improving transparency and switching in voluntary production of information concerning residential mortgagethe market and ensuring a level playing field for new entrants.
In addition, backed securities underwritten by subsidiaries of RBSG during the period the Government has recommended that HM Treasury should consult on from September 2006 to July 2007 inclusive.
In November 2010, the SEC regulating the UK Payments Council and has confirmed that the Financial commenced a formal investigation and requested testimony from a Conduct Authority's remit will include competition.
The investigation is in its preliminary stages and it is difficult to predict any potential exposure that may result.
Until the UK Government consultation is concluded and significantly more detail is known on how the precise legislative and regulatory framework is to be implemented it is impossible to estimate the potential impact of these measures with any level of precision.
RBS Group 2011 406 Also in October 2010, the SEC commenced an inquiry into document In issuing RMBS, GBM N. A. generally assigned certain representations deficiencies and repurchase requests with respect to certain and warranties regarding the characteristics of the underlying loans made securitisations, and in January 2011, this was converted to a formal by the originator of the residential mortgages: however, in some investigation.
Among other matters, the investigation seeks information circumstances, GBM N. A. made such representations and warranties related to document deficiencies and remedial measures taken with itself.
Where GBM N. A. has given those or other representations and respect to such deficiencies.
The investigation also seeks information warranties whether relating to underlying loans or otherwise, GBM N. A. related to early payment defaults and loan repurchase requests.
may be contractually required to repurchase such loans or indemnify certain parties against losses for certain breaches of such In June 2009, in connection with an investigation into the role of representations and warranties.
In certain instances where it is required investment banks in the origination and securitisation of sub-prime loans to repurchase loans or related securities, GBM N. A. may be able to in Massachusetts, the Massachusetts Attorney General issued assert claims against third parties who provided representations or subpoenas to various banks, including an RBSG subsidiary, seeking warranties to GBM N. A. when selling loans to it: although the ability to information related to residential mortgage lending practices and sales recover against such parties is uncertain.
Since January 2009, GBM N. A. and securitisation of residential mortgage loans.
On 28 November 2011, has received approximately US$75 million in repurchase demands in an Assurance of Discontinuance between RBS Financial Products Inc. respect of loans made primarily from 2005 to 2008 and related securities and the Massachusetts Attorney General was filed in Massachusetts sold where obligations in respect of contractual representations or State Court which resolves the Massachusetts Attorney General's warranties were undertaken by GBM N. A..
However, repurchase investigation as to RBSG.
The Assurance of Discontinuance required demands presented to GBM N. A. are subject to challenge and, to date, RBS Financial Products Inc. to make payments totalling approximately GBM N. A. has rebutted a significant percentage of these claims.
Citizens has not been an issuer or underwriter of non-agency RMBS.
In 2007, the New York State Attorney General issued subpoenas to a However, Citizens is an originator and servicer of residential mortgages, wide array of participants in the securitisation and securities industry, and it routinely sells such mortgage loans in the secondary market and to focusing on the information underwriters obtained from the independent GSEs.
In the context of such sales, Citizens makes certain firms hired to perform due diligence on mortgages.
The Group completed representations and warranties regarding the characteristics of the its production of documents requested by the New York State Attorney underlying loans and, as a result, may be contractually required to General in 2008, principally producing documents related to loans that repurchase such loans or indemnify certain parties against losses for were pooled into one securitisation transaction.
In May 2011, at the New certain breaches of the representations and warranties concerning the York State Attorney General's request, representatives of the Group underlying loans.
Since January 2009, Citizens has received attended an informal meeting to provide additional information about the approximately US$41.2 million in repurchase demands in respect of Group's mortgage securitisation business.
The investigation is ongoing loans originated primarily since 2003.
However, repurchase demands and the Group continues to provide requested information.
presented to Citizens are subject to challenge and, to date, Citizens has rebutted a significant percentage of these claims.
In September 2010, RBSG subsidiaries received a request from the Nevada State Attorney General requesting information related to Although there has been disruption in the ability of certain financial securitisations of mortgages issued by three specific originators.
The institutions operating in the United States to complete foreclosure investigation by the Nevada State Attorney General is in the early stages proceedings in respect of US mortgage loans in a timely manner or at and therefore it is difficult to predict the potential exposure from any such all over the last year including as a result of interventions by certain investigation.
states and local governments, to date, Citizens has not been materially impacted by such disruptions and the Group has not ceased making US mortgages - Loan Repurchase Matters foreclosures.
The Groups Global Banking & Markets N. A. GBM N. A., has been a purchaser of non-agency US residential mortgages in the secondary The Group cannot estimate what the future level of repurchase demands market, and an issuer and underwriter of non-agency residential or ultimate exposure of GBM N. A. or Citizens may be, and cannot give mortgage-backed securities RMBS.
GBM N. A. did not originate or any assurance that the historical experience will continue in the future.
It service any US residential mortgages and it was not a significant seller of is possible that the volume of repurchase demands will increase in the mortgage loans to government sponsored enterprises GSEs e. g. the future.
Furthermore, the Group is unable to estimate the extent to which Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan the matters described above will impact it and future developments may Mortgage Association.
have an adverse impact on the Groups consolidated net assets, operating results or cash flows in any particular period.
RBS Group 2011 407 Notes on the consolidated accounts continued 32 Memorandum items continued The Group may become subject to formal and informal supervisory Litigation and Investigations continued actions and may be required by its US banking supervisors to take further LIBOR actions and implement additional remedial measures with respect to The Group continues to receive requests from various regulators these and additional matters.
Any limitations or conditions placed on the investigating the setting of LIBOR and other interest rates, including the Group's activities in the United States, as well as the terms of any US Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the US Department of supervisory action applicable to RBSG and its subsidiaries, could have a Justice, the European Commission, the FSA and the Japanese Financial material adverse effect on the Group's consolidated net assets, operating Services Agency.
The authorities are seeking documents and results or cash flows in any particular period.
communications related to the process and procedures for setting LIBOR and other interest rates, together with related trading information.
In In April 2009, the FSA notified the Group that it was commencing a addition to co-operating with the investigations as described above, the supervisory review of the acquisition of ABN AMRO Holding N. V. in 2007 Group is also keeping relevant regulators informed.
It is not possible to and the 2008 capital raisings and an investigation into conduct, systems estimate with any certainty what effect these investigations and any and controls within the Global Banking & Markets division of the Group.
related developments may have on the Group.
RBSG and its subsidiaries co-operated fully with this review and investigation.
On 2 December 2010, the FSA confirmed that it had Other investigations completed its investigation and had concluded that no enforcement The Federal Reserve and state banking supervisors have been reviewing action, either against the Group or against individuals, was warranted.
On the Group's US operations and RBSG and its subsidiaries have been 12 December 2011, the FSA published its report The Failure of the Royal required to make improvements with respect to various matters, including Bank of Scotland, on which the Group engaged constructively with the enterprise-wide governance, US Bank Secrecy Act and anti-money FSA.
laundering compliance, risk management and asset quality.
The Group is in the process of implementing measures for matters identified to date.
In July 2010, the FSA notified the Group that it was commencing an investigation into the sale by Coutts & Co of the ALICO American Life On 27 July 2011, the Group consented to the issuance of a Cease and Insurance Company Premier Access Bond Enhanced Variable Rate Desist Order the Order setting forth measures required to address Fund EVRF to customers between 2001 and 2008 as well as its deficiencies related to governance, risk management and compliance subsequent review of those sales.
Subsequently on 11 January 2011 the systems and controls identified by the Federal Reserve and state banking FSA revised the investigation start date to December 2003. supervisors during examinations of the RBS plc and RBS N. V. branches in 2010.
The Order requires the Group to strengthen its US corporate On 8 November 2011, the FSA published its Final Notice having reached governance structure, to develop an enterprise-wide risk management a settlement with Coutts & Co, under which Coutts & Co agreed to pay a programme, and to develop and enhance its programmes to ensure fine of 6.3 million.
The FSA did not make any findings on the suitability compliance with US law, particularly the US Bank Secrecy Act and antiof advice given in individual cases.
Nonetheless, Coutts & Co has money laundering laws, rules and regulations.
The Group has agreed to undertake a past business review of its sales of the product.
established a strategic and remedial programme of change to address This review will be overseen by an independent third party and will the identified concerns and is committed to working closely with the US consider the advice given to customers invested in the EVRF as at the bank regulators to implement the remedial measures required by the date of its suspension, 15 September 2008.
For any sales which are Order.
found to be unsuitable, redress will be paid to the customers to ensure that they have not suffered financially.
The Groups operations include businesses outside the United States that are responsible for processing US dollar payments.
"The Group is On 18 January 2012, the FSA published its Final Notice having reached a conducting a review of its policies, procedures and practices in respect of settlement with UK Insurance Limited for breaches of Principle 2 by such payments and has initiated discussions with UK and US authorities Direct Line and Churchill the ""Firms"", under which UK Insurance Limited to discuss its historical compliance with applicable laws and regulations, agreed to pay a fine of 2.17 million."
The Firms were found to have including US economic sanctions regulations.
Although the Group cannot acted without due skill, care and diligence in the way that they responded currently determine when the review of its operations will be completed or to the FSA's request to provide it with a sample of their closed complaint what the outcome of its discussions with UK and US authorities will be, files.
The Firms' breaches of Principle 2 did not result in any customer the investigation costs, remediation required or liability incurred could detriment.
have a material adverse effect on the Groups consolidated net assets, operating results or cash flows in any particular period.
During March 2008, the Group was advised by the SEC that it had commenced a non-public, formal investigation relating to the Groups United States sub-prime securities exposures and United States residential mortgage exposures.
In December 2010, the SEC contacted the Group and indicated that it would also examine valuations of various RBS N. V. structured products, including CDOs.
