Basis of consolidation The accounts are prepared on a going concern basis see page 300 of The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial the Report of the directors and in accordance with International Financial statements of the company and entities including certain special purpose Reporting Standards issued by the International Accounting Standards entities that are controlled by the Group.
Control exists where the Group Board IASB and interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity: Committee of the IASB as adopted by the European Union EU together generally conferred by holding a majority of voting rights.
The EU has not adopted the complete text of IAS 39 Financial of a subsidiary, its identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities Instruments: Recognition and Measurement: it has relaxed some of the are included in the consolidated accounts at their fair value.
A subsidiary standard's hedging requirements.
The Group has not taken advantage of acquired is included in the consolidated financial statements from the this relaxation and has adopted IAS 39 as issued by the IASB: the date it is controlled by the Group up until the date the Group ceases to Group's financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS as control it through a sale or a significant change in circumstances.
Changes in interest that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions.
The accounts are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative All intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses are financial instruments, held-for-trading financial assets and financial eliminated on consolidation.
The consolidated accounts are prepared liabilities, financial assets and financial liabilities that are designated as at using uniform accounting policies.
fair value through profit or loss, available-for-sale financial assets and investment property.
Recognised financial assets and financial liabilities 3.
Revenue recognition in fair value hedges are adjusted for changes in fair value in respect of Interest income on financial assets that are classified as loans and the risk that is hedged.
The companys financial statements and the receivables, available-for-sale or held-to-maturity and interest expense on Group's consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling which financial liabilities other than those measured at fair value are determined is the functional currency of the company.
using the effective interest method.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or financial The company is incorporated in the UK and registered in Scotland and its liability or group of financial assets or liabilities and of allocating the accounts are presented in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. interest income or interest expense over the expected life of the asset or liability.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts There are a number of changes to IFRS that were effective from 1 estimated future cash flows to the instrument's initial carrying amount.
They have had no material effect on the financial Calculation of the effective interest rate takes into account fees payable statements of the Group or the company: or receivable that are an integral part of the instrument's yield, premiums or discounts on acquisition or issue, early redemption fees and IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments transaction costs.
All contractual terms of a financial instrument are provides guidance on the accounting treatment when financial liabilities considered when estimating future cash flows.
are settled with equity instruments.
Financial assets and financial liabilities held for trading or designated as Amendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation - at fair value through profit or loss are recorded at fair value.
Changes in Classification of Rights Issues amends IAS 32 so that rights, options or fair value are recognised in profit or loss.
warrants that are fixed for fixed i. e. a fixed amount of cash for a fixed number of instruments offered pro rata to all owners of a class of Commitment and utilisation fees are determined as a percentage of the instrument are classified as equity instruments regardless of the currency outstanding facility.
If it is unlikely that a specific lending arrangement will denomination of the exercise price.
be entered into, such fees are taken to profit or loss over the life of the facility otherwise they are deferred and included in the effective interest Amendment to IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, rate on the advance.
Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement applies in the limited circumstances Fees in respect of services are recognised as the right to consideration where an entity is subject to minimum funding requirements and makes accrues through the provision of the service to the customer.
The an early payment of contributions to cover those requirements.
The arrangements are generally contractual and the cost of providing the amendment permits the benefit of such an early payment to be treated as service is incurred as the service is rendered.
The price is usually fixed an asset.
The application of this policy to significant fee types is outlined below.
May 2010 Annual Improvements to IFRS makes non-urgent but necessary amendments to standards, primarily to remove inconsistencies and to clarify wording.
Revised IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures simplifies the disclosure requirements for government-related entities and clarifies the definition of a related party.
