Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Balance sheet management: Liquidity and funding risk Funding issuance All disclosures in this section pages 116 to 133 are audited unless The Group has access to a variety of funding sources across the globe, otherwise indicated with an asterisk.
including short-term money markets, repurchase agreement markets and term debt investors through its secured and unsecured funding Liquidity risk programmes.
Diversity in funding is provided by its active role in the Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its obligations, money markets, along with access to global capital flows through GBMs including financing maturities as they fall due.
Liquidity risk is heavily international client base.
The Groups wholesale funding franchise is well influenced by the maturity profile and mix of the Groups funding base, as diversified by currency, geography, maturity and type.
well as the quality and liquidity value of its liquidity portfolio.
The Group has been a regular issuer in the debt capital markets in both Liquidity risk is dynamic, being influenced by movements in markets and secured and unsecured arrangements.
2011 net new term debt issuance perceptions that are driven by firm specific or external factors.
Managing was 21 billion, with 49% secured and 51% unsecured, of which 71% liquidity risk effectively is a key component of the Groups risk reduction were public transactions and 29% were private.
The Group's 2011 performance demonstrates continued improvements in managing liquidity risk and reflects actions taken in light Balance sheet composition of an uncertain economic outlook, which resulted in improvements in key The Groups balance sheet composition is a function of the broad array of measures: product offerings and diverse markets served by its Core divisions.
The structural composition of the balance sheet is augmented as needed Deposit growth - Core Retail & Commercial deposits rose by 9%, through active management of both asset and liability portfolios.
The and together with Non-Core deleveraging, took the Group objective of these activities is to optimise liquidity transformation in loan:deposit ratio to 108%, compared with 118% at the end of 2010. normal business environments, while ensuring adequate coverage of all cash requirements under extreme stress conditions.
Wholesale funding - 21 billion of net term wholesale debt was issued in 2011 from secured and unsecured funding programmes, Diversification of the Groups funding base is central to its balance sheet across a variety of maturities and currencies.
The Groups businesses have developed large customer franchises based on strong relationship management and high Short-term wholesale funding STWF - the overall level of STWF quality service.
These customer franchises are strongest in the UK, the fell by 27 billion to 102 billion, below the 2013 target of circa 125 US and Ireland, but extend into Europe and Asia.
provide large pools of stable funding to support the majority of the Groups lending.
Improvement of the Groups loan:deposit ratio to 100% Liquidity portfolio - the liquidity portfolio of 155 billion was or better, by 2013, is a strategic objective.
maintained above the 2013 target level of 150 billion against a backdrop of heightened market uncertainty in the second half of the The Group also accesses professional markets funding by way of public year and was higher than STWF.
This represents a 53 billion and private debt issuances on an unsecured and secured basis.
debt issuance programmes are spread across multiple currencies and maturities, to appeal to a broad range of investor types and preferences around the world.
This market-based funding supplements the Groups structural liquidity needs and, in some cases, achieves certain capital objectives.
