Shareholder information continued Glossary of terms Adjustable rate mortgage ARM - in the US, a variable-rate mortgage.
Basel III - in December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking ARMs include: hybrid ARMs which typically have a fixed-rate period Supervision issued final rules: Basel III: A global regulatory framework followed by an adjustable-rate period: interest-only ARMs where interest for more resilient banks and banking systems and Basel III: International only is payable for a specified number of years, typically for three to ten framework for liquidity risk measurement, standards and monitoring.
years: and payment-option ARMs that allow the borrower to choose These strengthened global regulatory standards on bank capital periodically between various payment options.
adequacy and liquidity and will be phased in from 2013 with full implementation by 1 January 2019.
Alt-A Alternative A-paper - a US description for mortgage loans with a higher credit quality than sub-prime loans but with features that disqualify Basis point - one hundredth of a per cent i. e. 0.01 per cent.
100 basis the borrower from a traditional prime loan.
Alt-A lending characteristics points is 1 per cent.
Used when quoting movements in interest rates or include limited documentation: high loan-to-value ratio: secured on nonyields on securities.
owner occupied properties: and debt-to-income ratio above normal limits.
Certificates of deposit CDs - bearer negotiable instruments Arrears - the aggregate of contractual payments due on a debt that have acknowledging the receipt of a fixed term deposit at a specified interest not been met by the borrower.
A loan or other financial asset is said to be rate.
'in arrears' when payments have not been made.
When a customer is in arrears, the entire outstanding balance is said to be delinquent see Collateralised bond obligations CBOs - asset-backed securities for Delinquency.
which the underlying asset portfolios are bonds, some of which may be sub-investment grade.
Asset-backed commercial paper ABCP - a form of asset-backed security generally issued by a commercial paper conduit.
Collateralised debt obligations CDOs - asset-backed securities for which the underlying asset portfolios are debt obligations: either bonds Asset-backed securities ABS - securities that represent interests in collateralised bond obligations or loans collateralised loan obligations specific portfolios of assets.
They are issued by a special purpose entity or both.
The credit exposure underlying synthetic CDOs derives from following a securitisation.
The underlying portfolios commonly comprise credit default swaps.
The CDOs issued by an individual vehicle are residential or commercial mortgages but can include any class of asset usually divided in different tranches: senior tranches rated AAA, that yields predictable cash flows.
Payments on the securities depend mezzanine tranches AA to BB, and equity tranches unrated.
Losses primarily on the cash flows generated by the assets in the underlying pool are borne first by the equity securities, next by the junior securities, and and other rights designed to assure timely payment, such as guarantees finally by the senior securities: junior tranches offer higher coupons or other credit enhancements.
Collateralised bond obligations, interest payments to compensate for their increased risk.
collateralised debt obligations, collateralised loan obligations, commercial mortgage backed securities and residential mortgage backed securities Collateralised debt obligation squared CDO-squared - a type of are all types of ABS.
collateralised debt obligation where the underlying asset portfolio includes tranches of other CDOs.
Asset protection scheme credit default swap - in 2009, the Group became party to the Asset Protection Scheme under which it purchased credit Collateralised loan obligations CLOs - asset-backed securities for which protection over a portfolio of specified assets and exposures covered the underlying asset portfolios are loans, often leveraged loans.
assets from Her Majestys Treasury acting on behalf of the UK Government.
The contract is accounted for as a derivative financial Collectively assessed loan impairment provisions - impairment loss instrument.
It is recognised at fair value and included in Derivatives on provisions in respect of impaired loans, such as credit cards or personal the balance sheet.
Changes in its fair value are recognised in profit or loans, that are below individual assessment thresholds.
Such provisions loss within Income from trading activities.
are established on a portfolio basis, taking account of the level of arrears, security, past loss experience, credit scores and defaults based on Assets under management - assets managed by the Group on behalf of portfolio trends.
Commercial mortgage backed securities CMBS - asset-backed Bank levy - a levy that applies to certain UK banks, building societies and securities for which the underlying asset portfolios are loans secured on the UK operations of foreign banks from 1 January 2011.
The levy is commercial real estate.
payable based on a percentage of the chargeable equity and liabilities of the bank as at the balance sheet date.
Commercial paper CP - unsecured obligations issued by a corporate or a bank directly or secured obligations asset-backed CP, often issued Basel II - the capital adequacy framework issued by the Basel Committee through a commercial paper conduit, to fund working capital.
Maturities on Banking Supervision in June 2006 in the form of the International typically range from two to 270 days.
However, the depth and reliability of Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards.
some CP markets means that issuers can repeatedly roll over CP issuance and effectively achieve longer term funding.
CP is issued in a wide range of denominations and can be either discounted or interestbearing.
RBS Group 2011 476 Commercial paper conduit - a special purpose entity that issues Credit default swap CDS - a contract where the protection seller commercial paper and uses the proceeds to purchase or fund a pool of receives premium or interest-related payments in return for contracting to assets.
The commercial paper is secured on the assets and is redeemed make payments to the protection buyer upon a defined credit event in either by further commercial paper issuance, repayment of assets or relation to a reference financial asset or portfolio of financial assets.
Credit events usually include bankruptcy, payment default and rating downgrades.
Commercial real estate - freehold and leasehold properties used for business activities.
Commercial real estate includes office buildings, Credit derivative product company CDPC - a special purpose entity that industrial property, medical centres, hotels, retail stores, shopping sells credit protection under credit default swaps or certain approved centres, agricultural land and buildings, warehouses, garages etc.
Sometimes they can also buy credit protection.
CDPCs are similar to monoline insurers.
However, unlike Constant proportion portfolio insurance notes CPPI notes - CPPI is the monoline insurers, they are not regulated as insurers.
name given to a trading strategy that is designed to ensure that a fixed minimum return is achieved either at all times or more typically, at a set Credit derivatives - contractual agreements that provide protection date in the future.
Essentially the strategy involves continuously reagainst a credit event on one or more reference entities or financial balancing the portfolio of investments during the term of the product assets.
The nature of a credit event is established by the protection buyer between performance assets and safe assets using a pre-set formula.
and protection seller at the inception of a transaction, and such events CPPI notes provide investors with a return linked to a CPPI portfolio.
include bankruptcy, insolvency or failure to meet payment obligations when due.
The buyer of the credit derivative pays a periodic fee in return Contractual maturity - the date in the terms of a financial instrument on for a payment by the protection seller upon the occurrence, if any, of a which the last payment or receipt under the contract is due for settlement.
Credit derivatives include credit default swaps, total return swaps and credit swap options.
Core Tier 1 capital - called-up share capital and eligible reserves plus equity non-controlling interests, less intangible assets and other Credit enhancements - techniques that improve the credit standing of regulatory deductions.
financial obligations: generally those issued by an SPE in a securitisation.
External credit enhancements include financial guarantees and letters of Core Tier 1 capital ratio - core Tier 1 capital as a percentage of riskcredit from third-party providers.
Internal enhancements include excess weighted assets.
spread - the difference between the interest rate received on the underlying portfolio and the coupon on the issued securities: and overCost:income ratio - operating expenses as a percentage of total income.
collateralisation - on securitisation, the value of the underlying portfolio is greater than the securities issued.
Coverage ratio - impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans.
Credit risk - the risk that the Group will incur losses owing to the failure of customers to meet their financial obligations to the Group.
Covered bonds - debt securities backed by a portfolio of mortgages that are segregated from the issuer's other assets solely for the benefit of the Credit risk assets - loans and advances including overdraft facilities, holders of the covered bonds.
instalment credit, finance lease receivables and other traded instruments across all customer types.
CRD III - the CRD III package came into force on 1 January 2011.
It requires higher capital requirements for re-securitisations: upgrades Credit risk mitigation - techniques such as the taking of collateral or disclosure standards for securitisation exposures: strengthens capital obtaining a guarantee or other form of credit protection from a related or requirements for the trading book: and introduces new remuneration third party that reduce the credit risk associated with an exposure.
Credit risk spread - the difference between the coupon on a debt CRD IV - in July 2011, the European Commission published its proposed instrument and the benchmark or the risk-free interest rate for the legislation for a Capital Requirements Directive and a Capital instrument's maturity structure.
It is the premium over the risk-free rate Requirements Regulation, which together form the CRD IV package.
The required by the market for the credit quality of a particular debt package implements the Basel III capital proposals and also includes instrument.
new proposals on sanctions for non-compliance with prudential rules, corporate governance and remuneration.
It is due to be implemented Credit valuation adjustments - adjustments to the fair values of derivative from 1 January 2013 with transitional arrangements for some of its assets to reflect the creditworthiness of the counterparty.
RBS Group 2011 477 Shareholder information continued Glossary of terms continued Delinquency - a debt or other financial obligation is considered delinquent Currency swap - an arrangement in which two parties exchange specific when one or more contractual payments are overdue.
Delinquency is principal amounts of different currencies at inception and subsequently usually defined in terms of days past due.
Delinquent and in arrears are interest payments on the principal amounts.
Often, one party will pay a synonymous.
fixed rate of interest, while the other will pay a floating rate though there are also fixed-fixed and floating-floating arrangements.
At the maturity of Deposits by banks - money deposited with the Group by banks and the swap, the principal amounts are usually re-exchanged.
They include money-market deposits, securities sold under repurchase agreements, federal funds purchased and other Customer accounts - money deposited with the Group by counterparties short term deposits.
Deposits received from customers are recorded as other than banks and classified as liabilities.
They include demand, customer accounts.
savings and time deposits: securities sold under repurchase agreements: and other short term deposits.
Deposits received from banks are Derivative - a contract or agreement whose value changes with changes classified as deposits by banks.
in an underlying index such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, share prices or indices and which requires no initial investment or an Debt restructuring - see Renegotiated loans.
initial investment that is smaller than would be required for other types of contracts with a similar response to market factors.
The principal types of Debt securities - transferable instruments creating or acknowledging derivatives are: swaps, forwards, futures and options.
They include debentures, bonds, certificates of deposit, notes and commercial paper.
The holder of a debt security is typically Discontinued operation - a component of the Group that either has been entitled to the payment of principal and interest, together with other disposed of or is classified as held for sale.
A discontinued operation is contractual rights under the terms of the issue, such as the right to either: a separate major line of business or geographical area of receive certain information.
Debt securities are generally issued for a operations or part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate fixed term and redeemable by the issuer at the end of that term.
Debt major line of business or geographical area of operations: or a subsidiary securities can be secured or unsecured.
acquired exclusively with a view to resale.
Debt securities in issue - unsubordinated debt securities issued by the Effective interest rate method - the effective interest method is a method Group.
They include commercial paper, certificates of deposit, bonds and of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or financial liability medium-term notes.
or group of financial assets or liabilities and of allocating the interest income or interest expense over the expected life of the asset or liability.
Deferred tax asset - income taxes recoverable in future periods as a The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated result of deductible temporary differences temporary differences future cash flows to the instrument's initial carrying amount.
Calculation of between the accounting and tax base of an asset or liability that will result the effective interest rate takes into account fees payable or receivable in tax deductible amounts in future periods and the carry-forward of tax that are an integral part of the instrument's yield, premiums or discounts losses and unused tax credits.
on acquisition or issue, early redemption fees and transaction costs.
All contractual terms of a financial instrument are considered when Deferred tax liability - income taxes payable in future periods as a result estimating future cash flows.
of taxable temporary differences temporary differences between the accounting and tax base of an asset or liability that will result in taxable Equity risk - the risk of changes in the market price of the equities or amounts in future periods.
equity instruments arising from positions, either long or short, in equities or equity-based financial instruments.
Defined benefit obligation - the present value of expected future payments required to settle the obligations of a defined benefit plan Exposure at default EAD - an estimate of the expected level of resulting from employee service.
utilisation of a credit facility at the time of a borrower's default.
The EAD may be higher than the current utilisation e. g. in the case where further Defined benefit plan - pension or other post-retirement benefit plan other drawings may be made under a revolving credit facility prior to default than a defined contribution plan.
but will not typically exceed the total facility limit.
Defined contribution plan - pension or other post-retirement benefit plan where the employer's obligation is limited to its contributions to the fund.
RBS Group 2011 478 Fannie Mae Federal National Mortgage Association - a US Government Futures contract - a contract which provides for the future delivery or Sponsored Enterprise.
It buys mortgages, principally issued by banks, on acceptance of delivery of some type of financial instrument or commodity the secondary market, pools them, and sells them as residential under terms established at the outset.
Futures differ from forward mortgage-backed securities to investors on the open market.
Its contracts in that they are traded on recognised exchanges and rarely obligations are not explicitly guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the result in actual delivery: most contracts are closed out prior to maturity by US Government.
acquisition of an offsetting position.
Federal Agencies - US federal agencies are independent bodies G10 - the Group of Ten comprises the eleven industrial countries established by the US Government for specific purposes such as the Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, management of natural resources, financial oversight or national security.
Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States that A number of agencies, including Ginnie Mae, issue or guarantee publicly have agreed to participate in the International Monetary Funds IMFs traded debt securities.
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation - see Freddie Mac.
Ginnie Mae Government National Mortgage Association - a US Government Agency that guarantees investors the timely payment of Federal National Mortgage Association - see Fannie Mae.
principal and interest on mortgage-backed securities for which the underlying asset portfolios comprise federally insured or guaranteed FICO score - a credit score calculated using proprietary software loans - mainly loans insured by the Federal Housing Administration or developed by the Fair Isaac Corporation in the US from a consumer's guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs.
The scores range between 300 and 850 and are used in obligations are fully and explicitly guaranteed as to the timely payment of credit decisions made by banks and other providers of credit.
principal and interest by the full faith and credit of the US Government.
Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS - the UK's statutory Government Sponsored Enterprises GSEs - a group of financial fund of last resort for customers of authorised financial services firms.
It services corporations created by the US Congress.
Their function is to pays compensation if a firm is unable to meet its obligations.
The FSCS improve the efficiency of capital markets and to overcome statutory and funds compensation for customers by raising management expenses other market imperfections which otherwise prevent funds from moving levies and compensation levies on the financial services industry.
easily from suppliers of funds to areas of high loan demand.
They include Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
First second lien - a lien is a charge such as a mortgage held by one party, over property owned by a second party, as security for payment of Gross yield - the interest rate earned on average interest-earning assets some debt, obligation, or duty owed by that second party.
The holder of a i. e. interest income divided by average interest-earning assets.
first lien takes precedence over all other encumbrances on that property i. e. second and subsequent liens.
Guaranteed mortgages - mortgages guaranteed by a government or government agency.
In the US, government loan guarantee programmes Forbearance - the term generally applied to an agreement, principally in are offered by the Federal Housing Administration, the Department of relation to secured loans with retail customers experiencing temporary Veterans Affairs and the Department of Agriculture's Rural Housing financial difficulty, to a payment moratorium, to reduced repayments or to Service.
In the Netherlands, the Gemeentegarantie programme is run roll up arrears.
Forbearance loans are a subset of Renegotiated loans.
partly by the central government and partly by the municipalities.
Forward contract - a contract to buy or sell a specified amount of a Hedge funds - pooled investment vehicles that are not widely available to physical or financial commodity, at an agreed price, at an agreed future the public: their assets are managed by professional asset managers date.
who participate in the performance of the fund.
Freddie Mac Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation - a US Home equity loan - a type of loan in which the borrower uses the equity in Government Sponsored Enterprise.
It buys mortgages, principally issued their home as collateral.
A home equity loan creates a charge against the by thrifts, on the secondary market, pools them, and sells them as borrower's house.
residential mortgage-backed securities to investors on the open market.
Its obligations are not explicitly guaranteed by the full faith and credit of Impaired loans - all loans for which an impairment provision has been the US Government.
established: for collectively assessed loans, impairment loss provisions are not allocated to individual loans and the entire portfolio is included in Funding and liquidity risk - the risk that the Group does not have sufficient impaired loans.
financial resources to meet its commitments when they fall due, or can secure them only at excessive cost.
RBS Group 2011 479 Shareholder information continued Glossary of terms continued Impairment allowance - see Loan impairment provisions.
Key management - directors of RBSG and members of the Group Management Committee.
Impairment losses - a for impaired financial assets measured at amortised cost, impairment losses - the difference between carrying Latent loss provisions - loan impairment provisions held against value and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at impairments in the performing loan portfolio that have been incurred as a the asset's original effective interest rate - are recognised in profit or loss result of events occurring before the balance sheet date but which have and the carrying amount of the financial asset reduced by establishing a not been identified as impaired at the balance sheet date.
The Group has provision allowance b for impaired available-for-sale financial assets, developed methodologies to estimate latent loss provisions that reflect the cumulative loss that had been recognised directly in equity is historical loss experience adjusted for current economic and credit removed from equity and recognised in profit or loss as an impairment conditions and the period between an impairment occurring and a loan loss.
being identified and reported as impaired.
Individually assessed loan impairment provisions - impairment loss Level 1: quoted price - level 1 financial instruments are valued using provisions for individually significant impaired loans assessed on a caseunadjusted quoted prices in active markets, for identical financial by-case basis, taking into account the financial condition of the instruments.
Examples include G10 government securities, listed equity counterparty and any guarantor and the realisable value of any collateral shares, certain exchange-traded derivatives and certain US agency held.
Insurance risk - the risk of financial loss through fluctuations in the timing, Level 2: valuation technique using observable inputs - level 2 financial frequency and or severity of insured events, relative to the expectations instruments are valued using techniques based significantly on at the time of underwriting.
Instruments in this category are valued using: a quoted prices for similar instruments or identical instruments in Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP - the Groups markets which are not considered to be active: or b valuation own assessment, as part of Basel II requirements, of its risks, how it techniques where all the inputs that have a significant effect on the intends to mitigate those risks and how much current and future capital is valuations are directly or indirectly based on observable market data.
necessary having considered other mitigating factors.
Level 3: valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs - level 3 International Accounting Standards Board IASB - the independent financial instruments are valued using a valuation technique where at standard-setting body of the IFRS Foundation.
Its members are least one input which could have a significant effect on the instruments responsible for the development and publication of International Financial valuation, is not based on observable market data.
Where inputs can be Reporting Standards IFRSs and for approving Interpretations of IFRS observed from market data without undue cost and effort, the observed as developed by the IFRS Interpretations Committee.
Otherwise, the Group determines a reasonable level for the input.
Level 3 financial instruments include cash instruments which trade Interest rate swap - a contract under which two counterparties agree to infrequently, certain syndicated and commercial mortgage loans, unlisted exchange periodic interest payments on a predetermined monetary equity shares, certain residual interests in securitisations, super senior principal, the notional amount.
tranches of high grade and mezzanine CDOs, other mortgage-based products and less liquid debt securities, certain structured debt securities Interest spread - the difference between the gross yield and the interest in issue, and OTC derivatives where valuation depends upon rate paid on average interest-bearing liabilities.
unobservable inputs such as certain credit and exotic derivatives.
Internal funding of trading business - the internal funding of the trading Leveraged finance - funding leveraged finance provided to a business book comprises net banking book financial liabilities that fund financial resulting in an overall level of debt in relation to cash flow that exceeds assets in the Groups trading portfolios.
Interest payable on these that which would be considered usual for the business or for the industry financial liabilities is charged to the trading book.
Leveraged finance is commonly employed to achieve a specific, often temporary, objective: to make an acquisition, to Investment grade - generally represents a risk profile similar to a rating of effect a buy-out or to repurchase shares.
BBBBaa3 or better, as defined by independent rating agencies.
RBS Group 2011 480 Liquidity coverage ratio LCR - the ratio of the stock of high quality liquid Mortgage-backed securities - asset-backed securities for which the assets to expected net cash outflows over the following 30 days.
Highunderlying asset portfolios are loans secured on property.
See quality liquid assets should be unencumbered, liquid in markets during a Residential mortgage backed securities and Commercial mortgage time of stress and, ideally, be central bank eligible.
These include, for backed securities.
example, cash and claims on central governments and central banks.
The Basel III rules require this ratio to be at least 100% and it is expected Mortgage servicing rights - the rights of a mortgage servicer to collect to apply from 2015. mortgage payments and forward them, after deducting a fee, to the mortgage lender.
Liquidity enhancements - make funds available to ensure that the issuer of securities, usually a commercial paper conduit, can redeem the Mortgage vintage - the year in which a mortgage loan was made to the securities at maturity.
They typically take the form of a committed facility customer.
Negative equity mortgages - mortgages where the value of the property Loan impairment provisions - loan impairment provisions are established mortgaged is less than the outstanding balance on the loan.
to recognise incurred impairment losses on a portfolio of loans classified as loans and receivables and carried at amortised cost.
It has three Net interest income - the difference between interest receivable on components: individually assessed loan impairment provisions, financial assets classified as loans and receivables or available-for-sale collectively assessed loan impairment provisions and latent loss and interest payable on financial liabilities carried at amortised cost.
Net interest margin - net interest income as a percentage of average Loan-to-deposit ratio - the ratio of loans and advances to customers net interest-earning assets.
of provision for impairment losses and excluding reverse repurchase agreements to customer deposits excluding repurchase agreements.
Net stable funding ratio NSFR - introduced by Basel III, the NSFR is the ratio of available stable funding to required stable funding over a one year Loan-to-value ratio - the amount of a secured loan as a percentage of the time horizon, assuming a stressed scenario.
The ratio is required to be appraised value of the security e. g. the outstanding amount of a over 100% with effect from 2015.
Available stable funding would include mortgage loan as a percentage of the property's value.
such items as equity capital, preferred stock with a maturity of over one year and liabilities with a maturity of over one year.
The required amount Loss given default LGD - the economic loss that may occur in the event of stable funding is calculated as the sum of the value of the assets held of default i. e. the actual loss - that part of the exposure that is not and funded by the institution, multiplied by a specific required stable expected to be recovered - plus any costs of recovery.
funding factor assigned to each particular asset type, added to the amount of potential liquidity exposure multiplied by the associated Market risk - the risk that the value of an asset or liability may change as required stable funding factor.
The NSFR is subject to an observation a result of a change in market factors such as foreign exchange rates and period and to review to address any unintended consequences.
commodity prices, interest rates, credit spreads and equity prices.
Non-conforming mortgages - mortgage loans that do not meet the Master netting agreement - an agreement between two counterparties requirements for sale to US Government agencies or US Government that have multiple derivative contracts with each other that provides for sponsored enterprises.
These requirements include limits on loan-tothe net settlement of all contracts through a single payment, in a single value ratios, loan terms, loan amounts, borrower creditworthiness and currency, in the event of default on, or termination of, any one contract.
Medium term notes MTNs - debt securities usually with a maturity of five Operational risk - the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed to ten years, but the term may be less than one year or as long as 50 processes, people, systems or from external events.
They can be issued on a fixed or floating coupon basis or with an exotic coupon: with a fixed maturity date non-callable or with embedded Option - an option is a contract that gives the holder the right but not the call or put options or early repayment triggers.
MTNs are generally issued obligation to buy or sell a specified amount of the underlying physical or as senior unsecured debt.
financial commodity, at a specific price, at an agreed date or over an agreed period.
Options can be exchange-traded or traded over-theMonoline insurers - entities that specialise in providing credit protection counter.
against the notional and interest cash flows due to the holders of debt instruments in the event of default.
This protection is typically in the form of derivatives such as credit default swaps.
RBS Group 2011 481 Shareholder information continued Glossary of terms continued Repurchase agreement Repo - see Sale and repurchase agreements.
Over-the-counter OTC derivatives - are derivatives with tailored terms and conditions negotiated bilaterally, in contrast to exchange traded Residential mortgage backed securities RMBS - asset-backed derivatives that have standardised terms and conditions.
securities for which the underlying asset portfolios are residential mortgages.
Own credit adjustment - the effect of the Groups own credit standing on the fair value of financial liabilities.
Restructured loans - see Renegotiated loans.
Past due - a financial asset such as a loan is past due when the Retail loans - loans made to individuals rather than institutions.
The loans counterparty has failed to make a payment when contractually due.
may be for car purchases, home purchases, medical care, home repair, holidays and other consumer uses.
Potential problem loans PPL - loans for which an impairment event has taken place but no impairment provision is required.
This category is Return on equity - profit attributable to ordinary and B shareholders used for fully collateralised advances which are not past due 90 days or divided by average shareholders equity as a percentage.
revolving credit facilities where identification as 90 days overdue is not feasible.
Reverse repurchase agreement Reverse repo - see Sale and repurchase agreements.
Prime - prime mortgage loans generally have low default risk and are made to borrowers with good credit records and a monthly income that is Risk appetite - an expression of the maximum level of risk that the Group at least three to four times greater than their monthly housing expense is prepared to accept to deliver its business objectives.
mortgage payments plus taxes and other debt payments.
These borrowers provide full documentation and generally have reliable Risk asset ratio RAR - total regulatory capital as a percentage of riskpayment histories.
Private equity investments - equity investments in operating companies Risk elements in lending REIL - impaired loans and accruing loans not quoted on a public exchange.
Capital for private equity investment is which are contractually overdue 90 days or more as to principal or raised from retail or institutional investors and used to fund investment interest.
strategies such as leveraged buyouts, venture capital, growth capital, distressed investments and mezzanine capital.
Risk-weighted assets RWAs - assets adjusted for their associated risks using weightings established in accordance with the Basel Capital Accord Probability of default PD - the likelihood that a customer will fail to make as implemented by the FSA.
Certain assets are not weighted but full and timely repayment of credit obligations over a one year time deducted from capital.
Sale and repurchase agreements - in a sale and repurchase agreement Regular way purchase or sale - a purchase or sale of a financial asset one party, the seller, sells a financial asset to another party, the buyer, at under a contract whose terms require delivery of the asset within the time the same time the seller agrees to reacquire and the buyer to resell the frame established generally by regulation or convention in the asset at a later date.
From the seller's perspective such agreements are marketplace concerned.
repurchase agreements repos and from the buyer's reverse repurchase agreements reverse repos.
Regulatory capital - the amount of capital that the Group holds, determined in accordance with rules established by the FSA for the Securitisation - a process by which assets or cash flows are transformed consolidated Group and by local regulators for individual Group into transferable securities.
The underlying assets or cash flows are companies.
transferred by the originator or an intermediary, typically an investment bank, to a special purpose entity which issues securities to investors.
Renegotiated loans - loans are generally renegotiated either as part of Asset securitisations involve issuing debt securities asset-backed the ongoing banking relationship with a creditworthy customer or in securities that are backed by the cash flows of income-generating assets response to a borrower's financial difficulties.
In the latter case, ranging from credit card receivables to residential mortgage loans.
renegotiation encompasses not only revisions to the terms of a loan such Liability securitisations typically involve issuing bonds that assume the as a maturity extension, a payment moratorium, a concessionary rate of risk of a potential insurance liability ranging from a catastrophic natural interest but also the restructuring of all or part of the exposure including event to an unexpected claims level on a certain product type.
debt forgiveness or a debt for equity swap.
Loans renegotiated as part of the ongoing banking relationship with a creditworthy customer are treated as new loans.
RBS Group 2011 482 Settlement balances - payables and receivables that result from Tangible net asset value TNAV - owners equity attributable to ordinary purchases and sales of financial instruments recognised on trade date.
and B shareholders less intangible assets divided by the number of Asset settlement balances are amounts owed to the Group in respect of ordinary and B shares in issue.
sales and liability settlement balances are amounts owed by the Group in respect of purchases.
Tier 1 capital - core Tier 1 capital plus other Tier 1 securities in issue, less material holdings in financial companies.
Sovereign exposures - exposures to governments, ministries, departments of governments and central banks.
Tier 1 capital ratio - Tier 1 capital as a percentage of risk-weighted assets.
Special purpose entity SPE - an entity created by a sponsor, typically a major bank, finance company, investment bank or insurance company.
Tier 2 capital - qualifying subordinated debt and other Tier 2 securities in An SPE can take the form of a corporation, trust, partnership, or a limited issue, eligible collective impairment allowances, unrealised  company.
Its operations are typically limited for example in a sale equity gains and revaluation reserves less certain regulatory securitisation to the acquisition and financing of specific assets or deductions.
US Government National Mortgage Association - see Ginnie Mae.
Structured credit portfolio SCP - a portfolio of certain of the Groups illiquid assets - principally CDO super senior positions, negative basis Unaudited - financial information that has not been subjected to the audit trades and monoline exposures - held within Non-Core division.
procedures undertaken by the Group's auditor to enable them to express an opinion on the Group's financial statements.
Structured Investment Vehicle SIV - a limited-purpose operating company that undertakes arbitrage activities by purchasing highly rated US Federal Agencies - see Federal Agencies.
medium and long-term, fixed-income assets and funding itself with shortterm, highly rated commercial paper and medium-term notes.
Value-at-risk VaR - a technique that produces estimates of the potential change in the market value of a portfolio over a specified time horizon at Structured notes - securities that pay a return linked to the value or level given confidence levels.
of a specified asset or index.
Structured notes can be linked to equities, interest rates, funds, commodities and foreign currency.
Wholesale funding - wholesale funding comprises Deposits by banks, Debt securities in issue and Subordinated liabilities.
Student loan related assets - assets that are referenced to underlying student loans.
Wrapped security - a debt security where the holder benefits from credit protection provided by a third party, typically a financial guarantor or Subordinated liabilities - liabilities which, in the event of insolvency or monoline insurer.
liquidation of the issuer, are subordinated to the claims of depositors and other creditors of the issuer.
Write-down - a reduction in the carrying value of an asset to record a decline in its fair value or value in use.
Sub-prime - mortgage loans to customers with one or more high risk characteristics, such as: unreliable or poor payment histories: loan-toWrong-way risk - the risk of loss when the risk factors driving the value ratio of greater than 80%: high debt-to-income ratio: the loan is not exposure to a counterparty or customer are positively correlated with the secured on the borrower's primary residence: or a history of creditworthiness of that counterparty i. e. the size of the exposure delinquencies or late payments on the loan.
increases at the same time as the risk of the counterparty or customer being unable to meet that obligation, increases.
Super senior CDO - the most senior class of instrument issued by a CDO vehicle.
They benefit from the subordination of all other instruments, including AAA rated securities, issued by the CDO vehicle.
