Notes on the consolidated accounts continued 41 Related parties UK Government losses on covered assets in total exceed 125% of the first loss On 1 December 2008, the UK Government through HM Treasury became amount or losses on an individual covered asset class exceed the ultimate controlling party of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc.
specified thresholds: The UK Government's shareholding is managed by UK Financial Investments Limited, a company wholly owned by the UK Government.
a breach of specified obligations in the APS rules or the accession As a result, the UK Government and UK Government controlled bodies agreement: became related parties of the Group.
the Group has failed or is failing to comply with any of the conditions The Group enters into transactions with many of these bodies on an in the APS rules in relation to asset management, monitoring and arms length basis.
The principal transactions during 2011, 2010 and reporting, and governance and oversight and such failure is 2009 were: the Asset Protection Scheme, Bank of England facilities and persistent and material or it is evidence of a systematic problem: the issue of debt guaranteed by the UK Government discussed below.
and In addition, the redemption of non-cumulative sterling preference shares and the placing and open offer in April 2009 was underwritten by HM material or systematic data deficiencies in the information provided Treasury and, in December 2009, B shares were issued to HM Treasury to HM Treasury in accordance with the terms of APS.
and a contingent capital agreement concluded with HM Treasury see Note 27.
Other transactions include the payment of: taxes principally UK HM Treasury may at any time elect to cease to exercise its step-in rights corporation tax page 338 and value added tax: national insurance in whole or part when it is satisfied that the step-in triggers have been contributions: local authority rates: and regulatory fees and levies remedied.
including the bank levy page 329 and FSCS levies page 401 : together with banking transactions such as loans and deposits The Group has paid APS premiums totalling 2,225 million 2011 - 125 undertaken in the normal course of banker-customer relationships.
From 31 December 2011, premiums of 125 million are payable quarterly until the earlier of Asset Protection Scheme 2099 and the date the Group leaves the Scheme.
On 22 December 2009, the Group entered into an agreement the Asset Protection Scheme APS, with HM Treasury, acting on behalf of the UK The APS is a single contract providing credit protection in respect of a Government, under which the Group purchased credit protection over a portfolio of financial assets.
Under IFRS, credit protection is treated either portfolio of specified assets and exposures covered assets from HM as a financial guarantee contract or as a derivative financial instrument Treasury.
The portfolio of covered assets has a par value of depending on the terms of the agreement and the nature of the protected approximately 282 billion.
The protection is subject to a first loss of 60 assets and exposures.
The Group has concluded, principally because the billion and covers 90% of subsequent losses net of recoveries.
Once the covered portfolio includes significant exposure in the form of derivatives, first loss has been exhausted, losses and recoveries in respect of assets that the APS does not meet the criteria to be treated as a financial for which a trigger event - failure to pay, bankruptcy or restructuring - has guarantee contract.
The contract has been accounted for as a derivative occurred are included in the balance receivable under the APS.
Receipts financial instrument and is recognised as a fair value liability 231 million from HM Treasury will, over time, amount to 90% of cumulative losses 2010 - asset 550 million: 2009 - asset 1,400 million and included net of 90% of cumulative recoveries on the portfolio of covered assets within the Derivative liability balance sheet caption.
Changes in fair value less the first loss amount.
of 906 million 2010 - 1,550 million: 2009 - nil were recognised in profit or loss within Income from trading activities.
Details of the valuation The Group has a right to terminate the APS at any time provided that the methodology for the APS are set out in Note 11 Financial instruments on Financial Services Authority has confirmed in writing to HM Treasury that pages 356 and 357. it has no objection.
On termination the Group must pay HM Treasury the higher of the regulatory capital relief received and 2.5 billion less There is no change in the recognition and measurement of the covered premiums paid plus the aggregate of amounts received from the UK assets as a result of the APS.
Impairment provisions on covered assets Government under the APS.
measured at amortised cost are assessed and charged in accordance with the Groups accounting policy: held-for-trading assets, assets HM Treasury has the right to appoint step-in managers to carry out any designated at fair value and available-for-sale assets within the APS oversight, management or additional functions on behalf of HM Treasury portfolio continue to be measured at fair value with no adjustments to to ensure that the covered assets are managed and administered in reflect the protection provided by the APS.
There is no change in how compliance with the agreed terms and conditions.
This right is gains and losses on the covered assets are recognised in the income exercisable if certain step-in triggers occur.
These include: statement or in other comprehensive income.
