11 Financial instruments - valuation appropriateness of the application of the model to the product, the Valuation of financial instruments carried at fair value mathematical robustness of the model, and where appropriate, considers Control environment alternative modelling approaches.
The Group's control environment for the determination of the fair value of financial instruments includes formalised protocols for the review and Senior management valuation control committees meet formally on a validation of fair values independent of the businesses entering into the monthly basis to discuss independent pricing, reserving and valuation transactions.
There are specific controls to ensure consistent pricing issues relating to both GBM and Non-Core exposures.
All material policies and procedures, incorporating disciplined price verification.
The methodology changes require review and ratification by these Group ensures that appropriate attention is given to bespoke committees.
The committees include valuation specialists representing transactions, structured products, illiquid products and other instruments several independent review functions which comprise market risk, which are difficult to price.
A key element of the control environment is the independent price The Group Executive Valuation Committee discusses the issues verification IPV process.
Valuations are first performed by the business escalated by the Modelled Product Review Committee, GBM and Nonwhich entered into the transaction.
Such valuations may be directly from Core senior management Valuations Control Committee and other available prices, or may be derived using a model and variable model relevant issues, including the APS credit derivative valuation.
These valuations are reviewed, and if necessary amended, by a committee covers key material and subjective valuation issues within the team independent of those trading the financial instruments, in light of trading business and provides a ratification to the appropriateness of available pricing evidence.
areas with high levels of residual valuation uncertainty.
Committee members include the Group Finance Director, the Group Chief IPV variances are classified as hard, soft or indicative.
A variance is hard Accountant, Global Head of Market and Insurance Risk, GBM Chief where the independent information represents tradable or liquid prices Financial Officer and Non-Core Chief Financial Officer, and and soft where it does not.
Variances are classed as indicative where the representation from front office trading and finance.
independent evidence is so subjective or sparse that conclusions cannot be formed with a sufficient degree of confidence.
Adjustments are Valuation issues, adjustments and reserves are reported to GBM, Nonrequired for all hard variances and for aggressive soft variances, with Core and Group Audit Committees.
Key judgmental issues are described conservative and indicative variances not requiring automatic adjustment.
in reports submitted to these Audit Committees.
IPV is performed at a frequency to match the availability of independent New products data.
For liquid instruments, the standard is to perform IPV daily.
The The Group has formal review procedures owned by Group Operational minimum frequency of review in the Group is monthly for exposures in Risk to ensure that new products, asset classes and risk types are the regulatory trading book and six monthly for exposures in the appropriately reviewed to ensure, amongst other things, that valuation is regulatory banking book.
Monthly meetings are held between the appropriate.
The scope of this process includes new business, markets, business and the support functions to discuss the results of the IPV and models, risks and structures.
The IPV control includes formalised reporting and escalation of any valuation differences in breach of established Valuation hierarchy thresholds.
The Global Pricing Unit GPU determines IPV policy, There is a process to review and control the classification of financial monitors adherence to that policy and performs additional independent instruments into the three level hierarchy established by IFRS 7.
Some reviews on highly subjective valuation issues for GBM and Non-Core.
instruments may not easily fall into a level of the fair value hierarchy per IFRS 7 see page 350 and judgment may be required as to which level During 2011, the Group made a significant and ongoing investment into the instrument is classified.
enhancing its already robust control environment.
This included continuing investment into a new global IPV and reserving tool, which Initial classification of a financial instrument is carried out by the Business partly automates the process of carrying out IPV and consolidation of Unit Control team following the principles in IFRS.
The Business Unit reserves into a single central portal.
Control team base their judgment on information gathered during the IPV process for instruments which include the sourcing of independent prices Valuation models are subject to a review process which requires different and model inputs.
The quality and completeness of the information levels of model documentation, testing and review, depending on the gathered in the IPV process gives an indication as to the liquidity and complexity of the model and the size of the Group's exposure.
A key valuation uncertainty of an instrument.
element of the control environment for model use is a Modelled Product Review Committee, made up of valuations experts from several functions These initial classifications are challenged by GPU and are subject to within the Group.
This committee sets the policy for model senior management review.
Particular attention is paid during the review documentation, testing and review, and prioritises models with significant processes upon instruments crossing from one level to another, new exposure for review by the Group's Quantitative Research Centre instrument classes or products, instruments that are generating QuaRC.
Potential valuation uncertainty is a key input in determining significant profit and loss and instruments where valuation uncertainty is model review priorities at these meetings.
The QuaRC team within Group high.
Risk, which is independent of the trading businesses, assesses the 345 RBS Group 2011 Notes on the consolidated accounts continued 11 Financial instruments - valuation continued correlation: if they move in opposite directions there is negative Valuation techniques correlation.
Volatility is a key input in valuing options and the The Group derives fair value of its instruments differently depending on valuation of certain products such as derivatives with more than one whether the instrument is a non-modelled or a modelled product.
Volatility and correlation values are obtained from broker quotations, pricing Non-modelled products services or derived from option prices.
Non-modelled products are valued directly from a price input and are typically valued on a position by position basis and include cash, equities Prepayment rates - the fair value of a financial instrument that can and most debt securities.
be prepaid by the issuer or borrower differs from that of an instrument that cannot be prepaid.
In valuing prepayable Modelled products instruments that are not quoted in active markets, the Group Modelled products are those that are valued using a pricing model, considers the value of the prepayment option.
ranging in complexity from comparatively vanilla products such as Counterparty credit spreads - adjustments are made to market interest rate swaps and options e. g. interest rate caps and floors prices or parameters when the creditworthiness of the counterparty through to more complex derivatives.
The valuation of modelled products differs from that of the assumed counterparty in the market price or requires an appropriate model and inputs into this model.
models are also used to derive inputs e. g. to construct volatility surfaces.
The Group uses a number of modelling methodologies.
Recovery rates loss given default - these are used as an input to valuation models and reserves for asset-backed securities and other Inputs to valuation models credit products as an indicator of severity of losses on default.
Values between and beyond available data points are obtained by Recovery rates are primarily sourced from market data providers or interpolation and extrapolation.
When utilising valuation techniques, the inferred from observable credit spreads.
fair value can be significantly affected by the choice of valuation model and by underlying assumptions concerning factors such as the amounts The Group may use consensus prices for the source of independent and timing of cash flows, discount rates and credit risk.
The principal pricing for some assets.
The consensus service encompasses the equity, inputs to these valuation techniques are as follows: interest rate, currency, commodity, credit, property, fund and bond Bond prices - quoted prices are generally available for government markets, providing comprehensive matrices of vanilla prices and a wide bonds, certain corporate securities and some mortgage-related selection of exotic products.
GBM and Non-Core contribute to consensus products.
pricing services where there is a significant interest either from a positional point of view or to test models for future business use.
Data Credit spreads - where available, these are derived from prices of sourced from consensus pricing services is used for a combination of credit default swaps or other credit based instruments, such as debt control processes including direct price testing, evidence of observability securities.
For others, credit spreads are obtained from pricing and model testing.
In practice this means that the Group submits prices services.
for all material positions for which a service is available.
Interest rates - these are principally benchmark interest rates such In order to determine a reliable fair value, where appropriate, as the London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR and quoted interest management applies valuation adjustments to the pricing information rates in the swap, bond and futures markets.
gathered from the above sources.
These adjustments reflect the Group's Foreign currency exchange rates - there are observable markets assessment of factors that market participants would consider in setting a both for spot and forward contracts and futures in the world's major price.
Furthermore, on an ongoing basis, the Group assesses the currencies.
appropriateness of any model used.
To the extent that the price provided by internal models does not represent the fair value of the instrument, for Equity and equity index prices - quoted prices are generally readily instance in highly stressed market conditions, the Group makes available for equity shares listed on the world's major stock adjustments to the model valuation to calibrate to other available pricing exchanges and for major indices on such shares.
Where unobservable inputs are used, the Group may determine Commodity prices - many commodities are actively traded in spot a range of possible valuations derived from differing stress scenarios to and forward contracts and futures on exchanges in London, New determine the sensitivity associated with the valuation.
When establishing York and other commercial centres.
the fair value of a financial instrument using a valuation technique, the Group considers certain adjustments to the modelled price which market Price volatilities and correlations - volatility is a measure of the participants would make when pricing that instrument.
Such adjustments tendency of a price to change with time.
Correlation measures the include the credit quality of the counterparty and adjustments to degree which two or more prices or other variables are observed to compensate for any known model limitations.
If they move in the same direction there is positive 346 RBS Group 2011 Valuation reserves When valuing financial instruments in the trading book, adjustments are made to mid-market valuations to cover bid-offer spread, liquidity and credit risk.
The following table shows the valuation reserves and adjustments.
2011 2010 2009 m m m Credit valuation adjustments Monoline insurers 1,198 2,443 3,796 Credit derivative product companies 1,034 490 499 Other counterparties 2,254 1,714 1,588 4,486 4,647 5,883 Bid-offer, liquidity and other reserves 2,704 2,797 2,814 7,190 7,444 8,697 Key points The exposure to credit derivative product companies has increased, The exposure to monolines reduced primarily due to the primarily driven by wider credit spreads of the underlying reference restructuring of some exposures, partially offset by lower prices of loans and bonds.
The credit valuation adjustments increased in line underlying reference instruments.
The credit valuation adjustments with the increase in exposure.
decreased due to the reduction in exposure partially offset by wider credit spreads.
Credit valuation adjustments CVA Credit derivative product companies CDPC Credit valuation adjustments represent an estimate of the adjustment to A CDPC is a company that sells protection on credit derivatives.
CDPCs fair value that a market participant would make to incorporate the credit are similar to monoline insurers however, they are not regulated as risk inherent in counterparty derivative exposures.
The Group has purchased credit protection from CDPCs through Monoline insurers The Group has purchased protection from monoline insurers tranched and single name credit derivatives.
The Group's exposure to monolines, mainly against specific Asset-backed securities.
Monolines CDPCs is predominantly due to tranched credit derivatives tranches.
A specialise in providing credit protection against the principal and interest tranche references a portfolio of loans and bonds and provides protection cash flows due to the holders of debt instruments in the event of default against total portfolio default losses exceeding a certain percentage of by the debt instrument counterparty.
This protection is typically held in the the portfolio notional the attachment point up to another percentage the form of derivatives such as credit default swaps CDSs referencing detachment point.
underlying exposures held directly or synthetically by the Group.
The Group has predominantly traded senior tranches with CDPCs, the The gross mark-to-market of the monoline protection depends on the average attachment and detachment points are 13% and 47% value of the instruments against which protection has been bought.
A respectively 2010 - 13% and 49%: 2009 - 15% and 51%, and the positive fair value, or a valuation gain, in the protection is recognised if majority of the loans and bonds in the reference portfolios are investment the fair value of the instrument it references decreases.
of trades the gross mark-to-market of the monoline protection is determined directly from the fair value price of the underlying reference The gross mark-to-market of the CDPC protection is determined using instrument However, for the remainder of the trades the gross mark-toindustry standard models.
The methodology employed to calculate the market is determined using industry standard models.
CDPC CVA is different to that outlined above for monolines, as there are no market observable credit spreads and recovery levels for these The methodology employed to calculate the monoline CVA uses market entities.
The level of expected loss on CDPC exposures is estimated with implied probability of defaults and internally assessed recovery levels to reference to recent market events impacting CDPCs including determine the level of expected loss on monoline exposures of different communication activity : risk mitigation strategies including analysing the maturities.
The probability of default is calculated with reference to underlying trades and the cost of hedging expected default losses in market observable credit spreads and recovery levels.
CVA is calculated excess of the available capital : and the total notional of trades transacted at a trade level by applying the expected loss corresponding to each by each CDPC together with the level of resources available to settle trades expected maturity, to the gross mark-to-market of the monoline default payments.
The expected maturity of each trade reflects the scheduled notional amortisation of the underlying reference instruments and.
whether payments due from the monoline are received at the point of default or over the life of the underlying reference instruments.
347 RBS Group 2011 Notes on the consolidated accounts continued 11 Financial instruments - valuation continued Bid-offer spreads vary by maturity and risk type to reflect different Other counterparties spreads in the market.
For positions where there is no observable quote, The CVA for all other counterparties is calculated on a portfolio basis the bid-offer spreads are widened in comparison to proxies to reflect reflecting an estimate of the amount a third party would charge to assume reduced liquidity or observability.
Bid-offer methodologies also the credit risk.
incorporate liquidity triggers whereby wider spreads are applied to risks above pre-defined thresholds.
Expected losses are applied to estimated potential future exposures which are modelled to reflect the volatility of the market factors which Netting is applied on a portfolio basis to reflect the level at which the drive the exposures and the correlation between those factors.
Potential Group believes it could exit the portfolio, rather than the sum of exit costs future exposures arising from vanilla products including interest rate and for each of the portfolios individual trades.
For example, netting is foreign exchange derivatives are modelled jointly using the Group's core applied where long and short risk in two different maturity buckets can be counterparty risk systems.
The majority of the Group's CVA held in closed out in a single market transaction at less cost than by way of two relation to other counterparties arises on these vanilla products.
The separate transactions calendar netting.
This reflects the fact that to exposures arising from all other product types are modelled and close down the portfolio, the net risk can be settled rather than each long assessed individually.
The potential future exposure to each counterparty and short trade individually.
is the aggregate of the exposures arising on the underlying product types.
Vanilla risk on exotic products is typically reserved as part of the overall The correlation between exposure and counterparty risk is also portfolio based calculation e. g. delta and vega risk on exotic products are incorporated within the CVA calculation where this risk is considered included within the delta and vega bid-offer calculations.
The risk primarily arises on trades with emerging market risk arising from different models is in line with the Group's risk counterparties where the gross mark-to-market value of the trade, and management practices: the model review control process considers the therefore the counterparty exposure, increases as the strength of the appropriateness of model selection in this respect.
Product related risks such as correlation risk, attract specific bid-offer Collateral held under a credit support agreement is factored into the CVA reserves.
Additional reserves are provided for exotic products to ensure calculation.
In such cases where the Group holds collateral against overall reserves match market close-out costs.
These market close-out counterparty exposures, CVA is held to the extent that residual risk costs inherently incorporate risk decay and cross-effects taking into remains.
account how moves in one risk factor may affect other inputs rather than treating all risk factors independently that are unlikely to be adequately CVA is held against exposures to all counterparties with the exception of reflected in a static hedge based on vanilla instruments.
Where there is the CDS protection that the Group has purchased from HM Treasury, as limited bid-offer information for a product, the pricing approach and risk part of its participation in the Asset Protection Scheme, due to the unique management strategy are taken into account when assessing the features of this derivative.
Bid-offer, liquidity and other reserves Amounts deferred on initial recognition Fair value positions are adjusted to bid or offer levels, by marking On initial recognition of financial assets and liabilities valued using individual cash based positions directly to bid or offer or by taking bidvaluation techniques incorporating information other than observable offer reserves calculated on a portfolio basis for derivatives exposures.
market data, any difference between the transaction price and that The bid-offer approach is based on current market spreads and standard derived from the valuation technique is deferred.
Such amounts are market bucketing of risk.
recognised in profit or loss over the life of the transaction: when market data becomes observable: or when the transaction matures or is closed Risk data are used as the primary sources of information within bid-offer out as appropriate.
At 31 December 2011, net gains of 161 million 2010 calculations and are aggregated when they are more granular than - 167 million: 2009 - 204 million were carried forward.
During the year, market standard buckets.
Bid-offer adjustments for each risk factor net gains of 89 million 2010 - 62 million: 2009 - 127 million were including delta the degree to which the price of an instrument changes deferred and 95 million 2010 - 99 million: 2009 - 25 million in response to a change in the price of the underlying, vega the degree recognised in the income statement.
to which the price of an instrument changes in response to the volatility in the price of the underlying, correlation the degree to which prices of different instruments move together and others are determined by aggregating similar risk exposures arising on different products.
Additional basis bid-offer reserves are taken where these are charged in the market.
Risk associated with non-identical underlying exposures is not netted down unless there is evidence that the cost of closing the combined risk exposure is less than the cost of closing on an individual basis.
348 RBS Group 2011 Own credit The fair value of the Group's derivative financial liabilities has also been The Group takes into account the effect of its own credit standing when adjusted to reflect the Group's own credit risk.
The adjustment takes into valuing financial liabilities recorded at fair value in accordance with IFRS.
account collateral posted by it and the effects of master netting Own credit spread adjustments are made to issued debt held at fair agreements.
value, including issued structured notes, and derivatives.
An own credit adjustment is applied to positions where it is believed that counterparties The own credit adjustment for fair value does not alter cash flows, is not would consider the Group's creditworthiness when pricing trades.
used for performance management, is disregarded for regulatory capital reporting processes and will reverse over time as the liabilities mature.
For issued debt and structured notes this adjustment is based on debt issuance spreads above average inter-bank rates at a range of tenors.
The reserve movement between periods will not equate to the reported At the beginning of the year the spreads were based on levels which the profit or loss for own credit.
The balance sheet reserves are stated by market would demand when purchasing new senior or sub-debt conversion of underlying currency balances at spot rates for each period issuances from the Group.
During the year, primary debt issuance activity whereas the income statement includes intra-period foreign exchange in the market reduced whilst liquidity remained in the secondary trading of sell-offs.
These secondary senior debt issuance spreads were considered to provide a more accurate reflection of fair value and these The effect of change in credit spreads could be reversed in future levels are therefore now used in the calculation of the own credit periods, provided the liability is not repaid at a premium or a discount.
adjustment applied to senior debt.
Where necessary, these quotes are interpolated using a curve shape derived from credit default swap prices.
The following table shows own credit adjustments on own liabilities.
2 Designated as at fair value through profit and loss.
RBS Group 2011 349 Notes on the consolidated accounts continued 11 Financial instruments - valuation continued Valuation hierarchy The following tables show financial instruments carried at fair value on the Groups balance sheet by valuation hierarchy - level 1, level 2 and level 3.
Examples include G10 government securities, listed equity shares, certain exchange-traded derivatives and certain US agency securities.
Level 2: valued using techniques based significantly on observable market data.
Instruments in this category are valued using: a quoted prices for similar instruments or identical instruments in markets which are not considered to be active: or b valuation techniques where all the inputs that have a significant effect on the valuations are directly or indirectly based on observable market data.
The type of instruments that trade in markets that are not considered to be active, but are based on quoted market prices, banker dealer quotations, or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency and those instruments valued using techniques include non-G10 government securities, most government agency securities, investment-grade corporate bonds, certain mortgage products, including CLOs, most bank loans, repos and reverse repos, less liquid listed equities, state and municipal obligations, most notes issued, investment contracts issued by the Group's life assurance business 2009 and certain money market securities and loan commitments and most OTC derivatives.
Level 3: instruments in this category have been valued using a valuation technique where at least one input which could have a significant effect on the instruments valuation, is not based on observable market data.
Where inputs can be observed from market data without undue cost and effort, the observed input is used.
Otherwise, the Group determines a reasonable level for the input.
Financial instruments primarily include cash instruments which trade infrequently, certain syndicated and commercial mortgage loans, unlisted equity shares, certain residual interests in securitisations, majority of CDOs, other mortgage-backed products and less liquid debt securities, certain structured debt securities in issue, and OTC derivatives where valuation depends upon unobservable inputs such as certain credit and exotic derivatives.
No gain or loss is recognised on the initial recognition of a financial instrument valued using a technique incorporating significant unobservable data.
RBS Group 2011 351 Notes on the consolidated accounts continued 11 Financial instruments - valuation continued The following table analyses level 3 balances and related valuation sensitivities.
Note: 1 Sensitivity represents the favourable and unfavourable effect on the income statement or the statement of comprehensive income due to reasonably possible changes to valuations using reasonably possible alternative inputs to the Group's valuation techniques or models.
Totals for sensitivities are not indicative of the total potential effect on the income statement or the statement of comprehensive income.
RBS Group 2011 352 Key points Judgmental issues Total assets carried at fair value increased by 96.1 billion in the The diverse range of products traded by the Group results in a wide year to 882.2 billion at 31 December 2011, principally reflecting range of instruments that are classified into the three level hierarchy.
increases in derivative assets 102.5 billion, reverse repos 9.0 Whilst the majority of these instruments naturally fall into a particular billion and derivative collateral 2.2 billion, partially offset by level, for some products an element of judgment is required.
The majority decreases in debt securities 7.4 billion and equity shares 7.0 of the Groups financial instruments carried at fair value are classified as billion.
level 2: inputs are observable either directly i. e. as a price or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
Total liabilities carried at fair value increased by 115.7 billion, with increases in derivative liabilities 100.0 billion, repos 15.2 billion Active and inactive markets and collateral 4.0 billion, partially offset by decreases in debt A key input in the decision making process for the allocation of assets to securities in issue 4.0 billion and short positions 2.1 billion.
In general, the degree of valuation uncertainty depends on the degree of liquidity of an input.
For example, a Level 3 assets of 16.4 billion represented 1.9% 2010 - 15.7 billion derivative can be placed into level 2 or level 3 dependent upon its and 2.0% of assets at fair value, an increase of 0.7 billion.
reflected transfers from level 2 to level 3 of 5.7 billion based on a review in the latter part of 2011 in light of liquidity in the market, Where markets are liquid or very liquid, little judgment is required.
maturity and sale of instruments.
These transfers related to ABS in However, when the information regarding the liquidity in a particular Non-Core Markets and certain foreign exchange options and credit market is not clear, a judgment may need to be made.
This can be made derivatives in GBM.
1.9 billion was transferred from level 3 to level more difficult as assessing the liquidity of a market may not always be 2, based on the re-assessment of the impact and nature of straightforward.
For an equity traded on an exchange, daily volumes of unobservable inputs used in valuation models.
trading can be seen, but for an-over-the counter OTC derivative assessing the liquidity of the market with no central exchange can be Level 3 liabilities increased to 6.3 billion in the year from 4.8 billion, more difficult.
mainly in credit derivatives due to market liquidity and resultant transfers from level 2 to level 3.
A key related issue is where a market moves from liquid to illiquid or vice versa.
Where this change is considered to be temporary, the The favourable and unfavourable effects of reasonably possible classification is not changed.
For example, if there is little market trading alternative assumptions on level 3 instruments carried at fair value in a product on a reporting date but at the previous reporting date and excluding APS credit derivatives were 2.0 billion favourable 2010 - during the intervening period the market has been considered to be 1.7 billion favourable and 1.4 billion unfavourable 2010 - 1.2 liquid, the instrument will continue to be classified in the same level in the billion unfavourable respectively.
This is to provide consistency so that transfers between levels sensitivities for APS credit derivatives were 0.3 billion 2010 - 0.9 are driven by genuine changes in market liquidity and do not reflect short billion favourable and 0.1 billion unfavourable 2010 - 0.9 billion term or seasonal effects.
The change in APS sensitivities reflected the decrease in overall value of the Scheme.
Interaction with the IPV process The determination of an instruments level cannot be made at a global There were no significant transfers between level 1 and level 2. product level as a single product type can be in more than one level.
For example, a single name corporate credit default swap could be in level 2 The level 3 sensitivities above are calculated at a trade or low level or level 3 depending on whether the reference counterparty is liquid or portfolio basis.
They are not calculated on an overall portfolio basis and illiquid.
therefore do not reflect the likely overall potential uncertainty on the whole portfolio.
The figures are aggregated and do not reflect the As part of the Groups IPV process, data is gathered at a trade level from correlated nature of some of the sensitivities.
In particular, for some of the market trading activity, trading systems, pricing services, consensus portfolios the sensitivities may be negatively correlated where a pricing providers, brokers and research material amongst other sources.
downwards movement in one asset would produce an upwards movement in another, but due to the additive presentation of the above The breadth and detail of this data allows a good assessment to be made figures this correlation cannot be observed.
For example, with assets in of liquidity and pricing uncertainty, which assists with the process of the APS, the downwards sensitivity on the underlying asset would be allocation to an appropriate level.
Where suitable independent pricing partially offset by the consequent upward movement of the APS information is not readily available the instrument will be considered to be derivative, so whilst the net sensitivity of the two positions may be lower, level 3. it would be shown with the gross upside and downside sensitivity of the two assets inflating the overall sensitivity figures in the above table.
The actual potential downside sensitivity of the total portfolio may be less than the non-correlated sum of the additive figures as shown in the above table.
RBS Group 2011 353 Notes on the consolidated accounts continued 11 Financial instruments - valuation continued For some instruments with a wide number of available price sources, Modelled products there may be differing quality of available information and there may be a For modelled products the market convention is to quote these trades wide range of prices from different sources.
In these situations an through the model inputs or parameters as opposed to a cash price assessment is made as to which source is the highest quality and this will equivalent.
A mark-to-market is derived from the use of the independent be used to determine the classification of the asset.
For example, a market inputs calculated using the Groups model.
tradable quote would be considered a better source than a consensus price.
The decision to classify a modelled asset as level 2 or 3 will be dependent upon the product model combination, the currency, the Instruments that cross levels maturity, the observability of input parameters and other factors.
All these Some instruments will predominantly be in one level or the other, but need to be assessed to classify the asset.
others may cross between levels.
For example, a cross currency swap may be between very liquid currency pairs where pricing is readily An assessment is made of each input into a model.
There may be observed in the market and will therefore be classified as level 2.
The multiple inputs into a model and each is assessed in turn for observability cross currency swap may also be between two illiquid currency pairs in and quality.
If an input fails the observability or quality tests then the which case the swap would be placed into level 3.
Defining the difference instrument is considered to be in level 3 unless the input can be shown to between liquid and illiquid may be based upon the number of consensus have an insignificant effect on the overall valuation of the product.
providers the consensus price is made up from and whether the consensus price can be supplemented by other sources.
The majority of derivative instruments are classified as level 2 as they are vanilla products valued using observable inputs.
The valuation Level 3 portfolios and sensitivity methodologies uncertainty on these is considered to be low and both input and output For each of the portfolio categories shown in the tables above, there testing may be available.
Examples of these products would be vanilla follows a description of the types of products that comprise the portfolio interest rate swaps, foreign exchange swaps and liquid single name and the valuation techniques that are applied in determining fair value, credit derivatives.
including a description of valuation techniques used for levels 2 and 3 and inputs to those models and techniques.
Where reasonably possible Non-modelled products alternative assumptions of unobservable inputs used in models would Non-modelled products are generally quoted on a price basis and can change the fair value of the portfolio significantly, the alternative inputs therefore be considered for each of the 3 levels.
This is determined by are indicated.
Where there have been significant changes to valuation the liquidity and valuation uncertainty of the instruments which is in turn techniques during the year a discussion of the reasons for this are also measured from the availability of independent data used by the IPV included.
Loans and advances to customers The availability and quality of independent pricing information is Loans in level 3 primarily comprise loans to emerging market considered during the classification process.
An assessment is made counterparties, structured loans and legacy commercial mortgages.
regarding the quality of the independent information.
For example where consensus prices are used for non-modelled products, a key assessment Commercial mortgages of the quality of a price is the depth of the number of prices used to These senior and mezzanine commercial mortgages are loans secured provide the consensus price.
If the depth of contributors falls below a set on commercial land and buildings that were originated or acquired by the hurdle rate, the instrument is considered to be level 3.
This hurdle rate is Group for securitisation.
Senior commercial mortgages carry a variable consistent with the rate used in the IPV process to determine whether or interest rate and mezzanine or more junior commercial mortgages may not the data is of sufficient quality to adjust the instruments valuations.
carry a fixed or variable interest rate.
Factors affecting the value of these However, where an instrument is generally considered to be illiquid, but loans may include, but are not limited to, loan type, underlying property regular quotes from market participants exist, these instruments may be type and geographic location, loan interest rate, loan to value ratios, debt classified as level 2 depending on frequency of quotes, other available service coverage ratios, prepayment rates, cumulative loan loss pricing and whether the quotes are used as part of the IPV process or information, yields, investor demand, market volatility since the last not.
Where observable market prices for a particular loan are not available, the fair value will typically be determined with reference to observable market transactions in other loans or credit related products including debt securities and credit derivatives.
Assumptions are made about the relationship between the loan and the available benchmark data.
RBS Group 2011 354 Debt securities Collateralised debt obligations CDO Level 3 debt securities principally comprise asset-backed securities.
CDOs purchased from third-parties are valued using independent, thirdparty quotes or independent lead manager indicative prices.
For super Residential mortgage-backed securities RMBS senior CDOs which have been originated by the Group no specific thirdRMBS where the underlying assets are US agency-backed mortgages party information is available.
The valuation of these super senior CDOs and there is regular trading are generally classified as level 2 in the fair therefore takes into consideration outputs from a proprietary model, value hierarchy.
RMBS are also classified as level 2 when regular trading market data and appropriate valuation adjustments.
is not prevalent in the market, but similar executed trades or third-party data including indices, broker quotes and pricing services can be used to A collateral net asset value methodology using dealer buy side marks is substantiate the fair value.
RMBS are classified as level 3 when trading used to determine an upper bound for super senior CDO valuations.
An activity is not available and a model with significant unobservable data is ABS index implied collateral valuation is also used to provide a market utilised.
Both the ABS index implied valuation and the collateral net asset value methodology apply an assumed immediate In determining whether an instrument is similar to that being valued, the liquidation approach.
Group considers a range of factors, principally: the lending standards of the brokers and underwriters that originated the mortgages, the lead Collateralised loan obligations CLO manager of the security, the issue date of the respective securities, the To determine the fair value of CLOs purchased from third parties, the underlying asset composition including origination date, loan to value Group uses third party broker or lead manager quotes as the primary ratios, historic loss information and geographic location of the pricing source.
These quotes are benchmarked to consensus pricing mortgages, the credit rating of the instrument, and any credit protection sources where they are available.
that the instrument may benefit from, such as insurance wraps or subordinated tranches.
Where there are instances of market observable For CLOs originated and still held by the Group, the fair value is data for several similar RMBS tranches, the Group considers the extent determined using a correlation model based on a Monte Carlo simulation of similar characteristics shared with the instrument being valued, framework.
The main model inputs are credit spreads and recovery rates together with the frequency, tenor and nature of the trades that have of the underlying assets and their correlation.
A credit curve is assigned been observed.
This method is most frequently used for US and UK to each underlying asset based on prices from third party dealer quotes RMBS.
RMBS of Dutch and Spanish originated mortgages guaranteed by and cash flow profiles, sourced from an industry standard model.
Losses those governments are valued using the credit spreads of the respective are calculated taking into account the attachment and detachment point government debt and certain assumptions made by the Group, or based of the exposure.
Where the correlation inputs to this model are not on observable prices from Bloomberg or consensus pricing services.
observable, CLOs are classified as level 3.
The Group primarily uses an industry standard model to project the Other asset-backed and corporate debt securities expected future cash flows to be received from the underlying mortgages Where observable market prices for a particular debt security are not and to forecast how these cash flows will be distributed to the various available, the fair value will typically be determined with reference to holders of the RMBS.
This model utilises data provided by the servicer of observable market transactions in other related products, such as similar the underlying mortgage portfolio, layering on assumptions for mortgage debt securities or credit derivatives.
Assumptions are made about the prepayments, probability of default, expected losses and yield.
The relationship between the individual debt security and the available Group uses data from third-party sources to calibrate its assumptions, benchmark data.
Where significant management judgment has been including pricing information from third party pricing services, applied in identifying the most relevant related product, or in determining independent research, broker quotes, and other independent sources.
An the relationship between the related product and the instrument itself, the assessment is made of third party data source to determine its instrument is classified as level 3. applicability and reliability.
The Group adjusts the model price with a liquidity premium to reflect the price that the instrument could be traded in Equity shares the market and may also make adjustments for model deficiencies.
Private equity investments include unit holdings and limited partnership interests primarily in corporate private equity funds, debt funds and fund The fair value of securities within each class of asset changes on a of hedge funds.
Externally managed funds are valued using recent prices broadly consistent basis in response to changes in given market factors.
Where not available, the fair value of investments in However, the extent of the change, and therefore the range of reasonably externally managed funds is generally determined using statements or possible alternative assumptions, may be either more or less other information provided by the fund managers.
pronounced, depending on the particular terms and circumstances of the individual security.
The Group believes that probability of default was the The Group considers that valuations may rely significantly on the least transparent input into Alt-A and prime RMBS modelled valuations judgments and estimates made by the fund managers, particularly in and most sensitive to variations.
Given the decline in liquidity in world markets, and the level of subjectivity, these are included in level 3.
Commercial mortgage-backed securities CMBS CMBS are valued using an industry standard model and the inputs, where possible, are corroborated using observable market data.
RBS Group 2011 355 Notes on the consolidated accounts continued 11 Financial instruments - valuation continued Where protection is provided on a particular seniority of exposure, as is Derivatives the case with the APS, which requires initial losses to be taken by the Derivatives are priced using quoted prices for the same or similar Group, it is termed tranched protection.
The model being used to value instruments where these are available.
However, the majority of the APS - a Gaussian Copula model with stochastic recoveries - is used derivatives are valued using pricing models.
Inputs for these models are by the Group to value tranches traded by the exotic credit desk and is a usually observed directly in the market, or derived from observed prices.
model that is currently used within the wider market.
However, it is not always possible to observe or corroborate all model inputs.
Unobservable inputs used are based on estimates taking into The option to exit the APS is not usually present in such tranched trades account a range of available information including historic analysis, and consequently, there is no standard market practice for reflecting this historic traded levels, market practice, comparison to other relevant part of the trade within the standard model framework.
The approach that benchmark observable data and consensus pricing data.
has been adopted assumes that the Group will not exit the trade before the minimum level of fees have been paid and at this point it will be clear Credit derivatives - APS whether it should exit the trade or not.
The APS derivative is valued as The Group purchased credit protection over a portfolio of specified assets the payment of the minimum level of fees in return for protection receipts and exposures covered assets from HM Treasury.
The Group has a which are in excess of both the first loss and the total future premiums.
right to terminate the APS at any time provided that the Financial Services Authority has confirmed in writing to HM Treasury that it has no The model primarily uses the following inputs in relation to each individual objection to the proposed termination.
On termination the Group must non-triggered asset: notional, maturity, probability of default and expected pay HM Treasury the higher of the regulatory capital relief received and recovery rate given default.
Other key inputs include: the correlation 2.5 billion less premiums paid plus the aggregate of amounts received between the underlying assets: the range of possible recovery rates on from the UK Government under the APS.
The Group has paid APS the underlying assets alpha : the size of the first loss.
The size of the premiums totalling 2,225 million 125 million in 2011, 700 million in first loss is adjusted to reflect both realised and expected losses on 2010 and 1,400 million in 2009.
From 31 December 2011, premiums of triggered assets as well as the level of expected losses on covered 125 million are payable quarterly until the earlier of 2099 and the date assets that have been sold, that can be treated as losses for the purpose the Group leaves the Scheme.
The APS is a single contract providing credit protection in respect of the During 2011, refinements were made to the treatment of expected losses covered assets.
Under IFRS, credit protection is treated either as a on certain triggered assets following a modification to the trigger events financial guarantee contract or as a derivative financial instrument that apply to some portfolios.
The valuation refinement was made to depending on the terms of the agreement and the nature of the protected accurately reflect the impact of the changes.
The expected losses arising assets and exposures.
The Group has concluded, principally because the on assets that trigger under the modified rules now reflect a range of covered portfolio includes significant exposure in the form of derivatives, possible recovery rates.
that the APS does not meet the criteria to be treated as a financial guarantee contract.
The contract has therefore been accounted for as a The APS protects a wide range of asset types, and hence, the correlation derivative financial instrument.
It was recognised initially and measured between the underlying assets cannot be observed from market data.
In subsequently at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in profit the absence of this, the Group determines a reasonable level for this or loss within income from trading activities.
There is no change in the input.
The expected recovery rate given default is based on internally recognition and measurement of the covered assets as a result of the assessed levels.
The probability of default is calculated with reference to APS.
data observable in the market.
Where possible, data is obtained for each asset within the APS, but for most of the assets, such observable data For the purpose of the APS, a loss is deemed to have arisen on a does not exist.
In these cases, this important input is determined from covered asset when that asset has experienced a trigger event which information available for similar entities by geography and rating.
The comprises of failure to pay subject to grace periods, bankruptcy and approach for doing this was refined during the year in order to accurately restructuring.
reflect both changes in market conditions and the profile of the portfolio of covered assets.
As the inputs into the valuation model are not all observable the APS derivative is a level 3 instrument.
The fair value of the credit protection at 31 December 2011 was 0.2 billion 2010 - 0.6 billion: 2009 - 1.4 billion.
RBS Group 2011 356 The Group has used the following reasonably possible alternative Favourable Unfavourable Sensitivity m m assumptions in relation to those inputs that could have a significant effect Correlation - 10% 35 23 on the valuation of the APS: Recover alpha - 10% 64 44 Spreads -10% 5 5 Correlation: - 10% Discount curve - 1% 48 34 The correlation uncertainty relates to both the nature of the underlying Loss credit - 10% 2 2 portfolio and the seniority of protection.
The -10% correlation range Cumulative offset 141 64 looks reasonable in light of market observable correlations of similar levels of protection seniority, for portfolios of investment grade and high Total 295 44 yield assets.
Individual sensitivities above have been aggregated and do not reflect the Range of possible recovery rates on underlying assets alpha : - 10% correlated effect of some of the assumptions as related sensitivities.
The level of alpha used in the valuation of the APS is in line with that used to value tranches traded by the exotic credit desk and assumes that Credit derivatives - other the underlying assets have a wide range of potential recovery rates.
As The Group's other credit derivatives include vanilla and bespoke portfolio the APS protects a wider range of asset classes than is generally tranches, gap risk products and certain other unique trades.
referenced by exotic credit trades, there is uncertainty in relation to this approach.
A comparison of actual recoveries to expected recoveries Valuation of single name credit derivatives is carried out using industry supports the approach adopted and, in light of this, only changes of - standard models.
Where single name derivatives have been traded and 10% in the assumed width of this range are considered reasonable.
there is a lack of independent data or the quality of the data is weak, these instruments are classified into level 3.
These assets will be priced Credit spreads: - 10% using the Groups standard credit derivative model using a proxy curve The credit spread uncertainty relates to determining the probability of based upon a suitable alternative single name curve, a cash based default for assets where there is no such observable data in the market.
product or a sector based curve.
Where the sector based curve is used, An analysis of the impact on credit spreads of small changes in the the proxy will be chosen taking maturity, rating, seniority, geography and ratings assumptions in key geographic regions indicated that overall internal credit review on recoveries into account.
Sensitivities for these credit spread movements in the - 10% range look reasonable.
instruments will be based upon the selection of reasonable alternative assumptions which may include adjustments to the credit curve and Discount curve: - 1% recovery rate assumptions.
Due to the long-dated contractual maturity of the APS, and the requirement to pay fixed levels of premiums each year, the valuation is The bespoke portfolio tranches are synthetic tranches referenced to a sensitive to long-term interest rates.
Valuation uncertainty arises due to bespoke portfolio of corporate names on which the Group purchases the illiquidity of such interest rates.
An interest rate range of - 1% is credit protection.
Bespoke portfolio tranches are valued using Gaussian considered reasonable.
Copula, a standard method which uses observable market inputs credit spreads, index tranche prices and recovery rates to generate an output Loss credits: - 10% price for the tranche by way of a mapping methodology.
In essence this The level of expected losses on covered assets that have been sold that method takes the expected loss of the tranche expressed as a fraction of can be treated as losses for the purpose of the APS are assessed by the the expected loss of the whole underlying portfolio and calculates which Asset Protection Agency.
For disposals made by the Group where this detachment point on the liquid index, and hence which correlation level, assessment has not been completed, the Group makes an estimate of coincides with this expected loss fraction.
Where the inputs to this the likely assessment for the purpose of valuing of the APS.
A range of valuation technique are observable in the market, bespoke tranches are - 10% in the level of assessment is considered reasonable.
considered to be level 2 assets.
Where inputs are not observable, bespoke tranches are considered to be level 3 assets.
However, all Using the above reasonably possible alternative assumptions, the fair transactions executed with a CDPC counterparty are considered level 3 value of the APS derivative could be higher by approximately 295 million as the counterparty credit risk assessment is a significant component of or lower by approximately 44 million as detailed in the table below.
357 RBS Group 2011 Notes on the consolidated accounts continued 11 Financial instruments - valuation continued Equity hybrids have payouts based on the performance of a basket of Gap risk products are leveraged trades, with the counterparty's potential underlyings where underlyings are from different asset classes.
loss capped at the amount of the initial principal invested.
Gap risk is the Correlations between these different underlyings are typically probability that the market will move discontinuously too quickly to exit a unobservable with no market information on closely related assets portfolio and return the principal to the counterparty without incurring available.
Where no market for the correlation input exists, these inputs losses, should an unwind event be triggered.
This optionality is are based on historical time series.
embedded within these portfolio structures and is very rarely traded outright in the market.
Gap risk is not observable in the markets and, as Interest rate and commodity derivatives such, these structures are deemed to be level 3 instruments.
Interest rate and commodity options provide a payout or series of payouts linked to the performance of one or more underlying, including Other unique trades are valued using a specialised model for each interest rates, foreign exchange rates and commodities.
instrument and the same market data inputs as all other trades where applicable.
By their nature, the valuation is also driven by a variety of Exotic options do not trade in active markets except in a small number of other model inputs, many of which are unobservable in the market.
Consequently, the Group uses models to determine fair value Where these instruments have embedded optionality they are valued using valuation techniques typical for the industry.
These techniques can using a variation of the Black-Scholes option pricing formula, and where be divided firstly, into modelling approaches and secondly, into methods they have correlation exposure they are valued using a variant of the of assessing appropriate levels for model inputs.
The Group uses a Gaussian Copula model.
The volatility or unique correlation inputs variety of proprietary models for valuing exotic trades.
required to value these products are generally unobservable and the instruments are therefore deemed to be level 3 instruments.
Exotic valuation inputs include the correlation between interest rates, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices.
Correlations for more Equity derivatives liquid rate pairs are valued using independently sourced consensus Equity derivative products are split into equity exotic derivatives and pricing levels.
Where a consensus pricing benchmark is unavailable, equity hybrids.
Equity exotic derivatives have payouts based on the these instruments are classified as level 3. performance of one or more stocks, equity funds or indices.
Most payouts are based on the performance of a single asset and are valued using The carrying value of debt securities in issue is represented partly by observable market option data.
Unobservable equity derivative trades are underlying cash and partly through a derivative component.
The typically complex basket options on stocks.
Such basket option payouts classification of the amount in level 3 is driven by the derivative depend on the performance of more than one equity asset and require component and not by the cash element.
Valuation is then performed using industry standard valuation models, with unobservable correlation inputs Other financial instruments calculated by reference to correlations observed between similar In addition to the portfolios discussed above, there are other financial underlyings.
instruments which are held at fair value determined from data which are not market observable, or incorporating material adjustments to market observed data.
2 Fair value through profit or loss.
3 Net losses on HFT instruments of 860 million 2010 - 694 million: 2009 - 3,372 million and net gains of 143 million 2010 - 141 million gains: 2009 - 565 million losses were recorded in other operating income, interest income and impairment losses as appropriate on other instruments.
RBS Group 2011 360 Fair value of financial instruments not carried at fair value The following table shows the carrying value and fair value of financial instruments carried at amortised cost on the balance sheet.
2011 2011 2010 2010 2009 2009 Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value bn bn bn bn bn bn Financial assets Cash and balances at central banks 79.3 79.3 57.0 57.0 52.3 52.3 Loans and advances to banks 28.3 28.2 36.2 36.1 46.3 46.0 Loans and advances to customers 436.2 406.3 493.1 468.8 684.1 650.9 Debt securities 6.1 5.5 7.1 6.4 9.9 9.0 Settlement balances 7.8 7.8 11.6 11.6 12.0 12.0 Financial liabilities Deposits by banks 51.3 50.7 50.0 50.4 88.5 88.3 Customer accounts 417.5 417.6 438.5 438.6 552.8 552.1 Debt securities in issue 115.4 112.7 167.2 163.8 222.1 218.5 Settlement balances 7.5 7.5 11.0 11.0 10.4 10.4 Subordinated liabilities 25.4 19.2 25.9 21.9 36.4 31.6 The fair value is the amount an asset could be exchanged, or a liability a contractual cash flows are discounted using a market discount rate settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arm's length that incorporates the current spread for the borrower or where this is transaction.
Quoted market values are used where available: otherwise, not observable, the spread for borrowers of a similar credit standing.
fair values have been estimated based on discounted expected future This method is used for the majority of GBMs lending portfolios cash flows and other valuation techniques.
These techniques involve where most counterparties have external ratings.
uncertainties and require assumptions and judgments covering prepayments, credit risk and discount rates.
Changes in these b expected cash flows unadjusted for credit losses are discounted at assumptions would significantly affect estimated fair values.
The fair the current offer rate for the same or similar products.
This approach values reported would not necessarily be realised in an immediate sale or is adopted for lending portfolios in UK Retail, UK Corporate and settlement.
As a wide range of valuation techniques is available, it may Ulster Bank reflecting the more homogeneous nature of these be inappropriate to compare the Group's fair value information to portfolios.
independent markets or other financial institutions.
For certain portfolios where there are very few or no recent transactions, The fair values of intangible assets, such as core deposits, credit card for example Ulster Banks corporate property lending portfolio, a bespoke and other customer relationships are not included in the calculation of approach is used based on available market data.
these fair values as they are not financial instruments.
The discount to amortised cost reflects current stressed markets for NonThe assumptions and methodologies underlying the calculation of fair Core loans, real estate lending in Ireland and other commercial real values of financial instruments at the balance sheet date are as follows: estate loans, and in GBM, corporate downgrades.
The fair value of financial instruments which are of short maturity three Debt securities months or less approximates their carrying value.
This mainly applies to Fair values are determined using quoted prices where available or by cash and balances at central banks, items in the course of collection from reference to quoted prices of similar instruments.
other banks, settlement balances, items in the course of transmission to other banks and demand deposits.
Deposits by banks and customer accounts Fair values of deposits are estimated using discounted cash flow Loans and advances to banks and customers valuation techniques.
In estimating the fair value of loans and advances to banks and customers measured at amortised cost, the Groups loans are Debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities segregated into appropriate portfolios reflecting the characteristics of the Fair values are determined using quoted prices where available or by constituent loans.
Two principal methods are used to estimate fair value: reference to valuation techniques, adjusting for own credit spreads where appropriate.
