Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Risk management continued Stress testing and scenario analysis All the disclosures in this section pages 236 to 246 are unaudited as Stress testing and scenario analysis take place on a regular basis to indicated with an asterisk.
support both the divisions individual capital assessment and the agreed risk appetite.
It is also employed prior to the deployment of new Insurance risk products lines of business.
Insurance risk is the largest inherent risk faced by RBS Insurance.
It arises through fluctuations in the timing, frequency and or severity of Monitoring and reporting insured events, relative to the expectations at the time of underwriting.
It A clear framework is in place for the monitoring and reporting of can be caused by any of the following core activities: insurance risk within RBS Insurance, with well-defined processes and procedures for the escalation and management of risks and issues.
Pricing and underwriting: Key insurance risks are monitored monthly at the Insurance Risk Forum Claims management: and loss ratio committees, with comprehensive management information being presented regularly i. e. monthly or quarterly at the Executive Reserving: and Committee, the Board and the divisional risk and audit committees.
In addition, comprehensive reporting of pricing strength occurs on a monthly basis.
Significant enhancements have also been made in the RBS Insurance has continued to develop its approach to risk reporting and monitoring of claims management and reserving.
Further management, including enhancing its risk function, to help ensure that enhancements are underway, including the launch of a risk management insurance risks are better identified, controlled, managed, monitored, system in late 2011. reported and mitigated.
This is being achieved through the embedding of an enterprise-wide risk management framework, with associated risk Mitigation appetite and policy frameworks.
These are expected to have the following The business has well-defined procedures in place to address any benefits: issues, such as breaches of risk appetite, that are identified through monitoring and reporting activities.
In such cases, an action plan to a consistent and disciplined approach to risk management: address the issue is developed, implemented and monitored through the appropriate bodies, with a view to ensuring the risk is adequately a universal view of risk across the business: mitigated or a considered decision at the correct levels is taken to accept it.
the ability to influence decision-making and shape behaviours: Operational risk a reduction in loss events: Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from external events.
It is an the improved use and allocation of capital: and integral and unavoidable part of the Groups business as it is inherent in the processes it operates to provide services to customers and meet enhanced return on risk adjusted capital.
Steps taken in 2010 and 2011 to enhance risk management have Operational risk management resulted in RBS Insurance showing improved results in 2011 relative to The objective of operational risk management is not to remove 2010, although refocusing the divisions risk appetite has reduced operational risk altogether, but to manage it to an acceptable level, taking business volumes.
into account the cost of minimising the risk against the resultant reduction in exposure.
Strategies to manage operational risk include avoidance, Governance and culture transfer, acceptance and mitigation by controls.
RBS Insurance has developed a robust governance structure to control the way it manages insurance risk.
This structure includes various forums The Group made significant improvements in its operational risk and committees with associated delegated authorities for the framework during 2011, enhancing its management of operational risks.
This is particularly evident in respect of risk appetite, the Group Policy Framework, risk assessment, scenario analysis and statistical modelling Control and management for capital requirements.
Further development will continue in 2012.
The internal economic capital model is rigorously controlled, with robust validation processes applied to the inputs, the model and all outputs to Details of these, and other elements of operational risk management, ensure that such data may be used confidently by the business in its including developments undertaken and planned, are set out below along decision-making processes.
with the key processes through which the Group manages operational risk.
unaudited RBS Group 2011 236 Governance, structure and risk appetite Identification and assessment Governance and structure Risk and control assessments Group Operational Risk is an independent function reporting to the Controls that are effective without being excessive ensure the Group Deputy Group Chief Risk Officer.
Group Operational Risk is responsible retains its reputation for efficient customer service and security.
Risk and for the design and maintenance of the operational risk policy standards control assessments are used to identify and assess material operational ORPS.
risks and key controls across all business areas.
The process is designed to ensure that risks are effectively managed in line with stated risk The ORPS are incorporated in the Group Policy Framework GPF, they appetite, prioritised and documented.
Controls are tested frequently with provide the direction for delivering effective operational risk management a view to ensuring they remain fit for purpose and operate effectively.
The and are designed to allow the consistent identification, assessment, Groups risk assessment methodology was enhanced during 2011 to management, monitoring and reporting of operational risk across the ensure a more consistent approach to identifying risks and their Group.
associated controls and measuring expected loss.
Risk assessments consider the new firm-wide taxonomy and will soon be captured in the The Operational Risk Executive Committee which was formed in January Group-wide repository for operational risk.
2011, oversees the operational risk framework and profile of the Group in line with the agreed risk appetite.
It provides guidance, oversight and Risk assessments are often conducted in a workshop environment, advice.
It also escalates and reports any issues or areas of concern to bringing together subject matter experts from across the division and key the Board Risk Committee and to other senior committees.
By sharing expertise, they can identify improvements to risk identification, measurement and control.
Risk governance is reviewed Risk appetite regularly ensuring that there is clarity and ownership of key risk areas.
The Groups operational risk appetite statement is agreed by the Group Through coming together and sharing knowledge, participants gain a Board.
It comprises a number of specific measures of risk, such as: broader understanding of how their work fits together.
the maximum operational risk losses the Group is prepared to Group new product approval process accept.
This is expressed as a percentage of the Groups estimated The Groups new product approval process ensures there is a consistent gross income for the year ahead: or process to identify, assess and approve the risks associated with new products.
the value of a single extreme but plausible operational impact.
These are identified and assessed through the scenario analysis Following the conclusion of reviews conducted during 2011, programme refer to Scenario analysis below.
enhancements will be made during 2012 to the product governance forums, to provide earlier engagement between the business, Group and To ensure the Group operates within the set risk appetite, the high-level divisional risk teams and subject matter experts when assessing whether statements are supplemented by specific tolerances for different types of the risks associated with new products are in line with appetite.
The GPF sets out how to manage risk within acceptable forums will be supported by an upgrade to the Groups key tools used to limits, which in turn enables the Group to operate within the overall risk manage and report on new product approval.
appetite and the specific tolerances.
The Group has a zero tolerance for risks such as breaches of laws and regulations.
Scenario analysis Scenario analysis is used to assess the possible impact of extreme but Operational risk cycle and key management tools plausible operational risk loss events.
It provides a forward-looking basis The operational risk cycle comprises four stages: for managing exposures beyond the Group's risk appetite.
The methodology provides a structured and consistent approach to scenario Identification of risks: scoping and measurement.
A significant portfolio of scenarios was developed in 2011 across divisions, covering material risks to which the Assessment or measurement of the scale of risks: Group is exposed.
Group-wide scenarios are centrally scoped and workshops are facilitated by Group Operational Risk in conjunction with Management or control of risks to prevent their recurrence or functions and policy owners, before being assessed by divisions to derive minimise the potential impact: and specific impact estimates.
This also allows the Group to review operational risk impacts as they arise from macroeconomic stresses e. g. Monitoring and reporting of risks.
eurozone distress in a time-efficient and effective manner.
Although the operational risk tools encompass all stages of the risk cycle, they can be broadly categorised as follows: RBS Group 2011 237 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Risk management: Operational risk continued The enhancements have improved risk management by allowing GroupBy assessing extreme but plausible events, scenario analysis is an wide analyses of all operational risk issues.
In certain cases, this has important component in the operational risk framework, providing senior resulted in global assurance reviews focused on specific areas, helping to management with valuable insight into systemic risk that could identify operational risks to be mitigated.
significantly impact its financial performance if these events were to occur.
Using its forward-looking nature, senior management crossEvent and loss data management examines various risk topics against a range of circumstances and Event and loss data management ELDM covers the discovery, assumptions.
escalation, capture, investigation, approval and closure, and reporting and analysis of operational risk events and loss data.
It also provides for Similar to risk assessments, scenarios are run in a workshop the clear, simple, quick and consistent communication of operational risk environment, bringing business, risk and control experts together and events that meet defined threshold criteria to those members of the thereby ensuring that risk management is approached holistically.
Groups senior management and Executives who need to know of these events.
Stress testing During the economic downturn, there has been an increase in large During 2011, an enhanced EDLM process was launched to promote operational risk losses within the banking industry.
consistency in the management of operational risk events and the collection of loss data across the Group.
It included the introduction of a Consequently, the Group enhanced its approach to assessing the impact single repository to capture all events and loss data in the Group and the of the economic cycle on its operational risk losses in 2011, by establishment of thresholds above which operational risk events will specifically assessing the impact of the FSA's published Anchor II trigger a risk assessment.
scenario, which describes a series of country-specific shocks around the world on: The improvements in approach, and use of a single Group-wide database, have enhanced the completeness and accuracy of the Groups Expected levels of operational risk losses: and internal loss data, and therefore better inform the Groups operational risk profile.
Unexpected levels of operational risk losses, by stressing its existing portfolio of operational risk scenarios.
At the start of 2012, the robustness of the historic data migrated into the new repository will be reviewed to confirm its suitability as an input to The impact of the FSA Anchor II scenario on the Group's operational risk capital modelling.
In addition, the process will be further enhanced to capital, as calculated under the standardised approach, was also ensure continued compliance with changing regulatory and industry projected based on the outputs of the Groups stress-testing exercises.
standards regarding the collection of internal loss data.
During 2012, additional operational risk scenarios will be run, further Insurance broadening the Group's understanding of its exposures to tail risks.
The Group purchases insurance to provide the business with financial protection against specific losses and to comply with statutory or Management, monitoring and reporting contractual requirements.
Insurance is used as a risk mitigation tool in Issues management controlling the Groups exposures, providing protection against financial The objective of the operational risk issues management framework is loss once a risk has crystallised.
the adoption of a consistent approach to the identification, capture, classification, monitoring, closure and acceptance of operational risk Reporting and monitoring issues and associated actions across the Group, in accordance with the Reporting and monitoring forms an integral part of all of the Groups Groups three lines of defence model.
operational risk management processes, which are designed to ensure that risks and issues are identified, escalated and managed on a timely Significant enhancements were made to the issues management process basis.
Exposures for each division are reported through monthly risk and during 2010 including rollout of a single repository for capturing issues control reports, which provide detail on the risk exposures and action and actions: mapping issues to GPF: and a tightening of governance over plans.
Enhancements made to reporting and monitoring during the year issue management.
These improvements were further embedded during include analysing operational risk events, losses and issues against the 2011, through training and assurance reviews.
GPF components: this has led to better identification of areas requiring management focus and remediation.
