In the statutory consolidated income statement, these items are included in total income.
2 Operating profit on a managed basis excludes movements in the fair value of own debt, Asset Protection Scheme, Payment Protection Insurance costs, sovereign debt impairment, amortisation of purchased intangible assets, integration and restructuring costs, gain on redemption of own debt, strategic disposals, bonus tax, bank levy, gains on pensions curtailment, interest rate hedge adjustments on impaired available-for-sale Greek government bonds, write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets and RFS MI.
3 Cost:income ratio on a managed basis represents operating expenses excluding amortisation of purchased intangibles, Payment Protection Insurance costs, sovereign debt impairment, integration and restructuring costs, bonus tax, bank levy, gains on pensions curtailment, interest rate hedge adjustments on impaired available-for-sale Greek government bonds, write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets and RFS MI expressed as a percentage of total income as defined in 1 above and after netting insurance claims against income.
On a statutory basis, cost:income ratio represents operating expenses expressed as a percentage of total income.
4 Adjusted earnings loss per ordinary and B share is based on earnings from continuing operations adjusted for movements in fair value of own debt, Asset Protection Scheme, Payment Protection Insurance costs, sovereign debt impairment, amortisation of purchased intangible assets, integration and restructuring costs, gain on redemption of own debt, strategic disposals, bonus tax, bank levy, gains on pensions curtailment, interest rate hedge adjustments on impaired available-for-sale Greek government bonds and write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets.
5 Funded balance sheet represents total assets less derivatives.
Overview of results The results of RFS Holdings B. V. the entity that acquired ABN AMRO, The financial information on a managed basis, prepared using the are fully consolidated in the Groups financial statements.
The interests of Groups accounting policies, shows the underlying performance of the the State of the Netherlands and Santander in RFS Holdings are included Group which excludes certain one-off and other items.
This information is in non-controlling interests.
Legal separation of ABN AMRO Bank N. V. provided to give a better understanding of the results of the Groups took place on 1 April 2010.
As a result, RBS presents the interests of the operations.
Consortium Members in ABN AMRO as discontinued operations.
