Intangible assets and goodwill The depreciable amount is the cost of an asset less its residual value.
Intangible assets acquired by the Group are stated at cost less Land is not depreciated.
Estimated useful lives are as follows: accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged to profit or loss over the assets' estimated economic lives using Freehold and long leasehold buildings 50 years methods that best reflect the pattern of economic benefits and included in Short leaseholds unexpired period of the lease Depreciation and amortisation.
The estimated useful economic lives are Property adaptation costs 10 to 15 years as follows: Computer equipment up to 5 years Other equipment 4 to 15 years Core deposit intangibles 6 to 10 years Other acquired intangibles 5 to 10 years The residual value and useful life of property, plant and equipment are Computer software 3 to 5 years reviewed at each balance sheet date and updated for any changes to previous estimates.
Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is written-off as incurred.
Direct costs relating to the development of internal-use 8.
Impairment of intangible assets and property, plant and computer software are capitalised once technical feasibility and economic equipment viability have been established.
These costs include payroll, the costs of At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any materials and services, and directly attributable overheads.
Capitalisation indication that its intangible assets, or property, plant and equipment are of costs ceases when the software is capable of operating as intended.
If any such indication exists, the Group estimates the During and after development, accumulated costs are reviewed for recoverable amount of the asset and the impairment loss if any.
Goodwill impairment against the benefits that the software is expected to generate.
is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes Costs incurred prior to the establishment of technical feasibility and in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
economic viability are expensed as incurred as are all training costs and general overheads.
The costs of licences to use computer software that If an asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from those are expected to generate economic benefits beyond one year are also of other assets or groups of assets, the recoverable amount is capitalised.
determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
A cash-generating unit is the smallest identifiable group of assets that Intangible assets include goodwill arising on the acquisition of generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows subsidiaries and joint ventures.
Goodwill on the acquisition of a from other assets or groups of assets.
For the purposes of impairment subsidiary is the excess of the fair value of the consideration transferred, testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each the fair value of any existing interest in the subsidiary and the amount of of the Groups cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units any non-controlling interest measured either at fair value or at its share of expected to benefit from the combination.
The recoverable amount of an the subsidiarys net assets over the Group's interest in the net fair value asset or cash-generating unit is the higher of its fair value less cost to sell of the subsidiarys identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
Value in use is the present value of future cash flows Goodwill arises on the acquisition of a joint venture when the cost of from the asset or cash-generating unit discounted at a rate that reflects investment exceeds the Groups share of the net fair value of the joint market interest rates adjusted for risks specific to the asset or cashventures identifiable assets and liabilities.
Goodwill is measured at initial generating unit that have not been taken into account in estimating future cost less any subsequent impairment losses.
Goodwill arising on the cash flows.
If the recoverable amount of an intangible or tangible asset is acquisition of associates is included within their carrying amounts.
The less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recognised immediately gain or loss on the disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture in profit or loss and the carrying value of the asset reduced by the amount includes the carrying value of any related goodwill.
A reversal of an impairment loss on intangible assets excluding goodwill or property, plant and equipment is recognised as it 7.
Property, plant and equipment arises provided the increased carrying value is not greater than it would Items of property, plant and equipment except investment property - see have been had no impairment loss been recognised.
Impairment losses Accounting policy 9 are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and on goodwill are not reversed.
Where an item of property, plant and equipment comprises major components having different useful lives, they are 9.
Investment property accounted for separately.
Investment property comprises freehold and leasehold properties that are held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation or both.
Investment Depreciation is charged to profit or loss on a straight-line basis so as to property is not depreciated but is stated at fair value based on valuations write-off the depreciable amount of property, plant and equipment by independent registered valuers.
Fair value is based on current prices including assets owned and let on operating leases over their estimated for similar properties in the same location and condition.
Any gain or loss useful lives.
arising from a change in fair value is recognised in profit or loss.
Rental income from investment property is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease in Other operating income.
Lease incentives granted are recognised as an integral part of the total rental income.
