Accounting policies continued Impairment losses are assessed individually for financial assets that are Held-for-trading - a financial liability is classified as held-for-trading if it is individually significant and individually or collectively for assets that are incurred principally for repurchase in the near term, or forms part of a not individually significant.
In making collective assessment of portfolio of financial instruments that are managed together and for which impairment, financial assets are grouped into portfolios on the basis of there is evidence of short-term profit taking, or it is a derivative not in a similar risk characteristics.
Future cash flows from these portfolios are qualifying hedge relationship.
Held-for-trading financial liabilities are estimated on the basis of the contractual cash flows and historical loss recognised at fair value with transaction costs being recognised in profit experience for assets with similar credit risk characteristics.
Subsequently they are measured at fair value.
Gains and losses loss experience is adjusted, on the basis of observable data, to reflect are recognised in profit or loss as they arise.
current conditions not affecting the period of historical experience.
Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss and the carrying Designated as at fair value through profit or loss - financial liabilities may amount of the financial asset or group of financial assets reduced by be designated as at fair value through profit or loss only if such establishing an allowance for impairment losses.
If, in a subsequent designation a eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or period, the amount of the impairment loss reduces and the reduction can recognition inconsistency: or b applies to a group of financial assets, be ascribed to an event after the impairment was recognised, the financial liabilities or both that the Group manages and evaluates on a fair previously recognised loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance.
Once value basis: or c relates to an instrument that contains an embedded an impairment loss has been recognised on a financial asset or group of derivative which is not evidently closely related to the host contract.
financial assets, interest income is recognised on the carrying amount using the rate of interest at which estimated future cash flows were Financial liabilities that the Group designates on initial recognition as discounted in measuring impairment.
being at fair value through profit or loss are recognised at fair value, with transaction costs being recognised in profit or loss, and are subsequently Impaired loans and receivables are written off, i. e. the impairment measured at fair value.
Gains and losses on financial liabilities that are provision is applied in writing down the loan's carrying value partially or in designated as at fair value through profit or loss are recognised in profit full, when the Group concludes that there is no longer any realistic or loss as they arise.
prospect of recovery of part or all of the loan.
For portfolios that are collectively assessed for impairment, the timing of write off principally Financial liabilities designated as at fair value through profit or loss reflects historic recovery experience for each portfolio.
For loans that are include structured liabilities issued by the Group: designation significantly individually assessed for impairment, the timing of write off is determined reduces the measurement inconsistency between these liabilities and the on a case-by-case basis.
Such loans are reviewed regularly and write related derivatives carried at fair value: and in 2009 investment contracts offs will be prompted by bankruptcy, insolvency, restructuring and similar issued by the Group's life assurance businesses: fair value designation events.
Most debt is written off within five years of the recognition of the significantly reduces the measurement inconsistency that would arise if initial impairment.
It is not the Groups usual practice to write-off all or part these liabilities were measured at amortised cost.
of the asset at the time an impairment loss is recognised: it may however, take place in rare circumstances.
Amounts recovered after a loan has Amortised cost - all other financial liabilities are measured at amortised been written off are credited to the loan impairment charge for the period cost using the effective interest method see Accounting policy 3. in which they are received.
Fair value for a net open position in a financial liability that is quoted in an Financial assets carried at fair value - when a decline in the fair value of a active market is the current offer price times the number of units of the financial asset classified as available-for-sale has been recognised instrument issued.
Fair values for financial liabilities not quoted in an directly in other comprehensive income and there is objective evidence active market are determined using appropriate valuation techniques that it is impaired, the cumulative loss is reclassified from equity to profit including discounting future cash flows, option pricing models and other or loss.
The loss is measured as the difference between the amortised methods that are consistent with accepted economic methodologies for cost of the financial asset and its current fair value.
Impairment losses on pricing financial liabilities.
available-for-sale equity instruments are not reversed through profit or loss, but those on available-for-sale debt instruments are reversed, if 18.
Financial guarantee contracts there is an increase in fair value that is objectively related to a Under a financial guarantee contract, the Group, in return for a fee, subsequent event.
undertakes to meet a customers obligations under the terms of a debt instrument if the customer fails to do so.
Financial liabilities recognised as a liability: initially at fair value and, if not designated as at On initial recognition, financial liabilities are classified into held-forfair value through profit or loss, subsequently at the higher of its initial trading: designated as at fair value through profit or loss: or amortised value less cumulative amortisation and any provision under the contract cost.
Issues of financial liabilities measured at amortised cost are measured in accordance with Accounting policy 13.
Amortisation is recognised on settlement date: all other regular way transactions in calculated so as to recognise fees receivable in profit or loss over the financial liabilities are recognised on trade date.
