Netting Provision is made for loan commitments, other than those classified as Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount held-for-trading, if it is probable that the facility will be drawn and the presented in the balance sheet when, and only when, the Group currently resulting loan will be recognised at a value less than the cash advanced.
has a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and it Syndicated loan commitments in excess of the level of lending under the intends either to settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the commitment approved for retention by the Group are classified as heldliability simultaneously.
The Group is party to a number of arrangements, for-trading and measured at fair value.
including master netting agreements, that give it the right to offset financial assets and financial liabilities but where it does not intend to 20.
Derecognition settle the amounts net or simultaneously and therefore the assets and A financial asset is derecognised when the contractual right to receive liabilities concerned are presented gross.
cash flows from the asset has expired or when it has been transferred and the transfer qualifies for derecognition.
Capital instruments Group either a transfers the contractual rights to receive the asset's The Group classifies a financial instrument that it issues as a liability if it cash flows: or b retains the right to the asset's cash flows but assumes is a contractual obligation to deliver cash or another financial asset, or to a contractual obligation to pay those cash flows to a third party.
After a exchange financial assets or financial liabilities on potentially transfer, the Group assesses the extent to which it has retained the risks unfavourable terms and as equity if it evidences a residual interest in the and rewards of ownership of the transferred asset.
The asset remains on assets of the Group after the deduction of liabilities.
The components of a the balance sheet if substantially all the risks and rewards have been compound financial instrument issued by the Group are classified and retained.
It is derecognised if substantially all the risks and rewards have accounted for separately as financial assets, financial liabilities or equity been transferred.
If substantially all the risks and rewards have been as appropriate.
neither retained nor transferred, the Group assesses whether or not it has retained control of the asset.
If it has not retained control, the asset is Incremental costs that are directly attributable to an equity transaction are derecognised.
Where the Group has retained control of the asset, it deducted from equity net of any related tax.
continues to recognise the asset to the extent of its continuing involvement.
The consideration for any ordinary shares of the company purchased by the Group treasury shares is deducted from equity.
On the cancellation A financial liability is removed from the balance sheet when the obligation of treasury shares their nominal value is removed from equity and any is discharged, or cancelled, or expires.
On the redemption or settlement excess of consideration over nominal value is treated in accordance with of debt securities including subordinated liabilities issued by the Group, the capital maintenance provisions of the Companies Act.
On the sale or the Group derecognises the debt instrument and records a gain or loss reissue of treasury shares the consideration received is credited to being the difference between the debt's carrying amount and the cost of equity, net of any directly attributable incremental costs and related tax.
The same treatment applies where the debt is exchanged for a new debt issue that has terms substantially different 24.
Derivatives and hedging from those of the existing debt.
The assessment of whether the terms of Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised, and subsequently the new debt instrument are substantially different takes into account measured, at fair value.
Derivative fair values are determined from qualitative and quantitative characteristics including a comparison of the quoted prices in active markets where available.
Where there is no active present value of the cash flows under the new terms with present value of market for an instrument, fair value is derived from prices for the the remaining cash flows of the original debt issue discounted at the derivative's components using appropriate pricing or valuation models.
effective interest rate of the original debt issue.
A derivative embedded in a contract is accounted for as a stand-alone 21.
Sale and repurchase transactions derivative if its economic characteristics are not closely related to the Securities subject to a sale and repurchase agreement under which economic characteristics of the host contract: unless the entire contract is substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in profit or Group continue to be shown on the balance sheet and the sale proceeds loss.
Securities acquired in a reverse sale and repurchase transaction under which the Group is not exposed to Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are not recognised on are not the hedging instrument in a qualifying hedge are recognised as the balance sheet and the consideration paid is recorded as a financial they arise in profit or loss.
Gains and losses are recorded in Income asset.
from trading activities except for gains and losses on those derivatives that are managed together with financial instruments designated at fair Securities borrowing and lending transactions are usually secured by value: these gains and losses are included in Other operating income.
cash or securities advanced by the borrower.
Borrowed securities are not recognised on the balance sheet or lent securities derecognised.
Cash collateral given or received is treated as a loan or deposit: collateral in the form of securities is not recognised.
However, where securities borrowed are transferred to third parties, a liability for the obligation to return the securities to the stock lending counterparty is recorded.
