On a winding-up or liquidation of the company, the holders of the non- 28 Other equity cumulative preference shares will be entitled to receive, out of any Paid-in equity - notes issued under the company's euro medium term surplus assets available for distribution to the company's shareholders note programme with an initial par value of US$1,600 million and after payment of arrears of dividends on the cumulative preference CAD600 million are classified as equity under IFRS.
The notes attract shares up to the date of repayment pari passu with the cumulative coupons of 6.99% and 6.666% respectively until October 2017 when they preference shares and all other shares of the company ranking pari change to 2.67% above the London interbank offered rate for 3-month passu with the non-cumulative preference shares as regards participation US dollar deposits and 2.76% above the Canadian dollar offered rate in the surplus assets of the company, a liquidation distribution per share respectively.
Paid-in equity of US$1,036 million was repurchased in April equal to the applicable redemption price detailed in the table above, 2009 and CAD279 million was repurchased in May 2010 as part of the together with an amount equal to dividends for the then current dividend liability management exercises.
period accrued to the date of payment, before any distribution or payment may be made to holders of the ordinary shares as regards participation in Merger reserve - on 1 January 2009, the merger reserve comprised the the surplus assets of the company.
premium on shares issued to acquire NatWest less goodwill amortisation charged under previous GAAP.
No share premium was recorded in the Except as described above, the holders of the non-cumulative preference company financial statements through the operation of the merger relief shares have no right to participate in the surplus assets of the company.
provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
Holders of the non-cumulative preference shares are not entitled to Under the arrangements for accession to APS in December 2009, the receive notice of or attend general meetings of the company except if any company issued B shares in exchange for shares in Aonach Mor Limited.
resolution is proposed for adoption by the shareholders of the company No share premium was recorded in the company financial statements to vary or abrogate any of the rights attaching to the non-cumulative through the operation of the merger relief provisions of the Companies preference shares or proposing the winding-up or liquidation of the Act 2006.
The subsequent redemption of these shares gave rise to company.
In any such case, they are entitled to receive notice of and to distributable profits of 50 million in 2011, 12,250 million in 2010 and attend the general meeting of shareholders at which such resolution is to 9,950 million in 2009, which were transferred from merger reserve to be proposed and are entitled to speak and vote on such resolution but retained earnings.
not on any other resolution.
In addition, in the event that, prior to any general meeting of shareholders, the company has failed to pay in full the Capital redemption reserve - under UK companies legislation, when three most recent quarterly dividend payments due on the nonshares are redeemed or purchased wholly or partly out of the company's cumulative dollar preference shares other than Series U, the two most profits, the amount by which the company's issued share capital is recent semi-annual dividend payments due on the non-cumulative diminished must be transferred to the capital redemption reserve.
The convertible dollar preference shares and the most recent dividend capital maintenance provisions of UK companies legislation apply to the payments due on the non-cumulative euro preference shares, the noncapital redemption reserve as if it were part of the companys paid up cumulative sterling preference shares, the Series U non-cumulative dollar share capital.
preference shares and the non-cumulative convertible sterling preference shares, the holders shall be entitled to receive notice of, attend, speak Contingent capital reserve - in December 2009, HM Treasury agreed to and vote at such meeting on all matters together with the holders of the subscribe for up to 16 billion B shares of 1p each at 50p per share ordinary shares.
In these circumstances only, the rights of the holders of subject to certain conditions including the Group's Core Tier 1 capital the non-cumulative preference shares so to vote shall continue until the ratio falling below 5%.
The fair value of the consideration payable by the company shall have resumed the payment in full of the dividends in company on entering into this agreement amounted to 1,458 million: of arrears.
this 1,208 million was debited to the contingent capital reserve.
The Group has undertaken that, unless otherwise agreed with the Own shares held - at 31 December 2011, 1.6 billion 2010 - 1.7 billion: European Commission, neither the company nor any of its direct or 2009 - 139 million ordinary shares of 25p each of the company were indirect subsidiaries excluding companies in the RBS Holdings N. V. held by Employee Share Trusts in respect of share awards and options Group, which are subject to different restrictions will pay external granted to employees.
Employee share trusts awarded 84.2 million investors any dividends or coupons on existing hybrid capital instruments ordinary shares in satisfaction of the exercise of awards under employee including preference shares, B shares and upper and lower tier 2 share plans during the year.
"instruments from 30 April 2010 for a period of two years thereafter ""the Deferral Period"", or exercise any call rights in relation to these capital The Group optimises capital efficiency by maintaining reserves in instruments between 24 November 2009 and the end of the Deferral subsidiaries, including regulated entities."
Certain preference shares and Period, unless there is a legal obligation to do so.
Hybrid capital subordinated debt are also included within regulatory capital.
The instruments issued after 24 November 2009 will generally not be subject remittance of reserves to the company or the redemption of shares or to the restriction on dividend or coupon payments or call options.
subordinated capital by regulated entities may be subject to maintaining the capital resources required by the relevant regulator.
UK law prescribes that only the reserves of the company are taken into account for the purpose of making distributions and in determining the permissible applications of the share premium account.
