Cash and cash equivalents There are two components to the Group's loan impairment provisions: In the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprises cash individual and collective.
and demand deposits with banks together with short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and Individual component - all impaired loans that exceed specific thresholds subject to insignificant risk of change in value.
are individually assessed for impairment.
Individually assessed loans principally comprise the Group's portfolio of commercial loans to medium Critical accounting policies and key sources of estimation and large businesses.
Impairment losses are recognised as the uncertainty difference between the carrying value of the loan and the discounted The reported results of the Group are sensitive to the accounting policies, value of management's best estimate of future cash repayments and assumptions and estimates that underlie the preparation of its financial proceeds from any security held.
These estimates take into account the statements.
UK company law and IFRS require the directors, in preparing customer's debt capacity and financial flexibility: the level and quality of the Group's financial statements, to select suitable accounting policies, its earnings: the amount and sources of cash flows: the industry in which apply them consistently and make judgements and estimates that are the counterparty operates: and the realisable value of any security held.
In the absence of an applicable standard or Estimating the quantum and timing of future recoveries involves interpretation, IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting significant judgement.
The size of receipts will depend on the future Estimates and Errors, requires management to develop and apply an performance of the borrower and the value of security, both of which will accounting policy that results in relevant and reliable information in the be affected by future economic conditions: additionally, collateral may not light of the requirements and guidance in IFRS dealing with similar and be readily marketable.
The actual amount of future cash flows and the related issues and the IASB's Framework for the Preparation and date they are received may differ from these estimates and consequently Presentation of Financial Statements.
The judgements and assumptions actual losses incurred may differ from those recognised in these financial involved in the Group's accounting policies that are considered by the statements.
Board to be the most important to the portrayal of its financial condition are discussed below.
The use of estimates, assumptions or models that Collective component - this is made up of two elements: loan impairment differ from those adopted by the Group would affect its reported results.
provisions for impaired loans that are below individual assessment thresholds collectively assessed provisions and for loan losses that Loan impairment provisions have been incurred but have not been separately identified at the balance The Group's loan impairment provisions are established to recognise sheet date latent loss provisions.
Collectively assessed provisions are incurred impairment losses in its portfolio of loans classified as loans and established on a portfolio basis using a present value methodology taking receivables and carried at amortised cost.
A loan is impaired when there into account the level of arrears, security, past loss experience, credit is objective evidence that events since the loan was granted have scores and defaults based on portfolio trends.
The most significant affected expected cash flows from the loan.
Such objective evidence, factors in establishing these provisions are the expected loss rates and indicative that a borrowers financial condition has deteriorated, can the related average life.
These portfolios include credit card receivables include for loans that are individually assessed: the non-payment of and other personal advances including mortgages.
The future credit interest or principal: debt restructuring: probable bankruptcy or quality of these portfolios is subject to uncertainties that could cause liquidation: significant reduction in the value of any security: breach of actual credit losses to differ materially from reported loan impairment limits or covenants: and deteriorating trading performance and, for provisions.
These uncertainties include the economic environment, collectively assessed portfolios: the borrowers payment status and notably interest rates and their effect on customer spending, the observable data about relevant macroeconomic measures.
unemployment level, payment behaviour and bankruptcy trends.
Latent loss provisions are held against estimated impairment losses in the The impairment loss is the difference between the carrying value of the performing portfolio that have yet to be identified as at the balance sheet loan and the present value of estimated future cash flows at the loan's date.
To assess the latent loss within its portfolios, the Group has original effective interest rate.
developed methodologies to estimate the time that an asset can remain impaired within a performing portfolio before it is identified and reported At 31 December 2011, loans and advances to customers classified as as such.
loans and receivables totalled 427,805 million 2010 - 482,710 million: 2009 - 671,037 million and customer loan impairment provisions amounted to 19,760 million 2010 - 18,055 million: 2009 - 17,126 million.
RBS Group 2011 323 Accounting policies continued Pensions Equity securities held-for-trading, designated as at fair value though The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension schemes as profit or loss and available-for-sale - comprise equity shares of described in Note 4 on the accounts.
The assets of the schemes are companies or corporations both listed and unlisted.
measured at their fair value at the balance sheet date.
Scheme liabilities are measured using the projected unit method, which takes account of Deposits by banks and customer accounts held-for-trading and projected earnings increases, using actuarial assumptions that give the designated as at fair value though profit or loss - deposits measured at best estimate of the future cash flows that will arise under the scheme fair value principally include repurchase agreements repos, cash liabilities.
These cash flows are discounted at the interest rate applicable collateral and investment contracts issued by the Group's life assurance to high-quality corporate bonds of the same currency and term as the businesses.
Any recognisable surplus or deficit of scheme assets over liabilities is recorded in the balance sheet as an asset surplus or liability Debt securities in issue held-for-trading and designated as at fair value deficit.
though profit or loss - principally comprise medium term notes.
In determining the value of scheme liabilities, financial and demographic Short positions held-for-trading - arise in dealing and market making assumptions are made including price inflation, pension increases, activities where debt securities and equity shares are sold which the earnings growth and the longevity of scheme members.
A range of Group does not currently possess.
assumptions could be adopted in valuing the schemes' liabilities.
Different assumptions could significantly alter the amount of the surplus or deficit Derivatives - these include swaps currency swaps, interest rate swaps, recognised in the balance sheet and the pension cost charged to the credit default swaps, total return swaps and equity and equity index income statement.
The assumptions adopted for the Group's pension swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts, forward rate agreements, schemes are set out in Note 4 on the accounts, together with sensitivities futures currency, interest rate and equity and options exchange-traded of the balance sheet and income statement to changes in those options on currencies, interest rates and equities and equity indices and assumptions.
OTC currency and equity options, interest rate caps and floors and swaptions.
A pension asset of 188 million and a liability of 2,239 million were recognised on the balance sheet at 31 December 2011 2010 - asset Fair value is the amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or a 105 million, liability 2,288 million: 2009 - asset 58 million, liability liability settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms length 2,963 million.
Fair values are determined from quoted prices in active markets for identical financial assets or financial liabilities where these Fair value - financial instruments are available.
Fair value for a net open position in a financial instrument Financial instruments classified as held-for-trading or designated as at in an active market is the number of units of the instrument held times the fair value through profit or loss and financial assets classified as current bid price for financial assets or offer price for financial available-for-sale are recognised in the financial statements at fair value.
In determining the fair value of derivative financial instruments All derivatives are measured at fair value.
Gains or losses arising from gross long and short positions measured at current mid market prices are changes in the fair value of financial instruments classified as held-foradjusted by bid-offer reserves calculated on a portfolio basis.
Credit trading or designated as at fair value through profit or loss are included in valuation adjustments are made when valuing derivative financial assets the income statement.
Unrealised gains and losses on available-for-sale to incorporate counterparty credit risk.
Adjustments are also made when financial assets are recognised directly in equity unless an impairment valuing financial liabilities to reflect the Groups own credit standing.
Where the market for a financial instrument is not active, fair value is established using a valuation technique.
These valuation techniques Financial instruments measured at fair value include: involve a degree of estimation, the extent of which depends on the instruments complexity and the availability of market-based data.
More Loans and advances held-for-trading and designated as at fair value details about the Groups valuation methodologies and the sensitivity to though profit or loss - principally comprise reverse repurchase reasonably possible alternative assumptions of the fair value of financial agreements reverse repos and cash collateral.
instruments valued using techniques where at least one significant input is unobservable are given in Note 11 on pages 345 to 361.
Debt securities held-for-trading, designated as at fair value though profit or loss and available-for-sale - debt securities include those issued by governments, municipal bodies, mortgage agencies and financial institutions as well as corporate bonds, debentures and residual interests in securitisations.
RBS Group 2011 324 General insurance claims Accounting developments The Group makes provision for the full cost of settling outstanding claims International Financial Reporting Standards arising from its general insurance business at the balance sheet date, The IASB issued IFRS 9 Financial Instruments in November 2009 including claims estimated to have been incurred but not yet reported at simplifying the classification and measurement requirements in IAS 39 in that date and claims handling expenses.
General insurance claims respect of financial assets.
The standard reduces the measurement provisions amounted to 6,219 million at 31 December 2011 2010 - categories for financial assets to two: fair value and amortised cost.
financial asset is classified on the basis of the entity's business model for managing the financial asset and the contractual cash flow characteristics Provisions are determined by management based on experience of of the financial asset.
Only assets with contractual terms that give rise to claims settled and on statistical models which require certain cash flows on specified dates that are solely payments of principal and assumptions to be made regarding the incidence, timing and amount of interest on principal and which are held within a business model whose claims and any specific factors such as adverse weather conditions.
objective is to hold assets in order to collect contractual cash flows are Management use the work of internal and external actuaries to assess classified as amortised cost.
All other financial assets are measured at the level of gross and net outstanding claims provisions required to adopt fair value.
Changes in the value of financial assets measured at fair value a measurement basis of reserves which result in a provision in excess of are generally taken to profit or loss.
In order to calculate the total provision required, the historical development of claims is analysed using statistical In October 2010, IFRS 9 was updated to include requirements in respect methodology to extrapolate, within acceptable probability parameters, the of the classification and measurement of liabilities.
These do not differ value of outstanding claims at the balance sheet date.
Also included in markedly from those in IAS 39 except for the treatment of changes in the the estimation of outstanding claims are other assumptions such as the fair value of financial liabilities that are designated as at fair value through inflationary factor used for bodily injury claims which is based on profit or loss attributable to own credit: these must be presented in other historical trends and, therefore, allows for some increase due to changes comprehensive income.
in common law and statute: and the incidence of periodical payment orders and the rate at which payments under them are discounted.
Costs In December 2010, the IASB issued amendments to IFRS 9 and to IFRS for both direct and indirect claims handling expenses are also included.
7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures delaying the effective date of IFRS Outward reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same 9 to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015 and introducing accounting period as the direct claims to which they relate.
The revised transitional arrangements including additional transition outstanding claims provision is based on information available to disclosures.
If an entity implements IFRS 9 in 2012 the amendments management and the eventual outcome may vary from the original permit it either to restate comparative periods or to provide the additional assessment.
Actual claims experience may differ from the historical disclosures.
The additional transition disclosures must be given if pattern on which the estimate is based and the cost of settling individual implementation takes place after 2012. claims may exceed that assumed.
IFRS 9 makes major changes to the framework for the classification and Deferred tax measurement of financial instruments and will have a significant effect on The Group makes provision for deferred tax on temporary differences the Group's financial statements.
The Group is assessing the effect of where tax recognition occurs at a different time from accounting IFRS 9 which will depend on the outcome of the other phases of the recognition.
Deferred tax assets of 3,878 million were recognised as at IASB's IAS 39 replacement project and on the outcome the IASBs 31 December 2011 2010 - 6,373 million: 2009 - 7,039 million.
tentative decision at its December 2011 meeting to reconsider the following topics: The Group has recognised deferred tax assets in respect of losses, principally in the UK, and temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets are additional application guidance to clarify how the instrument recognised in respect of unused tax losses to the extent that it is probable characteristics test was intended to be applied.
that there will be future taxable profits against which the losses can be utilised.
Business projections prepared for impairment reviews see Note bifurcation of financial assets, after considering any additional 17 indicate that sufficient future taxable income will be available against guidance for the instrument characteristics test.
which to offset these recognised deferred tax assets within six years 2010 - eight years.
The Group's cumulative losses are principally expanded use of other comprehensive income or a third business attributable to the recent unparalleled market conditions.
Deferred tax model for some debt instruments.
assets of 3,246 million 2010 - 2,008 million: 2009 - 2,163 million have not been recognised in respect of tax losses carried forward in Disclosures - Transfers of Financial Assets Amendments to IFRS 7 jurisdictions where doubt exists over the availability of future taxable was published by the IASB in October 2010.
existing derecognition disclosure requirements with disclosures about a transferred assets that are not derecognised in their entirety and b transferred assets that are derecognised in their entirety but where an entity has continuing involvement in the transferred asset.
The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011.
RBS Group 2011 325 Accounting policies continued The IASB issued an amendment to IAS 12 Income Taxes in December IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement which sets out a single IFRS 2010 to clarify that recognition of deferred tax should have regard to the framework for defining and measuring fair value and requiring disclosures expected manner of recovery or settlement of the asset or liability.
The about fair value measurements.
amendment and consequential withdrawal of SIC 21 Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets, effective for annual periods beginning on The standards are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 or after 1 January 2012, is not expected to have a material effect on the January 2013.
The Group is reviewing the Group or the company.
standards to determine their effect on the Groups financial reporting.
In May 2011, the IASB issued six new or revised standards: In June 2011, the IASB issued amendments to two standards: IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements which replaces SIC-12 Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Consolidation - Special Purpose Entities and the consolidation elements Income require items that will never be recognised in profit or loss to be of the existing IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements.
presented separately in other comprehensive income from those that are The new standard adopts a single definition of control: a reporting entity subject to subsequent reclassification.
The amendments are effective for controls another entity when the reporting entity has the power to direct annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012.
Earlier application is the activities of that other entity to generate returns for the reporting permitted.
Amendments IAS 19 Employee Benefits require the immediate IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements which comprises those parts of recognition of all actuarial gains and losses eliminating the corridor the existing IAS 27 that dealt with separate financial statements.
approach: interest cost to be calculated on the net pension liability or asset at the appropriate corporate bond rate: and all past service costs to IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, which supersedes IAS 31 Interests in be recognised immediately when a scheme is curtailed or amended.
Joint Ventures, distinguishes between joint operations and joint ventures.
Joint operations are accounted for by the investor recognising its assets These amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after and liabilities including its share of any assets held and liabilities incurred 1 January 2013.
The Group is reviewing jointly and its share of revenues and costs.
Joint ventures are accounted the amendments to determine their effect on the Groups financial for in the investors consolidated accounts using the equity method.
IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures covers joint In December 2011, the IASB issued Offsetting Financial Assets and ventures as well as associates: both must be accounted for using the Financial Liabilities Amendments to IAS 32 and  equity method.
The mechanics of the equity method are unchanged.
Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Amendments to IFRS 7.
The amendment to IAS 32 adds application guidance on the meaning of a IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities covers disclosures for legally enforceable right to set off and on simultaneous settlement.
entities reporting under IFRS 10 and IFRS 11 replacing those in IAS 28 IFRS 7 is amended to require disclosures facilitating comparisons and IAS 27.
Entities are required to disclose information that helps between those entities reporting under IFRS and those reporting under financial statement readers evaluate the nature, risks and financial effects US GAAP.
The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning associated with an entitys interests in subsidiaries, in associates and on or after 1 January 2014 and are required to be applied retrospectively.
joint arrangements and in unconsolidated structured entities.
