Additional information continued Regulatory developments and reviews The Group works with domestic and international trade associations and In 2011, regulatory changes which have been introduced to improve proactively engages with regulators and other authorities such as the transparency for retail customers include the addition of interest rates on Basel Committee, the European Commission and governments, in order savings account statements and annual statements for personal current to understand the implications of proposed regulatory change and to accounts.
contribute to the development of regulatory policy.
UK regulated firms within the Group are members of the Financial The Group and its subsidiaries have co-operated fully with various Services Compensation Scheme FSCS, which provides compensation regulatory reviews and developments in the UK and internationally, to eligible customers of authorised financial services firms that are unable including enquiries or investigations into alleged or possible breaches of to meet their obligations.
The FSCS is a contributor to depositor regulations.
confidence and financial stability and the Group is supporting the FSCS in increasing awareness amongst UK consumers.
United Kingdom In the UK, the Group has actively engaged with a large number of The FSA, in its 2011 2012 Business Plan, made reference to the legislative and regulatory consultations.
Reflecting global developments, proposed changes to the structure of regulation in the UK.
The FSA will financial stability - notably bank prudential requirements and the new be responsible for transitioning to the new regulatory structure and the regulatory framework - remains a key focus for the UK regulatory Group is committed to working with the authorities to establish a system authorities.
that delivers the new structure.
The Group has continued to participate fully in the analysis of the cause The Group also continues to co-operate with the Information of the financial crisis and the development of potential policy and reform.
Commissioners Office, the UKs independent public body set up to A wide range of ideas and proposals, aimed at strengthening the uphold information rights in the public interest, promoting openness by resilience of the banking system and addressing perceived shortcomings public bodies and data privacy for individuals.
The Group monitors legal in existing regulation, have been advanced and continue to be and regulatory changes and industry best practice and implements timely developed.
With respect to prudential requirements, the Group provided process improvements to ensure continued protection of individuals detailed feedback on the FSA's latest consultation on Strengthening privacy rights and enhance information security management.
Capital Standards and others, including on the supervisory formula method and liquidity swaps.
Other consultations included HM Treasurys European Union global developments further consultations on the structure of financial regulation, covered The Group follows closely the work and recommendations of the G20, as bonds and on Recovery and Resolution Plans Living Wills.
well as international standard setters such as the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision.
Of note were the developments, particularly in The Group has actively engaged with, and contributed to, a number of Europe, to implement the proposals from the Basel Committee on inquiries regarding the future of banking.
These included the Independent Banking Supervision for an enhanced capital and liquidity framework.
The Commission on Banking and various Treasury Select Committee Basel Committee also developed proposals for additional capital for inquiries.
It has contributed to debates led by the Financial Stability globally systemically important banks.
The Group remains closely Board, European Commission and UK authorities on resolution involved in all aspects of the proposals on capital and liquidity, as well as frameworks, including possible mechanisms such as contingent capital on other related policy areas, such as countercyclical capital buffers and and bail-in arrangements.
It participated in the FSA's pilot for the contingent capital.
development of Living Wills and will be developing suitable Living Wills in line with forthcoming regulatory requirements.
Also notable in 2011, was significant work by the European Commission and the new European Supervisory Authorities in such areas as financial The Group has continued to play an active role in the development of sector taxation, corporate governance, crisis management, credit rating requirements affecting products and processes.
Examples include the agencies and remuneration.
The Group provided input in all these areas.
Governments Review of Consumer Credit and Personal Insolvency, the FSAs review of mortgages Mortgage Market Review and of investment United States advice Retail Distribution Review, the FSAs proposals on Product In the US, the Group continues to engage constructively with regulators Intervention and the European Directive on Mortgages.
The Group and other bodies on regulatory and legislative change and seeks to worked closely with the Government the Department of Business, ensure proper implementation and compliance.
Current issues include Innovation and Skills and the industry to develop and implement annual regulatory implementation of US financial regulatory reform legislation, credit card statements to improve transparency for customers.
The Group mortgage and credit card lending and consumer disclosures, debit card has also worked closely with the Government on its MyData initiative, interchange fees, and account overdraft protection.
with a view to empowering consumers by giving them greater access to their financial data, and on the Governments proposals to introduce a Other jurisdictions charitable giving option at ATMs.
The Group is active in monitoring regulatory developments in each country in which it operates so that internal policies are sufficient to ensure the effective management of regulatory risk.
