38 Segmental analysis US Retail & Commercial provides financial services primarily through the a Divisions Citizens and Charter One brands.
US Retail & Commercial is engaged in The directors manage the Group primarily by class of business and retail and corporate banking activities through its branch network in 12 present the segmental analysis on that basis.
This includes the review of states in the United States and through non-branch offices in other net interest income for each class of business - interest receivable and states.
payable for all reportable segments is therefore presented net.
Segments charge market prices for services rendered to other parts of the Group: Global Banking & Markets GBM is a leading banking partner to major funding charges between segments are determined by Group Treasury, corporations and financial institutions around the world, providing an having regard to commercial demands.
The segment measure is extensive range of debt and equity financing, risk management and operating profit loss before tax.
investment services to its customers.
The division is organised along six principal business lines: money markets: rates flow trading: currencies: The Group's reportable segments are on a divisional basis as follows: equities: credit and mortgage markets and portfolio management and origination.
UK Retail offers a comprehensive range of banking products and related financial services to the personal market.
It serves customers through a RBS Insurance provides a wide range of general insurance products to number of channels including: the RBS and NatWest network of consumers through a number of well known brands including: Direct Line, branches and ATMs in the United Kingdom, telephony, online and Churchill and Privilege.
It also provides insurance services for third party mobile.
brands through its UKI Partnerships business.
In the commercial sector, its NIG and Direct Line for Business operations provide insurance UK Corporate is a leading provider of banking, finance, and risk products for businesses via brokers or direct respectively.
Through its management services to the corporate and SME sector in the United international division, RBS Insurance sells general insurance, mainly Kingdom.
It offers a full range of banking products and related financial motor, in Germany and Italy.
In addition to insurance services, RBS services through a nationwide network of relationship managers, and also Insurance continues to provide support and reassurance to millions of UK through telephone and internet channels.
The product range includes motorists through its Green Flag breakdown recovery service and asset finance through the Lombard brand.
Tracker stolen vehicle recovery and telematics business.
Wealth provides private banking and investment services in the UK To comply with EC State Aid requirements, the Group has agreed to through Coutts & Co and Adam & Company, offshore banking through dispose of RBS Insurance.
It continues to be reported as a separate RBS International, NatWest Offshore and Isle of Man Bank, and operating segment rather than within the Non-Core division as its international private banking through Coutts & Co Ltd. operating results are regularly reviewed by the Groups Chief Executive Officer and its business is distinct from the activities of the Non-Core Global Transaction Services GTS ranks among the top tier of global division.
transaction banks, offering payments, cash and liquidity management, trade finance and commercial card products and services.
Through the Central items comprises Group and corporate functions, such as network and extensive partner bank agreements, GTS are able to treasury, funding and finance, risk management, legal, communications support and connect customers across 128 countries.
The Centre manages the Group's capital resources and Group-wide regulatory projects and provides services to Ulster Bank is the leading retail and business bank in Northern Ireland the operating divisions.
and the third largest banking group on the island of Ireland.
It provides a comprehensive range of financial services.
The Retail Markets division Non-Core Division manages separately assets that the Group intends to which has a network of 236 branches, operates in the personal and run off or dispose of.
The division contains a range of businesses and financial planning sectors.
The Corporate Markets division provides asset portfolios primarily from the GBM division, linked to proprietary services to SME business customers, corporates and institutional trading, higher risk profile asset portfolios including excess risk markets.
concentrations, and other illiquid portfolios.
It also includes a number of other portfolios and businesses, including regional markets businesses, that the Group has concluded are no longer strategic.
