SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the Consolidation consolidated financial statements are set out below.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power to govern Consolidated financial statements the financial and operating policies so as to obtain benefits from their The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance activities, generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights the European Union EU.
The consolidated financial statements are that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are revaluation of available for sale financial assets, investment property, fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group occupied property and financial assets and financial liabilities Group.
They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
held for trading which include all derivative contracts.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the There are no new IFRS and interpretations of IFRS that have become acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
effective during 2011 and that have a significant impact on the Group accounting policies.
There are no significant other changes to Group The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets accounting policies during 2011. given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange.
Except where otherwise stated, all figures included in the consolidated financial statements are presented in millions of Pounds Sterling, being For business combinations completed on or after 1 January 2010 the the currency in the primary economic environment of the company, cost of acquisition includes the fair value of deferred and contingent shown as m, rounded to the nearest million.
consideration at the acquisition date and subsequent changes in the carrying value of the consideration are recognised in the income Selection of accounting policies statement.
For business combinations completed prior to 31 December The Group exercises judgement in selecting each Group accounting 2009, the cost also includes costs directly attributable to the acquisition policy.
The accounting policies of the Group are selected by the and the value of contingent consideration on settlement.
Directors to present financial statements that they consider provide the most relevant information.
For certain accounting policies there are Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities different accounting treatments that could be adopted, each of which assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair would be in compliance with IFRS and would have a significant influence values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any non upon the basis on which the financial statements are presented.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair bases of selection of the accounting policies for the accounting for value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is financial assets and for the recognition of actuarial gains and losses recognised as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair related to pension obligations are set out below: value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
The Group designates financial assets that are held as investments on the basis on which the investment return is managed and the Changes in the ownership interests of a subsidiary between performance is evaluated internally.
Where the investment return shareholders of the Group and shareholders holding a non controlling is managed on the basis of the periodic cashflows arising from the interest are accounted for as transactions between equity holders of investment, a financial asset is designated as an available for sale the Group.
Any difference between the fair value of the consideration financial asset with unrealised gains recognised in the statement of given by the transferee and the carrying value of the ownership interest comprehensive income.
Where the investment return is managed transferred is recognised directly in equity.
on the basis of the total return on the investment including unrealised investment gains, the financial asset is designated as Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions at fair value through the income statement between Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also The Group accounting policy is to recognise actuarial gains and eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of losses arising from the recognition and funding of the Groups the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries are changed where pension obligations in the statement of comprehensive income necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
during the period in which they arise.
This policy has been adopted as it provides the most relevant basis of recognition of such gains and losses.
80 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Associates liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, is initially capitalised in the Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but statement of financial position at cost and is subsequently recognised at not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and cost less accumulated impairment losses.
The cost of the acquisition is the 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for by amount of cash paid and the fair value of other purchase consideration.
the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
For business combinations completed prior to 31 December 2009, the cost also includes costs directly attributable to the acquisition and the value The Groups shares of its associates post acquisition profits or of contingent consideration on settlement.
Goodwill is allocated to cash losses are recognised in the income statement and its share of post generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
Goodwill is subject acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in the statement of to an impairment review at least annually.
An impairment review is also comprehensive income.
The cumulative post acquisition movements carried out whenever there is an indication that goodwill or other intangible are adjusted in the carrying amount of the investment.
When the assets are impaired.
Where the carrying amount is more than the Groups share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest recoverable amount, an impairment is recognised in the income statement.
in the associate, including any unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made The increased carrying amount of an asset other than goodwill payments on behalf of the associate.
attributable to a reversal of an impairment loss does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined net of amortisation Adjustments are made, where necessary, to the accounting policies of or depreciation had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset associates to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
Translation of foreign currencies Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities When calculating the goodwill arising on an acquisition, provisions for are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment losses and loss adjustment expenses are discounted to present value.
in which the entity operates the functional currency.
Immediately following the acquisition, the provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses are valued at full nominal value.
This increase The results and financial position of those Group entities whose in liabilities is matched by the recognition of an intangible asset arising functional currency is not Sterling are translated into Sterling as follows: from acquired provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses, representing the present value of future investment income implicit in Assets and liabilities for each statement of financial position presented the claims discount.
The intangible asset is amortised over the expected are translated at closing exchange rates at the end of the period run off period and is tested in within the liability adequacy test of Income and expenses for each income statement are translated insurance contract liabilities where the balances of intangible assets at average exchange rates during each period associated with insurance contracts is deducted from the carrying All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a component amount of the insurance contract liabilities.
The run off period is of equity.
normally between five and 11 years.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation Expenditure that increases the future economic benefits arising from of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other computer software in excess of its standard of performance assessed currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are immediately before the expenditure was made is recognised as an taken to equity.
When a foreign entity is sold, the cumulative exchange intangible asset.
differences relating to that foreign entity are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Other intangible assets comprise renewal rights, customer lists, brands and other acquired identifiable non monetary assets without physical form.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity is treated as an asset of the foreign entity and the carrying value is translated at the Computer software and other intangible assets are carried at cost less closing exchange rate.
Amortisation on computer software and other intangible assets is calculated using the straight line method to Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency allocate the cost over their estimated useful lives, which is normally using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
estimated to be between three and 12 years.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of Property and equipment monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are Property and equipment comprise Group occupied land and buildings, recognised in the income statement.
fixtures, fittings and equipment including computer hardware and motor vehicles.
These assets are depreciated over their estimated Goodwill and other intangible assets useful life after taking into account residual values.
Goodwill, being the difference between the cost of a business acquisition and the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, Annual Report and Accounts 2011 | RSA | 81 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Group occupied property is stated at fair value, less subsequent Financial assets depreciation for buildings.
All other assets are stated at depreciated A financial asset is initially recognised on the date the Group commits cost.
Fair value movements are recorded in equity.
to purchase the asset at fair value plus, in the case of all financial assets not classified as at fair value through the income statement, transaction Fair value is based on current prices in an active market for similar costs that are directly attributable to its acquisition.
A financial asset is property in the same location and condition and subject to similar derecognised when the rights to receive cashflows from the investment contractual terms of ownership.
Valuations are performed by external have expired or have been transferred and when the Group has professionally qualified valuation surveyors on at least an annual basis, substantially transferred the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset.
with reference to current market conditions.
On initial recognition, the financial assets may be categorised into the All other classes are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
following categories: financial assets at fair value through the income Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition statement, loans and receivables, held to maturity financial assets and of the items.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset only when it is available for sale financial assets.
The classification depends on the probable that future economic benefits associated to the item will flow purpose for which the investments were acquired.
Management to the Group and the cost can be measured reliably.
determines the classification of its investments at initial recognition.
Depreciation on all other items is calculated The Group designates investments in equity and debt securities in on the straight line method to write down the cost of such assets accordance with its investment strategy on the basis on which the to their residual value over their estimated useful lives as follows: investment return is managed and the performance is evaluated internally.
Where the investment return is managed on the basis of Group occupied buildings normally 30 years the periodic cashflows arising from the investment, a financial asset is Fixtures and fittings 10 years designated as an available for sale financial asset.
Where the investment Motor vehicles 4 years return is managed on the basis of the total return on the investment Equipment 35 years including unrealised investment gains, the financial asset is designated as at fair value through the income statement.
Other investments The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted comprising loans, reinsurance deposits and other deposits are classified if appropriate.
An impairment review is carried out whenever there is an indication Financial assets arising from non investment activities are not classified that the assets are impaired.
An assets carrying amount is written on initial recognition as available for sale assets and are therefore down to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater categorised as loans and receivables.
than its estimated recoverable amount.
Where the cumulative changes recognised in equity represent an Increases in the carrying amount arising on the revaluation of Group unrealised loss the individual asset or group of assets is reviewed occupied property are credited to revaluation reserves in equity.
to test whether an indication of impairment exists.
Decreases that offset the previous increases of the same asset are charged against revaluation surplus directly in equity: other decreases For securities whose fair values are readily determined and where are charged to the income statement.
Each year the difference between there is objective evidence that such an asset is impaired, including for depreciation based on the fair value of the asset charged to the income equity investments a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value statement and depreciation based on the assets original cost is below cost, the unrealised loss charged to equity is reclassified to the transferred from revaluation surplus to retained earnings.
Investment property If the fair value of a previously impaired debt security increases and Investment property, comprising freehold and leasehold land and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the buildings, is held for long term rental yields and is not occupied impairment loss was recognised, the impairment loss is reversed and by the Group.
the reversal recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses on equity investments are not reversed.
Investment property is recorded at fair value, measured by independent professionally qualified valuers who hold a recognised For other loans and receivables, where there is evidence that the and relevant professional qualification and have recent experience contracted cashflows will not be received in full, an impairment charge in the location and category of the investment property being valued.
is recognised in the income statement to reduce the carrying value Valuations are carried out on an annual basis or more frequently.
For of the financial asset to its recoverable amount.
interim periods internal valuations are made by reference to current market conditions.
Unrealised gains and unrealised losses or changes thereof are recognised in net investment return.
82 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Investment income is recognised in the income statement.
Dividends on fair value by using valuation techniques.
These include the use of equity investments are recognised on the date at which the investment recent arms length transactions, reference to other instruments that is priced ex dividend.
Interest income is recognised using the effective are substantially the same, discounted cashflow analysis and option interest method.
Unrealised gains and losses on available for sale pricing models investments are recognised directly in equity, except for impairment For mortgage loans on real estate and collateral loans, fair values losses and foreign exchange gains and losses on monetary items which are estimated using discounted cashflow calculations based upon are recognised in the income statement.
On derecognition of an prevailing market rates investment classified as available for sale, the cumulative gain or loss For cash, loans and receivables, commercial paper, other assets, previously recognised in equity is recognised in the income statement.
liabilities and accruals, carrying amounts approximate to fair values For notes, bonds, loans payable and loan capital, fair values are Derivative financial instruments determined by reference to quoted market prices or estimated using Derivatives are recognised in the statement of financial position on a trade discounted cashflow calculations based upon prevailing market rates.
date basis and are carried at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets Loan capital is carried at amortised cost and, when different, fair when fair value is positive and as liabilities when fair value is negative.
value is shown in the relevant note.
For borrowings that carry The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether a variable rate of interest other than loan capital, carrying values the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and the nature of approximate to fair values the item being hedged.
Where a derivative is not designated as a hedging For derivatives, fair values are generally based upon quoted instrument, changes in its fair value are recognised in the income statement.
Hedging For disclosure purposes, fair value measurements are classified as Level Transactions are classified as hedging transactions when the following 1, 2 or 3 based on the degree to which fair value is observable: conditions for hedge accounting are met: Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted There is a formal designation and documentation of the hedging prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities relationship and the Groups risk management objective and strategy Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs for undertaking the hedge other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable The hedge is expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly changes in fair value or cashflows attributable to the hedged risk, i. e. derived from prices consistent with the originally documented risk management strategy Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation for that particular hedging relationship techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not The effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
For cashflow hedges, a forecast transaction that is the subject of the hedge must be highly probable and must present an exposure to Insurance contracts variations in cashflows that could ultimately affect profit or loss Product classification The hedge is assessed on an ongoing basis and determined to have Insurance contracts are those contracts that transfer significant been highly effective.
insurance risk at the inception of the contract.
Insurance risk is transferred when the Group agrees to compensate a policyholder Where a foreign exchange derivative is designated as a hedging if a specified uncertain future event other than a change in a financial instrument against the net investment in foreign entities, the effective variable adversely affects the policyholder.
Any contracts not meeting portion of the hedge is recognised in equity: the gain or loss relating the definition of an insurance contract under IFRS are classified as to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income investment contracts or derivative contracts, as appropriate.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement when the underlying hedged item is derecognised.
Recognition of income Premiums written are accounted for in the period in which the Estimation of the fair value of financial assets and liabilities contract is entered into and include estimates where the amounts The methods and assumptions used by the Group in estimating the are not determined at the end of the reporting period.
Premiums fair value of financial assets and liabilities are: written exclude taxes and duties levied on premiums and directly related expenses, e. g. commissions.
Premiums are earned as revenue For fixed maturity securities, fair values are generally based upon over the period of the contract and are calculated principally on quoted market prices.
Where market prices are not readily available, a daily pro rata basis.
fair values are estimated using either values obtained from quoted market prices of comparable securities or estimated by discounting Insurance contract liabilities expected future cashflows using a current market rate applicable The provision for unearned premium represents the portion of the to the yield, credit quality and maturity of the investment premiums written relating to periods of insurance coverage subsequent For equity securities fair values are based upon quoted market prices to the end of the reporting period after the deduction of related If the market for a financial asset is not active, the Group establishes acquisition costs.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 | RSA | 83 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Acquisition costs comprise the direct and indirect costs of obtaining adjustment expenses reported under insurance contract liabilities.
The and processing new insurance business.
These costs are recognised amount recoverable from reinsurers is initially valued on the same basis as deferred acquisition costs and are deducted from the provision as the underlying provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses.
Deferred acquisition costs are amortised The amount recoverable is reduced when there is an event arising after on the same basis as the related premiums are earned.
the initial recognition that provides objective evidence that the Group may not receive all amounts due under the reinsurance contract and The provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses whether the event has a reliably measurable impact on the expected amount reported or not, comprise the estimated cost of claims incurred but not that will be recovered from the reinsurer.
settled at the end of the reporting period.
It includes related expenses and a deduction for the expected value of salvage and other recoveries.
The reinsurers share of each unexpired risk provision is recognised The provision is determined using the best information available of on the same basis.
claims settlement patterns, forecast inflation and settlement of claims.
The provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses relating to long Annuities purchased by the Group to make payments under structured term permanent disability claims in the UK, Canada and Scandinavia settlement arrangements are accounted for as reinsurance ceded if the are also determined using recognised actuarial methods.
Group remains liable for the settlement in the event of default by the annuity provider.
Any gain or loss arising on the purchase of an annuity The provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses, and related is recognised in the income statement at the date of purchase.
reinsurance recoveries, are discounted where there is a particularly long period from incident to claims settlement and where there exists Cash and cash equivalents a suitable claims payment pattern from which to calculate the discount.
Cash and cash equivalents are short term, highly liquid investments that In defining those claims with a long period from incident to claims are subject to insignificant changes in value and are readily convertible settlement, those categories of claims where the average period of into known amounts of cash.
Cash equivalents comprise financial assets settlement is six years or more from the end of the reporting period with less than three months maturity from the date of acquisition.
The discount rate used is based upon an investment return expected to be earned by assets, which are Treasury shares appropriate in magnitude and nature to cover the provisions for losses Treasury shares are deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognised and loss adjustment expenses being discounted, during the period on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the treasury shares.
necessary for the payment of such claims.
Any consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity.
Differences between the estimated cost and subsequent settlement Loan capital of claims are recognised in the income statement in the year in which Loan capital comprises subordinated bonds which are initially they are settled or in which the provisions for losses and loss measured at the consideration received less transaction costs.
Subsequently, loan capital is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
At the end of each reporting period an assessment is made of whether the provisions for unearned premiums are adequate.
A separate provision An exchange with an existing lender of loan capital with substantially is made, based on information available at the end of the reporting different terms is accounted for as an extinguishment of the original period, for any estimated future underwriting losses relating to unexpired financial liability and the recognition of a new financial liability.
The provision is calculated after taking into account future terms are substantially different if the discounted present value of the investment income that is expected to be earned from the assets backing cashflows under the new terms, including any fees paid net of any fees the provisions for unearned premiums net of deferred acquisition costs.
received and discounted using the original effective interest rate, is at The unexpired risk provision is assessed in aggregate for business classes least 10% different from the discounted present value of the remaining which, in the opinion of the Directors, are managed together.
cashflows of the original financial liability.
An exchange where the terms are not substantially different is accounted for as an exchange.
Reinsurance ceded Premiums payable in respect of reinsurance ceded are recognised in If an exchange of loan capital or modification of terms is accounted for the period in which the reinsurance contract is entered into and include as an extinguishment, any costs or fees incurred are recognised as part estimates where the amounts are not determined at the end of the of the gain or loss on the extinguishment.
If it is accounted for as an reporting period.
Premiums are expensed over the period of the exchange, any costs or fees incurred adjust the carrying amount of the reinsurance contract, calculated principally on a daily pro rata basis.
liability and are amortised over the remaining term of the modified liability and no adjustment is made to the carrying value of the liability A reinsurance asset reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities to reflect its fair value at the date of exchange.
is recognised to reflect the amount estimated to be recoverable under the reinsurance contracts in respect of the provisions for losses and loss 84 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Taxation The current service cost in respect of defined benefit schemes Taxation in the income statement is based on profits and income for comprises the present value of the additional benefits attributable the year as determined in accordance with the relevant tax legislation, to employees services provided during the period.
together with adjustments to provisions for prior years.
UK tax in respect of overseas subsidiaries and principal associated undertakings is The present value of defined benefit obligations and the present value recognised as an expense in the year in which the profits arise, except of additional benefits accruing during the period are calculated using the where the remittance of earnings can be controlled and it is probable Projected Unit Credit Method.
that remittance will not take place in the foreseeable future, in which case UK tax is based on dividends received.
Past service costs arise where additional benefits are granted.
The cost ofproviding additional benefits is recognised on a straight line basis over Deferred tax is provided in full using the liability method on temporary the remaining period of service until such benefits vest.
The cost of differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and the providing additional benefits that vest on their introduction are carrying amounts in the financial statements.
However, if the deferred recognised immediately.
tax arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction The calculation of the present value of accrued benefits includes an affects neither accounting, nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted actuarial assumption of future interest rates, which is used to discount the for.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have expected ultimate cost of providing the benefits.
The discount rate is been enacted or substantially enacted by the end of the reporting determined at the end of each reporting period by reference to current period and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset market yields on high quality corporate bonds identified to match the is realised or the related deferred tax liability is settled.
currency and estimated term of the obligations.
The interest cost for the period is calculated by multiplying the discount rate determined at the Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that start of the period by the defined benefit obligations during the period.
future taxable profits will be available against which these temporary differences can be utilised.
The change in the present value of the defined benefit obligations and the changes in the fair value of scheme assets resulting from any Employee benefits curtailments and settlements of scheme liabilities during the period Pension obligations are recognised in the income statement.
Group companies operate various pension schemes.
The schemes are generally funded through payments to trustee administered funds, Additionally, any previously unrecognised past service costs related determined by periodic actuarial calculations.
The Group has both to these liabilities are recognised in the gains or losses on settlement defined contribution and defined benefit schemes.
contribution scheme is a pension scheme under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
A defined benefit scheme The expected returns on scheme assets are determined for each asset is a pension scheme that defines an amount of pension benefit that class, at the beginning of the period, as the expected investment returns an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one on scheme assets over the entire life of the related obligations.
or more factors such as age, years of service and salary.
All returns are net of investment expenses.
Post retirement benefits including pension schemes and post Actuarial gains and losses arise from changes to actuarial assumptions retirement health schemes when revaluing future benefits and from actual experience in respect Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are charged in of scheme liabilities and investment performance of scheme assets the income statement in the period in which the employment services being different from previous assumptions.
Actuarial gains and losses qualifying for the benefit are provided.
The Group has no further are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The value recognised in the statement of financial position for each The amounts charged or credited where relevant in the income individual post retirement scheme is calculated as follows: statement relating to post retirement benefits in respect of defined benefit schemes are as follows: The present value of defined benefit obligation of the scheme at the end of the reporting period The current service cost Minus any past service cost not yet recognised The past service cost for additional benefits granted in the current Minus the fair value at the end of the reporting period of the scheme or earlier periods assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
The interest cost for the period The impact of any curtailments or settlements during the period For those individual schemes in deficit, the resulting net liabilities are The expected return on scheme assets where relevant.
recognised in the statement of financial position in provisions.
For those individual schemes in surplus, an asset is recognised in the statement of Annual Report and Accounts 2011 | RSA | 85 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED financial position in other debtors and other assets to the extent that Leases the Group can realise an economic benefit, in the form of a refund or Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight line a reduction in future contributions, at some point during the life of the basis over the term of the lease.
Payments made under operating leases scheme or when the scheme liabilities are settled.
are charged on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Termination benefits Operating segments Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated Operating segments are identified on the basis of the regional before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts structure of the Group.
Internal reports about these segments are voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The Group regularly reviewed by the Board of Directors determined to be the recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed chief operating decision maker to assess their performance and to to either: terminating the employment of current employees according allocate capital and resources.
to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal: or providing termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary Assets and liabilities held for sale and discontinued operations redundancy.
Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the end of Assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount is to be the reporting period are discounted to present value.
recovered principally through a sale transaction, that is highly probable to complete within one year from the date of classification, rather Share based payments than through continuing use.
Such assets are measured at the lower The value of the employee share options and other equity settled share of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell and are classified based payments is calculated at fair value at the grant date using separately from other assets in the statement of financial position.
appropriate and recognised option pricing models.
The value of liabilities Assets and liabilities of a disposal group are not netted.
In the period in respect of cash settled share based payment transactions is based where a non current asset or disposal group is recognised for the first upon the fair value of the awards at the end of the reporting period.
time, the statement of financial position for the comparative prior period presented is not restated.
Vesting conditions, which comprise service conditions and performance conditions, other than those based upon market conditions, are not Discontinued operations are presented on the face of the income taken into account when estimating the fair value of such awards but statement as a single amount comprising the total of the net profit or are taken into account by adjusting the number of equity instruments loss of discontinued operations and the after tax gain or loss recognised included in the ultimate measurement of the transaction amount.
The on the sale or the measurement to fair value less costs to sell of the net value of the awards is recognised as an expense on a systematic basis assets constituting the discontinued operations.
In the period where an over the period during which the employment services are provided.
operation is presented for the first time as discontinued, the income Where an award of options is cancelled by an employee, the full value statement for the comparative prior period presented is restated to of the award less any value previously recognised is recognised at the present that operation as discontinued.
Unless otherwise stated, in the period where an operation is presented The proceeds received net of any transaction costs are credited to as discontinued, the notes to the financial statements contain amounts share capital nominal value and share premium when the options attributable to continuing operations only.
The comparatives for the are exercised.
notes to the income statement are restated.
Provisions Current and non current distinction Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or Assets are classified as current when expected to be realised within constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely the Groups normal operating cycle of one year.
Liabilities are classified than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the as current when expected to be settled within the Groups normal obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
operating cycle of one year.
All other assets and liabilities are classified as non current.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by considering The Groups statement of financial position is not presented using the class of obligations as a whole.
A provision is recognised even if the current and non current classifications.
However, the following balances likelihood of an outflow with respect to any one item included in the are generally classified as current: cash and cash equivalents and same class of obligations may be small.
Dividends to equity holders The following balances are generally classified as non current: goodwill The final dividend is recognised as a liability when approved at the and other intangible assets: property and equipment: investment Annual General Meeting.
The interim dividend is recognised when paid.
property: investment in associates: financial assets: deferred tax assets: loan capital: and deferred tax liabilities.
86 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The remaining balances are of a mixed nature.
The current and non IFRS 9 relies on the Group business model objective and may also be current portions of such balances are set out in the respective notes influenced by the basis of the measurement of the Groups insurance or in the risk management section.
contract liabilities at the time that the new standard is adopted.
The latter may change prior to adoption of IFRS 9 and so it is not possible Recently issued accounting pronouncements to determine the overall impact on the results and the earnings per Pronouncements issued by the International Accounting Standards share of the current period, the comparative period or earlier periods, Board IASB but which are not yet mandatory for adoption and have and on the Groups financial position at the end of each such period.
yet to be adopted in the Group financial statements are listed below: It is not possible to assess the impact the changes will have on future periods as in addition to the factors above, these will be impacted by In November 2009 the IASB issued IFRS 9 Financial Instruments.
future market conditions and management actions.
This standard represents the completion of the first part of a larger project to replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and In May 2011 the IASB issued four new standards, IFRS 10 Consolidated Measurement.
The new standard reduces the complexity by replacing Financial Statements, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, IFRS 12 Disclosure the many different rules in IAS 39.
The key features for the new of Interests in Other Entities and IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
standard are as follows: IFRS 10, 11 and 12 represent the completion of the improvements to the accounting requirements for off balance sheet activities and joint The option in IAS 39 allowing entities to classify financial instruments arrangements.
The IASB also issued a revised standard, IAS 27 as available for sale is not available in IFRS 9 Separate Financial Statements to cover the existing topics that A business model test is applied first in determining whether are not contained in the new standards.
a financial asset is eligible for amortised cost measurement.
The business model test objective is based on holding financial The key features of the new standards are as follows: assets in order to collect contractual cashflows rather than realising cashflows from the sale of the financial assets IFRS 10 includes a new definition of control, which is used to In order to be eligible for amortised cost measurement an asset must have determine which entities are consolidated.
Therefore IFRS 10 contractual cashflow characteristics representing principal and interest may change which entities are within a group All other financial assets are measured at fair value in the statement IFRS 11 addresses only two forms of joint arrangements joint of financial position.
Subject to an optional treatment for an equity operations and joint ventures where there is joint control.
Because investment, changes in fair value during the reporting period are IFRS 11 uses the principle of control in IFRS 10 to define joint control, recognised in the income statement the determination of whether joint control exists may change An entity can elect on initial recognition to present the fair value IFRS 11 removes the option to account for jointly controlled entities changes on an equity investment that is not held for trading directly using proportionate consolidation.
Instead, jointly controlled entities in other comprehensive income.
The dividends on such investments that meet the definition of a joint venture must be accounted for must be recognised in the income statement but gains or losses are using the equity method not recycled when the equity investment is derecognised IFRS 12 includes all of the disclosure requirements for subsidiaries, If a financial asset is eligible for amortised cost measurement, joint arrangements, associates and structured entities.
It introduces an entity can elect to measure it at fair value if it eliminates a number of new disclosures including the judgements made to or significantly reduces an accounting mismatch.
determine whether one entity controls another entity and also providing more information about unconsolidated entities In October 2010 the requirements for classifying and measuring IFRS 13 defines fair value and sets out, in a single IFRS framework, financial liabilities were added to IFRS 9.
The majority of the the measurement of fair value and required disclosures.
requirements were carried forward unchanged from IAS 39.
However, the requirements related to the fair value option for financial liabilities IFRS 10, 11, 12 and the revised IAS 27 come into effect for annual were changed to address the issue of own credit risk in order that the periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013, but early adoption is effects of changes in a liabilitys credit risk ought not to affect profit or permitted.
The four standards must be adopted together with the loss unless the liability is held for trading.
exception of IFRS 12 which may be adopted earlier.
They must be applied on a modified retrospective basis.
These new standards It is expected that the IASB will issue the new standard covering the have not yet been endorsed by the EU.
remaining parts of the project during 2012.
IFRS 13 comes into effect for annual periods beginning on or after In December 2011 the IASB issued Mandatory Effective Date of IFRS 9 1 January 2013, but early adoption is permitted.
It will be applied and Transition Disclosures, which amends IFRS 9 to require application prospectively.
This new standard has not yet been endorsed for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015, rather than by the EU.
The new standard has not yet been adopted by the EU.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 | RSA | 87 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED In June 2011 the IASB issued a revised version of IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
The revisions include the following changes to the Groups existing accounting policies: Expected returns on plan assets will no longer be recognised in profit or loss.
Expected returns are replaced by recording interest income in profit or loss, which is calculated using the discount rate used to measure the pension obligation Unvested past service costs are no longer deferred and recognised over the future vesting period.
Instead, all past service costs will be recognised at the earlier of when the amendment curtailment occurs or when the entity recognises related restructuring or termination costs.
This revised version of IAS 19 will come into effect for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013, with retrospective application required.
The revised standard has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
When adopted, these changes are not expected to have a significant impact on the Groups statement of financial position.
Total comprehensive income will not change as a result of the former change above, but profit before tax is expected to reduce, offset by an increase in other comprehensive income as a consequence of the change in the calculation of the interest income.
The impact cannot currently be quantified because the value of the scheme assets and the rate that will be used to calculate the interest income included in profit or loss, in 2013, will be determined at that time.
The latter change above is not likely to have a significant impact on the Groups financial statements as, for the Group, such events are rare.
In addition to the above, the IASB has issued the following revisions to existing standards that are not expected to have a material impact on the Groups financial statements: Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Transfers of Financial Assets issued October 2010 Amendments to IFRS 1 Replacement of fixed dates for certain exceptions with the date of transition to IFRSs and Additional exemption for entities ceasing to suffer from severe hyperinflation issued December 2010 Amendment to IAS 12 Income Taxes Deferred Tax Recovery of Underlying Assets issued December 2010 Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income issued June 2011 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Amendments to IAS 32 and Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Amendments to IFRS 7 issued December 2011.
88 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2011
