OTHER INFORMATION JARGON BUSTER Below is a simple explanation of some of the key technical terms used within this report.
Term Definition Affinity Selling insurance through a partners distribution network, usually to a group of similar customers, e. g. store card holders, alumni groups, unions and utility company customers.
Bancassurance Selling insurance through a banks distribution network.
Capacity Largest amount of insurance available from a company Can also refer to the largest amount of insurance or reinsurance available in the marketplace.
Capital The money invested in the Group.
This includes the money invested by shareholders and profits retained within the Group.
Claims Frequency Average number of claims per policy over the year.
Claims Handling Expenses The administrative cost of processing a claim salary costs, costs of running claims centres, etc.
and allocated shares of the costs of head office units.
Not the cost of the claim itself.
Claims Ratio Percentage of Net Earned Premiums which is paid out in claims and Claims Handling Expenses.
Loss Ratio Claims Reserve Reserve established by the Group to reflect the estimated cost of claims payments and related expenses Provision for Losses and that we estimate we will ultimately be required to pay.
Loss Adjustment Expenses Claims Severity Average cost of claims incurred over the period.
Combined Operating Ratio The sum of the Claims Ratio and Expense Ratio COR Measures how much we pay out in claims and expenses for each unit of net premium received A COR of less than 100% indicates that we are writing profitable business Calculated as: Net Incurred Claims Expenses including commissions % % Net Earned Premiums Net Written Premiums Commission An amount paid to an intermediary such as a broker for generating business.
Commission Ratio Ratio of net commission costs to Net Written Premiums.
Current Year Result The underwriting profit or loss earned from business for which protection has been provided in the current financial period.
Earned Premium The portion of an insurance premium for which we have already provided protection.
Economic Capital The Groups assessment of the capital we must hold to have a high confidence of meeting our obligations given our risk appetite.
Expense Ratio Percentage of Net Written Premiums which is paid out in operating expenses e. g. salaries, premises costs, etc.
The ratio does not include claims related expenses but can include or exclude commissions.
Exposure A measurement of risk we are exposed to through the premiums we have written.
For example, in motor insurance one vehicle insured for one year is one unit of exposure.
Financial Services Authority The regulatory authority for the UK financial services industry or its successor s for the UK insurance industry.
FSA Gross Written Premium Total premium written or processed in the period, irrespective of whether it has been paid.
GWP IBNR A reserve for accidents or incidents that have occurred but which have not yet been reported to us.
Incurred but Not Reported IGD Capital Requirement Insurance Groups Directive capital is the capital the Group is required to hold based on standard calculations defined by the FSA under the EU Solvency 1 directive.
Insurance Result This is a measure of how well we have done, including both our underwriting result and investment performance.
Net Asset Value The value of the Group calculated by subtracting our total liabilities including loan capital from our total assets.
NAV This represents the funds that would be available to ordinary shareholders if the Group were wound up.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 | RSA | 155 JARGON BUSTER CONTINUED Net Earned Premium The portion of Net Written Premiums for which we have already provided protection.
This is included NEP as income in the period.
Net Incurred Claims The total claims cost incurred in the period less any share to be paid by reinsurers.
It includes both claims NIC payments and movements in claims reserves in the period.
Net Written Premium Net Written Premium is premium written or processed in the period, irrespective of whether it has been NWP paid, less the amount paid out in reinsurance premiums.
Operating Profit The profit generated by the ordinary activities of the Group including both insurance and investment activity.
Portfolio Management Management of a group of similar risks, these are usually grouped by geography and line of business.
Prior Year Result Profit or loss generated by settling claims incurred in a previous year at a better or worse level than the previous estimated cost.
Property and Casualty Property insurance covers loss or damage through fire, theft, floods, storms and other specified risks.
P&C Casualty insurance primarily covers losses arising from accidents that cause injury to other people or Non Life Insurance damage to the property of others.
or General Insurance Rate The price of a unit of insurance based on a standard risk for one year.
Actual premium charged to the customer may differ from the rate due to individual risk characteristics and marketing discounts.
Reinsurance The practice whereby we transfer part or all of the risk we have accepted to another insurer the reinsurer.
Run-off A situation where an insurer is no longer underwriting new business but continues to meet its liabilities under existing contracts.
Solvency II New capital adequacy regime for the European insurance industry.
Establishes a revised set of EU wide capital requirements and risk management standards.
Scrip Dividend Where shareholders choose to receive the dividend in the form of additional shares rather than cash.
The Group issues new shares to meet the scrip demand.
Total Shareholder Return A measure of performance based on the overall value to shareholders of their investment in the Group over a period of time.
Includes the movement in the share price and dividends paid, expressed as a percentage of the share price at the beginning of the period.
Underlying Return A measure of the profits the Group earns, adjusted for profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries, reorganisation on Average Equity and integration costs and acquisition costs, relative to average funds attributable to ordinary shareholders.
Underwriting Result This is a measure of how well the Group has done excluding its investment performance and is calculated as: NEP Claims including Claims Handling Expenses Expenses including commissions.
Unearned Premium The portion of a premium that relates to future periods, for which protection has not yet been provided, irrespective of whether the premium has been paid or not.
Yield Rate of return on an investment in percentage terms The dividend payable on a share expressed as a percentage of the market price.
156 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Important disclaimer and actions of regulatory authorities including changes related to capital and solvency This document contains forward-looking statements with respect to certain of the requirements, the impact of competition, infl ation, defl ation, the timing impact and Groups plans and its current goals and expectations relating to its future fi financial other uncertainties of future acquisitions or combinations within relevant industries, condition, performance, results, strategic initiatives and objectives.
Generally, words as well as the impact of tax and other legislation or regulations in the jurisdictions in such as may, could, will, expect, intend, estimate, anticipate, aim, outlook, which the Group and its affi liates operate.
As a result, the Groups actual future fi financial believe, plan, seek, continue or similar expressions, identify forward-looking condition, performance and results may differ materially from the plans, goals and statements.
These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance.
expectations set forth in the Groups forward-looking statements.
The Group By their nature, all forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, save in respect they relate to future events and circumstances which are beyond the Groups control, of any requirement under applicable law or regulation.
Neither the content of RSAs including amongst other things, UK domestic and global economic business conditions, website nor the content of any other website accessible from hyperlinks on RSAs market-related risks such as fl uctuations in interest rates and exchange rates, the policies website is incorporated into, or forms part of, this document.
com Designed and produced by Addison www.
co. uk Directors photography by Homer Sykes and Liam Bailey Executive Team by Liam Bailey Photography for the front cover supplied by Getty Images Photography for pages 16 and 17, 38 and 39, 72 and 73, 150 and 151 supplied by Shutterstock Images Printed by Royle Print on Amadeus 50 50 silk which has 50% Recovered Fibre and Amadeus Uncoated which is 100% post consumer waste.
The paper and the printer are FSC accredited.
The printer is accredited ISO 14001 and is a Carbon Neutral Printing Company.
UNDERWRITING PROGRESS ANNUAL REVIEW AND SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS2011 2011 HIGHLIGHTS FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS Welcome to our Annual Review and Net written premiums m Summary Financial Statements 2011.
We are a leading general insurer operating in 8,138 Overseas 7,455 UK 6,737 33 countries and providing products 6,462 5,837 and services in around 140 countries.
We have a strong portfolio 9% of businesses combining Growth Leading positions in our competitive Combined operating ratio % domestic UK market 96.4 Strong operations in the attractive 94.9 94.9 94.5 94.6 mature markets of Scandinavia and Canada An Irish business which consistently 94.9% outperforms the market 1.5pt improvement A targeted, niche Italianoperation Underlying return on average equity % Fast-growing Emerging Markets businesses.
19.3 16.4 The diversity of our portfolio is one of 13.4 our key strengths.
Looking forward, we 11.6 9.9 are targeting to increase our exposure to our attractive overseas markets and our 11.
1.7pt improvement We had set a target for our businesses Dividend for the year p outside of the UK to be c70% of Group NWP by the end of 2015.
We now expect 9.16 8.82 to be close to this in 2014 and to move 8.25 7.71 7.01 beyond 70% in subsequent years.
We also remain on target to grow Emerging Markets NWP to around 4% 2.2bn by the end of 2015.
Growth 2007 2007 2007 2007 2008 2008 2008 2008 2009 2009 2009 2009 2010 2010 2010 2010 2011 2011 2011 2011 HIGHLIGHTS CONTENTS INTRODUCTION 2011 was a challenging year for the 02 RSA around the world industry, with low yields, the weak 04 What we do economic environment and record 06 Chairmans statement catastrophe losses.
Despite this, we 10 Group CEOs review drove another good performance BUSINESS REVIEW We delivered strong top line growth 18 Scandinavia business review in 2011, with NWP up by 9% to 8.1bn 20 Canada business review 22 UK and Western Europe business review across the Group 24 Emerging Markets business review 26 Financial review All regions delivered NWP growth, with 30 Risk review International up by 11%, the UK up by 34 Corporate responsibility 6% and Emerging Markets up by 14% CORPORATE GOVERNANCE We grew our underwriting result by 58% 40 Board of Directors to 375m and our investment result was 42 Executive team up by 19% to 642m 44 Directors and corporate governance report 49 Remuneration report Profit before tax was up by 29% to 613m FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our capital position remains strong 66 Independent auditors report to the members with an IGD surplus of 1.3bn of RSA Insurance Group plc 67 Summary consolidated income statement In 2012, we are confident of delivering 68 Summary consolidated statement of comprehensive income good premium growth, a COR of better 68 Summary consolidated statement of changes in equity 69 Summary consolidated statement of financial position than 95% and investment income of 70 Summary consolidated statement of cashflows around 500m.
71 Estimation techniques, risks, uncertainties and contingencies OTHER INFORMATION 78 Shareholder information 80 Financial calendar 81 Jargon buster Visit www.
This Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements contains forward-looking statements with respect to certain of the Groups plans and its current goals and expectations relating to its future financial condition, performance, results, strategic initiatives and objectives.
For further details, reference should be made to the important disclaimer on the inside back cover.
Pages 2 to 37 constitute the business review of RSA and are incorporated by reference into the Directors and corporate governance report set out on pages 44 to 48.
The Directors and corporate governance report has been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon applicable English company law and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with that report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 | RSA | 1 RSA AROUND THE WORLD WE ARE A LEADING GENERAL INSURER OPERATING IN 33 COUNTRIES AND PROVIDING PRODUCTS AND SERVICES IN AROUND 140 COUNTRIES THROUGH OUR GLOBAL NETWORK OF LOCAL PARTNERS REGIONS KEY FACTS SCANDINAVIA RSA operations We operate as Codan in Denmark and Norway and as Trygg-Hansa in Sweden We have a multi-channel distribution model, selling CANADA our products through call centres, intermediaries 3rd largest general insurer overall, and affinity partners.
up from number 10 in 2005 2nd largest Affinity writer through Johnson CANADA A leading Marine insurer.
We distribute products through intermediaries under the RSA brand.
Our Direct offering is Johnson Our affiliated broker network, Noraxis, is a top 5 Canadian broker In January 2011, we completed the acquisition of GCAN, a leading Mid-Market, Large and Specialty Commercial insurer.
UK AND WESTERN EUROPE In the UK, we operate as RSA through intermediaries and as MORE TH N in the Direct market In Ireland, we operate as RSA through intermediaries and as 123. ie in the Direct market Our Italian operation is purely intermediated, operating LATIN AMERICA as RSA through brokers and non-tied agents Number 1 general insurer in Chile We have RSA branded Specialty operations in Belgium, The largest private insurer in Uruguay France, Germany, the Netherlands, Spain and Italy.
A leading Marine insurer in Brazil.
EMERGING MARKETS Our main focus is on Large and Complex risks, Motor, Small and Medium Enterprises SME, Marine and Affinity In Latin America, we operate as RSA in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, Uruguay and the Dutch Caribbean In Central and Eastern Europe, we operate as Lietuvos Draudimas in Lithuania, as Balta in Latvia, as RSA in Estonia, as Link4 in Poland, as InTouch in Russia and as Direct Pojitovna in the Czech Republic In Asia and the Middle East, we operate as RSA in China, Hong Kong, Singapore, UAE and Bahrain and we operate as Al Alamiya in Saudi Arabia and as Al Ahlia in Oman.
2 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 INTRODUCTION From 1 January 2012, the Group was restructured into four regions: Scandinavia, Canada, UK and Western Europe, which includes Ireland and Italy, and Emerging Markets, which is unchanged.
The 2011 financial results are prepared according to the previous structure: UK, International and Emerging Markets.
A reconciliation between the two structures is presented on page 105 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
SCANDINAVIA The 3rd largest insurer in Denmark and Sweden with a growing business in Norway Leading positions in Renewable Energy, Personal Accident and Marine.
CENTRAL AND EASTERN EUROPE Number 1 general insurer across the Baltics A leading Direct writer in Poland, Russia and the Czech Republic.
UK AND WESTERN EUROPE ASIA AND THE MIDDLE EAST Largest Commercial lines insurer in the UK A leading international insurer in the 4th largest UK Personal lines insurer overall, Middle East and number 2 insurer 4th in Home, 5th in Motor and a market leader in Pet in Oman 2nd largest general insurer and a leading In Asia, we have Commercial lines hubs in Direct insurer through 123. ie in Ireland Hong Kong, Singapore and mainland China Small operation in Italy predominantly focused Royal Sundaram, our associate in India, on Motor.
is the 4th fastest growing private insurer.
SCANDINAVIA CANADA UK AND WESTERN EUROPE EMERGING MARKETS 23% 18% 45% 14% NWP 1,824m NWP 1,483m NWP 3,701m NWP 1,103m Personal 54% Personal 68% Personal 48% Personal 42% Commercial 46% Commercial 32% Commercial 52% Commercial 58% Of total 2011 Group NWP Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 | RSA | 3 WHAT WE DO WE PROTECT PEOPLE AND BUSINESSES AGAINST THE RISKS THEY FACE IN THEIR DAILY LIVES.
OUR GLOBAL NETWORK PROVIDES PROPERTY, CASUALTY, MOTOR AND HOUSEHOLD INSURANCE IN AROUND 140 COUNTRIES WORLDWIDE OUR UNDERWRITERS PRICE RISK WE DISTRIBUTE OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES WE ARE COMMITTED TO UNDERWRITING WE FOLLOW A MULTI-CHANNEL DISCIPLINE AND TECHNICAL EXCELLENCE DISTRIBUTION STRATEGY We sell Personal and Commercial lines products through Our Personal lines products include a range of channels around the world.
Motor Household INTERMEDIARIES Pet We work with brokers of all sizes.
partnerships with the global brokers we write complex international covers.
We also work on a more intimate Our Commercial lines products include basis with our smaller brokers, assisting their development Motor through direct marketing, training and support.
We also Marine distribute our products and services through agents across Engineering Emerging Markets and within Scandinavia and Italy.
AFFINITY CHANNELS We work with partners such as building societies, banks, RISK SELECTION retailers, motor manufacturers, charities, utilities and unions The Board defines the Groups risk appetite, which to offer their customers appropriate insurance products.
determines the geographies we operate in and the products Through affinity arrangements, we are able to offer a we offer.
Our underwriters are licensed to write products bespoke service to each partner, ranging from full within this appetite and we regularly review each portfolio underwriting to marketing support.
of risks to ensure they are performing well or implement corrective measures where required.
DIRECTLY We distribute our products and services directly to our REINSURANCE customers, in person through high street sales offices and We maintain a conservative reinsurance programme direct sales, over the telephone through our call centres to minimise volatility in earnings from large losses and on line through our own websites and through price and catastrophe events.
For example, Copenhagen comparison sites.
experienced a severe storm in July 2011, during which two months rain fell in under two hours.
Although we are the third largest general insurer in Denmark, OUR BRANDS we restricted our net loss to around 23m through our extensive reinsurance programme.
RESERVING The Group continues to adopt a prudent reserving policy forboth current and overall reserves.
At 31 December 2011, reserves remain significantly to the right side of best estimate and, given our prudent reserving policy, we continue to expect positive prior year development to be a significant feature of the underwriting result.
4 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 INTRODUCTION WE SETTLE CLAIMS QUICKLY AND FAIRLY WE INVEST PRUDENTLY WE ARE COMMITTED TO DELIVERING WE FOLLOW A HIGH QUALITY, A PROFESSIONAL, FAIR AND SPEEDY LOW RISK INVESTMENT STRATEGY CLAIMS SERVICE AT ALL TIMES The Group continues to benefit from its low risk investment strategy with around 90% of the total portfolio invested in PEOPLE high quality fixed income and cash, with measured holdings We have highly trained, technically competent people in equities and property.
assessed annually against a licensing framework that ensures they are equipped to deal with customers claims.
Our exposure to peripheral European government debt remains limited at 138m, or less than 1% of the total portfolio, the majority of which is held to back the liabilities CAPABILITY of our Irish and Italian operations.
Claims handling is a key differentiator for both customers and RSA.
We have over 4,000 claims handlers across our The fixed interest portfolio is concentrated on high businesses, around 500 of whom are devoted to handling quality short dated assets with 98% of the bond portfolio large and complex claims.
We employ specialists such investment grade and 74% rated AA or above.
The bond as engineers, surveyors and mariners and this depth of holdings are well diversified, with 75% invested in currencies claims expertise is often key in our ability to win business.
other than Sterling and 60% invested in non government bonds 31 December 2010: 53%.
DELIVERY In 2012, we will continue to follow our high quality, low We are committed to delivering timely settlements to risk strategy.
our customers and claimants and, through numerous initiatives across the Group, we aim to continually improve the claims experience.
Investment portfolio % Bonds 81 SUPPLIERS Cash 9 We have close relationships with a network of experts Equities 5 including loss adjusters, engineers and solicitors who work Property 3 with RSAs own experts to deliver a high quality service Other inc. Prefs and CIVs 2 to our customers.
Bond portfolio Credit quality % LEVERAGING GLOBAL CLAIMS EXPERTISE AAA 57 We demonstrated our commitment to leveraging global AA 17 expertise in 2011, when we launched a programme of A 20 global claims improvement reviews, designed to find BBB 4 innovative ways to improve the claims experience.
105 BBB 2 reviewers from around the business spent a total of around 9,000 hours working together to share best Peripheral Europe Sovereign Debt Exposure m practice and to identify improvements to take back to their own businesses.
Ireland 71 Italy 42 Spain 23 Greece 2 Portugal 0 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 | RSA | 5 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED PROGRESS IN A CHALLENGING YEAR On a global basis, 2011 was a The financial highlights of what was with Lloyds Banking Group.
We were challenging year for the insurance a challenging year included pleased to be able to confirm at our results industry.
It was the costliest Good premium growth of 9% driven announcement in February that we had year ever in terms of natural by both acquisition and organic growth appointed Richard Houghton, currently catastrophes, earthquakes Strong operating results with the CFO of Aspen Insurance Holdings Limited, and weather events.
COR moving from 96.4% to 94.9% who will commence his role in June.
Richard against a background of continuing brings wide operational and financial An estimated US$380 billion of global global weather events experience of the insurance world.
economic losses were incurred, 60% higher Increased underwriting performance Accordingly, we have agreed to release than the previous record year in 2005, by maintaining our discipline in pricing, George to take up his new position after the of which $105 billion were insured losses.
risk and sustainable profit Annual General Meeting in May.
This will allow Without insurance, there would have been Improved investment result reflecting the him to be present at the Lloyds AGM later even greater havoc and significant further careful management of our portfolio to that month.
impacts on world financial markets.
As an lessen the impact of low interest rates industry, we play an essential role in the without diluting investment quality The RSA of today has been rebuilt in terms world economy and at a household level The maintenance of a strong IGD surplus of service, reputation and management since within society, which is why our industry at 1.3 billion giving a 2x coverage.
2003, when the old Royal and Sun Alliance was will be around for another 300 years.
still effectively two separate businesses, The main non-financial event in the year, was as that name denoted.
They were in danger of How did we perform in this demanding year?
the announcement, at the interims in August, being overwhelmed by losses, a major capital Whilst we had exposures on a global basis in of Andy Haste leaving as CEO and his formal deficit and had massive exposures in the USA.
Japan, Australia, NewZealand and Thailand, departure in December.
We had a well The strategies to refinance the Company and our insured losses were minimised due to developed succession plan in place and with remove the risks of the USA business were not our developed global risk and exposure the added involvement of an externally-led without risk.
strategies linked to careful use of reinsurance.
Board selection process we were pleased to We did less well in a few areas, with appoint Simon Lee, the previous Head of our After the rescue, the more unspoken part increases in more conventional exposures International Division, as Group CEO.
of the task was to radically improve all RSA including weather impacts in Denmark activities and operations, upgrade risk appetite and Ireland and large losses in a number of The effective transition of responsibility processes, underwriting practices and focus on territories.
Adverse weather, following the had occurred by the end of October.
and develop a coherent portfolio of businesses severe freeze in 2010, although less in total, The employment of Simon has led to an that could generate a sustainable profit.
This was still significant in 2011. opportunity to strengthen our Executive has required significant investment in expertise, Committee and expand the role of key management and computing technology and Combined operating ratio % managers, Mike Holliday-Williams in services.
The ongoing business has performed Scandinavia and Rowan Saunders in Canada.
well and been skilfully piloted in recent difficult They both have had great success in running times, but is not immune from the effect of 96.4 these operations within the International uncertain financial markets, recessionary effects 94.9 94.9 94.6 94.5 Division and will continue to report separately on growth and monetary policy aspects to Simon as CEO.
depressing financial returns on our 15 billion investment portfolio, necessarily held in the A further announcement was made in most secure type of financial assets so as to November concerning our CFO George effectively match future liabilities.
Culmers intent to take up future employment 6 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 INTRODUCTION Over the last three years, insurers have faced more difficult times.
However, even if you take a comparison close to today, what has been achieved since 2003 is still remarkable.
Market capitalisation up from 1.7 billion to 3.9 billion A negative EPS of 19.6p to positive 11.9p Losses of 363 thousand to profits of 427 million ROE of minus 17.8% to plus 11.6%.
Given these outcomes, the Board wishes We continue to be well placed to deal Andy and George every success in the with current global economic and financial future.
They both leave with the thanks and circumstances and drive this company forward.
Their departure terms reflect the goodwill of us all, the Board John Napier, Chairman and hopefully the shareholders, in marking a job well done.
The Boards actions on succession planning have ensured the company maintains an ongoing depth and strength Net written premiums m Dividend for the year p of management in all areas.
We continue to be well placed to deal with current 8,138 9.16 8.82 7,455 global economic and financial circumstances 8.25 7.71 6,737 6,462 7.01 and drive this company forward.
5,837 Moving to other Board matters, as first indicated in 2009, our strategy is to add to the Board to ensure continuity of corporate knowledge and experience when we move to a phase of Board recruitments and retirements.
As part of this plan, we have Net written premium growth Dividend increase added two new Non-Executive Directors and an Executive Director.
The Non-Executive Directors are Jos Streppel, who joins us from 9% 4% Holland, our first non-domiciled Non-Executive Director.
Jos has joined the Remuneration Committee Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 | RSA | 7 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED Alastair Barbour joins us from a All are appointed on merit.
We will continue more scrutiny because of their massive scale.
professional audit career and will formally to adopt this approach as being in the best Responsibility for these issues rests elsewhere.
take over the Audit Committee Chair interests of the effective management of from Edward Lea after the AGM.
the Company and in the interests of our I think it essential, however, that every public shareholders.
We are a regulated company company plays its role and undertakes to Both Jos and Alastair have extensive and as such, all senior appointments including review its pay and remuneration practices.
At international insurance industry experience.
Non-Executive Directors have to meet FSA RSA, we plan such a review in 2012 to ensure requirements.
The basis of selection allowed is, that our philosophy of closely aligning reward On the executive front, Adrian Brown who therefore, different than for an average structures with the longer term interests of has been responsible for our UK business non-regulated plc.
shareholders remains a continuing guideline will now take up additional responsibility in principle and in practice.
Adrian has had 23 years In recent times, executive pay, particularly experience at RSA and brings additional annual performance bonuses, has dominated I am pleased to report that Simon Lee, our front line experience to the Board.
This is understandable in the new CEO, has made a strong start and has wake of the anecdotal evidence that excessive hit the road running.
He has completed A comprehensive external review of Board bonuses may have played a major role in the a reorganisation which has deepened and effectiveness in 2010 was also an integral banking crisis, the related obligation put on increased our Executive Committee and part of our succession planning and this is taxpayers to support the banking sector further strengthened some aspects of the reflected by the appointments made and the and the averaged statistical evidence of RSA operational and strategic approach.
effective replacements of the CEO and CFO.
an increased disconnect between senior He brings an outward-facing client focus At the end of the year, the Board carried out management pay generally and FTSE and value-added approach to the business a further internal review of our effectiveness companies performance over recent years.
which complements the strong pricing and consistent with the requirements of the risk disciplines we have embedded in the Corporate Governance Code.
It also decided There is a need for more objective analysis business.
Our objective is to make sustainable now would be an appropriate time to follow and action by individual companies, by industry and satisfactory returns for shareholders the new guidelines on re-electing all directors and by sector.
There is no simple generalisation by increasing revenue and profitability.
annually and as such, all directors will stand that all bonuses are bad and no bonus is good.
The vilification of people doing important and demanding tasks on behalf of taxpayers should Much has been spoken and written externally be silenced by strong government support in Shareholders funds m on diversity.
This is a complex and sometimes those situations where they themselves have divisive subject.
My empirical view is that appointed people to such positions.
3,839 3,801 3,766 diversity in all its aspects has been a key 3,491 3,077 component of the success of the RSA The words excess or unsustainability should Board and the Company.
Diversity is not be restricted to directors and senior about much more than a gender debate.
management in the corporate sector.
The trends in the absolute and relative pay and At RSA, we encompass all aspects conditions, comparative investment, inputs, of diversity including a relatively high relative outputs and efficiency of the public ratio of women non-executives and sector compared to the private sector demand senior executives within the Company.
8 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 INTRODUCTION That brings me to the outlook and dividend.
I am particularly In the more mature economies in Europe, indebted to the contribution made by my we face a slower rate of growth with general colleagues on the Board.
I would like also uncertainty over potential sovereign debt to thank everyone, our managers and impacts still remaining.
Despite a reduced rate employees, for their continuing efforts of global growth, we expect to continue to to improve the service standards and make progress.
We will maintain a prudent performance of the Company.
We expect reserving and investment approach, continue 2012 in market terms to be as challenging as to leverage our strong global footprint and 2011, but we plan to make further progress.
leading market positions with expert risk pricing, claims handling and execution, and plan to achieve further forward momentum.
Much of our essential focus remains unchanged.
On the dividend, while current economic and investment conditions persist, it is prudent to John Napier grow the divided at a more modest rate.
The Chairman Board is recommending an increase in the final divided of 2% to 5.82p, which will give a total dividend of 9.16p up 4% on the prior year.
Going forward, the Group is well placed to return to a higher level of dividend growth when investment yields move to more normal levels and economic growth returns.
In conclusion, therefore, 2011 has been an interesting, busy and successful year for the 2011 net written premiums % 8.1bn Overseas 64 UK 36 visit www.
com Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 | RSA | 9 GROUP CEOS REVIEW CONTINUED DELIVERY In my first report to shareholders as Group net written premiums rose by 9% Profitability was once again excellent.
We Group CEO, I would like to express to 8.1bn in 2011.
Five points of this growth delivered an underwriting result of 264m how privileged I feel to have the came from our 2010 deals, including GCAN and a combined operating ratio of 85.4% opportunity to lead this business in Canada, 123. ie in Ireland and Tesco Pet in while maintaining a strong reserve position.
I joined RSA in 2003 and the UK, which all performed ahead of The Personal underwriting result was very in running the International division, expectations.
Rate on renewed business strong and was driven by Swedish Motor and have been a member of the team drove four points of premium growth as Personal Accident where retention remains that transformed the business into we continued to take positive rating action high.
In Commercial, the underwriting profit the high performing company it is across the Group.
was adversely impacted by storms in July and today.
I truly believe the Group has November, which hit our Property account.
qualities and strengths that most of We also achieved a significant improvement our competitors cannot match and in profitability.
The underwriting result was up Canada we will build on these foundations to by 58% to 375m, with a combined operating Canada reported excellent top line growth generate even stronger performance.
ratio of 94.9%, and the investment result was with premiums up by 19% to 1.5bn, driven by up by 19% to 642m, giving an insurance result a combination of acquisitions, organic initiatives My objective is to have RSA outperform of over 1bn, with strong contributions from and rate.
Personal premiums exceeded 1bn against peers in each of our local markets all regions.
in 2011 with Personal Broker up by 7%, and as a Group as a whole.
I am confident benefiting from strong rate and retention that we can accomplish this goal.
The operating result was up by 38% to and led by growth in Household and the 884m and profit before tax was up by 29% Travel book.
Johnson again outperformed with To help achieve this, I have restructured the to 613m.
The underlying return on average 10% growth, 17 new affinity partners and two business to reflect the significant contribution equity was 11.6%, an improvement of 1.7 acquisitions.
In Commercial, premiums were our Scandinavian and Canadian businesses points.
Net asset value per share of 104p up by 50% to 471m, largely as a result of the make to the Groups results.
I would like to was in line with 2010.
GCAN acquisition but also from 10% organic welcome Mike Holliday-Williams, CEO of growth with strong contributions from Risk Scandinavia, and Rowan Saunders, CEO of REGIONAL OVERVIEW Managed and SME.
Canada, along with Vanessa Evans, our new With effect from 1 January 2012, we have Group Customer and HR Director, to my restructured the business into four regions, Canada delivered a record underwriting executive team.
In June 2012, we will also be Scandinavia, Canada, UK and Western result of 116m, up 45% year on year despite joined by Richard Houghton as CFO.
They Europe and Emerging Markets.
the Slave Lake fire in May, the second most are great additions and I look forward to costly catastrophe in Canadian history.
working with the whole team to take Scandinavia the Group to the next level.
In Scandinavia, premiums were up by 6% to The integration of GCAN is almost complete, 1.8bn.
Personal was up by 5% with growth and the business is performing ahead of A GOOD RESULT IN 2011 in Household, Personal Accident and Danish expectations, delivering 18% premium growth In 2011, we delivered a good performance Motor offset by Norway, where the focus was and market-leading profitability in 2011. in really tough economic and market on improving the profitability of the book.
conditions, with the industry experiencing Commercial was up by 6%, driven by Marine, UK and Western Europe a record level of natural catastrophes and Renewable Energy and Norway, which offset In the UK, premiums were up 6% to 3.1bn.
I am the non-renewal of a small number of large This was led by 10% growth in Personal lines, confident that we are well positioned to accounts in Property and targeted reductions driven by Pet and Household.
outperform in the short term and really in Workers Compensation in the first six well placed as economic growth returns.
10 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 INTRODUCTION In Pet, the Tesco deal is performing ahead of plan with around 130m of premium in its first full year.
Home was up 11%, driven by growth in all distribution channels including a strong performance in Affinity, where we developed a new product for building societies.
We recently secured a deal with the Home Retail Group which, together with a couple of other deals in the pipeline, will maintain momentum in 2012.
In Motor, we continued to focus on profit over growth, pushing hard on rate and premiums dropped by 10%.
In Commercial, we saw growth of 2% with My objective is to outperform against peers Risk Managed Europe up by 19% and Marine in each of our local markets and as a Group up by 9%.
This was offset by a 10% decline in as a whole.
our Regional Mid-Market business where we continued to stick to our guns on price.
Simon Lee, Group CEO The UK underwriting profit was 40m.
Personal delivered an underwriting profit of 60m, led by a strong contribution from Underlying return on Employee engagement Household along with a break-even result in average equity % Survey Engagement participation % score out of 5 Motor.
In Commercial, the underwriting loss reduced to 20m.
Positive contributions from 94 4.34 Marine and Liability were offset by Property, 92 4.21 which was impacted by large losses, and 11.
6% Commercial Motor, where a single large 2010: 9.9% contract will continue to be a drag on profitability.
In Italy, it was a disappointing year.
Market conditions remain very difficult and it is Regulatory capital NAV per share, excluding taking longer to fix the business than we had surplus pension deficit p expected.
The underwriting loss was 63m and comprised further deterioration in Motor and reserve strengthening in General Liability.
The Motor losses reflect changes to and a 1.
3bn 10 8p wider adoption of the Milan Bodily Injury 2.0 x the requirement 2010: 108p Tables and adverse experience on large losses.
While Im not happy with the result, I am convinced we are taking the right action to remediate the business.
Over the last couple Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 | RSA | 11 2010 2011 2010 2011 GROUP CEOS REVIEW CONTINUED of years, we have changed the management In Latin America, we had a really good year.
INVESTING IN PEOPLE team, pushed double digit rate increases, We saw continued strong growth, with double I want to create an environment where people improved our risk mix and have cancelled digit increases led by Argentina and Brazil, and are inspired, encouraged and rewarded to work a large number of unprofitable agents.
In the last four together, develop themselves and be their best.
We expect the impact of these actions to years, premiums have doubled in Latin significantly reduce losses in 2012 and we America and we remain very excited about In 2008, we partnered with Gallup on our staff now expect the business to be close to the potential and prospects for engagement programme, setting ourselves an break-even in 2013. the region.
ambitious target to achieve upper quartile engagement by 2011.
I am pleased to report In contrast, our Irish business had another STRONG FINANCIAL POSITION that we have achieved this.
Gallup has described strong year, despite the economic conditions, The Group maintains a strong financial this achievement as unprecedented, with most with growth of 16%.
123. ie performed well position with a regulatory capital surplus organisations taking five years to accomplish ahead of expectations with 33% premium of 1.3bn or twice the requirement.
what we have managed in three.
We are now growth and we successfully pushed rate the worlds most engaged insurance company across all our main lines of business.
Despite In recognition of our strong competitive in the Gallup database and rank in the top three the November floods, we generated an position and capitalisation, S&P upgraded the financial services companies globally.
In March underwriting profit of 24m and an excellent Groups credit rating to A stable outlook 2012, our UK business ranked 6th in the Sunday COR of 92.6%.
Times Best Big Companies to Work For.
Emerging Markets SUPPORTING CUSTOMERS Id like to take this opportunity to thank Emerging Markets continued its impressive As an insurer, we play a vital role in helping our staff for their continued hard work and top line performance.
Coupled with solid people and businesses recover when the commitment to serving our customers and GDP growth in a number of our markets, worst happens.
Helping customers get their driving the business forward.
we drove an increase in net written lives back on track is our first priority.
premiums of 14% to 1.1bn and, including CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY our Indian associate, to over 1.2bn.
The During 2011, we helped customers recover Behaving responsibly and ethically has underwriting profit was 3m, with Latin from severe weather events in locations a positive impact on our people, our America performing well but the overall around the world including Ireland, Denmark, communities and the environment in which result being hampered by severe weather Thailand and the Baltics.
In addition, the Slave we operate.
Our approach to corporate events in Thailand and the Baltics.
Lake wildfire was the second most costly responsibility remains practical and is focused catastrophe in Canadian history.
I am proud on three key themes: the environment, In Asia and the Middle East, premium of how our staff handled all of these events, road safety and social inclusion.
growth of 14% to 214m was led by and what they did to help our customers Specialty lines and our businesses in get back on their feet as quickly as possible.
The launch of RSAs Arctic Challenge in 2011 Oman and Singapore.
Our Indian associate saw over 10,000 of our employees actively continued to grow rapidly, with premiums In 2011, we also laid the groundwork for the participate to reduce their carbon footprint, up by 19%.
launch of our global Customer Engagement develop the best business green ideas Survey, which will give us a consistent view of and fundraise for WWF or for other green Across Central and Eastern Europe, growth how our customers view us.
This will help us charities.
The campaign increased awareness returned with premiums up by 8%.
We to understand our customers better and make of our partnership with WWF and highlighted remain the number one insurer in the Baltics, improvements to the services we offer.
the role insurers should play in combating maintaining our market leading positions climate change.
In Estonia, our recent partnership with SEB will build scale in that business.
12 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 INTRODUCTION STRATEGY 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 I am confident in our ability to deliver sustained outperformance.
We have built a Net written premiums m 8,138 7,455 6,737 6,462 5,837 diversified general insurance business and are Underwriting result m 375 238 386 384 278 rightly known for the quality of our people, Operating result m 884 641 777 867 814 our focus on technical capability and our track Combined operating ratio % 94.9 96.4 94.6 94.5 94.9 record of delivering operational efficiencies.
Underlying return on average equity % 11.6 9.9 13.4 16.4 19.3 We have a strong and experienced management team who provide continuity In 2011, we extended our work on Road more heavily indebted economies, such and are determined to build on our existing Safety around the world.
This included a new as those in peripheral Europe and the UK, track record of success.
eyesight campaign in the UK, encouraging struggled to generate economic growth as stronger regulation around eyesight tests they implemented fiscal austerity measures.
Retain fundamental strengths for driving licence renewals.
Our child safety In contrast, the lower debt economies such We have transformed RSA since 2003 and, programme was extended to another as Canada and Sweden generated more solid as we move forward, the qualities that have 40 primary schools in the UK.
growth and some emerging market economies contributed to that success will stay in place.
We will remain a pure-play general insurer Across the Group, we also launched our with a well diversified portfolio of businesses: Global Charitable Programme to support Our portfolio of diversified businesses in both we will persist with our rigorous focus on employees who help in their local mature and emerging markets is one of our underwriting discipline: we will maintain our communities.
Employees anywhere within key strengths in enabling the Group to deliver conservative approach to reinsurance and RSA can now apply for matched funding, consistent and resilient earnings performance reserving: we will stick with our high quality, a charitable grant or a charitable secondment in this challenging environment.
low risk investment strategy: and we will for up to three months.
The programme continue to deliver sustainable is aimed at helping improve employee REGULATION underwriting profitability.
engagement, supporting local charitable As an industry, European insurers are facing organisations and promoting RSA in the largest regulatory change experienced in Build on firm foundations the community.
many years, in the form of Solvency II.
We We are building on firm foundations.
continue to make good progress on this and Firstly, we have a unique footprint with INDUSTRY AND MARKET OVERVIEW RSA is investing significant time and resources our portfolio of diversified businesses The industry experienced record natural to meet all the requirements of the directive in both mature and emerging markets catastrophe losses in 2011, with earthquakes, in the proposed time frame.
which has helped us outperform in both a devastating tsunami, destructive floods and profitability and growth.
severe weather affecting many lives.
We welcome the Governments commitment to reforming the practices that have led to In the UK, we have leading positions in both We also faced challenging economic times.
a growing compensation culture in the UK Personal and Commercial lines.
This is an Global economic recovery lost momentum in and a dysfunctional motor market.
We extremely competitive market which brings the latter part of 2011, with the combination of fundamentally believe that wholesale reform real advantages to the Group in terms of fiscal policy tightening and the continuing crisis is required that includes a market-wide ban technical expertise and pricing sophistication.
in the Eurozone taking its toll on both business on referral fees, changes to the structure of However, it has also brought a challenge to and consumer confidence.
Once again, the personal injury legal fees and in payments deliver sustainable profitability and, while I for soft tissue injuries.
am pleased with the progress made, there Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 | RSA | 13 GROUP CEOS REVIEW CONTINUED is more to be done.
In Ireland, we have a We have a well deserved reputation for Scandinavia really well run business which has significantly disciplined, high quality underwriting and Scandinavia is led by Mike Holliday-Williams.
outperformed its competition over a claims management.
Mike has been there for 12 months after number of years and will continue to do so.
a successful period running our UK Personal Thirdly, we have a powerful track record business.
I have been working with Mike In Canada and Scandinavia, we have strong of delivering operational efficiencies.
Since on a new strategy which draws upon positions in attractive and mature markets.
2004, we have generated significant annualised both the benefits of the Group and Mikes These businesses have driven the profitability cost savings and in 2011, the UK achieved its own experience of customer-led initiatives.
of the Group and will continue to be expense ratio target of around 14% a year This will protect our leadership positions in significant contributors.
This rigorous focus on Swedish Motor and Personal Accident and efficiency will continue.
drive improved performance in our Danish We have an exciting franchise in Emerging and Norwegian operations.
We will build out Markets with good businesses in our chosen Finally, we have a talented and experienced our sub-scale Specialty franchise and generate markets.
Strong GDP growth and increasing management team who collectively have more business through our global broking insurance penetration mean that these driven our success over a number of years.
partners Willis, AON and Marsh.
We are markets will continue to do well.
determined to take advantage of our position Diversified Portfolio as the only scale player in Scandinavia with Secondly, one of our main sources of One of our key strengths is our diversified a global presence.
competitive advantage is technical capability.
portfolio with around 64% of NWP generated Over the years weve recruited some high outside of the UK.
I want to further drive the quality technical specialists as well as invested growth of our overseas businesses while in best in class training and development.
enhancing their already strong profitability.
DELIVER SUSTAINED OUTPERFORMANCE ORGANIC INITIATIVES SUPPORTED BY BOLT-ON ACQUISITIONS CAPITALISE ON GLOBAL NETWORK AND TECHNICAL EXPERTISE IN SPECIALTY CUSTOMER-LED STRATEGY CONTINUED STRONG BUILD SCALE IMPROVE PROFITABILITY IN IN SCANDINAVIA GROWTH IN CANADA IN EMERGING MARKETS UK AND WESTERN EUROPE TALENTED AND EXPERIENCED MANAGEMENT TEAM RIGOROUS FOCUS ON OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCIES DISCIPLINED, HIGH QUALITY UNDERWRITING AND CLAIMS MANAGEMENT WITH CONSERVATIVE APPROACH TO REINSURANCE AND RESERVING PURE-PLAY GENERAL INSURER WITH A DIVERSIFIED PORTFOLIO OF BUSINESSES IN MATURE AND EMERGING MARKETS 14 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 FOUNDATIONS REGIONAL GROUP INTRODUCTION Canada Across the Group, we have a range of actions continue to outperform and take the In Canada, Rowan Saunders has done a great that will drive the business forward and continue Group to the next level.
job for a number of years, taking us from to deliver strong profitability.
In terms of overall number ten to number three in the market, shape, last year we set a target for overseas CONFIDENT OUTLOOK while producing market-leading profitability.
premiums to be around 70% of total NWP In terms of 2012, it is clear that the external The priorities I have given Rowan are to by 2015.
I now want to be close to that in 2014. environment is going to remain tough, with continue to extract value from the GCAN I also want to make clear that this is a staging record low yields and subdued economic deal, strengthen the geographical footprint post rather than an end in itself.
growth in some of our markets.
Despite this, of our business, including greater scale in we remain confident of driving another Quebec, and build on our outstanding track Product Diversification strong operating performance and expect to record at Johnson, where I would expect Another of our strengths is our product deliver good premium growth, a combined continued double digit growth.
diversification, split roughly half and half operating ratio of better than 95%, and between Personal and Commercial.
Within investment income of around 500m.
Emerging Markets Personal, weve made good progress, growing In Emerging Markets, Paul Whittaker will be the top line by around 50% since 2007.
Looking further ahead, we have a successful looking to build scale and capitalise on the and diversified portfolio of operations, a potential of these markets.
Growth will In Commercial, growth has been more high quality, low risk investment strategy, be led by organic initiatives but will also modest.
The exception is Specialty, which has an excellent and experienced management be supplemented by bolt-on acquisitions.
Even so, we have yet to team and a clear strategy to drive the Group We have previously set a target of generating fully capitalise on our global network and forward.
We have a resilient business and are 2.2bn in premiums by 2015.
I will be working technical expertise.
I really want to focus strongly placed as economic growth returns with Paul to see how we can beat this.
on developing our strengths in Marine, and yields improve.
Renewable Energy, Construction & UK and Western Europe Engineering and Risk Managed business.
Finally, I would also like to thank Andy Haste, In the UK and Western Europe, Adrian Brown who led this business so well for many years and I have been re-positioning the UK to M&A and George Culmer, who has been maximise its contribution and make it a more This has been a key part of the way we have invaluable to both the business over the focused business.
We will do this by growing built the Group over the past few years and longer term and to me personally during in areas of strategic advantage including Home, we have had particular success in International my transition to Group CEO.
It has been Pet and Risk Managed.
In Motor, we will focus with deals such as 123. ie, GCAN and the a pleasure to work with both of them over on fewer segments and in Commercial Property Codan minority buy-out.
Going forward, the last eight years and I wish them all the we will convert our leading market share into my focus will be on bolt-on acquisitions.
We will also take a more targeted approach to our broker distribution.
Summary I remain pragmatic about the challenges In Italy, the focus will be on fixing the business and opportunities that we face.
Where and returning it to profit.
Whereas in Ireland, I see underperforming businesses or we will create strong value from 123. ie and lines of business with no viable routes to continue to deliver market-leading profitability outperformance we will take decisive action.
With these steps, I am confident Group Chief Executive that our businesses in the UK and Western With the combination of the strong platform Europe will come to contribute much weve built and the actions we are now greater levels of profitability.
emphasising, Im confident that we will visit www.
com Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 | RSA | 15 BUSINESS REVIEW 18 Scandinavia business review 20 Canada business review 22 UK and Western Europe business review 24 Emerging Markets business review 26 Financial review 30 Risk review 34 Corporate responsibility GLOBAL SPECIALTY LINES OUR GLOBAL SPECIALTY LINES BUSINESS SUPPORTS THE INSURANCE NEEDS OF LARGE AND SPECIALIST BUSINESSES AROUND THE WORLD.
OUR PHILOSOPHY IS SIMPLE, ITS ABOUT UNDERSTANDING OUR CUSTOMERS BUSINESSES, INSIDE OUT AND BACK TO FRONT.
This means we can provide solutions tailored to suit each individual business requirements.
We bring our experience to bear at every stage, providing the right people and expertise for the lifetime of the partnership.
OUR SPECIALIST EXPERTISE Our reputation has been built upon consistent delivery from our highly skilled and market-leading Underwriting, Operations, Claims and Risk Management teams, as well as a deep expertise in all lines of business and specific industry sectors.
With our expertise in complex, non-conventional arrangements, we are able to arrange bespoke, multinational insurance programmes, giving customers consistency in cover while complying with local regulations.
Global Specialty Lines is organised into these areas of expertise Construction, Engineering and Renewable Energy Marine Large and Risk Managed businesses.
All of our specialisms are supported by our dedicated team of risk engineers, who identify and assess the customers risks and design customised and comprehensive risk improvement programmes.
Global Specialty Lines is represented in most of our key RSA operations around the world, utilising our network of partners to deliver solutions locally in around 140 countries, ensuring we can match the global footprints of our customers.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 | RSA | 17 SCANDINAVIA WE ARE THE THIRD LARGEST INSURER IN DENMARK AND SWEDEN, WITH A GROWING PRESENCE IN NORWAY KEY STRATEGIES Invest in our people There was continued good growth Our Scandinavian business has been a key We already deliver excellent leadership momentum in Danish Bancassurance and driver of the Groups profitability in recent and technical training to our people and our distribution capacity was strengthened years.
Going forward, we expect to continue have market-leading people engagement.
in October 2011, when we launched our to deliver a strong underwriting result.
We We aim to improve this further through Household insurance offering with SEB, will look to protect our leadership positions our increased customer focus.
the second largest bank in Sweden.
in areas such as Motor, Personal Accident and Renewable Energy while improving 2011 OVERVIEW The underwriting result was up by 25% profitability in Denmark and Norway.
As In 2011, our Scandinavian businesses performed to 248m despite the adverse weather, well as this, we plan to fully capitalise on the strongly.
Net written premium grew by 6% driven mainly by another strong opportunities in Specialty and with global to 1.8bn 2% at constant exchange, the performance from Swedish Personal brokers that arise from being the only scale underwriting result was an excellent 264m Motor and Personal Accident, where player in the region with a global presence.
and the COR was 85.4% despite a cloudburst we have strong customer retention.
over Copenhagen in July, during which two Reflecting this, the strategic priorities set months rain fell in two hours, and storms MARKET CONDITIONS by the management team include across Scandinavia in November.
In Scandinavia, early indications were that there would be some economic recovery Increase growth in each of our Commercial lines during 2011 though, as with elsewhere in businesses and improve profitability Net written premiums are up by 6% Europe, the recovery faded in the latter We aim to grow profitably in our target 3% at constant exchange to 842m, part of the year.
The Scandinavian insurance core segments, to increase our business with particularly strong growth in Renewable market remains stable and attractive.
with key brokers and to strengthen our Energy, Marine and Norway.
Growth in position within focus areas such as Care, Norway is principally from Care, supported Against this backdrop, we continued to deliver Bancassurance and key target segments by a new agreement with the agent Vertikal, strong profitability and maintained good top in Commercial lines which extended our distribution network.
line momentum in our target growth areas.
Improve the customer experience The underwriting result was 16m.
Motor CUSTOMER We aim to define more clearly the sales, and Workers Compensation again performed In 2011, Scandinavia launched its service and claims promises for our well, though the Property business was Think!Customer strategy.
An important customers and to deliver them more impacted by adverse weather.
part of this is the Brilliant Service consistently every time.
We will focus programme, through which customer on retaining our existing customers Personal lines research and feedback from partners and improve our customer proposition Net written premiums grew by 5% to and front line staff has been used to to target new ones 982m up by 1% at constant exchange.
This has led to the development of Improve operational efficiency with Premium growth was driven by strong a customer dashboard and delivery the right systems and processes performances in Danish Motor and Swedish of actions to improve the customer We will continue to invest in upgrading Personal Accident, which was supported by experience.
We are already seeing the our sales, claims and policy and the launch of a new product during 2011. benefit in the business, with improvements administration systems to make it This was partly offset by Norway where our to customer satisfaction and retention.
easier for customers to deal with us main focus was on improving the profitability of the portfolio.
18 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 BUSINESS REVIEW Scandinavia has been a key driver of the Groups result in recent years and we expect to continue to deliver strong underwriting profitability.
Mike Holliday-Williams, Chief Executive, Scandinavia PEOPLE 2011 net written premiums % HIGHLIGHTS Staff engagement is important to the success Mike Holliday-Williams appointed of the business.
In 2011, we continued to as CEO, after a successful period invest in a wide range of technical and running UK Personal lines business vocational training for our staff and we have 1,824m Strategic priorities refreshed, giving had great involvement from them in events even greater focus on customers such as our health and climate weeks.
Total NWP growth of 6% to 1,824m We continue to complete the Gallup Personal lines growth of 5%, driven Engagement survey, where we again saw a by Household, Personal Accident significant improvement.
Our Think!Customer Personal 54 and Danish Motor strategy is about driving our people agenda, Commercial 46 Commercial lines NWP growth as we focus on recruiting and retaining people of 6% driven by Renewable Energy, with a real customer mindset.
2011 net written premiums m Marine and Norway 2012 OUTLOOK An excellent underwriting result In 2012, real GDP growth is expected of 264m and COR of 85.4% to remain positive but at a low level in despite adverse weather 1,824m Denmark and Norway.
The economic Net loss of c35m from Copenhagen slowdown is also expected to have an cloudburst in July and November storms.
impact on Sweden for the first time.
Trading conditions are therefore expected Sweden 957 to continue to be challenging, although Denmark 733 less so than in some other parts of Europe.
Norway 134 Despite this environment, we are confident of delivering our new strategy and Combined operating ratio % Rate movement % continuing to deliver strong underwriting 91.4 8 profitability in 2012.
7 7 88.3 86.2 85.4 85.4 2 1 Underwriting result m Personal Motor Personal Household 264 254 Commercial Motor 242 Commercial Liability 190 Commercial Property Movement in renewal rate for 116 December 2011 v December 2010 visit www.
com Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 | RSA | 19 2007 2007 2008 2008 2009 2009 2010 2010 2011 2011 CANADA WE ARE THE THIRD LARGEST GENERAL INSURER IN THE CANADIAN MARKET, OPERATING AS RSA THROUGH BROKERS AND AS JOHNSON FOR DIRECT BUSINESS KEY STRATEGIES Property was up by 54% and Liability Johnson also completed two acquisitions and In 2011, we continued to focus up by 79%, both driven predominantly advanced its corporate partnership strategy on sustainable, profitable growth, by the GCAN acquisition, while our Motor with the announcement in the fourth quarter delivered through five core strategies portfolio grew by 28% supported of a new relationship with Canadian Tire, by excellent retention.
A business value proposition that allows us to be an end-to-end solution for our We broadened our appetite in the SME Personal Broker partners and customers segment during 2011, with the launch of Premiums grew by 7% 7% at constant Targeted acquisitions focusing a refreshed product and a new e-trading exchange driven primarily by rate and key on bolt-on transactions platform that positions us well for growth account wins with global brokers in Property.
Maintaining our focus on affinity in 2012. business in Johnson During the fourth quarter of 2011, we Rigorous commitment to In terms of underwriting result, Commercial launched our Private Client Insurance offering underwriting discipline lines delivered another strong performance.
tailored for high net worth customers, which Expanding our appetite in our core The underwriting profit for the year was evolves our advice based customer strategy specialised segments through the 42m, benefiting from the acquisition of and positions us well for the coming year.
We continued to expand our Personal 2011 OVERVIEW Personal lines Specialty Insurance offering with the During 2011, RSA Canada continued to Net written premiums grew by 9% to acquisition of etfs, a large Travel insurer, outperform its peers through a combination 1,012m 9% at constant exchange driven which solidifies RSAs position as a top of acquisition and organic growth across by strong growth across both Johnson and three Travel insurer in the Canadian market.
both Commercial and Personal lines.
MARKET CONDITIONS Net written premiums grew by 19% 19% Our underwriting result also continues Canada continued to weather the global at constant exchange to 1,483m, driven to benefit from improved underwriting economic downturn, maintaining a strong mainly by the GCAN acquisition, which was sophistication and segmentation.
The credit rating and high employment levels, completed in January 2011, supplemented by Personal lines underwriting result was a while the dollar continued to appreciate strong growth in Johnson, Personal Broker very strong 74m and the COR was 92.3%, against major currencies.
GDP growth, and other Commercial lines.
despite incurring a net loss of 11m from the while low, did remain in positive territory.
This was offset by improved We delivered a record underwriting result, loss ratios within our Motor portfolio resulting CUSTOMER up by 45% to 116m and our COR was from reforms enforced by the Province of In 2011, we implemented an upgraded 91.6% despite the Slave Lake fire in May, Ontario during 2010.
Home and Motor system that improves which was the second largest insured customer service and reduces transaction loss in Canadas history.
As a result of its strong customer focus, Our Direct business had another strong year Johnson was awarded some of the highest Commercial lines with continued double digit top line growth customer service scores in Canada by J. D. Premiums grew by 50% to 471m 50% at to 555m, driven by strong new business in Power and Associates.
constant exchange driven by the acquisition Household and Motor, excellent retention, of GCAN, which contributed around 40 rate and the addition of 17 new affinity points of the growth, retention and rate.
20 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 BUSINESS REVIEW This was a great year for Canada, as well as successfully integrating GCAN, we became the third largest general insurer in the Canadian market, up from number 10 five years ago.
Rowan Saunders, Chief Executive, Canada PEOPLE Net written premiums m HIGHLIGHTS In 2012, RSA Canada has moved its Toronto Became the third largest insurer in Canada Head Office into a new, environmentallyNWP growth of 19% to 1.5bn 1,483 certified building, creating a work environment Commercial lines NWP growth 1,245 that promotes engagement and fosters of 50% due mainly to GCAN innovation for our employees.
1,021 Johnson growth of 10% with 17 new 884 sponsorship groups and two acquisitions 703 TECHNICAL EXCELLENCE Personal Broker NWP growth The acquisition of GCAN has broadened of 7% driven by Household our product offering in line with the rest of the Group, expanded our technical expertise A record underwriting result of 116m and strengthened our position in the and COR of 91.6% despite Slave Lake Canadian Large Commercial and Specialty GCAN integration almost complete.
market, positioning us as a top five Commercial insurer.
The integration is almost complete and synergies between 2011 net written premiums % Underwriting result m RSA and GCAN have had a positive impact on both retention and new 116 business prospects.
1,483m 80 2012 OUTLOOK 2011 was a great year for RSA Canada, as well 63 57 as successfully integrating GCAN, we became 50 the third largest general insurer in the market, up from number 10 five years ago.
Johnson 37 Personal Broker 31 By focusing on driving further value from Commercial 32 the acquisition of GCAN, strengthening the geographical footprint of our business 2011 underwriting result % Combined operating ratio % and building on Johnsons outstanding track record, we are confident of delivering 93.5 continued strong growth and profitability 92.9 92.8 92.4 in 2012.
116m 91.6 Johnson 32 Personal Broker 32 Commercial 36 visit www.
com Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 | RSA | 21 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2007 2008 2008 2009 2009 2010 2010 2011 2011 UK AND WESTERN EUROPE WE ARE ONE OF THE UKS LARGEST COMMERCIAL AND PERSONAL LINES INSURERS WITH A REPUTATION FOR TECHNICAL EXCELLENCE.
WE ARE THE SECOND LARGEST INSURER IN IRELAND, WHERE WE OUTPERFORM THE MARKET ON BOTH THE TOP AND BOTTOM LINE.
IN ITALY, WE HAVE A NICHE BUSINESS, FOCUSED MAINLY ON MOTOR KEY STRATEGIES UK Commercial We delivered a much improved underwriting UK Net written premiums of 1,723m were up by result of 60m led by Household, with Motor The UK remains our most competitive market 2% on last year, driven by strong growth in our breaking-even as expected following and our strategy of targeting profitable growth Specialty business, with Marine up by 9% and continued management action.
and withdrawing capacity in areas where we European Risk Managed up by 19%.
Growth cannot achieve our target returns is unchanged.
of 9% in Motor reflects the phasing of a large Italy three year contract and, excluding this The market remains challenging, however, the We are repositioning the business to contract, premiums reduced by 15%.
underwriting loss of 63m was disappointing.
maximise its contribution to the Group The result was driven by adverse prior year and make it more focused.
We plan to deliver The underwriting loss of 20m improved development in Motor and General Third improved underwriting profitability by focusing compared with last year and includes strong Party Liability caused by changes to and a on areas where we have a strategic advantage performances in Marine and Liability offset by wider adoption of the Milan Bodily Injury such as Home, Pet, Marine and Risk Managed.
In Commercial Motor, the Tables and large losses.
We continued to take In Motor, we will target fewer segments, while COR improved by 4.9 points to 104.8%, however, action to remediate the business, significantly in Commercial Property we will work to losses on a significant contract will continue to reducing volumes, cancelling contracts with convert our leading market share into sustained act as a drag on the result going forward.
underperforming agents and pushing through underwriting profitability.
Our distribution double digit rate increases.
will also become more targeted as we focus UK Personal on a smaller number of key intermediaries.
Our track record of strong top line growth Ireland continued in 2011, with premiums up by 10% Net written premiums grew by 16% to 353m Western Europe to 1,364m driven by the Tesco Pet deal and driven by the acquisition of 123. ie, which The remediation of Italy remains a priority Household partially offset by Motor, which generated premiums of 81m.
The underwriting and the management team continues to remains very challenging.
result was 24m and the COR 92.6% driven by take extensive action to achieve this.
a strong Personal lines result and despite In Pet, premiums more than doubled to significant flooding in November 2011.
In Ireland, we look to drive strong value 197m with Tesco Pet exceeding expectations from 123. ie and maintain our marketand generating around 130m of premiums.
The UK remains one of the Groups most Household premiums are up by 11% due competitive markets.
Price comparison sites 2011 OVERVIEW to strong retention and rate, the acquisition continue to expand beyond Motor, growing in UK of Oak Underwriting in April 2011, which Home and Pet.
Commercial lines also remains We delivered a good top line result, with net specialises in high net worth insurance, and tough, with a reduction in the volume of new written premiums up by 6% to 3.1bn, driven the development of a new product for building business coming onto the market.
by growth in both Commercial and Personal.
In MORE TH N Motor, we reduced capacity whilst increasing rates and Both Ireland and Italys economies had a tough The underwriting profit of 40m benefited continuing to focus on strong fraud controls 2011 and we expect the resultant spending from both management actions and improved at both the application and claims stages.
cuts to have a considerable impact in 2012. weather and compares to a loss of 95m in 2010, which was impacted by the winter freeze.
Our Affinity business continues to grow and CUSTOMER our reputation as a supportive and innovative We continue to put customers at the centre We remain committed to cost control partner has enabled us to build a healthy pipeline of everything we do.
In the UK, we now offer and have achieved our target expense of opportunities.
We recently announced a new our Personal customers a single point of contact ratio excluding commissions of around partnership with Home Retail Group which will for their policy and claims queries, to make their 14% a year ahead of schedule.
help drive further momentum in 2012. experience with us as easy as possible.
22 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 BUSINESS REVIEW With the action we are taking, Im confident that the UK and Western Europe will come to deliver greater levels of profitability.
Adrian Brown, Chief Executive, UK and Western Europe In UK Commercial we continue to develop UK net written premiums m UK HIGHLIGHTS our broker relationships, launching e-Promise NWP up 6% with growth across 3,087 as a direct result of SME broker feedback.
Personal and Commercial 2,925 2,711 2,688 Personal 2,632 Underwriting profit of 40m 10% growth PEOPLE Achieved expense ratio of c14% Commercial Our UK business was recently ranked 6th a year early 2% growth in the Sunday Times Best Big Companies Ranked 6th in Sunday Times to Work For and were one of only Best Big Companies to Work For 17 companies within Gallups database Won Insurance Times Claims Initiative of companies employing more than of the Year 1,000 people to achieve UK expense ratio % Repositioning the business to world-class engagement.
become more targeted and focused.
18 TECHNICAL EXCELLENCE 17 17 UK COMMERCIAL Our UK business continues to build on Net Written Premiums grew 15 its reputation for technical excellence and 14 at 2% to 1,723m in 2011, won the Insurance Times Claims Underwriting loss of 20m, good Initiative of the Year for our industry-leading performance in Marine and Liability Home Claims Customer Tracker, which offset by Motor and Property.
enables us to deliver a smoother service, improving the customer experience, UK PERSONAL UK combined operating ratio % and gives us greater control over our Net Written Premiums grew claims costs.
at 10% to 1,364m 102.2 Pet continues to grow strongly with 98.2 98.0 97.6 97.6 OUTLOOK Tesco delivering c130m NWP In the UK, we are encouraged by indications Underwriting profit of 60m that the Government is going to make led by Home.
regulatory changes which will improve what has become a dysfunctional Motor market.
ITALY More broadly, we will continue to re-position Underwriting loss of 63m the business to make it more focused and Taking the right action to remediate maximise its contribution to the Groups Ireland net written premium growth the business underwriting profit.
Expect losses to be significantly reduced in 2012 and to be close to break-even In Italy, we expect losses to be significantly in 2013. reduced in 2012 and the business to be close 16 % to break-even in 2013.
In Ireland, we expect Reported IRELAND to continue to outperform peers and NWP growth of 16% due mainly maintain our market-leading positions.
Ireland combined operating ratio to the acquisition of 123. ie Excellent COR of 92.6% despite With the action we are taking, Im confident the floods in November that the UK and Western Europe will come to deliver greater levels of profitability.
6% Expect to maintain 2010: 90.9% market-leading position.
com Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 | RSA | 23 2007 2007 2007 2008 2008 2008 2009 2009 2009 2010 2010 2010 2011 2011 2011 EMERGING MARKETS EMERGING MARKETS OPERATES ACROSS 21 COUNTRIES WITH LEADING POSITIONS IN LATIN AMERICA, ASIA AND THE MIDDLE EAST AND CENTRAL AND EASTERN EUROPE KEY STRATEGIES including the floods in Thailand and Oman.
In Marine, premiums are up 21% and we We remain committed to delivering The COR of 98.7% was in line with last year.
continue to hold market-leading positions profitable growth.
We aim to achieve this in a number of our territories including through expanding distribution, ensuring Latin America Brazil, where premiums grew by 26%.
disciplined underwriting and strong control Premiums are up by 17% to 670m 18% at whilst improving operational performance.
constant exchange, with double digit growth In SME, we are focusing on streamlining our in five countries.
Argentina and Brazil grew processes and propositions, making it easier We focus on markets where we can particularly strongly, with premiums up by for brokers and customers to work with us.
establish a meaningful presence, either in 42% and 22% respectively.
overall market share or in segments where MARKET CONDITIONS we have a competitive advantage.
Central and Eastern Europe In 2011, improved market conditions prevailed Premiums are up by 8% to 219m 8% at in most of the countries in which we operate.
Our organic strategy is supported by targeted constant exchange.
Growth returned to In Latin America, unemployment rates were acquisitions, which bring us scale or enhanced the Baltics during 2011 and we maintained at historical lows and consumer demand technical capability in a market or segment.
Our Direct continued to increase in each of our markets.
businesses in Poland, Russia and the Czech Across Asia and the Middle East, economies Our strategy continues to focus on Affinity, Republic now insure over 400,000 vehicles.
GDP grew across the Baltics Specialty, Motor, Marine and Small and and unemployment levels stabilised.
In each of these Asia and the Middle East areas we develop solutions which can be Premiums are up by 14% to 214m 16% PEOPLE replicated across our regions effectively at constant exchange, with Oman up by Talented people are key to our success and and efficiently.
48%, driven by the acquisition in 2010 of we continue to invest in our people through Al Ahlia and strong growth in Specialty technical and management development 2011 OVERVIEW across the region.
There are currently 44 In 2011, we set our target for Emerging Emerging Markets employees participating Markets premium to double to around Our Indian associate grew by 19% to in the Groups programmes.
2.2bn by the end of 2015 and we 138m 25% at constant exchange remain on track to achieve this.
We continue to promote international mobility to give our developing talent the opportunity Net written premiums are up by 14% STRATEGIC PRIORITIES to gain experience in other markets and to 1,103m 15% at constant exchange Affinity continues to be a key growth driver support the accelerated deployment of and including our Indian associate, total in Latin America, where we signed 17 new capability from developed markets.
deals in 2011 and in Central and Eastern take the form of short term secondments as Europe, where we signed three new well as longer term transfers.
We currently Throughout the year we have continued distribution partnerships.
have 36 staff on assignments outside of their to maintain underwriting discipline despite home countries across Emerging Markets.
Where necessary, we In Specialty, Asia Middle East grew premiums have taken strong pricing action to achieve by 24% and our Latin American Engineering This focus on talent development helps our target returns and we have maintained a business grew by 15% in 2011. provide a strong pipeline of leadership talent tight grip on expenses.
Our underwriting and Im pleased to say that 9 of our 21 result of 3m 2010: 12m reflects a strong In Motor, we continue to focus on pricing business CEOs were promoted from previous performance from Latin America offset by the sophistication to deliver competitive roles within the Group.
Baltics and Asia and the Middle East, which advantage and continue to invest were impacted by large and weather losses, in specialist pricing resources.
24 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 BUSINESS REVIEW Emerging Markets continues to deliver excellent top line growth and we remain confident of achieving our Net Written Premium target of 2.2bn by 2015.
Paul Whittaker, Chief Executive, Emerging Markets TECHNICAL EXCELLENCE NWP with Indian associate m EMERGING MARKETS We have enhanced and aligned our NWP growth of 15% underwriting, claims and risk engineering COR of 98.7% impacted by 1,241 technical capabilities to our target growth severe weather 1,080 areas.
We have recruited additional 954 On track for 2.2bn NWP by the 878 expertise focusing on bancassurance, retail end of 2015. and utility segments in Affinity.
In Specialty, 688 we have enhanced our proposition with LATIN AMERICA dedicated risk consultants, who are Latin America net written premium specialists in the engineering segment.
In growth of 17% addition, the skills of senior underwriters Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Mexico and have been further enhanced through Uruguay all delivered double digit growth advanced technical training with their counterparts across the RSA Group.
Won 17 new Affinity deals in 2011.
Combined operating ratio % 2012 OUTLOOK ASIA AND THE MIDDLE EAST Latin America remains buoyant and, Asia Middle East grew by 14% as the largest region in the Emerging Oman grew 48% due to the acquisition Markets portfolio, we are excited 98.
7% of Al Ahlia in May 2010 about the opportunities this presents.
2010: 98.7% Delivered strong NWP growth in Hong Kong and Singapore Specialty lines In contrast, economic recovery in Central 2011 Latin America NWP growth % India grew at 19% with continued growth and Eastern Europe is expected to slow in the Motor market.
down in 2012 as a consequence of the 42 Eurozone crisis.
We will look to build CENTRAL AND EASTERN EUROPE 22 on our leading positions in this market.
Central and Eastern Europe grew by 8% We have maintained our market-leading In Asia and the Middle East, we 14 position in the Baltics expect Specialty to perform well 13 12 as governments continue initiatives Direct businesses across Poland, Russia to stimulate domestic economies.
and the Czech Republic grew by 9% and we now insure over 400,000 vehicles.
Emerging Markets offers huge growth potential for the Group and we will continue to invest in the region.
We are confident Argentina Uruguay Mexico of achieving our net written premium target Brazil Colombia of around 2.2bn by the end of 2015 and constant exchange are looking to accelerate this.
CEE Direct vehicles insured 400,000 2010: 340,000 visit www.
com Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 | RSA | 25 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 FINANCIAL REVIEW A GOOD PERFORMANCE IN CHALLENGING CONDITIONS RESULTS OVERVIEW represented around 7pts of the loss ratio and Compensation, as well as UK Marine.
Across In 2011, the Group delivered a good were 55m higher than the prior year, despite the other years, together with Scandinavia, result in challenging conditions.
Despite 2010 including the Chilean earthquake net loss weve seen consistent positive contributions historically low investment yields and of 30m.
Weather accounted for 2.4pts of the from UK Commercial lines and Canadian record levels of catastrophe losses for loss ratio and was around 130m better than Motor and General Liability.
the industry, we delivered premium growth 2010.
This, however, was still worse than of 9%, a 58% increase in the underwriting expected, particularly in the second six The Group continues to adopt a prudent result to 375m, a COR of 94.9% and months of the year when weather accounted reserving policy for both current and overall a 19% increase in the investment result for 3.4pts of the loss ratio, due to the floods reserves and, given our prudent reserving to 642m.
in Denmark, Ireland and Thailand.
policy, we continue to expect positive prior year development to be a significant NET WRITTEN PREMIUMS 2011 saw a record level of natural catastrophe feature of the underwriting result.
Net written premiums were up by 9% losses across the industry.
The Group, to 8.1bn 8% on constant exchange, with however, benefited from its focus on Investment result 5% growth driven by 2010 deals including underwriting discipline and prudent The investment result increased by 19% to GCAN, 123. ie and Tesco Pet.
The net impact of 642m and comprised investment income renewals has added 4 points as we continued the earthquakes in Japan and New Zealand of 579m and total gains of 157m offset to take action across the Group.
Volumes and the flooding in Australia in the first by the discount unwind of 94m.
were marginally down, with reductions in quarter was around 12m, the Scandinavian UK Personal Motor and Regional Mid-Market storms in July and November were around Investment income of 579m was up by Commercial offsetting growth in Emerging 35m, the floods in Ireland and Thailand 2% and benefited from continued action to Markets, Canada and Specialty lines.
Overall were 24m and 17m respectively and in mitigate the impact of falling yields, as well as volume reductions were offset by a 1% Canada, the Slave Lake fire cost 11m.
a number of exceptional items including a benefit from foreign exchange.
25m rent settlement in Denmark, around The prior year result of 229m reflected 10m from a combination of stronger Swedish OPERATING RESULT positive run off from all regions and includes index-linked income due to higher inflation The operating result was up by 38% to another strong contribution from International, levels and one-off dividends from equity 884m 2010: 641m with the movement with profits in Swedish Personal lines, Danish and preference share holdings.
on the prior year due primarily to the Liability and Canadian Motor and Liability.
The average underlying yield on the portfolio Looking at the prior year result by accident excluding the yield on the ADC funds Underwriting result year, 2010 has shown initial adverse withheld account was 3.9% 2010: 3.8%.
The underwriting result was up by 58% deterioration of 36m, which primarily Excluding one-offs, the average underlying yield to 375m 2010: 238m with a current comprised 17m from Italy and 13m of was 3.6% with a 1.3% return on cash assets year underwriting profit of 146m 2010: late reported claims in the UK, from the and 3.8% on the remainder of the portfolio.
underwriting loss of 29m and a prior winter freeze.
We continue to see positive year profit of 229m 2010: 267m.
development across the earlier years and In 2012, investment income is currently The combined operating ratio COR would highlight positive recent trends in the expected to be around 500m, which after of 94.9% was 1.5pts better than 2010.
2006 to 2009 accident years, which is after excluding one-offs and the income on the significant negative development in Italy.
ADC, represents a decline on the portfolio of The current year result again benefited from The 2001 and prior accident years have just under 7%, reflecting the ongoing variance continued rate and management actions of contributed significantly to the overall result.
between maturing and reinvestment yields.
around 240m, which was ahead of claims This development was mainly driven by inflation, of around 140m.
Large losses Scandinavian Personal lines and Workers 26 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 BUSINESS REVIEW The Group is confident of delivering continued premium growth and sustainable underwriting profitability.
George Culmer, Chief Financial Officer Financial highlights management basis Total gains in 2011 of 157m were higher than anticipated and mainly comprise gains on the 430m of equities we sold during the year.
m 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Net written premiums 8,138 7,455 6,737 6,462 5,837 In 2012, we will restate the consolidated Underwriting result 375 238 386 384 278 management income statement to exclude total gains from the operating result.
Given Investment result 642 538 523 594 629 the inherent volatility of investment gains, this Insurance result 1,017 776 909 978 907 action will provide greater transparency and Other activities 133 135 132 111 93 predictability to the operating result.
Operating result 884 641 777 867 814 Other movements 261 157 216 126 122 Other activities Acquisitions and disposals 10 10 7 18 22 Other activities of 133m were broadly Profit before tax 613 474 554 759 670 in line with last year and included central Tax 186 119 135 173 29 costs, investment expenses and the ongoing Profit after tax from investment in our Indian associate and continuing operations 427 355 419 586 641 our direct operations in Central and Loss after tax from Eastern Europe.
discontinued operations 13 Profit after tax 427 355 419 586 628 Other movements Other movements which included interest, amortisation and Solvency II costs were up by 72% to 261m 2010: 152m driven by m 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 increased amortisation and Solvency II costs.
Combined operating ratio % 94.9 96.4 94.6 94.5 94.9 Interest costs of 117m were in line with the Shareholders funds m 3,801 3,766 3,491 3,839 3,077 previous year 2010: 118m, while Solvency II costs were 30m 2010: 5m and we would expect a similar charge in 2012.
Investment result Amortisation costs increased by 85m to 114m 2010: 29m and included goodwill 12 months 12 months Movement write-downs in UK Commercial of 41m m 2011 2010 % from the acquisitions of Martello in 2006 and Fyfe in 2008, where we have significantly Bonds 446 452 1 scaled back activity as a result of the Equities 63 55 15 economic downturn, and in Central and Cash and cash equivalents 15 888 Eastern Europe of 30m, reflecting slower Land and buildings 37 23 61 than originally planned growth expectations.
Other 18 31 42 Investment income 579 569 2 Acquisition costs were 10m and include Realised gains 201 68 196 the integration costs for GCAN and 123. ie.
Unrealised gains losses, impairments 44 5 780 and foreign exchange Tax Total gains 157 63 149 The tax charge was 186m and represents Unwind of discount including ADC 94 94 an effective rate of 30%.
This was distorted Investment result 642 538 19 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 | RSA | 27 FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED by the impact of the goodwill write-downs On peripheral Europe, we have also further CAPITAL POSITION and excluding these, the effective underlying reduced our already limited exposure to The Group has again maintained a strong rate was 27%.
government bonds from 209m at the capital position.
Shareholders funds were beginning of 2011 to 138m.
This represented 3.8bn, in line with 2010, with after tax profits Profit after tax less than 1% of the total portfolio.
We also have offset by dividends and foreign exchange losses.
Profit after tax was up by 20% to 427m limited exposure to bank debt in these Excluding the pension fund, Shareholders and the underlying return on average equity countries with a holding at 31 December 2011 funds were up 4% to 3.9bn.
was 11.6%, with the movement on 2010 of just 132m, of which 50m related to predominantly reflecting the improved Santander in the UK.
On regulatory capital, our IGD surplus underwriting result.
of 1.3bn and coverage of 2 times the Our overall bank debt portfolio totalled 2.0bn requirement were unchanged from the end 2011 DIVIDEND and comprised around 200m of subordinated of the third quarter and remained very strong.
The directors will recommend at the Annual debt, of which 80% relates to Canadian banks, General Meeting to be held on 14 May 2012, and around 1.8bn of senior debt.
The senior Economic capital is the Groups own internal that a final ordinary dividend of 5.82p 2010: debt exposure was well diversified over 76 measure of the capital position and is calibrated 5.7p per share be paid.
This together with names in 24 countries with a single largest to S&Ps A rated default curve, which equates the interim dividend of 3.34p 2010: 3.12p holding of just over 100m.
to a probability of insolvency over one year paid on 25 November 2011 will make the total of 1 in 1,250.
This is significantly more prudent distribution for the year 9.16p 2010: 8.82p, an On duration, across the Group we have than the probability of insolvency over one year increase of 4% compared with the prior year.
increased the average duration from under both ICA and Solvency II, which is 1 in 3.1 to 3.4 years to benefit from the 200.
Our economic surplus remained strong BALANCE SHEET higher yields on longer dated securities.
and was up by 0.1bn since the end of the third The total value of the investment portfolio quarter to 0.8bn.
This compared with 1.1bn is 14.5bn and was broadly unchanged over Going forward, the Group will continue to take at the start of the year, with the movement the year.
Of the total investment portfolio, action to mitigate the impact of falling yields reflecting capital generation of 0.5bn covering 89% remains invested in high quality fixed while sticking to its low risk, high quality strategy.
dividend payments of 0.3bn and corporate income and cash assets.
The fixed interest Actions will include a further modest increase in activity of 0.1bn.
portfolio is concentrated on high quality short exposure to high quality non government dated assets, with 98% of the bond portfolio securities, from the 60% at the year end, to The economic capital surplus is sensitive to investment grade, and 74% rated AA or around 65% of the total bond portfolio.
The changes in risk free yield curves, which impact above.
The bond holdings are well diversified, Group will also look to modestly increase both future investment income and the asset with 75% invested in currencies other than holdings in longer dated securities, although liability mismatch under the stressed scenarios Sterling, and 60% invested in non government duration is set to remain below four years.
generated by our internal model.
downward movement in risk free yields over On reserving, the Group continues to adopt a 2011 of around 140 basis points accounted for We have actively sought to lock in gains and prudent reserving policy for both current and 0.4bn of the decline in the surplus.
reduce our equity exposure and have now overall reserves.
As at 31 December 2011, sold around 430m of equities.
Overall, reserves remained significantly to the right side SOLVENCY II equities were down by over 500m and of best estimate and, given our prudent On Solvency II, we continue to make good comprised 5% of the portfolio, compared reserving policy, we continue to expect positive progress and remain at the forefront of internal with 9% at the start of the year.
The prior year development to be a significant model approval.
The implementation date has percentage of the equity portfolio protected feature of the underwriting result.
currently been delayed until January 2014, and by derivatives remained high, with around 62% of the exposure hedged.
28 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 BUSINESS REVIEW could move further out.
We still do not Investment portfolio % Peripheral Europe Sovereign Debt Exposure m anticipate that Solvency II will cause any fundamental change to the way we run the business.
RATING AGENCIES S&P, AM Best and Moodys Investor Service provide insurance financial strength ratings for the Group and its principal subsidiaries.
Bonds 80 71 We remain at our target credit rating level Ireland Cash 9 42 and the Group is rated A2 stable outlook by Italy Equities 5 23 Moodys and A stable outlook, by AM Best.
Spain Property 3 2 In February 2012, S&P upgraded the Group Greece Other inc. Prefs and CIVs 3 0 to A stable outlook reflecting our strong Portugal competitive position and capitalisation.
Economic Capital Surplus bn Regulatory capital surplus PENSION FUND 2010 The pension deficit of 140m was broadly unchanged over the year, with the impact Capital of lower discount rates offset by asset 1.3bn Generated outperformance.
The asset outperformance 2x requirement Dividends was driven by our prudent asset mix which generated over 500m of after tax return.
Yield These assets comprise a low equity Curve exposure combined with an extensive swap Corporate programme, built up since 2005, that has Activity locked in future real yields well in excess of market rates.
We have also benefited from 2011 the insurance arrangements we entered 1.8 0 0.9 into in 2009.
SUMMARY Credit ratings In what were again challenging industry conditions, 2011 was a good year for the S&P Moodys AM Best Group.
Market conditions are expected to again be difficult in 2012, with investment yields remaining at historical lows and subdued economic growth in some of our A A2 A markets.
Despite this, the Group expects Stable Stable Stable to deliver good premium growth, a COR Upgraded in February 2012 of better than 95% and investment income of around 500m.
Group and principal subsidiaries Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 | RSA | 29 RISK REVIEW OUR BUSINESS SUCCESS IS UNDERPINNED BY OUR STRONG RISK MANAGEMENT RISK MANAGEMENT The Board Risk Committee ensures 1st line Management We ensure risk is managed to minimise losses that material risks are identified and that Setting strategy, performance measurement, and take opportunities for profitable growth.
appropriate arrangements are in place to establishment and maintenance of internal manage and mitigate those risks effectively control and risk management in the business.
The Group operates under a common in line with risk appetite.
framework through which risk management 2nd line Risk oversight and control is embedded throughout GROUP RISK APPETITE Operating a formal Risk Management the Group.
The Group risk appetite is set and monitored System within which the Group policies at a Group, regional and business level and is and minimum standards are set The Board is responsible for the Groups reviewed annually and signed off by the Board Oversight and challenge across the Group.
Risk Management System and for defining Risk Committee and Group Board.
It sets the Groups risk appetite.
business volumes for certain higher risk 3rd line Independent assurance insurance classes, stipulates loss retention Providing independent and objective Executive management is responsible for limits, reinsurance protection, targets for assurance of the effectiveness of the Groups implementing systems and controls that credit rating and solvency margins.
systems of internal control established by manage our risk exposures in line with the first and second lines of defence.
Each Group business RISK FRAMEWORK is required to follow a consistent process The Group operates a three lines of defence to identify, measure, manage, monitor model for the oversight and management of and report its risks.
risk as follows: Governance structure the principal committees are shown below BOARD GROUP BOARD RISK GROUP AUDIT INVESTMENT COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE CONTROL & INTERNAL MODEL GROUP GROUP ASSET GOVERNANCE REGIONAL AUDIT GOVERNANCE EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT ADVISORY COMMITTEES COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE GROUP RISK, GROUP GROUP REGIONAL INVESTMENTS RESERVING TRANSACTION RISK COMMITTEES & TREASURY COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE GROUP GROUP ICA & CAPITAL SOLVENCY II REINSURANCE DISCLOSURE ALLOCATION STEERING CREDIT COMMITTEE STEERING GROUP COMMITTEE COMMITTEE 30 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 BUSINESS REVIEW We ensure risk is managed to minimise losses and take opportunities for profitable growth.
David Weymouth, Group Operations and Risk Director PRINCIPLES GROUP RISK POLICY STATEMENTS Our policy statements set out the minimum Simple objectives Create value for all stakeholders standards to be maintained by the Groups Focus on general insurance in our selected markets operations to manage their risks in a way Commitment to sustainable, profitable performance.
that is consistent with the risk appetite.
Clear risk appetite Underwriting and operating excellence RISK CATEGORIES Strong control environment Risks are viewed under categories that Tight financial management broadly correspond to those used in the Protecting and managing the Groups reputation.
Financial Services Authoritys Prudential Sourcebook for Insurers INSPRU and Robust governance, Comprehensive policy, procedures and controls Senior Management Arrangements, control and reporting Clear delegation of authorities Systems and Controls SYSC.
Additional Robust lines of defence information is provided in the Risk Regular and relevant reporting and assurance processes.
Management section on page 93 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Some of the key current practices and tools for Strong culture Board set tone from the top of open communication each risk category are set out overleaf and engagement alongside our risks and uncertainties.
Putting the customer at the centre of what we do High quality and engaged staff.
2011 UPDATE During the year we have maintained our transition into the Solvency II regulatory Further developed and embedded focus on risk management, strengthening environment by our processes to identify and measure and developing our processes, controls - actively responding to the changing emerging risks, including specific risk and capabilities across the Group through insurance regulatory architecture across analysis on such issues as the weakening the following activities the UK and Europe European economies - working with regulators to demonstrate Further developed our global programme ORGANISATION AND CULTURE our approach in meeting requirements of comprehensive stress and scenario Visible Executive ownership of risk - educating our business on its changing testing, reinforcing our understanding management principles and practices, roles and responsibilities.
of our risk profile and the effectiveness as demonstrated in the Board Risk of our control environment.
Analysis Committee and Regional Risk Committees, SYSTEMS AND PROCESS considered our financial and operational which have clearly defined terms of Developed and implemented a resilience to the Euro sovereign debt crisis.
reference and agendas Governance Risk and Compliance tool Reinforced our three lines of defence model, enabling a consistent assessment of risk PEOPLE which clearly articulates the second line role across the three assurance functions of Our risk experts helped to of the Risk Function Risk, Financial Control and Internal Audit develop excellence across the Group Promoted risk informed decision making, Enhanced the alignment of our Risk We continue to strengthen our insurance which is focused on achieving a desired Management System to our strategic and financial risk management capabilities outcome and considers both risk and reward objectives and Solvency II through training and recruitment.
Continued solid progress made on our regulatory requirements Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 | RSA | 31 RISK REVIEW CONTINUED RISKS CATEGORIES Risks Primary activities Key tools for managing INSURANCE RISK Pricing, acceptance and management of risks Reviews of individual insurance portfolios Our insurance risk strategy has arising from our contracts with customers Regional and Group Reserving enabled us to continue delivering Claims development and reserving Committees held to determine a strong underwriting results.
recommended level of outstanding claims and aggregate outstanding claims reserves Scenario modelling that is appropriate for the size and complexity of our portfolios Investigation of potential emerging insurance risks.
REINSURANCE RISK Reinsurance strategy and appetite Group Reinsurance policy aligned Our reinsurance buying and recommended to the Board with strategy and appetite management expertise has allowed us by the Board Risk Committee Analysis of major treaty purchases to manage our insurance exposure and Purchase of the worldwide programme using various modelling tools losses such as those arising from natural of global and local treaties Monitoring and control of the Groups catastrophes during 2011, including the Reinsurance counterparty management.
reinsurance activity earthquakes in Japan and New Zealand Monitoring of the reinsurance markets and the floods in Thailand and Australia.
Reinsurance counterparties approved by the Group Reinsurance Credit Committee.
OPERATIONAL RISK Effective and reliable operation of processes Risk and control self-assessments We have completed various Business continuity and disaster recovery Key risk indicators to assess and manage Group-wide assessments and Information security management operational risk roll-out activities to strengthen Monitoring and control to prevent Scenario analyses to assess operational our operations.
events that have occurred elsewhere and potential exposure to the Group Incident management, near misses and loss reporting.
CREDIT, MARKET Investment strategy and portfolio Controls to ensure that exposure & LIQUIDITY RISK management is managed within risk appetite We continue to proactively manage Risk analysis Value-At-Risk, Risk Monitoring of exposure against limits our financial risks despite the Contribution and Sensitivity Analysis set out in the Investment guidelines challenging economic climate.
Treasury activities such as Group liquidity Portfolio analytics and hedge effectiveness Requirements to maintain a minimum Scenario and Stress Testing level of cash or highly liquid assets Group Financial Risk policies aligned Committees overseeing the Groups with strategy and appetite investment strategy and risk limits.
REGULATORY RISK Ensuring compliance in all Active engagement with regulators Our response to regulatory changes geographical locations, with Close monitoring of and compliance has helped safeguard diverse regulatory requirements regulatory requirements our business and we remain at the Response to regulatory changes.
Compliance framework with consistent forefront of UK firms in respect of monitoring methodology our Solvency II application process.
Monthly reporting of significant regulatory developments and mitigation of emerging risks.
32 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 BUSINESS REVIEW PRINCIPAL UNCERTAINTIES Risks Potential impact Mitigation PROLONGED Exposure reduction impacts Diversified portfolio providing exposure to markets ECONOMIC premium levels at different levels of development and insurance cycle DOWNTURN Increased claims frequency.
Limited exposure to economically triggered contracts KPI dashboard utilised to support early corrective action Maintain focus on underwriting discipline and targeted profitable growth Continuous action on rate and expenses.
ADVERSE FINANCIAL Impact on investment portfolio Retain focus on high quality, low risk investment strategy MARKETS and investment income due to lower Action taken to balance risk and return includes interest rates and market volatility.
increasing our holdings in non government bonds, bond duration and having a significant percentage of our equity portfolio protected by derivatives.
RATING Inability to charge adequate rates Diversified portfolio by geography and line of business ENVIRONMENT places downward pressure on Each portfolio has a rate plan which is regularly reviewed underwriting results.
Focus on underwriting and profitable growth Actively shift capacity to where we see the best returns Continue to invest in technical skills, sales and marketing capabilities.
ADVERSE LOSS Catastrophic losses arising from Underwriting strategy set to ensure risks written EXPERIENCE insurance events are well diversified and within risk appetite Increasing frequency and severity Regular portfolio reviews to monitor underwriting of large losses performance Deterioration in long tail reserves.
Emerging trends in large losses, frequency and severity are investigated and corrective action taken Reinsurance programmes limit net losses Conservative reserving policy ensuring that claims reserves will be more likely than not to result in positive prior year development.
INSURANCE RISKS Adverse impact on operating results The Group operates under a clear risk appetite OUTSIDE GROUPS due to increased volatility.
set by the Board which is monitored at Group RISK APPETITE and regional level Underwriters are licensed only to write risks within specified limits based on their own experience Reviews assess each portfolio against key performance and risk indicators.
Portfolios that trigger these indicators are investigated.
Corrective measures are implemented where required.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 | RSA | 33 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate Responsibility CR Responsibility for CR lies with the Group environmental management system to help remains fundamental to the way CEO, who chairs the biannual Group collect and analyse data across RSA.
Executive Committee review of CR and the annual review by the Board.
Briefings Environmental, social and governance ESG Our progress in 2011 was recognised by and training on specific CR issues are provided risks are actively monitored and reviewed our inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability on an ongoing basis.
CR targets and objectives regularly by the Board.
In 2011, the main risks Investor Index, retaining Platinum in the are included in the entire Group Executive identified included UK Carbon Reduction Times Top 100 Companies, being upgraded Committees individual objectives, which are Commitment legislation, environmental to a Super Sector Leader in the FTSE4Good also cascaded to direct reports and relevant impacts of shipping and flood risk in the UK.
Index and being listed on the Sunday Times business functions.
We set environmental improvement targets Best Green Companies Award 2011. at a country level and as a Group we achieved APPROACH AND GOVERNANCE 71% of 2011 targets.
In 2011, we achieved our CR SUPPORTS OUR STRATEGY Behaving responsibly and ethically has a long-term target to reduce our CO emissions 2 Our approach to CR is practical and focused positive impact on people, communities and in relation to our net written premium by on three key themes: road safety, social the environment in which we operate.
We have now extended the target to inclusion and the environment.
These issues committed to Doing the Right Thing, both as a 50% reduction against our 2006 baseline, have been identified as important by our individuals and as a company.
All employees to be achieved by 2020. customers, investors and employees.
Forum are assessed against our brand beliefs Bright for the Future, the sustainability charity, Ideas, Brilliant Service, Doing the Right Thing, Further information on our approach, carries out an annual assessment to check Getting the Job Done and Positive People to governance and policies can be found at we are focusing on the right issues.
ensure that this forms part of the performance www.
com rsagroup en and remuneration structure at RSA.
 We incorporate these key material issues into our strategic priorities.
For example, The principles by which we operate our CUSTOMERS our work on flood mapping helps us identify business and our brand beliefs underpin our As an insurer, we play a vital role in helping the appropriate prices for the risk, driving commitment to our customers, staff and other people and businesses recover when the sustainable earnings, while also allowing stakeholders and our Corporate Responsibility worst happens.
Helping customers get their us to prioritise our claims approach.
The CR policies form an essential part of our lives back on track is our first priority.
During development of our renewable energy broader risk and governance framework.
2011, our business helped customers recover business has also been a key factor in Every country is required to confirm quarterly from flooding in many locations around the delivering targeted profitable growth and that they comply with our CR, environment, world including Ireland, Denmark and Jeddah.
establishing RSA as a leading Renewables charity and human rights policies.
The work we do on with the policy framework is reviewed by the In Canada, we experienced 99% customer environmental management to reduce Group Executive Committee and Group satisfaction levels thanks to fast track claims travel, paper consumption, energy and Board in regular CR updates.
handling, specialised claims and empathy water usage not only helps us meet training for employees, coupled with Voice environmental targets but also reduces Our CR data, processes and external of the Customer telephone surveys which costs and supports our continued focus reporting are verified by our CR auditors give customers the opportunity to provide on operational excellence.
ISAE3000 with an extra audit of the Groups carbon footprint GHG Protocol Our commitment to customers was by Ecometrica.
We use a web-based underlined when our UK business won 34 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 BUSINESS REVIEW Claims Initiative of the Year for its industry leading Home Claims Customer Tracker at the Insurance Times Awards 2011.
The For more details see www.
com innovative tracker shows where customers are in the claims journey, prompting us to contact them throughout their claim and WWF RSA ARCTIC CHALLENGE to line up suppliers in advance, enabling us In 2011, we focused our efforts on doing what we can as an organisation to tackle the to deliver a smoother, more efficient service.
challenges that climate change brings.
We launched a new initiative to raise the profile of our WWF partnership and to bring it to life.
Product innovation is also key to our success.
Across the business we have created tailored The Arctic Challenge saw over 10,000 of our employees in 33 countries taking part in and relevant products for specific customer a competition to win the opportunity to travel to the Arctic to see at first-hand the impact groups and innovative insurance solutions of climate change.
The competition challenged teams to reduce their carbon footprint by in response to social and environmental walking and cycling rather than driving, donating and fundraising for charity and developing changes, including ideas to reduce our environmental impact.
In Canada, our green home endorsement policy ensures that any repairs are now The results were impressive with over three billion steps walked, 6,600 hours of volunteering carried out with environmentally friendly given and over 100,000 raised for charity.
The green ideas being implemented in 2012 have and healthy materials the potential to save around 15,000 tonnes of carbon and up to 600,000 in costs.
Our UK business is actively working to minimise waste in our claims supply chain through the use of recycled car parts and repairing electrical goods in the home In Denmark, we worked with existing RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT We continue to focus on developing suppliers to launch a new energy efficient The bulk of our UK equity assets continue employees at all levels through programmes window replacement scheme, helping to be managed by F&C Asset Management.
such as the Executive Development customers to save energy and reduce F&C has one of the largest Governance and Programme for senior leaders, the their CO emissions.
Sustainable Investment teams in Europe, Leadership Development Programme for 2 enabling it to follow a policy of active team leaders, Fast Track for high potential BUSINESS PARTNERS engagement across its portfolios on individuals and the Graduate Programme.
We work closely with our business partners environmental, social and governance issues.
Our Graduate Programme involves and intermediaries to grow a successful Last year, F&C engaged with 29 companies developing long term charitable initiatives business while reducing our collective on a wide range of issues from climate change which link to our business as well as tackling environmental and social impact.
In the UK, to labour standards across our portfolios.
responsible business dilemmas including we asked a number of our suppliers about procuring goods and product development.
their management of CR issues and engaged in EMPLOYEES active dialogue to improve standards.
We also A sustainable business needs to attract, Engagement remains an important focus, held our second supplier workshop to discuss develop and reward talented people, as well to encourage employees to participate in our approach to CR and what we expect from as making them accountable for their actions.
charity committees, green teams and suppliers.
In Scandinavia, we re-launched our All employees are assessed against our Brand wellbeing programmes.
supplier codes of conduct, ensuring strong Beliefs, including Doing the Right Thing which action on environmental and social issues.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 | RSA | 35 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED In the UK, we are one of the first employers to achieve a 40% reduction in CO emissions ROAD SAFETY 2 to comply with the Living Wage campaign relative to our net written premiums by 2020 In 2011, we extended our work on Road nationally for our employees and suppliers.
We launched a new The campaign encourages employers to eyesight campaign in the UK, encouraging pay employees on the minimum wage a We are working actively with WWF to stronger regulation around the need to have rate in accordance with the cost of living.
integrate environmental risk considerations compulsory eyesight tests for driving licence into our business.
This campaign focused on the UK CLIMATE CHANGE AND THE partnership spanning five countries we focus political party conferences and around 5,000 ENVIRONMENT on key issues relevant to our business.
These employees across eight of our UK offices.
As an insurer, any change in the intensity include marine risks through our shipping and or frequency of extreme weather aquaculture businesses, renewable energy Our child safety programme was extended conditions can have a significant impact and the impact on customers of water leaks in the UK to another 40 primary schools on our customers and our business.
We in their property and flooding.
For further nominated by our employees.
Our Chilean remain committed to leading the debate information visit www.
com road safety programme continues to help on climate change and collaborating with over 30,000 children per year.
In early 2012, a range of forums, including the insurance COMMUNITY STRATEGY the programme was extended to Bahrain working group of the United Nations Our community strategy remains focused on and Singapore for the first time.
Environment Programme for Financial the issues that are important to our customers Institutions and the ClimateWise initiative.
and where we feel we can achieve most High visibility in the dark is also a priority for through our skills and experience.
many of our countries when the clocks change.
Our operations in the UK, Ireland and We continued our long running reflector Group Corporate Centre remain carbon In 2011, we gave over 2.6m in charitable programmes in Scandinavia and Lithuania, neutral, offsetting their equivalent emissions donations 2010: 2.4m, with over 17,000 handing out over 170,000 high visibility vests in renewable energy projects certified volunteer hours 2010: 58,000 donated and reflectors.
Our UK business also launched to the Voluntary Carbon Standard.
by around 5,200 volunteers 2010: 13,160. reflector programmes for the first time with Our commitment to reducing our 2010 included a significant increase in cyclists in Manchester and Peterborough environmental impact is on track volunteer numbers and volunteers hours and, through our pet insurance business, we due to our 300 years birthday celebrations.
distributed high visibility coats and collars for pets.
Scope 1: All direct GHG emissions 2.
Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions from consumption of purchased electricity, heat or steam 3.
Scope 3: Other indirect emissions 36 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 BUSINESS REVIEW Social inclusion RSA employees from all over the Group are actively involved with poverty For more details see www.
com alleviation, education and crime reduction initiatives.
Across Latin America, staff made donations to orphanages and helped build WWF PARTNERSHIP homes for the homeless.
In the UK, over In 2009, we launched our partnership with WWF across the UK, Canada, Sweden, Denmark 100 employees signed up to help to mentor and China.
Focusing on the risks of environmental change, RSA has been supporting conservation teenagers aspiring to a career in business projects relevant to our business, developing new products and engaging our employees and from underprivileged backgrounds.
external stakeholders on the environment.
We are focusing on three key issues: Across the Group, we also launched our Water Global Charitable Programme to support Flooding remains a key issue for RSA because the increased frequency or intensity of rain has employees charitable work and local a direct impact on our customers.
With increased pressure on flood defence budgets, insurers communities.
The programme is aimed need to find environmentally sensitive and cost effective solutions.
In 2009, we started work at helping improve employee engagement, on a river restoration project at Mayesbrook Park in east London and have now completed supporting local community organisations the flood alleviation phase.
Slowing down the river, and re-creating the natural meander and and promoting RSA in the community.
floodplain demonstrates a cost-effective, natural solution.
We are also working to conserve Employees anywhere within RSA can now water as a business.
Water escapes in commercial and domestic property are a major source apply for matched funding, a charitable grant, of loss and environmental impact.
Through research with WWF we are making the business or a charitable secondment lasting up to case to save water and protect customers.
Marine Environment As one of the largest Marine insurers, we are acutely aware of increasing pressures on fishing, During 2011, we supported a number shipping and resource extraction and we are working to improve the sustainability of our seas.
of environmental volunteering projects In Canada, we are working with WWF to establish marine protection areas to help safeguard including planting trees and cleaning up the long-term future of the fishing industry and in Scandinavia, we are collaborating with polluted beaches in the Middle East.
In the governments to better manage the commercial use of the Baltic Sea.
RSA joined a group UK, teams helped at local nature reserves of global marine industry leaders to launch the Sustainable Shipping Initiative SSI which will and parks, with volunteers preparing a park focus on shaping regulations to improve safety and minimise the impact on the environment.
in London to be the site of an urban river The SSI tackles issues such as climate change, piracy and carbon taxes.
We will be working restoration project with WWF.
to ensure that risk reduction plays a key role in commitments for the industry.
We launched the Arctic Challenge in 2011 Renewable energy which saw over 10,000 of our employees Governments are placing an increased focus on renewable energy to combat climate change.
actively participate to reduce their carbon As a leading insurer of this risk, our Global Renewables business is uniquely placed to help footprint, develop the best business green the transition to a low carbon economy.
In China, we have been working with WWF and idea and fundraise for WWF or other a range of stakeholders to develop renewable energy usage and energy efficiency.
The campaign was aimed we produced research in China and the UK to raise awareness of the importance of insurance at increasing awareness of WWF and to grow the renewable energy industry.
Together with WWF, further research in 2012 will the link to insurance risk.
help make the case for renewable energy and develop our knowledge of new technologies.
For further information on Corporate Responsibility please email corporate.
com or to see the full Corporate Responsibility Report, visit our website www.
com Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 | RSA | 37 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 40 Board of Directors 42 Executive team 44 Directors and corporate governance report 49 Remuneration report CONSTRUCTION, ENGINEERING AND RENEWABLE ENERGY WITH OUR FOUNDATIONS GOING BACK TO THE INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION, PROVIDING INSURANCE SOLUTIONS TO THE CONSTRUCTION AND ENGINEERING SECTOR HAS ALWAYS BEEN A CORNERSTONE OF OUR BUSINESS.
As this sector has evolved, so have we.
With the recent emergence of the Renewable Energy industry, RSA was the first insurer to launch a global Renewable Energy business to support their insurance needs, and today we are the market leaders.
We remain at the forefront in these industries, covering everything from bio energy developments to major transportation infrastructures.
We provide instant access to the right specialists who have a real understanding of the challenges our customers face and can tailor insurance products to match their individual needs.
We have around 200 dedicated Construction and Engineering experts in 30 offices around the world.
They provide specialist insurance and risk management services across construction, facilities management, engineering design and manufacturing through our extensive range of insurance products including cover for property, machinery and tools, legal liability as well as employees liability.
Within the Renewable Energy sector, RSA provides insurance across the full lifecycle, from start up and shipment of material, to construction and then operational cover once the facility is up and running.
We provide insurance covers for the breadth of Renewable Energy technologies, including wind energy onshore and offshore, solar energy, small hydro, bio energy and wave & tidal.
Our teams of people across the world are supported by our Centres of Excellence, which bring together the combined knowledge of specialist underwriters, risk engineers and claims experts with specific industry experience.
The combination of our depth of knowledge and global reach has established us as a market leader.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 | RSA | 39 BOARD OF DIRECTORS JOHN NAPIER SIMON LEE GEORGE CULMER Chairman age 69 Group Chief Executive age 51 Chief Financial Officer age 49 Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience John Napier joined as a Non-Executive Simon Lee was appointed as Group Chief George Culmer joined the Board as Chief Financial Director in January 2003 and became Executive in November 2011 having been Chief Officer in May 2004 and is a member of the Chairman of the Board in March 2003.
Executive of the Groups International region Group Executive Team and the Board Risk Previous roles include Chairman of Kelda since April 2003 and an Executive Director since Committee, which he chaired until June 2009.
Group plc water utility, stepping down after January 2007.
Previous roles include 17 years Previous roles include Head of Capital its sale and subsequent fide-listing from the with the National Westminster Group, in the Management of Zurich Financial Services London Stock Exchange.
He has previously UK and US, including time as Chief Executive, insurance and Chief Financial Officer of its UK been Chairman of Booker plc cash and carry Natwest Offshore and Head of US operation.
Before that he spent ten years with and Managing Director of Hays plc business RetailBanking.
George will leave the Group in May services and AGB Research plc international 2012 to join Lloyds Banking Group as Group External appointments market research and information services.
External appointments External appointments Committee membership None currently held.
Chairman of Aegis Group plc media and was Investment Committee also interim Chief Executive of Aegis Group Committee membership Board Risk Committee plc from December 2008 until May2010.
Investment Committee Board Risk Committee Committee membership Nomination Committee Chairman Remuneration Committee Investment Committee ADRIAN BROWN EDWARD LEA Chief Executive, UK age 47 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director age 70 Skills and experience Adrian Brown was appointed as an Executive Skills and experience Director in July 2011 having been Chief Executive Edward Lea was appointed as a Non-Executive of the UK since September 2008.
Adrian is a Director in July 2003 and was appointed Senior qualified management accountant and has Independent Director in January 2011.
Previous been with the RSA Group since 1989.
He was roles include Finance Director of BUPA, ASDA previously the UK Chief Operating Officer with and MFI and Chairman of Redbourn responsibility for Claims, Sales and Service, IT and Group Limited.
Change across Personal and Commercial lines, External appointments and prior to that he was UK Director of Personal KEY: Director of Powertraveller Limited and Lines, leading the launch of MORE TH N. CHAIRMAN MacIntyre Care charity.
External appointments EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Committee membership Adrian is also a Director of Employers Liability Group Audit Committee Chairman NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Tracing Office and DKH Legacy Trust.
Remuneration Committee Committee membership Nomination Committee Full biographies can be found on: No committee memberships.
com boardofdirectors 40 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ALASTAIR BARBOUR NOEL HARWERTH MALCOLM LE MAY Independent Non-Executive Director age 59 Independent Non-Executive Director age 64 Independent Non-Executive Director age 54 Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Alastair Barbour was appointed as a Non-Executive Noel Harwerth was appointed as a NonMalcolm Le May was appointed as a NonDirector in October 2011.
Alastair retired from Executive Director in March 2004.
Previous Executive Director in March 2004.
In the last 20 years of his 36 year roles include Chief Operating Officer of Citibank roles include CEO Investment Banking Europe career with the firm, in the UK and overseas, he led International plc finance and Director of at UBS, Deputy Chief Executive of Morley Fund their financial services team in Scotland with a primary Impellam Group plc support services.
Management Investment Fund Manager, focus on insurance and investment management.
Deputy CEO of ING-Barings finance, Chief External appointments Executive of Matrix Corporate Capital LLP and External appointments Director of Logica plc IT and outsourcing, President Europe at JER Partners Property.
Non-Executive Director of Standard Life European Harry Winston Diamond Corporation mining Private Equity Trust plc, CATCo Reinsurance and retail and Deputy Chairman of Sumitomo External appointments Opportunities Fund and Liontrust Asset Mitsui Banking Corporation Europe Non-Executive Director of Pendragon plc Management plc.
He is a fellow of the Institute Limited finance.
of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Board Risk Committee Chairman Investment Committee Chairman Group Audit Committee Group Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Investment Committee Investment Committee Board Risk Committee JOHN MAXWELL JOSEPH STREPPEL JOHANNA WATEROUS Independent Non-Executive Director age 67 Independent Non-Executive Director age 54 Independent Non-Executive Director age 62 Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience John Maxwell was appointed as a Non-Executive Johanna Waterous was appointed as a Jos Streppel was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in July 2003.
Previous roles include Non-Executive Director in May 2008.
Previous Director in October 2011 and has a Executive Director of Prudential Group plc, roles include Chairman of Tate Enterprises and comprehensive understanding of the insurance Chairman of DXServices plc mail, Director over 20 years with McKinsey & Company, market globally and good knowledge of of Provident Financial plc financial services and with roles including Co-leader of the Global international and emerging markets.
He was Homeserve plc support services and Director Marketing and Sales Practice and Leader of Chief Financial Officer of Aegon until 2009 and General of The Automobile Association Limited.
their UK Consumer Practice and the European has extensive financial services expertise.
External appointments External appointments External appointments Director of London Finance and Investment Chairman of KPN, the former incumbent Non-Executive Director of WM Morrison Group plc and a member of the Institute of telecom carrier of The Netherlands, Deputy Supermarkets plc, Director of RBG Kew Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Chairman of Van Lanschot, a Dutch private Enterprises Limited, an Operating Partner of banking and asset management firm and Committee membership Duke Street LLP and Chairman of Sandpiper CI.
Chairman of the Monitoring Committee of Remuneration Committee Chairman the Dutch Corporate Governance Code Committee membership Nomination Committee Group Audit Committee Investment Committee Committee membership Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Investment Committee Investment Committee Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 | RSA | 41 EXECUTIVE TEAM The Executive Team comprises the Executive Directors whose biographies are on page 40 and the following senior executives: PAUL DONALDSON VANESSA EVANS Group Broker Relationship Acting Group Customer and Sales Director and Human Resources Director Paul was appointed Group Broker Relationship Vanessa joined RSA in 2005 as UK Human and Sales Director in July 2011.
Paul has over Resources Business Partner Director for Claims 35 years experience in the insurance industry, and Finance.
In 2006 she was appointed as having joined RSA in 1976.
He has held a number Human Resources Director for the newly of leadership roles in RSA, including CEO for the created Emerging Markets Region.
In September Republic of Ireland and most recently Managing 2008, she was promoted to UK Human Director, Commercial in RSAs UK business.
Resources Director and since September 2011, has been acting Group Customer and Human Resources Director.
Prior to working at RSA, Vanessa was HR Director Global Retail at Lego and before that Head of HR for Gap, 2 the international clothing retailer.
TIMOTHY MITCHELL ROWAN SAUNDERS Group Underwriting and Claims Director Chief Executive, Canada Tim was appointed Group Underwriting and Rowan was appointed CEO of Canada in Claims Director in November 2007 when he September 2003.
Since joining RSA in 1987, joined the Group.
Tim has nearly 40 years Rowan has held leadership positions in the experience in the insurance industry.
He joined areas of underwriting, marketing, sales and RSA from Zurich Financial Services where finance.
He is past Chair of the Board of senior underwriting roles included three years Directors of the Insurance Bureau of Canada as Global Chief Underwriting Officer for IBC and sits on the board of Codan A S. General Insurance.
Tim has also held senior Previously he was Vice President, Personal management roles at AIG and Continental Insurance for RSA and also held the position Insurance.
Tim is a member of the Cheltenham of Vice President, Western Assurance Co. an Ontario-focused niche insurer.
Notes: was previously President of Agilon Financial, 1.
Orlagh Hunt went on maternity leave from an affiliated company of RSA Canada, where 20 September 2011 and has since decided she he was responsible for the companys strategic will leave the Group in September 2012. development, operations and overall 2.
Vanessa Evans was acting Group Customer and Human Resources Director from 20 September 2011 financialperformance.
and took over the role permanently from 1March 2012.
42 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MIKE HOLLIDAY-WILLIAMS ORLAGH HUNT ANNE JGER Chief Executive, Scandinavia Group Customer Group Chief Auditor and Human Resources Director Mike Holliday-Williams joined RSA in 2006 and Orlagh joined the Group as Human Resources Anne has been with the RSA Group since was appointed CEO of Scandinavia in February Director for International in September 2003 and 2001.
She was appointed Group Chief 2011.
Mike is also CEO of Codan A S and CEO of was appointed Group Human Resources Auditor in September 2008, having been Trygg-Hansa.
Prior to this, he was the Managing Director in October 2006, also being responsible Regional Chief Auditor for International, Director for RSAs UK Personal Lines operation, for Group Customer since 2011.
Anne has more than 25 which includes MORE TH N and was previously previously Head of Human Resources for AXA years experience within finance, assurance, the Managing Director of RSAs UK Retail Sun Life and has worked at Walkers and Tesco in risk management and corporate governance business.
Before joining RSA, Mike worked in the a variety of Human Resources areas.
Anne was previously CFO at Maersk 1 energy, telecoms and retail sectors, beginning his managementroles.
Data now part of IBM for two years and career at WH Smith Ltd, before subsequently spent 13 years with KPMG as a State moving to various Centrica owned businesses, Authorised Public Accountant, where she including British Gas andOnetel.
was involved in work with publicly listed companies, M&A and restructuring.
DEREK WALSH DAVID WEYMOUTH PAUL WHITTAKER Group General Counsel Group Operations and Risk Director Chief Executive, Emerging Markets and Group Company Secretary Derek joined the Group as Group General Currently Group Operations and Risk Director, Paul was appointed Chief Executive of Counsel and Group Company Secretary in July David joined the Group in June 2007.
Immediately Emerging Markets in 2006, having been Group 2010 and has over 17 years experience in the prior to that David spent two years consulting Human Resources Director since April 2003 insurance industry.
From 2002, he served as blue chip and government organisations and when he joined RSA.
He has over 20 years Group General Counsel at Benfield Group acting as an independent board member in the senior management experience in the financial Limited, where he was responsible for the global US and UK.
David had spent 27 years with the services sector including three years at AXA legal, company secretarial and compliance teams.
Barclays Group, where senior roles included CEO and ten years at GE Capital, including work Prior to that, Derek held positions in law firms for Mid-Market Banking, Chief Operating Officer in Asia and EasternEurope on acquisition Pinsent Curtis now Pinsent Masons, McKenna for Corporate Banking and Group Chief integration and businessdevelopment.
& Co now CMS Cameron McKenna and Information Officer.
He was also on the Group Executive Committee.
David is also currently Norton Rose.
a Non-Executive Director at the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 | RSA | 43 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Directors of RSA Insurance Group plc present LEADERSHIP the summary consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2011.
The The Role of the Board full Directors and Corporate Governance Report is The Board is responsible for organising and directing the affairs of the contained in the Annual Report and Accounts which is Company in a manner that is most likely to promote its success for the available on RSAs website at www.
com benefit of its members as a whole.
Its role is to provide entrepreneurial ar2011 or on request from the Companys registrar as leadership of the Company within a framework of prudent and effective detailed in the Shareholder Information section of this controls.
Matters reserved for the Board include: report on page 78.
Strategy and management of the Company The Board is committed to maintaining high standards Changes to the structure and capital of the Company of corporate governance.
It believes that a solid corporate governance Financial reporting and controls framework enables effective and efficient decision making with clear Reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls responsibilities and leads to achievement of the Companys objectives Approving significant expenditure and material transactions and delivery of long term value to shareholders.
and contracts Communicating with shareholders Remuneration is covered in the summary Remuneration Report on Appointment and removal of Directors and the Group General pages 49 to 63.
Counsel and Group Company Secretary Determining the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors, Code compliance the Chairman, Group General Counsel and Group Company Throughout 2011, the Company has complied with the Principles and Secretary and senior executives Provisions in section one of the UK Corporate Governance Code Review of the Companys overall corporate the Code available from www.
uk with the exception that no  meetings took place between the Senior Independent Director and the Delegation of authority to the Group Chief Executive.
Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman present.
At least one such meeting will take place this year.
2011 HIGHLIGHTS in addition to items discussed elsewhere in thisreport Further explanation of how the Main Principles in the Code have been Full day dedicated to strategy and regular updates during the year applied is set out in the full Annual Report and Accounts and in the Approved the 2012 Operational Plan Remuneration Report, as applicable.
Discussed and approved the changes to the Board which took place during the year Considered matters relating to Solvency II implementation including approving a UK legal entity reduction programme Considered mergers and acquisitions activity in excess of 50m Monitored material claims and reinsurance matters Updated the Companys policy in relation to bribery and corruption in response to the implementation of the Bribery Act2010.
The Board and each of its committees: Group Audit, Remuneration, Nomination, Board Risk and Investment have written terms of reference explaining their role and the authority delegated to them.
Each of the committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
Further details on the principal duties of each of the Board committees can be found under Accountability on page 45.
44 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE EFFECTIVENESS ACCOUNTABILITY Performance evaluation GROUP AUDIT COMMITTEE GAC REPORT In 2010, there was a formal and rigorous review of the Board, its committees and their effectiveness which was undertaken by an external consultancy.
In 2011, the review was carried out internally, PRINCIPAL DUTIES OF THE GAC starting with the committees and concluding with the Board itself.
To coordinate and oversee the integrity of the Companys financial reporting process The 2011 Board review was discussed in December 2011 and took To monitor compliance with regulations, industry codes and place at the Board Strategy away day in January 2012, to reflect the fact legal requirements of each territory in which the Group that, in accordance with the programme of planned changes to the transactsbusiness Board, one new Executive Director joined the Board in July 2011, two To provide oversight of the internal and external audit function new Non-Executive Directors joined the Board in October 2011 and To manage the effectiveness of the Groups systems of the Board had a change of Group CEO from 1 November 2011.
This internalcontrols allowed a sufficient period of time for the new Board members to To review the Groups financial performance provide input to the review process.
To provide assurance on the effectiveness of the Groups financial and regulatory risk management systems.
Reviews of the Board committees took place in November andDecember 2011.
2011 HIGHLIGHTS Reviewed all results announcements and the 2010 Annual Report The evaluation of the Group Audit Committee focused on the and Accounts composition of the committee and the number and length of meetings Reviewed the Financial Control Framework quarterly held each year, the information received by the committee and its Reviewed the effectiveness of internal controls timeliness and the effectiveness of the committees reviews of specific Received regular reports from the CFO, Disclosure Committee, areas.
Priorities for change were agreed to be preparatory work for regional audit or management control committees, the external Solvency II, the need to work more closely with the subsidiary audit auditor, the Group Chief Auditor and Regulatory committees and the executive and the main challenges facing the Risk & Compliance committee over the next three years, which included change and Approved non audit services provided by the external auditor uncertainty in the regulatory regimes and responding to the risks Assessed the external auditor inherent in a continuing uncertain global economic environment.
Approved the 2012 Group Internal Audit Plan Approved the 2012 Regulatory Risk & Compliance Plan.
Following the Board Risk Committees review of its effectiveness, action is being taken to address the length of the agenda and quantity of External auditor information received by the Board Risk Committee to enable the Deloitte LLP was appointed as the Groups external auditor in 2007. committee to focus on key issues such as Solvency II and to be more During the year Deloitte LLP was engaged as an adviser on a number forward looking.
In order to maintain their independence, such appointments are only made in accordance with a protocol developed The evaluation of the Remuneration Committee identified some areas for and embedded by the GAC.
This provides that the external auditor improvement relating to the reporting of remuneration matters to the should not carry out work where the output or recommendations are Board and the need to have a coordinated training programme for then subject to its review as external auditor.
Work may be given to the committee members to maintain their knowledge of executive external auditor where it is closely allied with the audit function or it is remuneration matters.
The committee agreed to progress these actions.
advantageous to the Group to use its external auditor in view of its knowledge and experience of RSA.
This could include accounting Re-election advice, regulatory returns, tax advice or due diligence work.
All non The Directors and the Company by ordinary resolution may appoint a audit work over 100,000 must be approved in advance by the CFO person who is willing to be a Director either to fill a casual vacancy or as an and all non audit work over 250,000 will be notified by the CFO additional Director.
In accordance with the Code, the Directors shall submit to the GAC Chairman.
With reference to the protocol, the GAC themselves for election or re-election at each AGM.
Resolutions to is satisfied that there are no matters that would compromise the reappoint Directors at the AGM are subject to the approval of the Board, independence of the external auditor or affect the performance of its taking into account the recommendations of the Nomination Committee.
Details of fees paid to Deloitte LLP during 2011 for The Company may by ordinary resolution of which special notice has been audit and non audit work are disclosed in the auditor remuneration given remove any Director before the expiration of his period of office.
table in note 4 on page 108 of the full Annual Report and Accounts.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 | RSA | 45 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Companys choice INVESTMENT COMMITTEE REPORT of external auditor.
PRINCIPAL DUTIES OF THE INVESTMENT COMMITTEE The GAC has reviewed the independence, effectiveness and objectivity To assist the Board in setting the Groups investment strategy of the external auditor in 2011 and concluded that Deloitte LLP To monitor the execution of that strategy and the Groups provided a service that was robust and fit for purpose.
Deloitte LLP has investment performance.
confirmed its willingness to continue in office as external auditor of the Company for the year ending 31 December 2012.
Accordingly the GAC 2011 HIGHLIGHTS has recommended to the Board that a resolution be put to the 2012 Reviewed activity in the Groups investment portfolio AGM for the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as external auditor and Monitored investment strategy implementation and portfolio the Board has accepted this recommendation.
So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined in section 418 3 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Companys external auditor is unaware, and each Director has taken all steps necessary as a Director in order to make himself herself aware PRINCIPAL DUTIES OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE of, and to establish that the external auditor is aware of, any relevant To keep under review the capabilities required by the Board and audit information.
the leadership needs of the Group Review succession planning for the Board BOARD RISK COMMITTEE BRC REPORT To manage the process of identifying potential Board appointees, seeking advice from external advisers as appropriate for recommending candidates for assessment by the Board as a whole PRINCIPAL DUTIES OF THE BRC To make recommendations to the Board in relation to the To recommend the Group framework of risk limits and risk re-appointment of any Non-Executive Director at the conclusion appetite to the Board of his her specified term of office.
To recommend the quantum of capital required for the Individual Capital Assessment ICA and Economic Capital Assessment ECA 2011 HIGHLIGHTS to the Board Assessed the performance of the Chairman, the Group CEO To monitor the Groups implementation of Solvency II and the Senior Independent Director and recommended their To ensure that material risks have been identified and re-election to the Board at the 2011 AGM  Managed the process of identifying board appointees To approve new and amended Group policies Recommended the appointment of a new Executive Director To approve the remit of the Group Risk team to the Board To review the Remuneration Report for any implications of the Recommended the appointment of two new Non-Executive Groups remuneration policies for risk and risk management.
Directors to the Board Following the resignation of Mr Haste, recommended the 2011 HIGHLIGHTS appointment of a new Group CEO.
Reviewed the Groups risk appetite and material risk profile Reviewed results of stress and scenario tests With effect from 1 February 2011, Edward Lea and Johanna Waterous Considered emerging risks were appointed as members of the Nomination Committee and Cyclically reviewed and approved changes to Group policies Malcolm Le May retired from the Nomination Committee.
All Reviewed the quantum of the ICA and ECA capital models members of the Nomination Committee, excluding the Chairman, are and made appropriate recommendations to the Board independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman chairs the Reviewed risks facing the Group by risk type and region Committee unless it is dealing with succession planning regarding his at each meeting successor.
The terms of reference for the Nomination Committee were Monitored progress on Solvency II compliance revised and approved by the Board in March 2011.
Reviewed the governance structure and control framework to ensure its effectiveness When appointing new Directors, regard is given to the size of the Carried out a survey on the committees performance in 2011 Board, the balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors, the skills Reviewed the Groups risk appetite and material risk profile.
and experience already represented, likely future retirements and those appointments to the Board which would be desirable going forward.
RSA supports diversity within the boardroom, appropriate to and reflecting the global nature of the Company, its strategic objectives, and its regulatory status.
46 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board appointed Edward Lea as the Companys Senior The Group CEO presents on the Companys performance and Independent Director on 27 January 2011.
Adrian Brown was appointed activities during the year and the CFO presents the financial results of to the Board as an Executive Director on 5 July 2011, having been the the Company prior to the formal business of the meeting.
All Directors Chief Executive of the Groups UK business since September 2008. are requested to attend the AGM and the Chairman and the Chairmen Following changes to RSAs operational structure which took effect of each Board committee make themselves available to take questions from 1 January 2012, Adrian became the Chief Executive of the Groups from ordinary shareholders at the AGM.
UK and Western Europe business.
Further details of the changes to the operational structure are contained in the Group CEOs Review on Separate resolutions are proposed on each substantive issue, including a pages 10 to 15 and the Business Review on pages 17 to 37 of the full resolution to adopt the Annual Report and Accounts.
In accordance Annual Report and Accounts.
with the provisions of the Articles of Association Articles, any form of proxy sent by the Company to shareholders in relation to any general During the year, an external search agency specialising in the meeting must be delivered to the Company, whether in written form recruitment of Non-Executive Directors was engaged.
A Nonor in electronic form, not less than 48 hours before the time for holding Executive Director candidate specification was prepared setting out the the meeting excluding non business days or, in the case of a poll taken role and capabilities required for the new appointments.
Reports on otherwise than at or on the same day as the meeting, not less than 24 potential appointees were provided to the committee members who, hours before the time appointed for the taking of the poll.
after careful consideration, made a recommendation to the Board.
On3 October 2011 and 10 October 2011, the Board appointed Jos At any general meeting, every ordinary shareholder present shall have Streppel and Alastair Barbour respectively as Non-Executive Directors.
one vote on a show of hands and on a poll, every ordinary shareholder The appointment of the new Non-Executive Directors as with the present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for each share of longer standing Non-Executive Directors is subject to specific terms of which he is the holder.
Each resolution was put to a poll at the AGM in appointment as detailed in their respective letters of appointment.
The results of the vote on each resolution are announced to the London Stock Exchange and are available on the Companys website.
On 1 November 2011, Andy Haste stepped down as the Group CEO and was succeeded by Simon Lee who has been Chief Executive of Preference shareholders are only entitled to receive notice of, attend, International since April 2003 and an Executive Director since January speak and vote at general meetings if the dividend payable on the 2007.
Mr Haste retired from the Board on 31 December 2011. preference shares is in arrears at the date of the Notice, a resolution is proposed that affects the rights of the preference shareholders, a On 21 November 2011, it was announced that George Culmer was to resolution is proposed to wind up the Company, a resolution is resign to take up the position of Group Finance Director of Lloyds proposed to reduce the capital of the Company other than a Banking Group plc.
George Culmer will remain as a Director and Chief redemption or purchase of shares, or in such other circumstances as Financial Officer of RSA until the close of business on 14 May 2012. the Board shall determine.
In any of these situations the preference He will be succeeded by Richard Houghton who will join the Group shareholders may only vote on the relevant resolution and not on all in June 2012. the business of the general meeting.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Substantial share interests The following table shows the holdings of major shareholders in the Annual General Meeting Company in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules The AGM will be held at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, as at 31December 2011 and the date of this Report.
Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE on Monday, 14 May 2012 at 11.00am.
A letter from the Chairman and the notice convening the AGM Notice is available to all ordinary shareholders and preference shareholders when applicable at least 20 working days before the meeting and is available at www.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 | RSA | 47 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED At 31 December 2011 At 22 February 2012 No.
of % of Ordinary voting ordinary voting shares rights Nature of holding shares rights Nature of holding 1 2 2 2 Lloyds Banking Group plc 246,760,305 7.00 Direct and Indirect Blackrock, Inc 188,217,284 5.46 Indirect 188,217,284 5.46 Indirect Schroders plc 170,851,201 4.95 Direct and Indirect 170,851,201 4.95 Direct and Indirect Newton Investment Indirect as Indirect as Management Ltd discretionary discretionary 168,455,475 4.88 investment manager 168,455,475 4.88 investment manager Standard Life Investments Ltd 152,266,879 4.42 Direct and Indirect 152,266,879 4.42 Direct and Indirect Legal & General Group plc 136,295,990 3.99 Direct and Indirect 136,295,990 3.99 Direct and Indirect Notes: 1 242,643,597 shares 6.884% are under the control of Scottish Widows Investment Partnership Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of Scottish Widows Investment Partnership Group Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of Scottish Widows Group Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of Lloyds TSB Bank plc, a wholly owned subsidiary of Lloyds Banking Group plc.
2 The Company was informed on 31 January 2012 that the indirect holding of Lloyds Banking Group plc had decreased below the reporting threshold of 5%.
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
The Company may purchase any of its own shares including any Dividends redeemable shares.
An authority from ordinary shareholders for the The Directors recommend a final dividend of 5.82p per ordinary share Company to purchase up to 349,818,708 of its own ordinary shares to be paid on 25 May 2012 to holders of ordinary shares on the register representing 10% of its issued share capital as at 21 March 2011 at the close of business on 30 March 2012, subject to ordinary remained in force at 31 December 2011. shareholder approval.
This, together with the interim dividend of 3.34p per ordinary share, will make a total dividend for the year of 9.16p per The Company operates four employee benefit trusts to hold ordinary ordinary share.
shares in RSA which are used to satisfy exercises under the Groups share incentive schemes and Capita Trustees Limited is the current The preferential dividend at the rate of 3.6875% for the period from Trustee of each trust.
The Trustee may vote in respect of any shares 1October 2011 to 31 March 2012 will be paid on 30 March 2012 to held in the Trusts but has no obligation to do so and, in respect of the holders of preference shares on the register at the close of business on Royal & SunAlliance ESOP Trust No.
3, the Trustee may have regard to 2 March 2012. the financial interests of the beneficiaries in exercising its voting rights over the Companys shares.
Share capital Details of the Companys share capital, together with details of the Articles of Association movements in the Companys issued share capital during the year are The Companys Articles may be amended by special resolution of the shown in note 18 on page 120 of the full Annual Report and Accounts.
New Articles were adopted at the Directors are still limited as to the number of shares they can allot save 2010 AGM and are available on the Groups website at www.
in respect of employee share schemes.
The current authority allows com rsa pages ir governance articles.
Directors to allot securities up to a nominal amount of 320,667,149 and renewal of the Directors authority to allot shares will be sought at the Borrowing powers 2012 AGM.
During 2011, the Directors exercised their authority to allot The Directors restrict the borrowings of the Company so that the in respect of employee share schemes and the scrip dividend scheme.
aggregate amount, for the time being, remaining borrowed by the Group is not, without the previous sanction of an ordinary resolution of The Company has two classes of shares: ordinary shares of 27.5p each the Company, more than one and a half times the aggregate of: and preference shares of 1 each.
Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company and no right to fixed The amount paid up on the issued share capital of the Company income.
The rights attaching to the preference shares are detailed in The total of the capital and revenue reserves of the Group subject note 18 on pages 121 to 122 of the full Annual Report and Accounts.
As at 31 December 2011, the ordinary shares and the preference shares represented 96.6 % and 3.4 % respectively of the total By order of the Board issued share capital.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions Derek Walsh of the Articles and legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any Group General Counsel and Group Company Secretary agreements between the Companys shareholders that may result 22 February 2012 48 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT The following report by the Remuneration Committee All Committee members are independent non-executive directors the Committee has been approved by the Board, for submission except for John Napier, Board Chairman, who was judged to be to shareholders at the 2012 AGM.
independent on the date of his appointment to the Board.
Fees for serving as a Committee member and chairing Committees of the Deloitte LLP has audited the following items, as stipulated by law: Board are described in the Non-Executive Directors section of this Report on page 58.
Malcolm Le May was also a member of the Board The table of Directors emoluments and associated footnotes on Risk Committee during the year.
This is to help ensure that decisionpage 59 and the disclosure of the items comprising benefits in kind making on remuneration matters properly takes into account the The tables of defined benefit and defined contribution pensions on Groups risk appetite.
Members attendance at the Committee page 60 and associated footnotes meetings held in 2011 was as follows: The table of disclosure of Directors share options and share awards Regular Additional on pages 61 to 63 and associated footnotes.
Number of meetings held in 2011 6 1 In constitution and operation, the Committee complies fully with Edward Lea 5 6 1 1 the Corporate Governance Code as described in the Directors Malcolm Le May 6 6 1 1 and Corporate Governance Report on page 44.
John Maxwell Chairman 6 6 1 1 The Committees responsibilities are set out in its terms of reference John Napier 6 6 1 1 which are available to shareholders on request and on the Groups 1 Jos Streppel 1 1 website at www.
com rsa pages ir governance mgtcommittees.
The Committee welcomes continuous and open dialogue with Notes: 1.
Mr Streppel was appointed to the Remuneration Committee with effect from shareholders on remuneration policy.
Duties and Activities of the Committee Attendees at Committee Meetings The Remuneration Committee is a formal Committee of the Board, During 2011, a number of executives attended Committee meetings accountable to shareholders through its policies, actions and decisions by invitation to advise on Group strategy, Company performance, which are contained in the annual Remuneration Report, upon which HR policies and remuneration policies and practices.
None of the shareholders vote at the AGM.
Its principal duties are: attendees have a right to be present and do not attend when their own remuneration is discussed.
To determine the terms and conditions and remuneration of the Chairman of the Board and the Executive Directors During the year, the Committee obtained its principal advice from To oversee the operation of the Companys cash and share-based Towers Watson, which was appointed by the Committee in 2009. incentive plans, including approving the value and timing of awards Representatives from the firm attended each of the seven Committee and setting and monitoring performance conditions meetings held in 2011.
In addition to providing independent advice To consider and give advice to the Board on the Groups broader to the Committee, Towers Watson advised the Company on a range remuneration policy in relation to the Executive Committee of remuneration-related matters in the year.
Directors Executive Team whose members are shown on pages 42 and 43 Remuneration Committee Attendees Position To have regard to any concerns raised by the Board on the implications of the remuneration policy for risk and risk management Derek Walsh Group General Counsel To provide a draft of the Remuneration Report to be included in the Secretary to the Committee Companys Annual Report and Accounts to members of the Board 1 2 Andy Haste and Simon Lee Group Chief Executive Risk Committee for review in respect of risk and risk management 3 4 Orlagh Hunt and Vanessa Evans Group Human Resources to the extent not reviewed by the Board as a whole.
Director 5 6 Tim Rolfe and Leigh Harrison Group Reward and The Committee is required under its terms of reference to meet Pensions Director at least twice each year, but meets as often as is necessary throughout the year to ensure that it is able to fully report to the Board and Representatives of Towers Independent advisers to the shareholders on all relevant matters.
In 2011, the Committee met Watson Remuneration Committee seven times and discussed, amongst other things, the subjects Notes: described in the table on page 50.
Ceased attending the Remuneration Committee after 20 September 2011.
Commenced attending the Remuneration Committee from 20 September 2011.
Ceased attending the Remuneration Committee after 20 September 2011 due to maternity leave.
Members of the Committee have no personal financial interest, 4.
Commenced attending the Remuneration Committee from 26 July 2011. other than as shareholders, in the Committees decisions and they 5.
Ceased attending the Remuneration Committee after 19 July 2011. have no conflict of interest arising from cross directorships.
Commenced attending the Remuneration Committee from 17 October 2011.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 | RSA | 49 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Summary of the Remuneration Committee meetings held in 2011 Meeting Standard agenda items Additional items discussed January Approval of the performance conditions and the Executive Directors conditional awards under the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP in 2011 Review of the measurement of the relative Total Shareholder Return TSR performance condition applying to conditional awards granted under the LTIP in 2008 and approval for awards to vest Approval of the 2010 Remuneration Report Review of the 2011 objectives and performance goals for each Executive Director.
March Review of Executive Directors base salaries.
Review of the Remuneration Committees Terms two meetings Determining the outcome of annual bonuses for 2010 of Reference.
in the light of actual performance against agreed goals and objectives for each Executive Director Review of the measurement of the Return on Equity ROE performance condition applying to conditional awards granted under the LTIP in 2008, and approval for awards to vest Review of the forecast of share usage for LTIP awards and approval of the grant of awards in April 2011 Review of proposals for the annual bonus plan for 2011.
July Confirmation of the LTIP awards made in April 2011 Review of TSR performance for LTIP grants in 2008 Approval for the grant of conditional LTIP awards to 2010 in September 2011 Review and approval of the remuneration applying to Approval to operate the all-employee share plans Adrian Brown, following his appointment to the Board.
August Approval of Simon Lees remuneration package as Group Chief Executive.
September Review of the level of take up under Sharesave Update on the impact of regulatory changes in and Sharebuild Scandinavia affecting the remuneration arrangements Review of share usage following the grant of awards of material risk takers.
under the LTIP in September 2011.
December Update on performance of the annual bonus plan 2011 Approval of minor revisions to the LTIP rules enabling and LTIP cycles for 2009, 2010 and 2011. the plan to be compliant with regulation in Sweden and Denmark Updates on corporate governance and pension tax changes Approval of the terms relating to Andy Hastes resignation Review of incentive plan benchmarking analysis Commenced an effectiveness review of the Committee reported on in the Corporate Governance Report on page 45.
50 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration policy principles The continuing focus of the Committee is on maintaining a strong link between performance and reward.
It is the Committees view that shareholders interests are best served through a remuneration structure which contains a significant element of deferred performance-related pay, supporting the existing Group-wide culture of high performance and accountability, without undue risk.
The key principles which underpin the remuneration policy are consistent with those applied across the Group, namely that: Total remuneration is set at a competitive level which enables the recruitment, retention and reward of high-quality executive talent There is a strong and visible link between remuneration and performance: only exceptional levels of performance will generate exceptional levels of total reward A high proportion of the Executive Directors variable pay is made in the form of shares which aligns their interests with those of shareholders, and this is further strengthened by the share ownership guidelines which are detailed on page 57 A balance of short and long-term performance measurement is used, incorporating appropriate financial and non-financial targets Remuneration policy and practice is transparent to shareholders Where relevant, there is consideration of environmental, governance and social risks when determining remuneration for Executive Directors and senior managers to ensure that positive and appropriate behaviours are reinforced.
The policies relating to each element of remuneration are set out in the table below Remuneration Policy Base salary Base salary is set with reference to equivalent roles in similar companies and the sustained performance of the executive.
Annual incentive plan awards Annual incentive plan awards are related to stretching performance targets and are capped at 160% of base salary.
For maximum bonuses to be achieved, outstanding Company and individual performance must be demonstrated.
Long-term incentive plan awards Conditional share awards are made on an annual basis to ensure alignment with shareholders interests.
Other than in exceptional circumstances, grants of Performance Shares are capped at 150% of salary.
Pension provision and other benefits Employment benefits are set in line with arrangements made in similar companies to be market competitive.
Pension provision is at a level which allows executives to plan effectively for their eventual retirement.
During 2011, the Company announced the resignation of two Executive Directors: Andy Haste and George Culmer, both of whom have made a significant contribution to the success of the business during their respective tenures.
Andy Haste left the Company on 31 December 2011 with the Boards approval, and following significant planning and hand-over to the incoming Group Chief Executive, Simon Lee, in accordance with the Companys succession plan.
Andy was therefore treated as a good leaver in light of his performance and commitment to the Company.
His leaving arrangements include a cash bonus in respect of the 2011 financial year, unvested shares under the long-term incentive plans and a payment to reflect the remaining part of his notice period: further details of these terms are set out in each relevant section of this report.
George Culmer tendered his resignation in November 2011 and he will leave the Company in May 2012 to join Lloyds Banking Group plc.
As a consequence, he did not receive a bonus award in respect of 2011 performance.
He will also forfeit all shares issued to him through the Companys incentive plans that remain unvested at the date his employment ceases.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 | RSA | 51 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Elements of remuneration Remuneration for Executive Directors in 2012 will consist of the four principal elements described in the table on page 51, of which only base salary is pensionable: Remuneration Purpose Delivery Detail Base salary To reflect the market value Paid in cash on a monthly basis Reviewed annually, changes of the role and the skills, and is pensionable.
experience and performance of the individual.
Benchmarked against equivalent roles in similar companies having regard to the market median and with reference to the sustained performance of the executive.
Annual performance bonus To incentivise the delivery The maximum bonus Financial performance in 2012 of annual goals at Group, opportunity is 160% of will be measured through business division and base salary.
stretching targets based on individual levels.
COR and NWP performance Up to 120% of base salary can according to Group and be awarded as a cash bonus, and business divisions.
up to 40% of base salary can be issued in the form of compulsory Individual targets are Deferred Shares.
These shares approved by the Committee are held on behalf of the director and reflect stretching financial for three years, subject to and non-financial measures.
Executive Team members are expected to defer an additional element of their cash bonus so that the total deferral is around 50% of the total cash bonus award.
LTIP To reward the creation of Performance Shares are awarded Entry into the LTIP is sustained growth in shareholder subject to stretching underlying discretionary award levels value and to align managements ROE and relative TSR and participation are interests with those of performance conditions.
Matching Shares can vest Full details of the performance according to the level of share conditions and vesting are deferral, subject to stretching described on pages 55 and 56. performance conditions.
Pension To provide appropriate Delivery is through deferred Cash payments are provided if and market competitive post remuneration into a defined pension participation cannot be retirement benefits.
benefit or defined contribution maintained in full or in part scheme and or through taxable due to HM Revenue and cash payments made on a Customs tax limits.
The Committee has agreed that a review of the Companys remuneration arrangements will be conducted during 2012, with a particular focus on short and long-term incentives.
This review will seek to implement leading practice, where this is appropriate for the Company, and strengthen the alignment of managements interests with those of shareholders.
It is anticipated that a new long-term incentive plan will be tabled for shareholder approval at the AGM in 2013.
52 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The following charts set out the elements of the Executive Directors The Committee is alert to market concerns surrounding boardroom remuneration for 2011.
The bonus value is based on the cash bonus pay in general and it closely monitors both base salaries and total plus the fair value of the compulsory Deferred Shares granted in 2011. remuneration for Executive Directors in light of the market, in addition The LTIP value is based on the fair value of awards of Performance to both individual and corporate performance.
The Committee also Shares as defined on page 55 and an expected value of half of the has regard to the levels of pay increases available for all employees, maximum potential number of matching shares that may vest subject as well as other forms of remuneration including short and long-term to performance relating to voluntary and compulsory Deferred Shares variable pay.
Salary review decisions are therefore made in the round, granted under the LTIP in 2011. taking into account the impact of salary increases on other forms of remuneration.
The Committee remains confident that the The chart in respect of George Culmer reflects that no bonus was structures and processes in place for reviewing salaries are robust.
awarded for 2011 performance and while the share grants are noted, these will not vest.
2011 Pay review For the second consecutive year, the Remuneration Committee made Andy Haste % Simon Lee % no base salary increases in respect of Andy Haste and George Culmer, as their level of remuneration was considered to be appropriate and remained market-aligned.
During the year, Simon Lees base salary rose to reflect his appointment as Group Chief Executive and Adrian Brown received a salary increase upon his appointment to the Group Board.
The current base salaries paid to each Executive Director are: Current Position Base salary Salary 23 Salary 36 Simon Lee Group Chief Executive 800,000 Bonus 30 Bonus 29 George Culmer Chief Financial Officer 556,500 LTIP 47 LTIP 35 Adrian Brown Chief Executive, UK & 475,000 Western Europe George Culmer % Adrian Brown % At the time Andy Haste left the Company, his annual base salary was 955,500.
The following table sets out the base salaries of UK-based executives below Board level on a banded basis as at 31 December 2011.
No executive within this group received a base salary in excess of 475,000 i. e. the current salary of the lowest paid Executive Director.
Salary 30 Salary 26 Number of Bonus 11 Bonus 30 Base salary range employees LTIP 59 LTIP 44 250,001 and over 12 200,001 250,000 18 Base salary 150,001 200,000 45 Base salaries for Executive Directors and members of the Executive Team are set on appointment with reference to market data which is used as a guide alongside other relevant factors, such as level of experience and scale of role.
To enable the Group to compete for the most talented executives, the Committee references base salary levels to market data at the median level for equivalent roles in similar companies facing similar levels of complexity and challenge in the UK and internationally.
The Committee also has regard to levels of base pay within European and international companies, where appropriate.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 | RSA | 53 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Annual Incentive Plan During the year, Andy Haste and George Culmer were incentivised to The Executive Directors and the Executive Team participate in an annual achieve a combination of targets relating to the overall Group COR and incentive plan.
The Committee reviewed the incentive opportunity of the NWP results and the COR results of the regional operating businesses.
Executive Directors and the Executive Team and determined that it The financial targets in relation to Simon Lee and Adrian Brown were should reduce from a maximum of 180% of salary to 160% of salary for weighted towards the International and UK businesses, respectively, 2011 and 2012.
At an on-target level of performance, Executive Directors while they also retained a target for the Group COR result as a whole.
can receive a cash bonus of 60% of base salary and shares worth up to However, Simon Lees financial targets changed to reflect those given 20% of base salary can be awarded.
For outstanding performance, a to Andy Haste from 1 November 2011, in line with his appointment maximum cash bonus of 120% of base salary and shares worth up to as Group Chief Executive.
40% of base salary can be awarded.
At the Committees discretion, executives may be invited to voluntarily invest up to a further 33% of Bonuses paid to Executive Directors in respect of the 2011 financial the net cash element of their bonus into shares Voluntarily Invested year are included in the table of Directors emoluments on page 59.
Deferred Shares, which are held for a three-year deferral period.
The Committee is satisfied that the bonus payments made in respect of 2011 are appropriate given the COR and NWP results delivered The measures used for determining the amount of bonus payable to across the Group throughout the year, in addition to the contribution each executive are a combination of stretching financial targets and the made by each Executive Director.
results of a structured assessment of each executives performance against a set of defined and measurable role-specific objectives, many The Committee agreed that it would apply discretion to award of which have a financial context.
a cash bonus to Andy Haste in recognition of his leadership during the year and taking into account the strong financial results that the Role-specific measures are reviewed and approved by the Committee Company has delivered.
He will not, however, receive any deferred early in the financial year.
The Group Chief Executives performance is shares arising from performance in 2011.
George Culmer forfeited assessed annually by the Chairman of the Board and members of the the bonus award that would have been made to him in respect of Committee.
The Group Chief Executive carries out a similar 2011 when he tendered his resignation from the Company.
assessment for each of his direct reports, subject to review and approval by the Committee in the case of Executive Directors.
For performance in 2012, bonus awards will be subject to the Assessments also take account of appropriate leadership styles and achievement of stretching COR and NWP targets and roleeach executive receives a performance rating against a standard scale specific measures.
used at all levels in the business.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP UK-based executives who are members of the Groups senior The Groups long-term incentive plan LTIP was introduced in 2006 to leadership team Top 100 participate in a bonus plan which is drive sustainable, long-term returns and it covers Executive Directors, structured in the same way and is assessed using the same financial the Executive Team and Top 100.
There are three main types of award measures as applying to the Executive Directors and the Executive that can be granted to participants and these are covered on page 55.
For outstanding performance, a cash bonus of up to 80% of LTIP awards are funded through a combination of new issue and market base salary can be awarded, in addition to compulsory Deferred purchase shares.
Shares worth up to a further 26.4% of basesalary.
In 2011, performance was measured against combined operating ratio COR and net written premium NWP targets.
COR is a key indicator which captures the underlying strength and performance of an insurance business.
COR targets account for three quarters of the financial targets.
NWP is an indicator of growth and accounts for one quarter of the financial targets.
To achieve focused incentivisation, financial targets for each Executive Director and members of the Executive Team are weighted towards the geographic areas of the business for which they have primary responsibility.
54 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Performance Shares Matching Shares Executive Directors may receive a conditional award of Performance Executive Directors, members of the Executive Team and the Top 100 Shares with the grant level and performance condition determined are eligible to receive a further conditional award of matching shares by the Committee prior to each grant.
Account is taken of personal Matching Shares based on the number of compulsory and voluntary performance in determining the scale of the award granted to each Deferred Shares awarded to them and held in the Trust on their behalf.
For executives below this level, awards are made Matching Shares will vest after three years subject to the stretching based on a formula which relates the size of award to individual performance conditions set out below and provided the individual performance, as measured through the annual performance appraisal remains in employment with the Group other than in exceptional process.
In any year, the face value of Performance Shares granted circumstances such as death or retirement at normal retirement age.
to any individual will be limited to 150% of base salary in normal circumstances, subject to an overriding cap of 250% of base salary in The Remuneration Committee has determined that it will reduce exceptional circumstances such as executive recruitment or retention.
the maximum award opportunity available to Executive Directors and the Executive Team through Matching Shares.
In 2011 and 2012, at a Performance Shares vest following the testing of performance threshold performance, the matching ratio will be 0.5:1.
The maximum conditions which are measured over three financial years, and provided matching ratio for Matching Shares to Deferred Shares will be 2:1, the executive remains in employment with the Group other than calculated on the gross value of the bonus invested in Deferred Shares.
in exceptional circumstances such as death or retirement at normal Since 2006, the Matching Share ratio has been 0.625:1 at threshold retirement age.
performance up to 2.5:1 at maximum vesting.
In 2012, awards of Performance Shares made to Executive Directors Performance conditions and the Executive Team will be limited to a maximum face value The Committee will determine the performance condition for each of 150% of base salary: however, the Committee has agreed that grant of Performance Shares and Matching Shares, with performance by exception, Adrian Browns award for 2012 will be granted at measured over a single period of three years with no provision to retest.
250% of salary in recognition of the critical nature of his role.
In 2012, grants of Performance Shares and Matching Shares related to compulsory Deferred Shares will be subject to a performance condition Deferred Shares consisting of a combination of ROE and TSR targets.
As described in the annual incentive plan section on page 54 Executive Directors may be granted Deferred Shares as part of their annual ROE has been selected as the measure of financial performance as it bonus award compulsory Deferred Shares.
These Deferred Shares is one of the key measures of overall business performance and is visible are held in a Trust and normally vest three years from the date of externally to shareholders.
The TSR performance condition has been grant, subject to continued employment with the Group.
During designed to provide alignment between executive remuneration and the three-year holding period, the Deferred Shares must remain shareholder interests and to ensure that an element of the package is in the Trust.
linked directly to share price performance.
The comparator group has been selected to ensure that performance is compared fairly against Each year, Executive Directors, members of the Executive Team and a group of similar companies operating in a similar competitive the Top 100 may be invited to invest up to 33% of their net cash bonus environment.
The use of ROE and TSR in combination provides award into shares Voluntarily Invested Deferred Shares.
Unlike the a balanced approach to the measurement of Company compulsory Deferred Shares, Voluntarily Invested Deferred Shares performance over the longer term.
are not at risk of forfeiture.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 | RSA | 55 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED As in 2011, ROE will be given greater prominence than relative TSR As noted on page 51, the Committee agreed that Andy Haste would in 2012, to underline the Companys commitment to improving the be considered a good leaver in accordance with the LTIP rules relating returns that it generates on its balance sheet.
The vesting of 70% of the to the unvested share awards granted to him in 2009, 2010 and 2011.
LTIP awards will be based on reported ROE performance and 30% George Culmers unvested share awards will lapse on the date his on relative TSR performance with the exception of Matching Shares employment with the Company ends.
attaching to voluntary Deferred Shares, the vesting of which will remain dependent solely on the ROE performance condition.
The range Sharesave of ROE performance targets has remained unchanged since 2009 Executive Directors are able to participate in Sharesave an HM and in respect of the performance periods yet to conclude, is from Revenue & Customs approved Save as You Earn Plan, which the 10% 25% of the ROE related award vests to 16% 100% of the award Group currently operates in 22 countries.
Between these levels the award will vest on a straight line basis.
savings for a period of either three or five years and are granted an option to buy ordinary shares in the Company at the end of the savings The element of the award which will vest according to TSR period.
The purchase price is set at the date employees are invited performance 30% of the total award is measured against the to join Sharesave and is discounted to the market value by 20%.
comparator group of UK and international financial services companies shown below.
If TSR performance is at the median compared with the Details of the Executive Directors interests in Sharesave are noted comparator group, 25% of the award will vest, with 100% of the award on page 62. vesting if performance is in the upper quintile.
Additionally, before any shares Sharebuild subject to the TSR condition vest, the Committee must be satisfied Executive Directors are able to participate in Sharebuild an HM that the Companys TSR performance is reflective of underlying Revenue & Customs approved Share Incentive Plan, which was financial performance.
adopted by shareholders at the 2009 AGM.
Sharebuild is available to all UK based employees who are employed at 30 June each year.
In The TSR comparator group consists of the following companies: 2011, one Matching Share was allotted and held in Trust for every one Partnership Share acquired with participants contributions.
Participants TSR comparator group re-invest the dividends paid on their Plan Shares held at the relevant dividend record date in order to purchase further Shares in the Plan.
Aegon Allianz AXA AVIVA Details of the Executive Directors interests in Sharebuild are noted Baloise Generali on page 62.
Legal & General Munich Re Dilution QBE Swiss Re Dilution levels for all schemes are held strictly within the Association Zurich Financial Services of British Insurers ABI limits.
The dilution levels compared to ABI limits as at 31 December 2011 were: The Committee reviews, on an ongoing basis, the composition of the comparator group and will consider adding companies for future awards ABI limit RSA dilution % in the event that the number of constituent companies drops below an 10% over 10 years for all share schemes 6.93 acceptable level.
The TSR condition is independently calculated and 5% over 10 years for discretionary schemes 4.24 verified by the Committee in respect of each award that vests.
The vesting of Matching Shares related to voluntary Deferred Shares will be determined solely with regard to the ROE performance condition.
For awards made in 2008 that vested in 2011, the ROE performance condition was partially met at a result of 13.8% and the relative TSR performance condition was achieved in full at 3.2%.
A note of the shares that vested in relation to the Executive Directors is given on page 63.
56 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Share ownership guidelines Simon Lee elected not to join a Group pension plan on joining RSA, Strengthened share ownership guidelines were introduced in 2004 and receives a taxable cash allowance in lieu of employer contributions.
for Executive Directors and members of the Executive Team.
His cash allowance rose from 17.5% of salary to 25% of salary upon his appointment as Group Chief Executive on 1 November 2011.
The Group Chief Executive is required to maintain a minimum shareholding in the Company equivalent to 200% of base salary.
The Adrian Brown is a member of the RSA Stakeholder Plan a defined other Executive Directors have a target of 150% of base salary and contribution plan, and he receives an employer contribution of 11% of other members of the Executive Team have a target of 75% of base salary, subject to the HM Revenue and Customs annual allowance, as salary.
In order to ensure that progress is made towards this target, applicable.
He has elected not to make a contribution from his salary executives are required to retain shares to a value of 50% of the net into the pension plan.
Additionally, Adrian Brown receives a taxable of tax proceeds under all share schemes until the relevant guideline cash allowance of 6.5% of base salary.
The Executive Directors receive a number of benefits available to other The number of shares held by each Executive Director as at senior managers, including life assurance at the rate of four times base 31 December 2011 excluding Voluntarily Invested Deferred Shares salary together with a spouse dependant annuity, sickness and ill health held under the LTIP and Matching Shares and Dividend Shares early retirement benefits and private medical insurance.
They also have held under Sharebuild is shown in the table on page 61. a choice between a company car and a monthly cash allowance in lieu of a car.
Pension provision and other benefits Andy Haste is a member of the SAL Pension Scheme SAL, a Service contracts contributory defined benefit occupational pension scheme.
In 2010, the The Committees policy on service contracts is that they should be Group restructured the provision of defined benefit pensions for all UK subject to a maximum notice period of one year.
Generally, in the event based employees.
From 1 March 2010, Andy Hastes benefit accrual of termination and in all cases of termination on performance grounds, was reduced from 1 60th to 1 80th and was calculated with reference the Committees policy would be to seek and apply mitigation and to a capped salary of 75,000.
Benefit accrued under the RSA payments may be made on a phased basis.
The Company has the right Stakeholder Plan a defined contribution plan in respect of base salary to pay Executive Directors in lieu of all or part of their notice period.
from 75,000 up to an earnings cap 129,600 for the tax year None of the Executive Directors have current terms in their service commencing 6 April 2011.
Participation in the RSA Stakeholder Plan contracts which allow them additional rights or payment in the event of will generate employer contributions worth 15% of base salary, subject a reconstruction or amalgamation of the Group.
Under normal to an employee contribution of 5% of base salary.
In addition to circumstances, the service contract in respect of each Executive his benefits within SAL and the RSA Stakeholder Plan, Andy Haste Director continues until age 65.
These contracts may, however, be received an age-related taxable cash allowance which enabled him terminated earlier by the Company or the individual, by the serving of to make his own provision for retirement above the cap.
he was paid an allowance of 38% of base salary for this purpose.
The Executive Directors service contracts became effective on the Andy Haste became a deferred member of the pension scheme following dates: following his employment ceasing on 31 December 2011.
Effective date Director of contract Notice period George Culmer is a member of the RSA Stakeholder Plan.
He receives employer contributions worth 15% of base salary, subject to an Andy Haste 2 April 2003 12 months employee contribution of 5% of base salary up to the HM Revenue George Culmer 1 May 2004 12 months and Customs annual allowance as applicable.
Additionally, George Simon Lee 1 November 2011 12 months Culmer receives a taxable cash allowance of 15% of base salary.
Adrian Brown 5 July 2011 12 months Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 | RSA | 57 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Effective date of Expiry date of External directorships Non-Executive letter of current Where appropriate, the Group encourages Directors and other Director appointment 3-year period senior managers to accept, subject to the approval of the Chairman, an invitation to join the board of another company outside the Group in Alastair Barbour 10 October 2011 10 October 2014 a non-executive capacity, recognising the value of such wider experience.
Edward Lea 10 July 2003 10 July 2012 In these circumstances, they are permitted to retain any remuneration John Maxwell 10 July 2003 10 July 2012 from the non-executive appointment.
Executive Directors and other Noel Harwerth 30 March 2004 30 March 2013 members of the Executive Team are limited to accepting one external appointment.
Malcolm Le May 30 March 2004 30 March 2013 Jos Streppel 3 October 2011 3 October 2014 Andy Haste is a Non-Executive Director of ITV plc.
During the year he Johanna Waterous 20 May 2008 20 May 2014 received a fee of 77,500 which he is permitted to retain.
None of the other Executive Directors have been appointed to the board of John Napiers term of appointment as Chairman of the Board was another company outside the Group.
most recently extended on 15 February 2011 so that it continues until terminated in accordance with his letter of appointment.
Non-Executive Directors The appointment may be terminated by either party giving Under the Companys Articles, the remuneration paid to Nonnot less than three months notice to the other.
Executive Directors is determined by the Board, within limits set by shareholders.
The fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors were Historical TSR performance last adjusted in 2010 and are noted as follows for 2011.
The fees will be The graph is included in the report of the Committee as a requirement reviewed during 2012 and any changes that may be agreed will be of Schedule 8 to The Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Group reported to shareholders in the 2012 Remuneration Report.
The graph shows the TSR of the Group with reference to the FTSE Base fee 60,000 World Europe Non Life Insurance Index and the FTSE 100 Index.
Plus: The FTSE World Europe Non Life Insurance Index comprises the Chairman of Group Audit Committee 20,000 range of European insurance businesses which most closely match our competitor group, and the TSR comparator group selected for awards Chairman of Remuneration Committee 12,500 under the LTIP.
The FTSE 100 Index comprises the 100 most highly Chairman of Investment Committee 12,500 capitalised companies of the UK market.
TSR performance relative to Chairman of Board Risk Committee 12,500 the indices is shown over the five years from 31 December 2006 to Additional fee for sitting on one or more Committees 5,000 31December 2011.
TSR reflects the change in value of ordinary shares in a capacity other than Chairman in a company over time, as represented by the evolution of a notional initial investment of 100 in the shares and including any distribution ofdividends.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to receive bonus payments or pension arrangements, nor do they participate in the Groups long term incentive plans.
Historical TSR performance growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding over five years The Committee determines the Chairman of the Boards remuneration.
Based on spot values For the second consecutive year, the Chairman requested that his fee was not increased, and therefore it remains at 400,000 per annum.
130 Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts but each has a letter of appointment.
With the exception of the Chairman, 100 all Non-Executive Directors are subject to a three-year period which may be terminated by either party giving not less than one months notice to the other.
70 Dec 06 Dec 07 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 RSA FTSE World Europe Non Life Insurance Index FTSE 100 Index 58 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 Value of Hypothetical 100 Holding CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS EMOLUMENTS AND INTERESTS AUDITED Directors emoluments Remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2011 was as follows: 1 Base salary Allowances Total Total and fees and benefits Bonuses 2011 2010 000 000 000 000 000 2 Executive Directors 3 Adrian Brown 210 18 379 607 4 George Culmer 557146 7031,153 5 Andy Haste 956 932 883 2,771 2,182 6 Simon Lee 538 122 489 1,149 935 Non-Executive Directors 7 Alastair Barbour 15 15 Noel Harwerth 78 78 66 Edward Lea 85 85 74 Malcolm Le May 78 78 66 John Maxwell 78 78 66 8 John Napier 400 17 417 408 7 Jos Streppel 16 16 Johanna Waterous 65 65 54 Notes: 1.
The total figure includes all allowances chargeable to UK Income Tax.
2011 bonuses were calculated in accordance with the plan described on page 54 of this Report and paid in March 2012.
In 2011, a maximum cash bonus of 120% of salary was achievable.
Adrian Brown was appointed as a Director on 5 July 2011.
Accordingly, the table above shows Adrian Browns salary, allowances and benefits for the period from 5 July 2011 to 31 December 2011.
The bonus shown is the total payment made in respect of his performance throughout 2011.
George Culmers allowances include 15% of base salary as a retirement allowance, paid monthly.
During 2011, the amount paid was 122k.
He also received car benefits and additional taxable travel benefits worth 23k and medical benefits worth 1k.
Andy Hastes allowances include an age-related percentage of base salary as a retirement allowance, paid monthly.
During 2011, the allowance was 38% of salary and the amount paid was 363k.
He also received car benefits, additional taxable travel benefits worth 54k and medical and life assurance benefits worth 15k.
A taxable payment of 500k was made to him in compensation of the unexpired period of his notice and other contractual benefits.
Simon Lees allowances include 25% of basic salary as a retirement allowance, paid monthly.
During 2011, the amount paid to him was 104k.
He also received car benefits and additional taxable travel benefits worth 17k and medical benefits worth 1k.
The fees paid to Alastair Barbour and Jos Streppel are in respect of the period from their appointment as directors on 10 October 2011 and 3 October 2011 respectively until 31 December 2011.
John Napier is entitled to receive an accommodation allowance of 33k gross per annum.
The information required by paragraph 1, schedule 5 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 is shown in note 32 of the Financial Statements.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 | RSA | 59 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Pension benefits Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to any pension benefits.
The pension benefits earned by the Executive Directors, as members of Group defined benefit schemes, were as follows: Transfer value of Transfer value of Total accrued total accrued total accrued Difference in Change in pension at pension at pension at transfer values accrued 31 December 31 December 31 December less member 3 3 7 1 pension in year 2011 2011 2010 contribution 2,4, 5,6 Andy Haste 1,479 16,123 349,966 280,255 65,398 Notes: 1.
The difference in transfer values reflects the difference between the two transfer values calculated using relevant information on the respective dates and is not necessarily the actuarial increase of the underlying pension.
The figures set out in the table above provide information as required by Regulation 11 and Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Group Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
The Listing Rules require the change in accrued pension to be shown excluding the effects of inflation and the transfer value of this increase.
These figures are shown in the notes below.
The accrued pension figures shown are the annual amounts of members pension payable from normal retirement age.
Increases to pensions when in payment are applied in accordance with the relevant scheme rules.
On the death of the member leaving a surviving spouse and or children, spouses and or childrens pensions are payable in accordance with scheme rules.
The benefits shown above in respect of Andy Haste relate to his membership of a defined benefit pension scheme up to the earnings cap for benefits accrued prior to 28 February 2010, and up to a cap of 75k for benefits accrued from 1 March 2010.
Andy Haste was a member of the defined contribution scheme for benefits between 75k and the earnings cap for the period from 1 March 2010.
For Andy Haste the increase in his accrued pension during the year, excluding the effects of inflation, was 1k p. a and the transfer value in respect of this less his contributions was 16k at 31 December 2011.
Andy Haste is required to contribute to the scheme and also has the option of paying Additional Voluntary Contributions AVCs.
Neither voluntary contributions nor the resulting benefits are included in the table.
The transfer value of the accrued benefits represents the value of assets that the pension scheme would need to transfer to another pension provider on transferring the schemes liability in respect of Andy Hastes pension benefits.
The transfer values do not represent sums payable or due to Andy Haste.
The Company contributions paid in respect of Executive Directors who are members of Group defined contribution schemes, were as follows: Company contributions Company contributions paid in 2011 paid in 2010 1 Adrian Brown 23,141 George Culmer 44,520 83,475 Andy Haste 7,959 6,053 Notes: 1.
The contributions disclosed in the table above relate to the period from 5 July 2011 when Mr Brown was appointed as a Director to 31 December 2011.
60 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Shareholdings The interests of Directors in ordinary shares of 27.5p each of the Company were as follows: Shares held at Shares held at Shares held as a 1 January 31 December percentage of salary as 3 Director 2011 2011 at 31 December 2011 1,2 Executive Directors 4 Adrian Brown 431,901 505,149 150 George Culmer 1,329,849 1,847,317 392 Andy Haste 5,116,211 6,047,908 709 Simon Lee 759,608 1,016,664 158 2 Non-Executive Directors Alastair Barbour 20,000 Noel Harwerth 10,000 10,000 Edward Lea 591,187 703,521 Malcolm Le May 18,765 20,107 John Maxwell 358,770 522,977 John Napier 560,671 600,821 Jos Streppel Johanna Waterous 36,761 36,761 Notes: 1.
The Executive Directors each had a beneficial interest as at 31 December 2011 in the Voluntarily Invested Deferred Shares of 27.5p each held under the LTIP and in the Matching Shares under Sharebuild which are not included in the above table.
These are disclosed on pages 62 and 63.
As at 22 February 2012, the interests in ordinary shares of the Non-Executive Directors remained unchanged since 31 December 2011.
Assuming share price of 1.052p the closing middle market price on the last dealing day of the year and including Voluntarily Invested Deferred Shares of 27.5p each held under the LTIP and in the Matching Shares under Sharebuild which are disclosed on pages 62 and 63.
Accordingly, the table above shows shares held by him on 5 July 2011 and not 1 January 2011.
Jos Streppel was appointed to the Board on 3 October 2011 and Alastair Barbour was appointed to the Board on 10 October 2011.
Accordingly, the table above shows shares held by them on the date of their respective appointments and not 1 January 2011.
Options 1999 ESOS The 1999 ESOS is an executive share option scheme under which options were granted with an exercise price equal to the fair value of the shares at the date of grant.
Any outstanding options expire ten years from the date of grant.
No grants have been made under the 1999 ESOS since 2006 and the 1999 ESOS expired in 2009 although a number of options remain outstanding in accordance with the rules of the scheme.
The relevant performance conditions were achieved in respect of all options granted between those dates.
Outstanding options ESOS and Sharesave None of the terms or conditions of any of the existing options over shares of the Group were varied during the year.
Full details of all Directors shareholdings and options to subscribe for shares are recorded in the Groups Register of Directors Interests which is open to inspection by shareholders at the AGM and at the Companys registered office during standard business hours.
The official closing middle market price at its highest during the year was 143.5p per share and at its lowest was 99.6p per share.
On the last dealing day of the year it was 105.2p per share.
Unexpired options held during 2011 in respect of the ordinary shares of the Company as a result of executive and Sharesave share option schemes are shown below.
All options were granted for nil consideration.
Accordingly, the table above shows the number of options held by him on that date and not 1 January 2011.
The aggregate gain made by Directors during the year on the exercise of share options amounted to 486.00.
Sharebuild The Directors interests in Sharebuild shares were as follows: Sharebuild Partnership Matching Sharebuild Shares held at Shares Shares Dividend Shares held at 1 January acquired during awarded during Shares acquired 31 December 2011 the year the year during the year 2011 1, 2 Adrian Brown 3,895 650 650 139 5,334 2 George Culmer 2,667 1,201 1,201 265 5,334 Andy Haste 2,667 1,202 1,202 265 5,336 2 Simon Lee 2,667 1,201 1,201 265 5,334 Notes 1.
Accordingly, the table above shows the share awards held by Adrian Brown on 5 July 2011 and not 1 January 2011 and Partnership Shares and Matching Shares purchased since 5 July 2011.
The interests of Adrian Brown, George Culmer and Simon Lee each increased by 232 ordinary shares on 9 January 2012 and a further 220 ordinary shares on 7 February 2012 following the purchase of Partnership Shares and the awards of Matching Shares on those dates.
The market price of ordinary shares on 7 April 2011, the date on which long term incentive scheme interests were granted during the year, was 134.1p.
Deferred Shares are inclusive of Voluntarily Invested Deferred Shares and compulsory Deferred Shares.
Voluntarily Invested Deferred Shares are purchased by Capita Trustees Limited on behalf of each participant using part of the net annual bonus paid to them and are held in trust for three years.
These Deferred Shares are not at risk of forfeiture and may be withdrawn from the trust at any time, but the related Matching Share awards would lapse if the voluntary Deferred Shares are withdrawn within three years of acquisition.
Compulsory Deferred Share awards are granted as part of the annual bonus.
These Deferred Shares will normally vest in three years from the date of grant subject to continuous employment with the Group.
Matching Shares are capable of vesting in respect of a maximum of 2.5 times the number of Deferred Shares awarded, subject to the achievement of performance conditions over a three year period.
For grants awarded in 2009 and 2010, 30% of the Matching Shares relating to compulsory Deferred Shares are subject to TSR performance relative to other companies specified by the Remuneration Committee.
For grants awarded in 2008, 50% of the Matching Shares relating to compulsory Deferred Shares are subject to TSR performance relative to other companies specified by the Remuneration Committee and for awards granted in 2009, 2010 and 2011, this was 30%.
Full vesting will only occur at upper quintile performance: at median performance 25% of the Matching Shares will vest.
Vesting will be on a straight line basis in between.
The remaining balance of the Matching Shares relating to compulsory Deferred Shares and all of the Matching Shares relating to voluntary Deferred Shares are subject to a ROE performance condition.
If underlying ROE over three years commencing in the year of grant is below 10% 12% for awards granted in 2008, no part of the award subject to ROE performance will vest.
If underlying ROE over three years is 10% 12% for awards granted in 2008, 25% of the award will vest.
If underlying average annual ROE over three years is 16% or higher 18% for awards granted in 2008, 100% of the awards will vest.
For the purpose of establishing the number of Matching Shares relating to voluntary Deferred Shares that may be awarded, the gross value of that part of the annual bonus payment that a participant elects to voluntarily defer is used.
Performance conditions relating to awards of Performance Shares are the same as those relating to compulsory Deferred Matching Shares for the relevant year of grant as described above.
The date by which qualifying conditions for LTIP awards must be met is as follows: 2009 awards by 31 December 2011, 2010 awards by 31 December 2012, 2011 awards by 31December 2013.
In respect of the awards made to George Culmer, Andy Haste and Simon Lee, the market price on the date of grant of awards 9 April 2008 was 135.7p, the market price on date of vesting of awards 9 April 2011 was 134.8p.
In respect of the award made to Adrian Brown, the market price on the date of grant of awards 22 August 2008 was 146.8p and the market price on the date the award vested 22 August 2011 was 113.0p.
For awards made in 2008, the ROE performance condition was partially met at a result of 13.8% and the relative TSR performance condition was achieved in full at 3.2%.
The aggregate value of share awards vested for Directors during the year under the long term incentive plan amounted to 3.8m.
Voluntarily Invested Deferred Shares which are shown in the table above are not included in this value.
Accordingly, the table above shows the share awards held by him on 5 July 2011 and not 1 January 2011.
The table also shows his share awards that have vested and lapsed since 5 July 2011.
No other Directors of the Company held long term incentive scheme interests during 2011.
John Maxwell Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, on behalf of the Board 22 February 2012 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 | RSA | 63 64 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 66 Independent auditors report to the members of RSA Insurance Group plc 67 Summary consolidated income statement 68 Summary consolidated statement of comprehensive income 68 Summary consolidated statement of changes in equity 69 Summary consolidated statement of financial position 70 Summary consolidated statement of cashflows 71 Estimation techniques, risks, uncertainties and contingencies MARINE OUR MARINE BUSINESS WAS THE FOUNDATION OF THE RSA WE KNOW TODAY.
From financing maritime traders in the early 18th century to underwriting the emerging marine risks of the 21st century, RSA has been at the forefront of driving innovative insurance solutions for this diverse and evolving sector, where we offer a broad range of covers for our customer including Hull Cargo Covering the transportation of goods Transportation Covering individuals and businesses responsible for carrying, handling or storing cargo Aquaculture Specialist cover for the production of fish, shellfish and shrimp Yachts Covering pleasure crafts of all shapes and sizes from small personal watercraft to ocean going yachts.
The Marine team comprises both technical insurance experts and people who have worked within the marine industry for many years, providing a unique blend of industry experience and product expertise.
This combination enables us to deliver the best solutions for our customers.
With over 700 people in the Marine team, we have built up a strong presence and excellent reputation in all of the key marine insurance markets, including the UK, Canada, Scandinavia, Brazil, Chile and Singapore, and our Marine business continues to be a strong and stable growth driver for the Group.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 | RSA | 65 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF RSA INSURANCE GROUP PLC We have examined the summary financial statements of RSA Insurance We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprises the and Summary Financial Statements as described in the contents section, Summary Consolidated Income Statement, the Summary Consolidated and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Summary Consolidated apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Summary Statement of Changes in Equity, the Summary Consolidated Statement Financial Statements.
of Financial Position, the Summary Consolidated Statement of Cashflows, the note in relation to Estimation Techniques, Risk, We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 2008 3 issued Uncertainties and Contingencies, and the information in the by the Auditing Practices Board.
Our report on the companys Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Consolidated Financial Statements describes the basis of our audit opinions on those Financial Statements, the Directors Remuneration This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in Report, and the Directors Report and Corporate Governance Report.
accordance with section 428 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members Opinion those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report In our opinion, the Summary Financial Statements are consistent with and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Directors and Corporate not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company Governance Report and the Directors Remuneration Report of RSA and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this Insurance Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 and comply report, for our audit report, or for the opinions we have formed.
with the applicable requirements of section 428 of the Companies Act 2006, and the regulations made thereunder.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the Summary Financial Statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law.
Deloitte LLP Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors of the Summary Financial Statements within the Annual Review London, UK and Summary Financial Statements, with the Consolidated Financial 22 February 2012 Statements, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Directors and Corporate Governance Report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 428 of the Companies Act 2006 and the regulations made thereunder.
66 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT for the year ended 31 December 2011 2011 2010 m m Income Gross written premiums 9,131 8,448 Less: reinsurance premiums 993 993 Net written premiums 8,138 7,455 Change in the gross provision for unearned premiums 273 250 Less: change in provision for unearned premiums, reinsurers share 26 9 Change in provision for unearned premiums 282 276 Net earned premiums 7,856 7,179 Net investment return 745 629 Other operating income 134 116 Total income 8,735 7,924 Expenses Gross claims incurred 5,595 6,700 Less: claims recoveries from reinsurers 382 1,816 Net claims and benefits 5,213 4,884 Underwriting and policy acquisition costs 2,399 2,171 Unwind of discount 94 94 Other operating expenses 291 177 Total expenses 7,997 7,326 Finance costs 117 118 Gains losses on disposal of subsidiaries 1 1 Net share of loss after tax of associates 9 5 Profit before tax 613 474 Income tax expense 186 119 Profit for the year 427 355 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Parent Company 426 346 Non controlling interests 1 9 427 355 Earnings per share on profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders of the Parent Company Basic 11.9p 9.8p Diluted 11.8p 9.7p Ordinary dividends paid and proposed for the year Interim dividend paid per share 3.34p 3.12p Final dividend proposed per share 5.82p 5.70p The total emoluments of the Directors were 6,062k 2010: 5,004k.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 | RSA | 67 SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME for the year ended 31 December 2011 2011 2010 m m Profit for the year 427 355 Exchange losses gains net of tax 70 53 Fair value gains net of tax 26 46 Pension fund actuarial losses gains net of tax 63 58 Other comprehensive expense income for the year 107 157 Total comprehensive income for the year 320 512 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Parent Company 318 502 Non controlling interests 2 10 320 512 SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY for the year ended 31 December 2011 Ordinary Ordinary Capital ShareNon share share Treasury Preference Revaluation redemption Translation Retained holders controlling Total capital premium shares shares reserves reserve reserve earnings equity interests equity m m m m m m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 2010 941 1,074 3 125 377 8 259 710 3,491 97 3,588 Total comprehensive income for the year 58 40 404 502 10 512 Dividends paid 299 299 4 303 Issued by scrip 11 41 52 52 Issued for cash 6 9 15 12 27 Issued for non cash consideration 11 11 Treasury shares utilised 1 1 Changes in shareholders interests in subsidiaries 24 24 3 21 Depreciation transfer 2 2 Share based payments 4 25 29 29 Balance at 1 January 2011 962 1,124 2 125 433 8 299 817 3,766 129 3,895 Total comprehensive income expense for the year 21 56 353 318 2 320 Dividends paid 325 325 18 343 Issued by scrip 5 17 22 22 Issued for cash 1 3 4 4 Treasury shares utilised 1 2 3 3 Changes in shareholders interests in subsidiaries 1 3 4 1 5 Depreciation transfer 1 1 Share based payments 3 6 9 9 Balance at 31 December 2011 971 1,144 1 125 454 8 243 857 3,801 114 3,915 68 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION as at 31 December 2011 2011 2010 m m Assets Goodwill and other intangible assets 1,359 1,209 Property and equipment 275 287 Investment property 362 374 Investments in associates 29 38 Financial assets 12,838 13,098 Total investments 13,229 13,510 Reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities 2,073 2,652 Insurance and reinsurance debtors 3,328 3,137 Current tax assets 33 33 Deferred tax assets 249 204 Other debtors and other assets 777 744 1,059 981 Cash and cash equivalents 1,258 1,317 22,581 23,093 Assets held for sale 17 11 Total assets 22,598 23,104 Equity and liabilities Equity Shareholders equity 3,801 3,766 Non controlling interests 114 129 Total equity 3,915 3,895 Liabilities Loan capital 1,313 1,315 Insurance contract liabilities 14,766 15,140 Insurance and reinsurance liabilities 602 656 Borrowings 298 298 Current tax liabilities 104 158 Deferred tax liabilities 102 42 Provisions 389 389 Other liabilities 1,109 1,211 Provisions and other liabilities 1,704 1,800 Total liabilities 18,683 19,209 Total equity and liabilities 22,598 23,104 The financial statements were approved on 22 February 2012 by the Board of Directors and are signed on its behalf by: George Culmer Chief Financial Officer Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 | RSA | 69 SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASHFLOWS for the year ended 31 December 2011 2011 2010 m m Cashflows from operations 104 96 Tax paid 227 215 Investment income 597 578 Interest paid 116 115 Dividends received from associates 1 2 Pension deficit funding 56 50 Net cashflows from operating activities 303 296 Proceeds from sales or maturities of: Financial assets 4,432 4,120 Investment property 11 78 Property and equipment 14 Investments in subsidiaries net of cash disposed of 6 74 Purchase of: Financial assets 3,983 3,720 Investment property 3 39 Property and equipment 37 31 Intangible assets 159 133 Investments in subsidiaries net of cash acquired 299 86 Net cashflows from investing activities 18 115 Proceeds from issue of share capital 4 27 Dividends paid to ordinary shareholders 294 237 Dividends paid to preference shareholders 9 9 Dividends paid to non controlling interests 18 2 Net movement in other borrowings 1 1 Net cashflows from financing activities 316 222 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 31 189 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 1,314 1,105 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 25 20 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 1,258 1,314 70 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ESTIMATION TECHNIQUES, RISKS, UNCERTAINTIES AND CONTINGENCIES Introduction The development of previously settled claims, where payments One of the purposes of insurance is to enable policyholders to protect to date are extrapolated for each prior year themselves against uncertain future events.
Insurance companies accept Estimates based upon a projection of claims numbers and the transfer of uncertainty from policyholders and seek to add value average cost through the aggregation and management of these risks.
Notified claims development, where notified claims to date for each year are extrapolated based upon observed development The uncertainty inherent in insurance is inevitably reflected in the of earlier years financial statements of insurance companies.
The uncertainty in the Expected loss ratios.
financial statements principally arises in respect of the insurance contract liabilities of the company.
In addition, the Group uses other methods such as the BornhuetterFerguson method, which combines features of the above methods.
The insurance contract liabilities of an insurance company include the The Group also uses bespoke methods for specialist classes of business.
provision for unearned premiums and unexpired risks and the provision In selecting its best estimate, the Group considers the appropriateness for losses and loss adjustment expenses.
Unearned premiums and of the methods and bases to the individual circumstances of the unexpired risks represent the amount of income set aside by the provision class and underwriting year.
The process is designed to company to cover the cost of claims that may arise during the select the most appropriate best estimate.
unexpired period of risk of insurance policies in force at the end of the reporting period.
Outstanding claims represent the companys estimate Large claims impacting each relevant business class are generally of the cost of settlement of claims that have occurred by the end of the assessed separately, being measured either at the face value of the loss reporting period but have not yet been finally settled.
adjusters estimates or projected separately in order to allow for the future development of large claims.
In addition to the inherent uncertainty of having to make provision for future events, there is also considerable uncertainty as regards the Provisions are calculated gross of any reinsurance recoveries.
eventual outcome of the claims that have occurred by the end of the A separate estimate is made of the amounts that will be recoverable reporting period but remain unsettled.
This includes claims that may from reinsurers based upon the gross provisions and having due have occurred but have not yet been notified to the company and regard to collectability.
those that are not yet apparent to the insured.
The provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses are subject As a consequence of this uncertainty, the insurance company needs to close scrutiny both within the Groups business units and at Group to apply sophisticated estimation techniques to determine the Corporate Centre.
In addition, for major classes where the risks and appropriate provisions.
uncertainties inherent in the provisions are greatest, regular and ad hoc detailed reviews are undertaken by advisers who are able to draw upon Estimation techniques their specialist expertise and a broader knowledge of current industry Claims and unexpired risks provisions are determined based upon trends in claims development.
As an example, the Groups exposure previous claims experience, knowledge of events and the terms to asbestos and environmental pollution is examined on this basis.
and conditions of the relevant policies and on interpretation of The results of these reviews are considered when establishing the circumstances.
Particularly relevant is experience with similar cases appropriate levels of provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses and historical claims payment trends.
The approach also includes the and unexpired periods of risk.
consideration of the development of loss payment trends, the potential longer term significance of large events, the levels of unpaid claims, It should be emphasised that the estimation techniques for the legislative changes, judicial decisions and economic, political and determination of insurance contract liabilities involve obtaining regulatory conditions.
corroborative evidence from as wide a range of sources as possible and combining these to form the overall estimate.
This technique means Where possible, the Group adopts multiple techniques to estimate the that the estimate is inevitably deterministic rather than stochastic.
This assists in giving greater understanding of the trends inherent in the data being projected.
The Groups The pension assets and pension and post retirement liabilities are estimates of losses and loss expenses are reached after a review calculated in accordance with International Accounting Standard 19 of several commonly accepted actuarial projection methodologies IAS19.
The assets, liabilities and income statement charge, calculated and a number of different bases to determine these provisions.
in accordance with IAS 19, are sensitive to the assumptions made from These include methods based upon the following: time to time, including inflation, interest rate, investment return and mortality.
IAS 19 compares, at a given date, the current market value of a pension funds assets with its long term liabilities, which are calculated Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 | RSA | 71 ESTIMATION TECHNIQUES, RISKS, UNCERTAINTIES AND CONTINGENCIES CONTINUED using a discount rate in line with yields on AA rated bonds of suitable The sections below identify a number of specific risks relating to duration and currency.
As such, the financial position of a pension fund asbestos and environmental claims.
There may be other classes of risk on this basis is highly sensitive to changes in bond rates and will also be which could develop in the future and that could have a material impact impacted by changes in equity markets.
on the Groups financial position.
Uncertainties and contingencies The Group evaluates the concentration of exposures to individual and The uncertainty arising under insurance contracts may be characterised cumulative insurance risk and establishes its reinsurance policy to under a number of specific headings, such as: reduce such exposure to levels acceptable to the Group.
Uncertainty as to whether an event has occurred which would give Asbestos and environmental claims rise to a policyholder suffering an insured loss The estimation of the provisions for the ultimate cost of claims Uncertainty as to the extent of policy coverage and limits applicable for asbestos and environmental pollution is subject to a range of Uncertainty as to the amount of insured loss suffered by a uncertainties that is generally greater than those encountered for other policyholder as a result of the event occurring classes of insurance business.
As a result it is not possible to determine Uncertainty over the timing of a settlement to a policyholder for the future development of asbestos and environmental claims with the a loss suffered.
same degree of reliability as with other types of claims, particularly in periods when theories of law are in flux.
Consequently, traditional The degree of uncertainty will vary by policy class according to the techniques for estimating provisions for losses and loss adjustment characteristics of the insured risks and the cost of a claim will be expenses cannot wholly be relied upon and the Group employs determined by the actual loss suffered by the policyholder.
specialised techniques to determine provisions using the extensive knowledge of both internal asbestos and environmental pollution There may be significant reporting lags between the occurrence of experts and external legal and professional advisors.
the insured event and the time it is actually reported to the Group.
Following the identification and notification of an insured loss, there Factors contributing to this higher degree of uncertainty include: may still be uncertainty as to the magnitude and timing of the settlement of the claim.
There are many factors that will determine the level of The long delay in reporting claims from the date of exposure for uncertainty such as inflation, inconsistent judicial interpretations and example, cases of mesothelioma can have a latent period of up to court judgments that broaden policy coverage beyond the intent of the 40 years.
This makes estimating the ultimate number of claims the original insurance, legislative changes and claims handling procedures.
Group will receive particularly difficult Issues of allocation of responsibility among potentially responsible The establishment of insurance contract liabilities is an inherently parties and insurers uncertain process and, as a consequence of this uncertainty, the eventual Emerging court decisions and the possibility of retrospective cost of settlement of outstanding claims and unexpired risks can vary legislative changes increasing or decreasing insurer liability substantially from the initial estimates, particularly for the Groups long The tendency for social trends and factors to influence court awards tail lines of business.
The Group seeks to provide appropriate levels of Developments pertaining to the Groups ability to recover provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses and provision for reinsurance for claims of this nature unexpired risks taking the known facts and experience into account.
For US liabilities from the Groups London market business, developments in the tactics of US plaintiff lawyers and court decisions The Group has exposures to risks in each class of business within and awards.
each operating segment that may develop and that could have a material impact upon the Groups financial position.
The geographic Potential change in discount rate for lump sum damages awards and insurance risk diversity within the Groups portfolio of issued Legislative changes may affect the Groups liability in respect of insurance policies mean it is not possible to predict whether material unsettled claims in the use of predetermined factors used by courts development will occur and, if it does occur, the location and the timing to calculate compensation claims.
For example, in the UK, standard of such an occurrence.
The estimation of insurance contract liabilities formulae are used as an actuarial measure by the courts to assess lump involves the use of judgments and assumptions that are specific to the sum damages awards for future losses typically loss of earnings arising insurance risks within each territory and the particular type of insurance from personal injuries and fatal accidents.
The calibration of these risk covered.
The diversity of the insurance risks results in it not being standard formulae can be updated by the UK Government and the possible to identify individual judgments and assumptions that are more Lord Chancellor may review the methodology to be applied in likely than others to have a material impact on the future development determining the discount rate to calculate the appropriate settlements, of the insurance contract liabilities.
or the discount rate itself, in due course.
A reduction in the prescribed discount rate would increase the value of future claims settlements.
72 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Acquisitions and disposals Reinsurance The Group makes acquisitions and disposals of businesses as part of its The Group is exposed to disputes on, and defects in, contracts with its normal operations.
All acquisitions are made after due diligence, which reinsurers and the possibility of default by its reinsurers.
The Group is will include, amongst other matters, assessment of the adequacy also exposed to the credit risk assumed in fronting arrangements and of claims reserves, assessment of the recoverability of reinsurance to potential reinsurance capacity constraints.
In selecting the reinsurers balances, inquiries with regard to outstanding litigation and inquiries with whom the Group conducts business its strategy is to seek of local regulators and taxation authorities.
Consideration is also given reinsurers with the best combination of financial strength, price and to potential costs, risks and issues in relation to the integration of any capacity.
The Group Corporate Centre publishes internally a list of proposed acquisitions with existing RSA operations.
The Group will authorised reinsurers who pass the Groups selection process and seek to receive the benefit of appropriate contractual representations which its operations may use for new transactions.
and warranties in connection with any acquisition and, where necessary, additional indemnifications in relation to specific risks although there The Group monitors the financial strength of its reinsurers, including can be no guarantee that these processes and any such protection will those to whom risks are no longer ceded.
Allowance is made in the be adequate in all circumstances.
The Group may also provide relevant financial position for non recoverability due to reinsurer default by representations, warranties and indemnities to counterparties on any requiring operations to provide, in line with Group standards, having disposal.
While such representations, warranties and indemnities are regard to companies on the Groups Watch List.
The Watch List is essential components of many contractual relationships, they do not the list of companies whom the directors believe will not be able to represent the underlying purpose for the transaction.
pay amounts due to the Group in full.
These clauses are customary in such contracts and may from time Investment risk to time lead to the Group receiving claims from counterparties.
The Group is exposed to market risk and credit risk on its invested assets.
Market risk includes the risk of potential losses from adverse Contracts with third parties movements in market rates and prices including interest rates, equity The Group enters into joint ventures, outsourcing contracts and prices, property prices and foreign exchange rates.
The Groups distribution arrangements with third parties in the normal course of its exposure to market risks is controlled by the setting of investment limits business and is reliant upon those third parties being willing and able to in line with the Groups risk appetite.
From time to time the Group perform their obligations in accordance with the terms and conditions also makes use of derivative financial instruments to reduce exposure of the contracts.
to adverse fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and equity markets.
The Group has strict controls over the use of derivative instruments.
Litigation, disputes and investigations The Group, in common with the insurance industry in general, is subject Credit risk includes the non performance of contractual payment to litigation, mediation and arbitration, and regulatory, governmental and obligations on invested assets and adverse changes in the credit other sectoral inquiries and investigations in the normal course of its worthiness of invested assets including exposures to issuers or business.
In addition, the Group is exposed to the risk of litigation in counterparties for bonds, equities, deposits and derivatives.
Limits connection with its former ownership of the US operation.
The directors are set at both a portfolio and counterparty level based on likelihood do not believe that any current mediation, arbitration, regulatory, of default to manage the Groups overall credit profile and specific governmental or sectoral inquiries and investigations and pending or concentrations within risk appetite.
The Groups insurance investment threatened litigation or dispute will have a material adverse effect on the portfolios are concentrated in listed securities with very low levels Groups financial position, although there can be no assurance that losses of exposure to assets without quoted market prices.
The Group uses or financial penalties resulting from any current mediation, arbitration, model based analysis to verify asset values when market values are regulatory, governmental or sectoral inquiries and investigations and not readily available.
pending or threatened litigation or dispute will not materially affect the Groups financial position or cashflows for any period.
The current economic crisis adds further uncertainty and volatility to underlying levels of market and credit risk in the Eurozone.
The Group has, however, very limited direct exposure via its investment portfolio to the Eurozone and to the peripheral Eurozone countries in particular.
As with all other invested assets, limits are set in line with the Groups risk appetite.
The Group continues to monitor the situation closely and take action to manage its exposure as required.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 | RSA | 73 ESTIMATION TECHNIQUES, RISKS, UNCERTAINTIES AND CONTINGENCIES CONTINUED Rating environment The ability of the Group to write certain types of insurance business is dependent on the maintenance of the appropriate credit ratings from the rating agencies.
The Group has the objective of maintaining single A ratings.
At the present time the ratings are A positive outlook from 1 S&P, A stable outlook from AM Best and A2 stable outlook from Moodys.
A worsening in the ratings could have an adverse impact on the ability of the Group to write certain types of general insurance business.
In assessing credit risk in relation to reinsurance and investments, the Group takes into account a variety of factors, including credit rating.
If any such rating changes, or is otherwise reassessed, this has potential implications for the related exposures.
Foreign exchange risk The Group publishes consolidated financial statements in Pounds Sterling.
Therefore, fluctuations in exchange rates used to translate other currencies, particularly other European currencies and the Canadian Dollar, into Pounds Sterling will impact the reported consolidated financial position, results of operations and cashflows from period to period.
These fluctuations in exchange rates will also impact the Pound Sterling value of, and the return on, the Groups investments.
Income and expenses for each income statement item are translated at average exchange rates.
Assets and liabilities, as reported in the statement of financial position, are translated at closing exchange rates at the end of the reporting period.
Regulatory environment The legal, regulatory and accounting environment is subject to significant change in many of the jurisdictions in which the Group operates, including developments in response to changes in the economic and political environment and the recent financial crisis.
The Group continues to monitor the developments and react accordingly.
The new solvency framework for insurers being developed by the EU, referred to as Solvency II, is intended in the medium term to achieve greater harmonisation of approach across EU member states to assessing capital resources and requirements.
There will be continued uncertainty until all the rules are finalised and the Group is actively participating in shaping the outcome through its involvement with European and UK regulators and industry bodies.
The Group is actively progressing its implementation plans and the Directors are confident that the Group will continue to meet all future regulatory capital requirements.
On 28 February 2012, after the signing of these financial statements, S&P upgraded the Groups rating to A stable outlook.
74 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS THIS PAGE HAS BEEN INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 | RSA | 75 HEADING CONTINUED 76 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 OTHER INFORMATION 78 Shareholder information 80 Financial calendar 81 Jargon buster RISK MANAGED OUR RISK MANAGED BUSINESS DEALS WITH LARGE, CORPORATE AND MULTI-NATIONAL COMPANIES, USUALLY WITH TURNOVERS IN EXCESS OF 100M.
OUR TEAM PROVIDES CUSTOMISED INSURANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESSES WHEREVER THEY OPERATE.
Businesses of this size and scale often have unique and complex insurance needs, and those which operate on a global basis require an insurer with an in-depth knowledge of insurance issues that transcend international boundaries.
Many of our customers have similar insurance requirements, but require their own specific underwriting and risk management solutions.
Our bespoke solutions allow us to provide that flexibility and innovation in our insurance policies, whilst ensuring there are no gaps in cover.
We employ a large number of experienced underwriters across all major industry sectors with expertise in complex, non-conventional arrangements and compliance programmes.
Our extensive range of insurance products includes Property Damage Casualty Business Interruption Professional and Financial Risks Marine Construction and Engineering.
Risk management is a core part of our offering.
By working closely with brokers and customers to identify and assess risks, we are able to build comprehensive and bespoke risk improvement programmes.
This proactive focus on risk management and improvement can help minimize the likelihood of large and devastating losses, providing further reassurance to our customers.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 | RSA | 77 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Full Annual Report and Accounts Annual General Meeting This document contains a summary of certain information in our Ordinary shareholders are invited to attend the Companys Annual Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2011 General Meeting AGM, which will be held at The Queen Elizabeth II and does not include all the information needed to give a full Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE understanding of the results and state of affairs, risks and uncertainties at 11.00am on 14 May 2012.
Ordinary shareholders who are unable of the Company and the Group as would be provided by the full to attend the AGM to ask a question in person are invited to send financial statements, Directors and Corporate Governance Report, the Chairman an email via the Companys website or to write to the Remuneration Report and Auditors Report contained in the Annual Chairman at the Registered Office address above.
Report and Accounts which is available free of charge to shareholders upon request to the Companys registrar or to download from Electronic communications www.
Changes to legislation allows companies greater flexibility when communicating with shareholders and allows corporate websites to The Auditors Report in the 2011 Annual Report and Accounts was be used as a primary source of information.
By communicating with unqualified and does not include a statement under section 498 2 shareholders electronically RSA is able to distribute messages to all its or section 498 3 of the Companies Act 2006. shareholders instantaneously.
Shareholders who register for electronic communications are more informed, receiving emails when our results Registered Office and Group Corporate Centre are released.
Shareholders may elect to receive paper copies of the 9th Floor, One Plantation Place, 30 Fenchurch Street, Annual Report and Accounts by writing to or telephoning the Registrar.
Registered in England and Wales No.
You can elect to receive email notifications of shareholder communications by registering at www.
co. uk where Group website you can also set up a bank mandate to receive dividends directly RSAs corporate website provides shareholders with a broad range to your bank account and submit proxy votes for shareholder of information about RSAs heritage, social and environmental meetings.
Receiving the Companys communications electronically responsibilities and investor information such as the Groups financial allows the Company to communicate with its shareholders in a statements, current and historic share prices, AGM materials, events, more environmentally friendly, cost effective and timely manner.
governance information and answers to frequently asked questions in respect of shareholder matters.
You may visit the investor website Dividends at www.
Shareholders are encouraged to have their dividends paid directly into their bank account as it is more secure than receiving cheques by post Registrar and ensures that cleared funds are available to shareholders on the The Companys share register is maintained by Equiniti Limited.
Those receiving dividends in this method are Queries regarding your shareholding should be addressed to sent a consolidated tax voucher in March, showing both payments in Equiniti at the following address: the respective tax year.
To take advantage of this convenient method of payment visit www.
co. uk or contact Equiniti.
Equiniti Limited Aspect House Scrip Dividend Scheme Spencer Road RSA offers shareholders the opportunity to use their dividends to buy Lancing more ordinary shares in the Company by participating in the Companys West Sussex Scrip Dividend Scheme.
The Scheme applies to both interim and final BN99 6DA dividends and enables shareholders to increase their holding in the Telephone: 0871 384 2048 Company without incurring dealing costs or stamp duty.
If you wish to receive a scrip dividend instead of a cash dividend for future dividends Overseas callers should use 44 0 121 415 7064.
Shareholders with on which a scrip alternative is offered, please contact Equiniti.
a text phone facility should use 44 0 871 384 2255 or alternatively use the Text Relay service by dialing 18001 0121 415 7064 directly Share ownership from the textphone.
RSA is listed on the London Stock Exchange under the code RSA.
The average total daily trading volume during 2011 was approximately Please quote your shareholder reference number on your share 4.1m ordinary shares.
The closing market price of an ordinary share certificate and dividend tax vouchers when contacting or on 4 January 2011 was 128.8p and the closing market price on corresponding with Equiniti.
Calls are charged at 8p per minute 30 December 2011 was 105.2p.
The highest daily closing price of an from a BT landline.
Other telephone providers costs may vary.
ordinary share was 143.5p on 17 February 2011 and the lowest daily Telephone lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday.
closing price was 99.6p on 16 December 2011.
Further details of the ordinary and preference shares are found in note 18 on pages 120 to 122 of the full Annual Report and Accounts.
78 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 OTHER INFORMATION Distribution of shares by geography % Analysis of investors % UK 70 Unit trusts Mutual funds 52 USA and Canada 12 Private Retail 15 Europe 12 Pension funds 14 Asia and others 6 Other 14 Insurance 5 Shareholdings by size Low cost share dealing facilities Shareholders may purchase or sell their ordinary shares in RSA No.
of shares Shareholders % Shares % through their stockbroker, a high street bank or one of the providers 1 24,999 42,978 96.14 117,392,194 3.32 detailed below: 25,000 99,999 866 1.94 38,849,430 1.10 RSAs registrar, Equiniti offers a telephone and internet dealing service.
For internet sales log on to www.
You will need your Total 44,705 100 3,531,021,230 100 shareholder reference number as shown on your share certificate.
Managing your shareholding Stocktrade also offer a telephone dealing service.
Commission is Share register fraud: protecting your investment currently 0.5% on amounts up to 10,000 and 0.2% on the excess It is required by law that our shareholder register is available for thereafter, all of which are subject to a minimum charge of 17.50. public inspection and we are unable to control the use of information Apostal dealing service is also available upon request.
For telephone obtained by persons inspecting the register.
Shareholders are advised sales call 44 0 845 6010 995 between 8.00am and 4.30pm, Monday to be wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount, to Friday.
Please quote reference: Low Cost 331.
Alternatively visit their or offers of free reports about the Company.
Details of any share website www.
dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in Company mailings or on our website.
If you receive any unsolicited Please note that rates are as at February 2012 and may be subject advice, make sure you get the correct name of the person and to change.
Please contact either provider for further guidance organisation and check that they are appropriately authorised on their full terms and conditions.
by the FSA by visiting www.
More information on protecting your investment can be found at ShareGift www.
Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which makes it uneconomic to sell them, may wish to consider donating them Tips on protecting your shares to charity through ShareGift, a registered charity administered by Keep any documentation that contains your shareholder reference The Orr Mackintosh Foundation, registered charity number 1052686. number in a safe place and destroy any documentation which you The relevant share transfer form can be obtained from Equiniti.
no longer need by shredding it Further details can be obtained from www.
org Inform Equiniti promptly when you change your address or by calling 44 0 20 7930 3737.
Be aware of dividend payment dates and contact Equiniti if you do not receive your dividend cheque, or better still, make arrangements to have the dividend paid directly into your bank account Consider holding your shares electronically in a CREST account via a nominee.
Amalgamation of accounts Shareholders who receive duplicate sets of Company mailings owing to multiple accounts in their name should contact Equiniti to request that their accounts be amalgamated.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 | RSA | 79 FINANCIAL CALENDAR 29 February 2012 2 August 2012 Ex dividend date for the first preference share dividend for 2012.
Announcement of the half year results for the six months ended 30 June 2012, the ordinary interim dividend for 2012 and the second 2 March 2012 preference dividend for 2012.
Record date for the first preference dividend for 2012.
8 August 2012 28 March 2012 Ex dividend date for the second preference dividend for 2012.
Ex dividend date for the ordinary final dividend for 2011.
10 August 2012 30 March 2012 Record date for the second preference dividend for 2012.
Payment date for the first preference dividend for 2012 and record date for the ordinary final dividend for 2011.
26 September 2012 Ex dividend date for the ordinary interim dividend for 2012.
4 April 2012 Announcement of the scrip dividend price for the ordinary final 28 September 2012 dividend for 2011.
Record date for the ordinary interim dividend for 2012.
3 May 2012 1 October 2012 Q1 2012 interim management statement.
Payment date for the second preference dividend for 2012.
4 May 2012 3 October 2012 Deadline for the receipt of scrip dividend mandates by Equiniti Announcement of the scrip dividend price for the ordinary interim in relation to the ordinary final dividend for 2011. dividend for 2012.
14 May 2012 26 October 2012 Annual General Meeting at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre.
Deadline for the receipt of scrip dividend mandates by Equiniti in relation to the ordinary interim dividend for 2012.
25 May 2012 Payment date for the ordinary final dividend for 2011 8 November 2012 subject to shareholder approval at the AGM.
23 November 2012 Payment of the ordinary interim dividend for 2012.
Provisional date 80 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 OTHER INFORMATION JARGON BUSTER Below is a simple explanation of some of the key technical terms used within this report.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 | RSA | 81 JARGON BUSTER CONTINUED Net Earned Premium The portion of Net Written Premiums for which we have already provided protection.
82 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 OTHER INFORMATION THIS PAGE HAS BEEN INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 | RSA | 83 THIS PAGE HAS BEEN INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK 84 | RSA | Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2011 Important disclaimer and actions of regulatory authorities including changes related to capital and solvency This document contains forward-looking statements with respect to certain of the requirements, the impact of competition, infl ation, defl ation, the timing impact and Groups plans and its current goals and expectations relating to its future fi financial other uncertainties of future acquisitions or combinations within relevant industries, condition, performance, results, strategic initiatives and objectives.
co. uk Directors photography by Homer Sykes and Liam Bailey Executive Team by Liam Bailey Photography for the front cover supplied by Getty Images Photography for pages 16 and 17, 38 and 39, 64 and 65, 76 and 77 supplied by Shutterstock Images Printed by Royle Print on Amadeus 50 50 silk which has 50% Recovered Fibre.
