74 Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Directors statement pursuant to the Disclosure AnnualReport, the Remuneration report and the and Transparency Rules consolidated financial statements in accordance Each of the Directors, whose name and functions are withapplicable law and regulations.
listed in the Directors profiles section of this Annual Report and Accounts confirms that, to the best of The Companies Act 2006, being the applicable law each persons knowledge and belief: in the UK, requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
The Directors have The consolidated financial statements, prepared in prepared the Group and the Company financial accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and in statements in accordance with International Financial accordance with the Companies Act 2006, give a Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial European Union EU.
The financial statements are position and profit of the Company and the Group: required by law to give a true and fair view of the state The Directors report contained in the Annual of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the Report and Accounts which comprises the sections profit or loss of the Group for that period.
described on page 72, includes a fair review of the In preparing those financial statements the Directors development and performance of the business and are required to: the position of the Company and the Group and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Select suitable accounting policies and then apply that they face: them consistently: So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant Make judgements and estimates that are audit information of which the Companys auditors reasonable and prudent: are unaware: and State that the financial statements comply with IFRS They have each taken all the steps that ought to as adopted by the EU, subject to any material have been taken by them as Directors in order to departure disclosed and explained in the financial make themselves aware of any relevant audit statements: and information and to establish that the Companys Prepare the financial statements on the going auditors are aware of that information.
concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume The Directors are responsible for the maintenance that the Group will continue in business, in which and integrity of the audited financial information on our case there should be supporting assumptions or website at www.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and The Directors are also required by the Disclosure dissemination of financial statements may differ from and Transparency Rules of the FSA to include a legislation in other jurisdictions.
management report containing a fair review of the business and a description of the principal risks and Forward-looking statements uncertainties facing the Company and Group.
This Annual Report and Accounts and the Schroders The Directors are responsible for keeping proper website may contain forward-looking statements with books of accounting records that are sufficient to respect to the financial condition, results of operations show and explain the Companys transactions and and businesses of the Group.
Such statements and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they financial position of the Company and the Group and are based on current expectations and assumptions to enable them to ensure that the financial statements but relate to events and depend upon circumstances and the Remuneration report comply with the in the future.
Without limitation, any statements Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group preceded or followed by or that include the words financial statements, Article 4 of the International targets, plans, believes, expects, aims, or Accounting Standards Regulation.
They are also anticipates or the negative of these terms or other responsible for safeguarding the assets of the similar terms are intended to identify such forwardCompany and the Group and hence for taking looking statements.
There are a number of factors reasonable steps for the prevention and detection that could cause actual results or developments to of fraud and other irregularities.
differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements and forecasts.
Forwardlooking statements and forecasts are based on the Directors current view and information known to them at the date of this report.
The Directors do not make any undertaking to update or revise any forwardlooking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Nothing in thisreport should be construed as a profit forecast.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 58205 TEXT pgs072-074.
indd 74 13 03 2012 01:04 Overview Strategy Business review Governance F Fin ina an nci cial al r rep epo or rt t Shareholder information 5 Financial report Financial review 76 Independent auditors report 77 Consolidated financial accounts 79 Notes to the accounts 92 Independent auditors report on Schroders plc 136 Schroders plc accounts 137 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 58205 TEXT pgs075-083.
