Investor Information In addition to these products, you can buy SIT shares directly How to Invest on the stockmarket through a stockbroker.
Your bank, lawyer, The companys wholly-owned subsidiary, SIT Savings Ltd, accountant or other professional adviser may also be able to provides a number of low-cost, flexible investment products help with this.
SITs registrar, Computershare Investor Services which enable investors to acquire SIT shares easily.
PLC, provides a sharedealing service which can be accessed on its website, www.
co. uk or by telephoning STOCKPLAN 0870 703 0195.
SITs investment trust savings scheme is one of the most cost-effective available.
There is no initial plan charge, other than Update on Tax-Efficient Investing stamp duty and dealing spread, and no annual charge.
It costs ISAs just 11.95 to sell some or all of your holding.
STOCKPLAN allows you to invest regularly minimum investment 25 per The overall annual ISA investment limit is currently 10,680. month and or with a lump sum minimum investment 250.
Up to the full 10,680 can be invested in a stocks and There is no maximum investment limit and you can stop and shares ISA with one provider.
Alternatively, up to 5,340 restart investing at any time.
can be saved in a cash ISA with one provider: the remainder of the 10,680 can be invested in a stocks and shares ISA with either the same or another provider.
STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start The annual ISA investment limit is indexed annually in line with SITs investing for children plan is based on the STOCKPLAN the Consumer Prices Index CPI for the September before the scheme.
It benefits from the same low charges and flexibility start of each new tax year.
The increased contribution limits and can be opened in one of two ways: either as a designated are rounded to a multiple of 12 to make the calculations easier plan or, more formally, as a bare trust.
STOCKPLAN: A Flying for those who wish to invest the full allowance monthly over Start enables family and friends to invest on behalf of a child the year.
to help build savings for the future.
The annual ISA investment limit for the 2012 13 tax year is 11,280.
Up to 5,640 may be placed in a cash ISA and the The SIT ISA remainder can be invested in a stocks and shares ISA with This is one of the lowest-charging investment trust company either the same or another provider.
Alternatively, the full stocks and shares ISAs on offer.
There is no initial plan charge, 11,280 can be invested in a stocks and shares ISA with other than stamp duty and dealing spread, nor are there closure one provider.
The annual management fee of 0.6% of Transfers from previous years cash ISAs into stocks and the value of the investment is currently capped at 30 VAT shares ISAs are permitted and do not count against the regardless of how much your SIT ISA investment grows or current years subscription.
how many years ISA allowances you have invested with SIT.
Investment in ISAs continues to be free from any capital gains tax.
Higher rate tax payers do not have to pay any The SIT ISA Transfer additional tax.
SIT can accept the transfer of existing stocks and shares ISAs from other qualifying managers into The SIT ISA at any time Contact Telephone Numbers without losing the ISAs tax status.
SIT can also accept the Full contact details for the scheme administrators and registrar transfer of cash ISAs into The SIT ISA.
This would turn the can be found in the Useful Addresses section on page 50. cash ISA being transferred into a stocks and shares ISA.
SIT makes no charge for transfers in.
However, the previous STOCKPLAN and ISA investors wishing to: ISA manager may charge for administering the transfer out.
give a change of address instruct a sale The SIT SIPP request a valuation This allows investment into SIT through a low-cost, flexible, make an investment using their debit card self-invested personal pension.
The wide choice of investments change the amount of their monthly investment available, including SIT, enables you to tailor the investment access their STOCKPLAN and ISA information online combination in the SIPP to suit your particular needs and make general queries about their account or scheme objectives whether you are just starting to contribute to your pension or are approaching retirement.
You can open a SIT can contact the scheme administrator, Halifax Share Dealing SIPP even if you are already an active member of an employers Limited HSDL, on: 0845 850 0181 pension scheme or are contributing to other pension plans.
You can also set up a SIT SIPP for a child or a non-earning SIT SIPP investors with questions about the administration of spouse or partner.
their SIPP, or any other pension-related enquiry, can contact the SIPP administrator, AJ Bell Management Limited, on: 08457 22 55 25.
Name on register shareholders can contact the registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, on: 0870 703 0195.
44 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2011 Investor Information continued Please note, you will need your Share Dealing Personal Dividends Reference Number PRN to access this service.
If you do not The following dividends have been paid or proposed during 2011: have this, please contact SITs scheme administrator, HSDL, Record Payment on 0845 850 0181.
Dividends Amount XD date date date SIPP investors Final 2010 5.60p 5 January 7 January 7 February SIPP investors can set up monthly payments, buy and 2011 2011 2011 sell shares and access their account online, by visiting Interim 2011 4.60p 8 June 10 June 15 July www.
co. uk online 2011 2011 2011 Name on register shareholders Final 2011 5.80p 4 January 6 January 6 February Investors who hold shares in their own name on SITs share 2012 2012 2012 register can check their holdings on SITs registrars website, www.
co. uk or through the link in the investor relations section on SITs website, www.
co. uk Please note SIT STOCKPLAN and ISA schemes that to access this facility, investors will need to quote the The STOCKPLAN and ISA schemes provide automatic shareholder reference number shown on their share certificate.
However, they also allow for dividends to be taken as income, if required.
STOCKPLAN By registering for the Investors Centre facility on Computershares and ISA holders should contact the scheme administrator, website, investors can also view details of all their holdings for HSDL, on 0845 850 0181 if they would like to change their which Computershare is registrar, as well as access additional dividend arrangements.
Name on register shareholders Please see www.
co. uk for further information.
Conversely, for name on register shareholders investors whose names are on SITs share register and who hold their Electronic Communications shares in certificated form dividends are automatically paid as Name on register shareholders income.
However, it is easy to arrange to have these dividends reinvested by joining SITs Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP.
If you are a name on register shareholder i. e. not in the Details are available from Computershare Investor Services, STOCKPLAN, ISA or SIPP schemes, nor in a brokers SITs registrar, on 0870 703 0195, or from the investor relations nominee, you may choose to receive SITs interim and annual section on SITs website, www.
co. uk reports and other shareholder communications electronically instead of in paper form.
To register, simply visit the link in the investor relations section on SITs website, www.
co. uk and Monitoring Your Investment provide your email details.
You will then be advised by email SITs share price, together with performance information and when an electronic communication is available to be accessed.
product details, can be found on SITs website, www.
co. uk Shareholders Meetings The share price is published daily in most quality newspapers.
In addition, a number of financial websites, such as the FT, Name on register shareholders www.
ft. com and the London Stock Exchange, Investors whose names appear on the main share register www.
com carry share price are entitled to attend and vote at the AGM and other general information.
Notices of meetings and proxy cards are sent to their registered addresses.
SIT publishes a daily NAV and a monthly factsheet on its website.
An interim report is issued in June of each year, STOCKPLAN, STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start, ISA, and SIPP with the annual report being distributed to all investors investors who invest in SIT in late December.
STOCKPLAN, STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start, ISA, and SIPP investors who invest in SIT are entitled to attend the AGM and STOCKPLAN, STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start and ISA investors other general meetings and vote by completing and returning receive twice yearly statements of their holdings and SITs the form of direction enclosed with this report.
investor newsletter is issued twice yearly.
The AGM will be held at the Roxburghe Hotel, Charlotte Accessing Your Account Online Square, Edinburgh on 27 January 2012 at 10.30am.
ISA, STOCKPLAN and STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start designated scheme investors The above scheme investors may view their accounts online by registering with .
This can be accessed through the links in the various product sections on SITs website, www.
co. uk online Report & Accounts 2011 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 45 Investor Information continued Electronic Voting Name on register shareholders Name on register shareholders in their own right are able to submit proxy votes electronically for the AGM.
Please follow the instructions on your proxy card.
Personal Taxation Income Tax Currently, all UK dividends are paid to shareholders net of a tax credit of 10%.
Non-tax payers cannot reclaim the tax credit.
Non-ISA shareholders liable to higher rates of tax will be assessed for any additional tax through their annual tax return.
Capital Gains Tax CGT Investment Trusts Investment trusts currently pay no CGT on gains made within the portfolio.
Investors When investors sell all or part of their holdings, they may be liable to CGT.
Currently, the first 10,600 per annum of such gains from all sources is exempt.
For investors who acquired shares prior to 31 March 1982, the cost for CGT purposes may be based on the price on that date of 41.472p.
Investors who are in any doubt as to their liability for CGT should seek professional advice.
ISA investments remain exempt from CGT.
Please remember that we are unable to offer individual investment or taxation advice.
If you require such advice, you should consult your professional adviser.
SIT Savings Limited is the plan manager of STOCKPLAN, STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start and The SIT ISA and is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA, 25 The North Colonnade, Canary Wharf, London E14 5HS.
Risk Warning Past performance may not be repeated and is not a guide to future performance.
The value of shares and the income from them can go down as well as up as a result of market and currency fluctuations.
You may not get back the amount you invest.
The Scottish Investment Trust PLC has a long-term policy of borrowing money to invest in equities in the expectation that this will improve returns and should stockmarkets fall, such borrowings would magnify losses on these investments.
SIT can buy back and cancel its own shares.
All other things being equal, this would have the effect of increasing gearing.
Investment in SIT is intended as a long-term investment.
Tax rates and reliefs can change in the future and the value of any tax advantages will depend on personal circumstances.
46 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2011
