Accounting Policies A summary of the principal accounting policies is set out in Expenses which are incidental to the acquisition or disposal of paragraphs a to j below.
All have been applied consistently an investment are treated as part of the cost, or deducted from throughout the current and the preceding year: the sales proceeds, of the investment.
f Finance Costs a Basis of Accounting Interest payable is charged one-half to revenue reserve and The financial statements are prepared on a going concern one-half to capital reserve in line with the directors expectations basis under the historical cost convention, modified to include of long-term future returns from the companys investments the revaluation of investments at fair value, and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards.
companys accounting policies comply with the AIC Statement The discount on, and expenses of issue of, the secured bonds of Recommended Practice SORP issued in January 2009 due 2030 are included in the financing costs of the issue which Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and are being written off over the life of the bonds.
g Taxation b Valuation of Investments Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid Listed investments and current asset investments are valued or recovered.
at fair value through profit and loss.
Fair value is the closing Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences which bid or last traded price according to the recognised convention result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more of the markets on which they are quoted.
Where trading in the tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date.
Timing differences securities of an investee company is suspended, the investment arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in is valued at the boards estimate of its net realisable value.
taxation computations in periods different from those in which Where appropriate, the directors have adopted the guidelines they are included in the financial statements.
Deferred tax issued by the International Private Equity and Venture Capital assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more Association for the valuation of unlisted investments.
Heritable likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets property is included at a professional valuation.
Depreciation and liabilities are not discounted.
The company has no deferred is not charged on heritable property as it is not material.
Realised surpluses or deficits on the disposal of investments, h Foreign Currency permanent impairments in the value of investments and Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded unrealised surpluses and deficits on the revaluation of in the local currency at actual exchange rates at the date of the investments are taken to capital reserve as explained transaction or, where appropriate, at the rate of exchange in in note i below.
Assets and liabilities denominated Year end exchange rates are used to translate the value of in foreign currencies at the year end are reported at the rates investments which are denominated in foreign currencies.
of exchange prevailing at the year end.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rates subsequent to the date of the c Valuation of Debt transaction is included as an exchange gain or loss in capital The Companys secured bonds and debentures are held at reserve or in the revenue account depending on whether the amortised cost being the nominal value of the bonds in issue gain or loss is of a capital or revenue nature.
less the unamortised costs of issue.
i Capital Reserve d Income The following are accounted for in this reserve: Dividends receivable on quoted shares are brought into gains and losses on the realisation of investments: account on the ex-dividend date.
Dividends receivable on realised and unrealised exchange differences of a shares where no ex-dividend date is quoted are brought capital nature: into account when the companys right to receive payment realised and unrealised gains and losses on transactions is established.
undertaken to hedge an exposure of a capital nature: Interest and other income from non-equity securities, including the funding of share repurchases: debt securities, are recognised on a time apportionment basis expenses and interest charged to capital: so as to reflect the effective yield on the securities.
increases and decreases in the valuation of investments held at the year end: and Where the company elects to receive dividends in the form increases and decreases in the valuation of the pension of additional shares scrip dividends rather than in cash, fund surplus or deficit.
the amount of the cash dividend is recognised as income.
Any excess in the value of the shares received over the j Pensions amount of the cash is recognised in capital reserves.
Employer contributions for the defined benefit scheme are calculated by reference to the triennial actuarial valuation.
e Expenses Employer contributions for the defined contribution scheme All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
are a predetermined percentage of the employees salary.
Investment expenses are allocated between revenue and Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the Statement capital reserve in line with the directors expectations of Recognised Gains and Losses.
of the nature of long-term future returns from the companys investments 2010: same.
Further information on the companys pension schemes is contained in Note 4 to the Financial Statements on pages 30 to 32.
28 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2011
