NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS iii Franked income is stated net of tax credits.
1 Principal Accounting Policies The financial statements for the year to 31 March 2011 have been iv Unfranked investment income includes the taxes deducted at prepared on the basis of the accounting policies set out below, source.
which are unchanged from last year and have been applied v Interest receivable on deposits is recognised on an accruals consistently.
a Basis of Accounting vi If scrip is taken in lieu of dividends in cash, the net amount of The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis the cash dividend declared is credited to the revenue account.
under the historical cost convention, modified to include the Any excess in the value of the shares received over the amount revaluation of fixed asset investments, and on the assumption that of the cash dividend foregone is recognised as capital.
approval as an investment trust will continue to be granted.
d Expenses The Directors consider the Companys functional currency to be All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Expenses are sterling as the Companys shareholders are predominantly based in charged through the revenue column of the income statement except the UK and the Company is subject to the UKs regulatory as follows: where they relate directly to the acquisition or disposal of environment.
an investment transaction costs, in which case they are recognised The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with as capital: and where they are connected with the maintenance or The Companies Act 2006, applicable UK Accounting Standards enhancement of the value of investments, in which case they are and with the Statement of Recommended Practice Financial charged 50:50 to the revenue account and capital reserve.
Statements of Investment Trust Companies issued in January 2009. e Long Term Borrowings and Finance Costs In order to reflect better the activities of the trust and in accordance Long term borrowings are carried in the balance sheet at the with guidance issued by the AIC, supplementary information which cumulative amount of net proceeds after issue, plus accrued finance analyses the profit and loss account between items of a revenue and costs attributable to the stepped interest debentures.
The finance capital nature has been presented in the income statement.
costs of such borrowings are allocated 50:50 to the revenue column Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the of the income statement and capital reserve at a constant rate on the Companys balance sheet when it becomes a party to the carrying amount.
Issue costs are written off at a constant rate over contractual provisions of the instrument.
the life of the borrowings.
Gains and losses on the repurchase or early settlement of debt is wholly charged to capital.
b Investments Purchases and sales of investments are accounted for on a trade f Taxation date basis.
All investments are designated as valued at fair value The tax effect of different items of income and expenditure is through profit or loss upon initial recognition.
The fair value of listed allocated between revenue and capital on the same basis as the securities investments is bid value, or in the case of FTSE 100 particular item to which it relates, under the marginal method, using constituents, at last traded prices issued by the London Stock the Companys effective tax rate for the accounting period.
Deferred taxation is provided on all timing differences, calculated at Listed investments include Open Ended Investment Companies the current tax rate relevant to the benefit or liability.
Deferred tax OEICs authorised in the UK: these are valued at closing price assets are recognised only to the extent that it will be more likely and are classified for valuation purposes according to the principal than not that there will be taxable profits from which underlying geographical area of the underlying holdings.
timing differences can be deducted.
The fair value of unlisted investments uses valuation techniques, g Foreign Currencies determined by the Directors, based upon latest dealing prices, Transactions involving foreign currencies are converted at the rate stockbroker valuations, net asset values and other information, as ruling at the time of the transaction.
Assets and liabilities in foreign appropriate.
currencies are translated at the closing rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of exchange rate subsequent to the date of the transaction is included investments are considered to be realised to the extent that they are as an exchange gain or loss in capital reserve or revenue reserve as readily convertible to cash, without accepting adverse terms, at the appropriate.
Fair value gains on unlisted investments are not considered to be readily convertible to cash and are therefore h Capital Reserve treated as unrealised.
The treatment of listed investments is Gains and losses on disposal of investments, changes in fair value of dependent upon the individual circumstances of each holding.
investments held, exchange differences of a capital nature and the amount by which other assets and liabilities valued at fair value c Income differ from their book cost are dealt with in this reserve.
Purchases of i Income from equity investments is brought into account on the the Companys own shares are also funded from this reserve.
50% of date on which the investments are quoted ex-dividend or, where management fees and finance costs are allocated to the capital no ex-dividend date is quoted, when the Companys right to reserve in accordance with the Companys objective of combining receive payment is established.
ii Interest from fixed interest securities is recognised on an effective interest rate basis.
