FURTHER SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Further Shareholder Information By quoting the reference number on your share certificate How to Invest you can check your holding on the Registrars website at The Companys shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
They can be bought by placing an order with a stockbroker, by asking a professional adviser to do so, or through the Baillie They also offer a free, secure share management website service Gifford savings vehicles see page 52.
You can also find specific which allows you to: details about investing in Scottish Mortgage at view your share portfolio and see the latest market price of www.
your shares: Sources of Further Information on the Company calculate the total market price of each shareholding: The price of shares is quoted daily in the Financial Times and view price histories and trading graphs: can also be found on the Scottish Mortgage page of the Baillie register to receive communications from the Company, including Gifford website at www.
com, Trustnet at the Annual Report and Financial Statements, in electronic format: www.
co. uk and on other financial websites.
Company factsheets are also available on the Baillie Gifford website and are update bank mandates and change address details: updated monthly.
These are available from Baillie Gifford on request.
use online dealing services: and AIC pay dividends directly into your overseas bank account in Scottish Mortgage was one of the founding members of The your chosen local currency.
Association of Investment Companies in 1932.
The AICs website To take advantage of this service, please log in at www.
co. uk contains detailed information about investment www-uk.
com investor and enter your Shareholder trusts, such as factsheets and statistics on the investment trust industry.
Reference Number and Company Code this information can be The AIC also holds a series of private investor roadshows throughout found on the last dividend voucher or your share certificate.
the year at which Baillie Gifford will be in attendance.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan Key Dates Computershare operates a Dividend Reinvestment Plan which can be Ordinary shareholders normally receive two dividends in respect used to buy additional shares instead of receiving your dividend via of each financial year.
An interim dividend is paid at the end of cheque or into your bank account.
For further information log in to November and a final dividend is paid in early July.
com investor and follow the instructions General Meeting is normally held in late June or early July.
Capital Gains Tax Electronic Communications and Proxy Voting For Capital Gains Tax indexation purposes, the market value If you hold stock in your own name you can choose to receive adjusted for the bonus issue of 4 for 1 of an ordinary share communications from the Company, and vote, in electronic format.
in the Company as at 31 March 1982 was 30.6p.
This method reduces costs, is environmentally friendly and, for many, is convenient too.
The paragraphs below explain how you can use Share Register Enquiries these services.
Computershare Investor Services PLC maintains the share register on Electronic Communications If you would like to take advantage behalf of the Company.
In the event of queries regarding shares of this service, please visit our Registrars website at registered in your own name, please contact the Registrars on www-uk.
You will 0870 707 1300. need your shareholder reference number which is on your share This helpline also offers an automated self-service functionality certificate and tax voucher to hand.
If you then agree to the available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week which allows you to: terms and conditions, in future, on the day that documents are hear the latest share price: sent to shareholders by post, you will receive an e-mail providing the website address link to the documents.
After you register, confirm your current share holding balance: paper documents will be available on request.
confirm your payment history: and Electronic Proxy Voting You can also return proxies electronically order Change of Address, Dividend Bank Mandate and at www.
If you have registered for Stock Transfer forms.
electronic communications you will be issued a PIN number to use when returning proxies to the secure Registrar website.
You do not need to register for electronic communications to use electronic proxy voting, paper proxy forms will contain a PIN number to allow you to return proxies electronically.
If you have any questions about this service please contact Computershare on 0870 707 1300.
50 ANNUAL REPORT 2011 FURTHER SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Scottish Mortgage is an investment trust.
Investment trusts offer investors the following: participation in a diversified portfolio of shares: constant supervision by experienced professional managers: and the Company is free from capital gains tax on capital profits realised within its portfolio although investors are still liable for capital gains tax on profits when selling their investment.
These accounts have been approved by the Directors of Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC.
