COMMUNICATING WITH SHAREHOLDERS Communicating with Shareholders Trust magazine A Scottish Mortgage web page at www.
com Promoting Scottish Mortgage Suggestions and Questions Baillie Gifford carries out extensive marketing activity to promote Scottish Any suggestions on how communications with shareholders can be improved Mortgage to institutional, intermediary and direct investors.
Please contact the Baillie Gifford Client Relations Team see warmly supports the promotion of the plans described on page 52 in order contact details below and give them your suggestions.
They will also be very to bring the merits of Scottish Mortgage to as wide an audience as possible.
happy to answer any questions that you may have, either about Scottish Mortgage or the plans described on page 52.
Trust Magazine Literature in Alternative Formats Trust is the Baillie Gifford investment trust magazine which is published three times a year.
It provides an insight to our investment approach by including It is possible to provide copies of literature in alternative formats, such as interviews with our fund managers, as well as containing investment trust large print or on audio tape.
Please contact the Baillie Gifford Client news, investment features and articles about the trusts managed by Baillie Relations Team for more information.
Trust plays an important role in helping Client Relations Team Contact Details to explain our products so that readers can really understand them.
For a copy of Trust, please contact the Baillie Gifford Client Relations Team see You can contact the Baillie Gifford Client Relations Team by telephone, contact details opposite.
email, fax or post: Telephone: 0800 027 0133 An online version of Trust can be found at www.
Your call may be recorded.
All articles are available to read on screen and can now also be E-mail: trustenquiries@bailliegifford.
com downloaded in PDF format.
com Guides to Investment Trusts Fax: 0131 275 3955 Baillie Gifford has produced a number of educational guides on investment Client Relations Team trusts.
These are designed to explain how Investment Trusts work and to explain Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited the various ways you can invest in them.
If you would like copies of any of the Calton Square guides, please contact the Baillie Gifford Client Relations Team see contact 1 Greenside Row details opposite.
Edinburgh EH1 3AN For Scottish Mortgage specific queries, please use the following contact Scottish Mortgage on the Web details: Up-to-date information about Scottish Mortgage is on the Scottish Mortgage Website: www.
com page of the Managers website at www.
In the Investment Trust section you will find full details of Scottish Mortgage, E-mail: scottishmortgage@bailliegifford.
com including a monthly commentary, recent portfolio information and Please note that Baillie Gifford is not permitted to give financial advice.
If you would like advice or if you have any questions about the suitability of any of these plans for you, please ask an authorised intermediary.
You can also find a history of the Trust, an explanation of the effects of gearing and a flexible performance reporting tool.
If you are interested in investing directly in Scottish Mortgage, you can do so online.
There are a number of companies offering real time online dealing services find out more on the Buying Shares section of Scottish Mortgages website www.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 53
