ST ANDREW SQUARE A7 NORTH BRIDGE C A L L L T I H O G E C ON LT A A R N L C P R O A D NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the offices Public Transport By Rail: of Baillie Gifford & Co, Calton Square, 1 Greenside Row, Edinburgh, Edinburgh Waverley approximately a 5 minute walk away.
By Bus: EH1 3AN on Thursday, 30 June 2011 at 4.30pm.
Omni Cinema If you have any queries as to how to vote or how to attend JOHN Calton Square LEWIS the meeting, please call us on 0800 027 0133.
ST. JAMES BUS CENTRE Baillie Gifford may record your call.
STATION Parking available under Calton Square THISTLE & Thistle Hotel HOTEL BALMORAL HOTEL Access to Waverley Train Station on foot EDINBURGH WAVERLEY STATION Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the one-hundred and second Annual a the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares General Meeting of Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC will be hereby authorised to be purchased is 38,452,332 held within the offices of Baillie Gifford & Co, Calton Square, being approximately 14.99% of the issued ordinary 1 Greenside Row, Edinburgh, EH1 3AN on Thursday, 30 June share capital of the Company on the date on which this 2011 at 4.30pm for the following purposes: resolution is passed: b the minimum price excluding expenses which may be paid Ordinary Business for each ordinary share is 25 pence: To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions as c the maximum price excluding expenses which may be paid Ordinary Resolutions: for each ordinary share shall not be more than the higher of: 1.
To receive and adopt the Financial Statements of the Company i 5 per cent above the average closing price on the for the year to 31 March 2011 with the Reports of the Directors London Stock Exchange of an ordinary share over the and of the Independent Auditor thereon.
five business days immediately preceding the date of 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year to purchase: and 31 March 2011. ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and 3.
the highest current independent bid on the London Stock 4.
To re-elect Mr MM Gray as a Director.
To re-elect Mr JPHS Scott as a Director.
d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed by the Company in general meeting, the authority hereby conferred 6.
To re-elect Mr WG McQueen as a Director.
shall expire at the conclusion of the Companys Annual 7.
To reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as Independent Auditor of the General Meeting to be held in respect of the financial year Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next Annual ending 31 March 2012, save that the Company may, General Meeting at which the financial statements are laid prior to the expiry of such authority, enter into a contract or before the Company.
contracts to purchase ordinary shares under such authority 8.
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the which will or might be completed or executed wholly or Independent Auditor of the Company.
partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to any such contract To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions as or contracts.
That, the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby 9.
That, in substitution for any existing authority, but without generally empowered pursuant to section 573 of the Companies prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to the Act 2006 the Act to sell equity securities as defined in date hereof, the Company be and is hereby generally and sections 560 1 and 560 2 of the Act in the Company if, unconditionally authorised, in accordance with Section 701 of immediately before the sale, such shares are held by the the Companies Act 2006 the Act, to make market purchases Company as treasury shares as defined in section 724 3 of within the meaning of Section 693 4 of the Act of fully paid the Act treasury shares for cash consideration as defined in ordinary shares of 25 pence each in the capital of the Company section 727 2 of the Act as if subsection 1 of section 561 of ordinary shares either for retention as treasury shares for future the Act did not apply to any such sale, provided that this power reissue, resale, transfer or for cancellation, provided that: shall be limited to: 54 ANNUAL REPORT 2011 O E O Q U E E N S T R E E T L GEORGE STREET R E A 8 P R I N C E S S T R E E T WAT L LEITH WALK E E N I S I D E T H S T R E E T ST ANDREW SQUARE NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING a the sale of treasury shares in connection with a rights issue Notes in favour of the holders of ordinary shares of 25 pence 1 As a member you are entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to each in the Company Shares where the equity exercise all or any of your rights to attend, speak and vote at the securities respectively attributable to the interests of all AGM.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company but must such shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be attend the AGM to represent you.
You may appoint more than practicable to the respective number of Shares held or one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights deemed or notionally held by them but subject to such attached to different shares.
You can only appoint a proxy using exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors deem the procedure set out in these notes and the notes to the proxy necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements form.
You may not use any electronic address provided either in or to deal with problems under the laws, or requirements of, this notice or any related documents including the circular and any regulatory body or stock exchange in any territory: and proxy form to communicate with the Company for any purpose other than those expressly stated.
b the sale of treasury shares other than pursuant to paragraph a of this resolution of up to an aggregate nominal value 2.
To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a of 6,412,997 being 10% of the Companys issued Share proxy, together with any power of attorney or other authority capital as at 11 May 2011: under which it is signed or a certified copy thereof, must be received by post or during normal business hours only by hand and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General at the Registrars of the Company at Computershare Investor Meeting of the Company to be held in 2012, save that the Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 Company may, before such expiry, make any offer or enter into 6ZY or www.
com no later than 48 hours an agreement which would or might require treasury shares to excluding non-working days before the time of the meeting or be sold after the expiry of such power, and the Directors of the any adjourned meeting.
Company may sell treasury shares in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by Special Business using the procedures described in the CREST Manual and To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as a or by logging on to the website www.
Special Resolution: CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service 11.
That the Articles of Association of the Company be and hereby provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service are amended by the deletion of Article 108 and the insertion of provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on the following article as Article 108 in substitution therefore: their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the The directors shall be paid, out of the funds of the Company by CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message way of fees for their services as directors, such sums if any as a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in the Board may from time to time determine not exceeding in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications, the aggregate 300,000 per annum or such larger amount as and must contain the information required for such instruction, the Company may by ordinary resolution determine and such as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless remuneration shall be divided between the directors as the Board of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an shall agree or, failing agreement, equally.
Such remuneration amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed shall be deemed to accrue from day to day.
The provisions of proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be this Article shall not apply to the remuneration of any director received by the Companys registrar ID 3RA50 no later than who is appointed to any executive office whether part time or 48 hours excluding non-working days before the time of the full time which remuneration shall be established pursuant to the meeting or any adjournment.
For this purpose, the time of receipt provisions of Article 107. will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from By order of the Board which the Companys registrar is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
Baillie Gifford & Co After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed Managers and Secretaries through CREST should be communicated to the appointee 23 May 2011 through other means.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 55 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 5.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, 11.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & appointment of proxies in Notes 1 and 2 above does not apply Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in those Notes can CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST 12.
The members of the Company may require the Company to Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member publish, on its website, without payment a statement which is concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal also passed to the auditor setting out any matter relating to the member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting audit of the Companys accounts, including the auditors report service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting and the conduct of the audit.
The Company will be required to service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to do so once it has received such requests from either members ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST representing at least 5% of the total voting rights of the Company system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST or at least 100 members who have a relevant right to vote and members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting hold shares in the Company on which there has been paid up system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of an average sum per member of at least 100.
Such requests the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST must be made in writing and must state your full name and system and timings.
address and be sent to the Company at Calton Square, 6.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction 1 Greenside Row, Edinburgh, EH1 3AN.
in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the 13.
Information regarding the Annual General Meeting, including Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. information required by Section 311A of the Companies Act 7.
The return of a completed proxy form or other instrument of proxy 2006, is available from the Companys page of the Managers will not prevent you attending the AGM and voting in person if website at www.
Members have the right to ask questions at the meeting in 8.
Shareholders participating in the Baillie Gifford Investment accordance with Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006.
Trust Share Plan, Childrens Savings Plan or the Baillie Gifford 15.
As at 11 May 2011 being the latest practicable date prior to Investment Trust ISA who wish to vote and or attend the meeting the publication of this notice the Companys issued share capital must complete and return the enclosed reply-paid Form of consisted of 256,519,897 ordinary shares excluding treasury Direction.
shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights 9.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities in the Company as at 11 May 2011 were 256,519,897 votes.
Regulations 2001 and Section 311 of the Companies Act 16.
Any person holding 3% or more of the total voting rights of the 2006 the Company specifies that to be entitled to attend and Company who appoints a person other than the Chairman of vote at the Annual General Meeting and for the purpose of the meeting as his proxy will need to ensure that both he and his the determination by the Company of the votes they may cast, proxy complies with their respective disclosure obligations under shareholders must be registered in the Register of Members of the UK Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
the Company no later than 48 hours excluding non-working 17.
A copy of the proposed new Articles of Association of the days prior to the commencement of the AGM or any adjourned Company will be available for inspection at the offices of meeting.
Changes to the Register of Members after the relevant Dickson Minto W. S. Broadgate Tower, 20 Primrose Street, deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any London EC2A 2EW and at the registered office of the person to attend and vote at the meeting.
Company, Calton Square, 1 Greenside Row, Edinburgh 10.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person EH1 3AN, during normal business hours on any week day nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted from the enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an date of this notice of the AGM until the conclusion of the AGM.
agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he 18.
No Director has a contract of service with the Company.
she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
56 ANNUAL REPORT 2011 Directors Registrar Banker Company Broker Independent Auditor Chairman: Computershare Investor The Bank of Cenkos Securities plc KPMG Audit Plc JPHS Scott FCII FCSI Services PLC New York Mellon 6.7.
8 Tokenhouse Yard Saltire Court The Pavilions London 20 Castle Terrace Dr MM Gray OBE DL Bridgwater Road EC2R 7AS Edinburgh Professor JA Kay FBA FRSE Bristol BS13 8AE EH1 2EG FC McBain ACA Tel: 0870 707 1300 WG McQueen CA, FCIBS www.
SC7058 Managers, Secretaries and Registered Office Baillie Gifford & Co Calton Square 1 Greenside Row Edinburgh EH1 3AN Tel: 0131 275 2000 Website: www.
