COST-EFFECTIVE WAYS TO BUY AND HOLD SHARES IN SCOTTISH MORTGAGE Cost-effective Ways to Buy and Hold Shares in Scottish Mortgage Online Management Service You can also open and manage your Share Plan Childrens Savings Plan and BIG or ISA online, through our secure Online Management Service OMS which can ON STRATEGY be accessed through the Baillie Gifford website at The Baillie Gifford Investment Trust ISA and Share Plan www.
As well as being able to view the details of your Application Pack plan online, the service also allows you to: get current valuations: make lump sum investments: We invest in strong companies switch between investment trusts except where there is more than one whose strategic planning and management skills suggest that their earnings will grow faster holder : than their competitors.
set up a direct debit to make regular investments: and update certain personal details.
Please note that a bare trust cannot be opened via OMS.
A bare trust application form must be completed.
Press advertisement for The Share Plan and ISA brochure Risks Scottish Mortgage.
com Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
Scottish Mortgage is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
As a result, the value of its shares and any income from those shares is not Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited offers a number of plans that enable guaranteed and could go down as well as up.
You may not get back you to buy and hold shares of Scottish Mortgage cost-efficiently.
Purchases and the amount you invested.
sales are normally subject to a dealing price spread and Government stamp duty As Scottish Mortgage invests in overseas securities, changes in the rates of 0.5% is payable on purchases.
of exchange may also cause the value of your investment and any income it may pay to go down or up.
The Baillie Gifford Investment Trust Share Plan Scottish Mortgage invests in emerging markets where difficulties in No initial charge dealing, settlement and custody could arise, resulting in a negative No annual wrapper charge impact on the value of your investment.
Normally cheaper than dealing through a stockbroker Scottish Mortgage has borrowed money to make further investments Invest a lump sum from 250 or monthly from just 30 sometimes known as gearing.
The risk is that when this money is repaid by the Company, the value of these investments may not be No maximum investment limits enough to cover the borrowing and interest costs, and the Company Stop and start saving at any time with no charge will make a loss.
If the Companys investments fall in value, any Twice weekly dealing usually Tuesday and Friday borrowings will increase the amount of this loss.
A withdrawal charge of just 22 Scottish Mortgage can buy back its own shares.
The risks from borrowing, referred to above, are increased when a Company buys The Baillie Gifford Investment Trust ISA back its shares.
Tax-efficient investment Market values for securities which have become difficult to trade may No set-up charge not be readily available and there can be no assurance that any value Flat rate annual management charge currently of 32.50 VAT assigned to such securities will accurately reflect the price the Company Lump sum investment from 2,000 currently up to a maximum of might receive upon their sale.
10,680 each year Scottish Mortgage charges 50% of the investment management fee and Save monthly from 100 50% of borrowing costs to capital which reduces the capital value.
Also, A withdrawal charge of just 22 where income is low, the remaining expenses may be greater than the total income received, meaning Scottish Mortgage may not pay a dividend and ISA Transfers the capital value would be further reduced.
Transfer existing ISAs from other plan managers into the You should note that tax rates and reliefs may change at any time and Baillie Gifford ISA their value depends on your circumstances.
Consolidate your plans into a managed global investment Details of other risks that apply to investment in the plans shown Minimum transfer value 2,000 on this page are contained in the product brochures.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC is a UK public listed company and as The Baillie Gifford Childrens Savings Plan such complies with the requirements of the UK Listing Authority.
It is not authorised An excellent way for parents, grandparents or other adults to invest and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
for a child Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited BGSM is the manager of The No initial charge Baillie Gifford Investment Trust Share Plan, The Baillie Gifford Childrens Savings No annual wrapper charge Plan and The Baillie Gifford Investment Trust ISA.
BGSM is wholly owned by The option of a designated account or a bare trust in favour of the child Baillie Gifford & Co who are the Managers and Secretaries of Scottish Mortgage Flexible investment options: lump sum from 100 or monthly saving Investment Trust PLC.
BGSM and Baillie Gifford & Co are authorised and from just 25 regulated by the Financial Services Authority and both are based at Calton A withdrawal charge of just 22 Square, 1 Greenside Row, Edinburgh EH1 3AN.
The staff of Baillie Gifford & Co, and or the Directors of Scottish Mortgage, may hold shares in Scottish Mortgage or may buy or sell shares from time to time.
