110 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Shareholder information Dividends Share Dealing Service Dividends are normally paid twice a year.
The proposed final dividend Carillion offers its UK shareholders, Shareview Dealing, a telephone in respect of the year to 31 December 2011 will be payable on 15 June and internet share dealing service operated by Equiniti.
For telephone 2012 to those shareholders on the register on 18 May 2012. purchases and sales call 0845 603 7037 between 8.30am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, or log on to www.
For the A dividend reinvestment plan DRIP will also be offered.
sale of shares, you will need your shareholder reference number as shown on your share certificate.
For those shareholders who prefer not to participate in the DRIP, arrangements can be made to pay your dividends automatically into Multiple Accounts on the Shareholder Register your bank or building society account.
This service has a number of If you have received two or more sets of the documents concerning benefits: the Annual General Meeting this means that there is more than one account in your name on the shareholder register, perhaps there is no chance of the dividend cheque going missing in the post because either your name or your address appear on each account the dividend payment is received more quickly as the cash is paid in a slightly different way.
For security reasons, Equiniti will not directly into your account on the payment date without the need to amalgamate the accounts without your written consent, so if you wait for the cheque to clear: and would like any multiple accounts combined into one account, you will help Carillion to improve its efficiency by reducing printing please write to Equiniti at the address given on page 111. and cheque clearing costs.
Shareview Electronic Communications If you wish to register for this service please call Equiniti on the number www.
co. uk is a service offered by Equiniti that enables detailed below to request a dividend mandate form.
you to check your holdings in many UK companies and helps you to organise your investments electronically.
You can also notify Equiniti Results of a change of address or a change to dividend mandate instructions.
Half year to 30 June 2012: announced August 2012.
You can register for this portfolio service which is easy to use, secure Full year to 31 December 2012: announced February 2013. and free as long as you have access to the internet by logging on to www.
co. uk and following a simple registration process.
Shareholder Enquiries Equiniti maintain the share register of the Company.
If you have any Electronic Proxy Appointments queries concerning your shareholding, or if any of your details change, For the AGM to be held on 2 May 2012, you may, if you wish, register please contact Equiniti: the appointment of a proxy electronically by logging on to the website www.
Equiniti Aspect House You will need your voting reference numbers the three 8-digit Lancing numbers shown on your form of proxy.
Alternatively, if you have West Sussex registered for a Shareview portfolio, log on to your portfolio at BN99 6DA www.
co. uk and click on the link vote under your Carillion plc details, then follow the on-screen directions.
Telephone 0871 384 2522 Textphone for shareholders with hearing difficulties 0871 384 2255 Please note that any electronic communication that is found to Non-UK callers should dial 44 0 121 415 7047. contain a computer virus will not be accepted.
Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
ShareGift ShareGift is a charity share donation scheme for shareholders, administered by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation.
It is especially for Calls to this number cost eight pence per minute from a BT landline, other providers those who may wish to dispose of a small parcel of shares whose costs may vary.
value makes it uneconomic to sell on a commission basis.
Further information can be obtained at www.
Warning to Shareholders Boiler Room Scam If you receive an unsolicited investment approach you should: Carillion is aware that shareholders have received unsolicited telephone calls from fraudulent organisations offering to buy Carillion plc shares c onfirm the correct names of the person calling and the at a substantial premium to the prevailing market price.
These calls organisation they represent: are usually from overseas organisations targeting UK shareholders.
c heck that they are an authorised firm with the Financial Services These operations are commonly known as boiler room scams and Authority FSA by calling 0845 606 1234 or by visiting www.
the brokers who call shareholders can be extremely persuasive gov.
uk register and the contact the firm using the details on the and persistent.
register: r eport the matter to the FSA by calling 0845 606 1234 or by visiting Boiler room scams usually come out of the blue, with most fraudsters www.
uk pages consumerinformation: cold-calling investors after taking their details from publicly available i f the calls persist, hang up.
shareholder lists, but the high-pressure sales tactics can also come by other means such as email or post.
The scam is designed to sound Please be aware that fraudsters will often use the name of a legitimate attractive, but typically at some point in the process the perpetrator organisation or organisations, sometimes in combination with others usually asks for money in advance of concluding the main transaction, so that the organisation may sound familiar to you.
They may have for example by way of a pre-payment or vendor bond.
The transaction also created a scam website, so simply checking that an organisation is never concluded, and the shareholder loses the money.
appears to have a presence on the web is not a guarantee that you are dealing with a legitimate organisation.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
Further information on this or similar activity can be found on the FSA website www.
