Supplementary information Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 253 Shareholder information Dividend and interest payment dates Final Interim dividend Ordinary shares dividend provisional only Results and dividend announced 29 February 2012 1 August 2012 Ex dividend date 7 March 2012 8 August 2012 Record date for dividend 9 March 2012 10 August 2012 Last date to elect for share dividend or to change standing instructions 30 April 2012 25 September 2012 Dividend payment date 15 May 2012 9 October 2012 Preference shares 1st half yearly dividend 2nd half yearly dividend 3 7 8 per cent Non-cumulative irredeemable preference shares of 1 each 1 April 2012 1 October 2012 1 8 4 per cent Non-cumulative irredeemable preference shares of 1 each 1 April 2012 1 October 2012 6.409 per cent Non-cumulative redeemable preference shares of $5 each 30 January 2012 30 July 2012 7.014 per cent Non-cumulative redeemable preference shares of $5 each 30 January 2012 30 July 2012 8.125 per cent Non-cumulative redeemable preference shares of $5 each 27 May 2012 27 November 2012 Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held at 12.00pm London time 7.00pm Hong Kong time on Wednesday 9 May 2012 at The Honourable Artillery Company, Armoury House, City Road, London EC1Y 2BQ.
Details of the business to be transacted at the AGM are included in the accompanying Notice of AGM.
Details of voting at the Companys AGM and of proxy votes cast can be found on the Companys website at http: investors.
Interim results The interim results will be announced to the London Stock Exchange, The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong, The Bombay Stock Exchange and the National Stock Exchange of India and put on the Companys website.
ShareCare ShareCare is available to shareholders on the Companys UK register who have a UK address and bank account, and allows you to hold your Standard Chartered shares in a nominee account.
Your shares will be held in electronic form so you will no longer have to worry about keeping your share certicates safe.
If you join ShareCare you will still be invited to attend the Companys AGM and receive your dividend at the same time as everyone else.
ShareCare is free to join and there are no annual fees to pay.
Ifyou would like to receive more information please visit our website at http: investors.
cfm or contact the shareholder helpline on 0870 702 0138.
254 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Shareholder information continued Donating shares to ShareGift Forward looking statements Shareholders who have a small number of shares often nd It is possible that this document could or may contain forward ituneconomical to sell them.
An alternative is to consider looking statements that are based on current expectations donating them to the charity ShareGift registered charity or beliefs, as well as assumptions about future events.
These 1052686, which collects donations of unwanted shares until forward looking statements can be identied by the fact that there are enough to sell and uses the proceeds to support they do not relate only to historical or current facts.
Further information can be obtained from the looking statements often use words such as anticipate, target, Companys Registrars or from ShareGift on 020 7930 3737 or expect, estimate, intend, plan, goal, believe, will, may, should, from www.
There is no implication for Capital would, could or other words of similar meaning.
Undue reliance Gains Tax no gain or loss when you donate shares to charity should not be placed on any such statements because, by their and UK taxpayers may be able to claim income tax relief on very nature, they are subject to known and unknown risks and the value of their donation.
uncertainties and can be affected by other factors that could cause actual results, and the Groups plans and objectives, Bankers Automated Clearing System BACS to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the Dividends can be paid straight into your bank or building society forward looking statements.
Please register online at www.
co. uk There are several factors that could cause actual results to or contact our registrar for a mandate form.
differ materially from those expressed or implied in forward looking statements.
Among the factors that could cause Registrars and shareholder enquiries actual results to differ materially from those described in the If you have any enquiries relating to your shareholding and you forward looking statements are changes in the global, political, hold your shares on the United Kingdom register, please economic, business, competitive, market and regulatory contact our registrar Computershare Investor Services PLC, forces, future exchange and interest rates, changes in tax The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 7ZY shareholder rates and future business combinations or dispositions.
If you hold your shares on the Hong Kong branch register please contact Computershare The Group undertakes no obligation to revise or update any Hong Kong Investor Services Limited at 17M Floor, Hopewell forward looking statement contained within this document, Centre, 183 Queens Road East, Wan Chai, Hong Kong.
You regardless of whether those statements are affected as a result can check your shareholding at: www.
co. uk of new information, future events or otherwise.
com Chinese translation If you would like a Chinese version of the 2011 Report and Accounts please contact: Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited at 17M Floor, Hopewell Centre, 183 Queens Road East, Wan Chai, Hong Kong.
Shareholders on the Hong Kong branch register who have asked to receive the Report and Accounts in either Chinese or English can change this election by contacting Computershare.
If there is a dispute between any translation and the English version of this Report and Accounts, the English text shall prevail.
Taxation Information on taxation applying to dividends paid to you if you are a shareholder in the United Kingdom, Hong Kong or the United States will be sent to you with your dividend documents.
Electronic communications If you hold your shares on the United Kingdom register and in future you would like to receive the Report and Accounts electronically rather than by post, please register online at: www.
Then click on Register and follow the instructions.
You will need to have your Shareholder or ShareCare Reference number when you log on.
You can nd this on your share certicate or ShareCare statement.
Once registered you can also submit your proxy vote and dividend election electronically and change your bank mandate or address information.
