Supplementary information Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 255 Glossary Advances-to-deposits ratio identied at the balance sheet date.
Typically assets within the The ratio of total loans and advances to customers relative to Consumer Banking business are assessed on a portfolio basis.
A low advances-to-deposits ratio Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities CMBS demonstrates that customer deposits exceed customer loans Securities that represent interests in a pool of commercial resulting from emphasis placed on generating a high level of mortgages.
Investors in these securities have the right to stable funding from customers.
cash received from future mortgage payments interest Asset backed securities ABS and or principal.
Securities that represent an interest in an underlying pool of Commercial Paper CP referenced assets.
The referenced pool can comprise any An unsecured promissory note issued to finance short-term assets that attract a set of associated cash ows but are credit needs.
It species the face amount paid to investors commonly pools of residential or commercial mortgages and on the maturity date.
inthe case of Collateralised Debt Obligations CDOs, the reference pool may be ABS.
Commercial real estate Includes ofce buildings, industrial property, medical centres, Advanced Internal Rating Based IRB approach hotels, malls, retail stores, shopping centres, farm land, The advanced IRB approach under the Basel II framework is multifamily housing buildings, warehouses, garages, and used to calculate credit risk capital based on the Groups own industrial properties.
Commercial real estate loans are those estimates of certain parameters.
backed by a package of commercial real estate assets.
Alt-A Constant currency Loans regarded as lower risk than sub-prime, but they share Constant currency change is derived by applying a simple higher risk characteristics than lending under normal criteria.
translation of the previous period functional currency number in each entity using the current average and period-end ASEAN US dollar exchange rates to the income statement and balance Association of South East Asian Nations ASEAN, which sheet respectively.
includes the Groups operations in Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam.
Contractual maturity Contractual maturity refers to the final payment date of a loan Attributable profit to ordinary shareholders orother financial instrument, at which point all the remaining profit for the year after non-controlling interests and the outstanding principal will be repaid and interest is due declaration of dividends on preference shares classied to bepaid.
Core Tier 1 Capital Basel II Core Tier 1 capital comprises called-up ordinary share capital The capital adequacy framework issued by the Basel and eligible reserves plus non-controlling interests, less Committee on Banking Supervision BCBS in June 2006 in the goodwill and other intangible assets and deductions relating form of the International Convergence of Capital Measurement toexcess expected losses over eligible provisions and and Capital Standards.
securitisation positions as specified by the UKs Financial Basel III Services Authority FSA.
In December 2010, the BCBS issued the Basel III rules text, Core Tier 1 Capital ratio which presents the details of strengthened global regulatory Core Tier 1 capital as a percentage of risk weighted assets.
standards on bank capital adequacy and liquidity.
The new requirements will be phased in starting 1 January 2013 with Cost to income ratio full implementation by 31 December 2019.
Represents the proportion of total operating expenses to total operating income.
Basis points bps One hundredth of a per cent 0.01 per cent : 100 basis points Cover ratio is 1 per cent.
Used in quoting movements in interest rates Represents the extent to which non-performing loans are or yields on securities.
CAD2 Covered bonds An amendment to the Capital Adequacy Directive that gives Debt securities backed by a portfolio of mortgages that are national regulators the discretion to permit rms to use their segregated from the issuers other assets solely for the benefit own value at risk model for calculating capital requirements of the holders of the covered bonds.
Credit Conversion Factor CCF Collateralised Debt Obligations CDOs CCF is an internally modelled parameter based on historical Securities issued by a third party which reference ABSs experience to determine the amount that is expected and or certain other related assets purchased by the issuer.
to be further drawn down from the undrawn portion in a CDOs may feature exposure to sub-prime mortgage assets committed facility.
Credit Default Swaps CDS Collateralised Loan Obligation CLO A credit derivative is an arrangement whereby the credit risk A security backed by the repayments from a pool of of an asset the reference asset is transferred from the buyer commercial loans.
The payments may be made to different to the seller of protection.
A credit default swap is a contract classes of owners in tranches.
where the protection seller receives premium or interest-related payments in return for contracting to make payments to the Collectively assessed loan impairment provisions protection buyer upon a dened credit event.
Credit events Also known as portfolio impairment provisions.
Impairment normally include bankruptcy, payment default on a reference assessment on a collective basis for homogeneous groups asset or assets, or downgrades by a rating agency.
of loans that are not considered individually significant and to cover losses that have been incurred but have not yet been 256 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Glossary continued Credit risk spread Eurozone The credit spread is the yield spread between securities with Represents the 17 European Union countries that have thesame coupon rate and maturity structure but with different adopted the euro as their common currency.
The 17 countries associated credit risks, with the yield spread rising as the credit are Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Estonia, Finland, France, rating worsens.
It is the premium over the benchmark or risk-free Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Malta, rate required by the market to take on a lower credit quality.
Netherlands, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia and Spain.
Credit Valuation Adjustment CVA Forbearance Arrangements initiated by customers, the Group or third parties An adjustment to fair value primarily in respect of derivative to assist customers in financial difficulty where the Group contracts that reects the possibility that the counterparty may agrees to accept less than the contractual amount due default such that the Group would not receive the full market where financial distress would otherwise prevent satisfactory value of the transactions.
repayment within the original terms and conditions of the Customer deposits contract.
Such arrangements include extended payment Money deposited by all individuals and companies that are terms, a reduction in interest or principal repayments, approved notcredit institutions.
Such funds are recorded as liabilities external debt management plans, debt consolidations, the in the Groups balance sheet under Customer accounts.
deferral of foreclosures, and loan restructurings.
Debt restructuring Foundation Internal Ratings Based Approach This is when the terms and provisions of outstanding debt A method of calculating credit risk capital requirements using agreements are changed.
This is often done in order to improve internal PD models but with supervisory estimates of LGD and cash ow and the ability of the borrower to repay the debt.
conversion factors for the calculation of EAD.
It can involve altering the repayment schedule as well as debt Funded unfunded exposures or interest charge reduction.
Exposures where the notional amount of the transaction Debt securities is funded or unfunded.
Represents exposures where there Debt securities are assets on the Groups balance sheet and is a commitment to provide future funding is made but funds represent certicates of indebtedness of credit institutions, have been released not released.
public bodies or other undertakings excluding those issued Guaranteed mortgages bycentral banks.
Mortgages for which there is a guarantor to provide the lender Debt securities in issue a certain level of financial security in the event of default of Debt securities in issue are transferable certicates of the borrower.
indebtedness of the Group to the bearer of the certicate.
Impaired loans These are liabilities of the Group and include certicates Loans where individual identied impairment provisions have ofdeposits.
been raised and also include loans which are collateralised Delinquency or where indebtedness has already been written down to the A debt or other financial obligation is considered to be in a state expected realisable value.
The impaired loan category may of delinquency when payments are overdue.
Loans and include loans, which, while impaired, are still performing.
advances are considered to be delinquent when consecutive Impairment allowances payments are missed.
Impairment allowances are a provision held on the balance Dividend per share sheet as a result of the raising of a charge against profit for the Represents the entitlement of each shareholder in the share incurred loss.
An impairment allowance may either be identied of the profits of the company.
Calculated in the lowest unit or unidentified and individual specic or collective portfolio.
of currency in which the shares are quoted.
Individually assessed loan impairment provisions Effective tax rate ETR Also known as specic impairment provisions.
Impairment is The tax on profits on ordinary activities as a percentage of profit measured individually for assets that are individually significant on ordinary activities before taxation.
Typically assets within the Wholesale Banking business of the Group are assessed individually.
Expected loss EL The Group measure of anticipated loss for exposures captured Innovative Tier 1 Capital under an internal ratings based credit risk approach for capital Innovative Tier 1 capital consists of instruments which adequacy calculations.
It is measured as the Group-modelled incorporate certain features, the effect of which is to weaken view of anticipated loss based on Probability of Default PD, but only marginally the key characteristics of Tier 1 capital Loss Given Default LGD and Exposure at Default EAD, thatis, fully subordinated, perpetual and non-cumulative.
Innovative Tier 1 capital is subject to a limit of 15 per cent of totalTier 1 capital.
Exposures Credit exposures represent the amount lent to a customer, Internal Ratings Based IRB approach together with an undrawn commitments.
The IRB approach is used to calculate risk weighted assets in accordance with the Basel Capital Accord where capital Exposure at default EAD requirements are based on a rms own estimates of The estimation of the extent to which the Group may be certain parameters.
exposed to a customer or counterparty in the event of, and at the time of, that counterpartys default.
At default, the customer Investment grade may not have drawn the loan fully or may already have repaid A debt security, treasury bill or similar instrument with a credit some of the principal, so that exposure is typically less than rating measured by external agencies of AAA to BBB.
Supplementary information Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 257 Jaws Mortgage Backed Securities MBS The rate of income growth less the rate of expense growth, Securities that represent interests in a group of mortgages.
expressed as positive jaws when income growth exceeds Investors in these securities have the right to cash received expense growth and vice versa for negative jaws.
from future mortgage payments interest and or principal.
Leveraged finance Mortgage related assets Loans or other nancing agreements provided to companies Assets that are referenced to underlying mortgages.
whose overall level of debt is high in relation to their cash ow Medium term note MTN net debt: EBITDA earnings before interest tax, depreciation Corporate notes continuously offered by a company to and amortisation typically arising from private equity sponsor investors through a dealer.
Investors can choose from differing led acquisitions of the businesses concerned.
maturities, ranging from nine months to 30 years.
Liquidity and credit enhancements Net asset value per share Credit enhancement facilities are used to enhance the Ratio of net assets total assets less total liabilities to the number creditworthiness of financial obligations and cover losses due of ordinary shares outstanding at the end of a reporting period.
Two general types of credit enhancement are third-party loan guarantees and self-enhancement through Net interest income .
Liquidity enhancement makes funds The difference between interest received on assets and interest available if required, for other reasons than asset default, paid on liabilities.
e. g. to ensure timely repayment of maturing commercial paper.
Net interest margin Liquid asset buffer The margin is expressed as net interest income divided by High quality unencumbered assets that meet the UK FSAs average interest earning assets.
These assets include high quality government or central bank securities, certain deposits with Net interest yield central banks and securities issued by designated multilateral Interest income divided by average interest earning assets less development banks.
interest expense divided by average interest bearing liabilities.
Liquid asset ratio Non-performing loans Ratio of total liquid assets to total assets.
Liquid assets A non performing loan is any loan that is more than 90 days comprise cash less restricted balances, net interbank, past due or is otherwise individually impaired, other than a loan treasury bills and debt securities less illiquid securities.
which is: t renegotiated before 90 days past due, and on which no Loans and advances default in interest payments or loss of principal is expected: or This represents lending made under bilateral agreements with customers entered into in the normal course of business and t renegotiated at or after 90 days past due, but on which is based on the legal form of the instrument.
An example of there has been no default in interest or principal payments for a loan product is a home loan.
more than 180 days since renegotiation, and against which no loss of principal is expected.
Loans to individuals Money loaned to individuals rather than institutions.
The loans Normalised earnings may be for car or home purchases, medical care, home repair, profit attributable to ordinary shareholders adjusted for holidays, and other consumer uses.
profits or losses of a capital nature: amounts consequent to investment transactions driven by strategic intent: and other Loan-to-value ratio infrequent and or exceptional transactions that are significant The loan-to-value ratio is a mathematical calculation that or material in the context of the Groups normal business expresses the amount of a first mortgage lien as a percentage earnings for the period.
of the total appraised value of real property.
The loan-to-value ratio is used in determining the appropriate level of risk for the Over the counter OTC derivatives loan and therefore the correct price of the loan to the borrower.
A bilateral transaction e. g. derivatives that is not exchange traded and that is valued using valuation models.
Loans past due Loans on which payments have been due for up to a maximum Pre-provision profit of 90 days including those on which partial payments are Operating profit before impairment losses and taxation.
Private equity investments Loss given default LGD Equity securities in operating companies generally not quoted LGD is the percentage of an exposure that a lender expects on a public exchange.
Investment in private equity often to lose in the event of obligor default.
involves the investment of capital in private companies.
Capital for private equity investment is raised by retail or institutional Master netting agreement investors and used to fund investment strategies such as An agreement between two counterparties that have multiple leveraged buyouts, venture capital, growth capital, distressed derivative contracts with each other that provides for the net investments and mezzanine capital.
settlement of all contracts through a single payment, in a single currency, in the event of default on, or termination of, any one Probability of default PD contract.
PD is an internal estimate for each borrower grade of the likelihood that an obligor will default on an obligation.
Mezzanine capital Financing that combines debt and equity characteristics.
profit attributable to ordinary shareholders For example, a loan that also confers some profit participation profit for the year after non-controlling interests and dividends to the lender.
declared in respect of preference shares classied as equity.
258 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Glossary continued Standardised approach Renegotiated loans In relation to credit risk, a method for calculating credit risk Loans and advances are generally renegotiated either as part capital requirements using External Credit Assessment of an ongoing customer relationship or in response to an adverse Institutions ECAI ratings and supervisory risk weights.
change in the circumstances of the borrower.
In the latter case In relation to operational risk, a method of calculating the renegotiation can result in an extension of the due date of operational capital requirement by the application of a payment or repayment plans under which the Group offers a supervisory dened percentage charge to the gross income concessionary rate of interest to genuinely distressed borrowers.
Such assets will be individually impaired where the renegotiated payments of interest and principal will not recover the original Structured finance notes carrying amount of the asset.
In other cases, renegotiation may A structured note is an investment tool that pays a return linked lead to a new agreement, which would be treated as a new loan.
to the value or level of a specified asset or index and sometimes offers capital protection if the value declines.
Structured notes Repo Reverse repo can be linked to equities, interest rates, A repurchase agreement or repo is a short-term funding funds, commodities and foreign currency.
agreement that allows a borrower to sell a financial asset, such as ABS or Government bonds as collateral for cash.
As part of Subordinated liabilities the agreement the borrower agrees to repurchase the security Liabilities which, in the event of insolvency or liquidation of the at some later date, usually less than 30 days, repaying the issuer, are subordinated to the claims of depositors and other proceeds of the loan.
For the party on the other end of the creditors of the issuer.
transaction buying the security and agreeing to sell in the future it is a reverse repurchase agreement or reverse repo.
Sub-prime Sub-prime is dened as loans to borrowers typically having Residential mortgage weakened credit histories that include payment delinquencies A loan to purchase a residential property that is then used as and potentially more severe problems such as court judgements collateral to guarantee repayment of the loan.
They may also display reduced repayment gives the lender a lien against the property, and the lender can capacity as measured by credit scores, high debt-to-income foreclose on the property if the borrower does not repay the ratios, or other criteria indicating heightened risk of default.
loan per the agreed terms.
Tangible net asset value per share Residential Mortgage Backed Securities RMBS Ratio of parent shareholders equity less preference shares Securities that represent interests in a group of residential classied as equity and goodwill and intangible assets mortgages.
Investors in these securities have the right to to the number of ordinary shares outstanding at the end cashreceived from future mortgage payments interest of the reporting period.
Tier 1 capital Return on equity Tier 1 capital comprises Core Tier 1 capital plus innovative Represents the ratio of the current years profit available for Tier 1 securities and preference shares and tax on distribution to ordinary shareholders to the weighted average excess expected losses less material holdings in credit or ordinary shareholders equity for the reporting period.
Risk weighted assets Tier 1 capital ratio A measure of a banks assets adjusted for their associated Tier 1 capital as a percentage of risk weighted assets.
Risk weightings are established in accordance with the Basel Capital Accord as implemented by the FSA.
Tier 2 capital Tier 2 capital comprises qualifying subordinated liabilities, Securitisation allowable portfolio impairment provision and unrealised gains Securitisation is a process by which debt instruments are in the eligible revaluation reserves arising from the fair valuation aggregated into a pool, which is used to back new securities.
of equity instruments held as available-for-sale.
Acompany sells assets to a special purpose entity SPE that then issues securities backed by the assets based on UK bank levy theirvalue.
This allows the credit quality of the assets to be A levy that applies to certain UK banks and the UK operations separated from the credit rating of the original company and of foreign banks from 1 January 2011.
The levy is payable each transfers risk to external investors.
year based on a percentage of the chargeable liabilities of the Group as at 31 December.
Sovereign exposures Exposures to central governments and central government VaR departments, central banks and entities owned or guaranteed Value at Risk is an estimate of the potential loss which might by the aforementioned.
Sovereign exposures as dened by arise from market movements under normal market conditions, the European Banking Authority includes only exposures to if the current positions were to be held unchanged for one central governments.
business day, measured to a confidence level of 97.5 per cent.
Special purpose entities SPEs Working profit SPEs are entities that are created to accomplish a narrow Operating profit before impairment losses and taxation.
There are often specic restrictions or limits around their ongoing activities.
Write-downs After an advance has been identied as impaired and is subject Transactions with SPEs take a number of forms, including: to an impairment allowance, the stage may be reached t The provision of nancing to fund asset purchases, or whereby it is concluded that there is no realistic prospect of commitments to provide finance for future purchases.
Write-downs will occur when and to the extent t Derivative transactions to provide investors in the SPE with that, the whole or part of a debt is considered irrecoverable.
t The provision of liquidity or backstop facilities that may be drawn upon if the SPE experiences future funding difficulties.
t Direct investment in the notes issued by SPEs.
