170 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements 1.
Accounting policies d Fiduciary activities The Group commonly acts as trustee and in other duciary capacities that result in the holding or placing of assets on behalf a Statement of compliance of individuals, trusts, retirement benefit plans and other institutions.
The Group financial statements consolidate those of The assets and income arising thereon are excluded from Standard Chartered PLC the Company and its subsidiaries these financial statements, as they are not assets and income together referred to as the Group, equity account the Groups of the Group.
interest in associates and proportionately consolidate interests in jointly controlled entities.
The parent company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and e New accounting standards adopted by the Group not about its group.
On 1 January 2011, the Group adopted retrospectively IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures revised : IAS 24 revised widens the Both the parent company financial statements and the Group scope of the denition of related parties to include an investor, its financial statements have been prepared and approved by the subsidiaries and associates as related parties to each other.
directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting These amendments have not had a material impact on the Groups Standards IFRS and IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC financial statements.
interpretations as endorsed by the European Union EU.
EU endorsed IFRS may differ from IFRS published by the On 1 January 2011, the Group adopted improvements to IFRS International Accounting Standards Board IASB if a standard 2010, a collection of amendments to a number of IFRS.
Of these, has not been endorsed by the EU.
the amendments to IFRS 7, IAS 1, IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting and IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes have been In publishing the parent company financial statements together applied on a retrospective basis and the amendments to IFRS 3 with the Group financial statements, the Company has taken Business Combinations have been applied on a prospective basis.
advantage of the exemption in section 408 of the Companies Act The amendments to IFRS 7 include a requirement to disclose the 2006 not to present its individual statement of comprehensive financial effect of collateral held against assets on the Groups income and related notes that form a part of these approved balance sheet, and this disclosure is set out on pages 59 and 60 of financial statements.
None of the other amendments have had a material The disclosures required by IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: impact on the Groups financial statements.
Disclosures IFRS 7 and the capital disclosures within IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements IAS 1 are presented within f Forthcoming accounting standards and interpretations the Risk review on pages 50 to 86, Capital on pages 87 to 91, and issued but not effective in the notes to the financial statements.
The following parts of the At 31 December 2011, a number of accounting standards and Risk review form part of audited financial statements: from the start interpretations, and amendments thereto, had been issued by the of the Risk management section on page 54 to the end of the IASB, which are not effective for the Group or Company financial Operational risk section on page 86, with the exception of the statements as at 31 December 2011.
Those that are expected Asset backed securities section on page 75.
The following parts to have a significant effect on the Group and Company financial of Capital form part of the audited financial statements, from the statements in future years are discussed below.
The full impact start of Capital management on page 87 to the end of the of these IFRS including that resulting from IFRS 9 Financial movement in Core Tier 1 capital on page 90.
Instruments is currently being assessed by the Group.
The use of IFRS and IFRIC Interpretations that have yet to be b Basis of preparation endorsed by the EU is not permitted.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modied by the revaluation of Accounting standards mandatorily effective 1 January 2012 cash-settled share based payments, available-for-sale assets, Amendment to IAS 12 Income Taxes: This amendment provides and financial assets and liabilities including derivatives at fair apractical approach for measuring deferred tax liabilities and value through profit or loss.
The Company financial statements deferred tax assets when it would be difficult and subjective to have been prepared on a historical cost basis, as modied by determine the expected manner of recovery.
This amendment cash settled share based payments and the revaluation of hadnot been endorsed by the EU at 31 December 2011. financial assets and liabilities including derivatives at fair value through profit or loss.
Amendment to IFRS 7: This amendment introduces additional disclosures when an asset is transferred but is not derecognised.
c significant accounting estimates and judgments Italso requires disclosures of assets that are derecognised but In determining the carrying amounts of certain assets and liabilities, where the entity continues to have a continuing exposure to the the Group makes assumptions of the effects of uncertain future asset after the sale.
events on those assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date.
TheGroups estimates and assumptions are based on historical Accounting standards mandatorily effective experience and expectation of future events and are reviewed 1 January 2013 periodically.
Further information about key assumptions IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements replaces the current concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation guidance on consolidation in IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate uncertainty, are set out in the relevant disclosure notes for the Financial Statements and SIC-12 Special Purpose Entities.
It following areas: introduces a single model of assessing control whereby an investor controls an investee when it has the power, exposure to variable t Loan loss provisioning refer to Risk review on page 64 returns and the ability to use its power to inuence the returns of t Taxation refer to note 12 the investee.
IFRS 10 also includes specic guidance on fide-facto control, protective rights and the determination of whether a t Fair value of financial instruments refer to note 15 decision maker is acting as principal or agent, all of which inuence t Goodwill impairment refer to note 25 the assessment of control.
t Provisions for liabilities and charges refer to note 33 t Pensions refer to note 34 t Share based payments refer to note 37 Financial statements and notes Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 171 1.
Accounting policies continued The impairment and hedging components of IFRS 9 continue to be deliberated by the IASB and are expected to be nalised during IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements replaces IAS 31 Interests in Joint 2012.
In addition, the IASB is expected to make targeted Ventures.
It requires all joint ventures to be equity accounted amendments to IFRS 9 during 2012. thereby removing the option in IAS 31 for proportionate In December 2011, the IASB issued an amendment to IFRS 9, consolidation.
It also removes the IAS 31 concept of jointly deferring the effective date from 1 January 2013 to 1 January 2015. controlled assets.
In addition, whilst the proposals would be applied retrospectively, IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities prescribes the amendment claried that prior periods would not require disclosure requirements around significant judgments and restatement.
The EU has indicated that it would not endorse IFRS 9 assumptions made in determining whether an entity controls for use until all components have been completed.
another entity and has joint control or significant inuence over g IFRS and Hong Kong accounting requirements another entity.
The standard also requires disclosures on the As required by the Hong Kong Listing Rules, an explanation of the natureand risks associated with interests in unconsolidated differences in accounting practices between EU endorsed IFRS structured entities.
and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards is required to be IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement consolidates the guidance on disclosed.
There would be no significant differences had these how to measure fair value into one comprehensive standard.
accounts been prepared in accordance with Hong Kong Financial It introduces the use of an exit price, as well as extensive disclosure Reporting Standards.
requirements, particularly the inclusion of non-financial instruments into the fair value hierarchy.
h Prior period restatements Amendment to IAS 1 requires items within other comprehensive Details of prior period restatements are set out in note 46. income to be separated based on whether or not items can be reclassied to profit and loss.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently across the Group and to all periods presented IAS 19 Employee Benets revised makes significant changes to in these financial statements.
the recognition and measurement of dened benefit expenses in particular on the return on plan assets.
It also makes changes to i Consolidation termination benets as well as enhancing disclosure requirements.
Subsidiaries Amendments to IFRS 7: This requires disclosure of the effect or Subsidiaries are all entities, including special purpose entities potential effect of netting arrangements.
This includes financial SPEs, over which the Group has the power to directly or instruments transacted under enforceable master netting indirectly govern the financial and operating policies, generally arrangements or other similar agreements.
accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting IFRS 10, 11, 12, 13 and amendments to IAS 1, IAS 19 and IFRS 7 rights.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which had not been endorsed by the EU at 31 December 2011. the Group effectively obtains control.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases, and where any interest in the Accounting standards mandatorily effective subsidiary remains, this is remeasured to its fair value and the 1 January 2014 change in carrying amount is recognised in the income statement.
Amendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation.
Details of the Groups principal subsidiaries are given in note 23.
This provides application guidance in respect of the existing SPEs are consolidated when the substance of the relationship IAS 32 offset criteria.
This amendment had not been endorsed between the Group and the SPE indicates control by the Group.
Potential indicators of control include an assessment of risks and benets in respect of the SPEs activities.
This assessment includes Accounting standards mandatorily effective consideration of the following conditions: 1 January 2015 t where the SPEs activities are conducted on behalf of the Group IFRS 9 Financial instruments according to specic business needs, such that the Group IFRS 9 replaces certain elements of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: obtains benets from the SPEs operations Recognition and Measurement in respect of classication and t where the Group has the decision-making powers to obtain the measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities.
The majority of the benets of the activities of the SPE or, by setting standard requires all financial assets to be classied at fair value up an autopilot mechanism, the Group has delegated these or amortised cost.
Amortised cost classication is only permitted decision-making powers where the asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets in order to collect contractual cash ows and where t where the Group has rights to obtain the majority of the benets these contractual cash ows are solely payment of principal and of the SPE and therefore may be exposed to risks incident to the interest, gains or losses on assets measured at fair value are activities of the SPE recognised in the income statement unless the asset is a nont where the Group retains the majority of the residual or ownership trading equity investment and the Group has elected to present risks related to the SPE or its assets in order to obtain benets such gains or losses in other comprehensive income.
from its activities Financial liabilities are required to be measured at fair value or Details on the Groups use of SPEs are set out in note 44. amortised cost similar to requirements under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement except that the change in fair value relating to own credit is reported within other comprehensive income and not the income statement.
172 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Changes in ownership interest in a subsidiary which do not result in a loss of control are treated as transactions between equity holders and are reported in equity.
Associates Associates are all entities over which the Group has the ability to Where a business combination is achieved in stages, the previously signicantly inuence, but not control, the financial and operating held equity interest is remeasured at the acquisition-date fair value policies and procedures generally accompanying a shareholding with the resulting gain or loss recognised in the income statement.
ofbetween 20 per cent and 50 per cent of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for by the equity method j Foreign currencies of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups Items included in the Group financial statements for each of the investment in associates includes goodwill identied on acquisition Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary net of any accumulated impairment loss.
economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency of that entity.
Both the Company and Group financial The Groups share of its associates post-acquisition profits or statements are presented in US dollars, which is the functional and losses is recognised in the income statement, and its share of presentation currency of the Company and the presentation post-acquisition movements in other comprehensive income currency of the Group.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the Transactions and balances investment.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any other currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the transaction unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further date.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on settlement of such transactions, and from the translation at behalf of the associate.
year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities Unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group denominated in foreign currencies, are recognised in the income and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities are translated interest in the associates.
at historical exchange rates if held at historical cost, or year-end exchange rates if held at fair value, and the resulting foreign Joint ventures exchange gains and losses are recognised in either the income Interests in jointly controlled entities are recognised using statement or shareholders equity depending on the treatment proportionate consolidation whereby the Groups share of the joint ofthe gain or loss on the asset or liability.
ventures assets, liabilities, income and expenses are combined line by line with similar items in the Groups financial statements.
Foreign currency translation The results and financial position of all the entities included in the Investment in subsidiaries, associates Group financial statements that have a functional currency different and joint ventures from the Groups presentation currency are accounted for as follows: In the Companys financial statements, investment in subsidiaries, t assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are associates and joint ventures are held at cost less impairment and translated at the closing rate at the balance sheet date dividends from pre-acquisition profits received prior to 1 January 2009, if any.
t income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates or at rates on the date of the Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains and transaction where exchange rates uctuate signicantly losses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated in the Group accounts.
t all resulting exchange differences arising since 1 January 2004 are recognised as a separate component of equity Business combinations On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition other currency instruments designated as hedges of such is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments investments, are taken to other comprehensive income.
When issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, a foreign operation is sold or capital repatriated they are recognised together with the fair value of any contingent consideration payable.
in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of Groups share of the identiable net assets and contingent liabilities a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign acquired is recorded as goodwill see note 25 for details on entity and translated at the closing rate.
goodwill recognised by the Group and page 177 for the accounting policy.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets and contingent liabilities of the subsidiary acquired, the k Income recognition difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Income from financial instruments Where the fair values of the identiable net assets and contingent Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of financial liabilities acquired have been determined provisionally, or where instruments held at fair value through profit or loss are included in contingent or deferred consideration is payable, adjustments the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Contractual arising from their subsequent nalisation are not reected in the interest income and expense on financial instruments held at fair income statement if i they arise within 12 months of the acquisition value through profit or loss is recognised within net interest income.
date and ii the adjustments arise from better information about For available-for-sale assets and financial assets and liabilities conditions existing at the acquisition date measurement period held at amortised cost, interest income and interest expense adjustments.
Such adjustments are applied as at the date of is recognised using the effective interest method.
acquisition and if applicable, prior period amounts are restated.
Allchanges that are not measurement period adjustments are reported in income other than changes in contingent consideration not classied as financial instruments, which are accounted for in accordance with the appropriate accounting policy, and changes in contingent consideration classied as equity, which is not remeasured.
Financial statements and notes Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 173 1.
Accounting policies continued Financial assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss This category has two sub-categories: financial assets and The effective interest method is a method of calculating the liabilities held for trading, and those designated at fair value through amortised cost of a financial asset or a financial liability and of profit or loss at inception.
A financial asset or liability is classied allocating the interest income or interest expense over the relevant astrading if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that discounts short term.
estimated future cash payments or receipts through the expected Financial assets and liabilities may be designated at fair value life of the financial instrument or, when appropriate, a shorter through profit or loss when: period, to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or financial liability.
When calculating the effective interest rate, the Group t the designation eliminates or signicantly reduces a estimates cash ows considering all contractual terms of the measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise financial instrument for example, prepayment options but does arise from measuring assets or liabilities on a different basis not consider future credit losses.
The calculation includes all fees t a group of financial assets and or liabilities is managed and its paid or received between parties to the contract that are an integral performance evaluated on a fair value basis part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and all other premiums or discounts.
t the assets or liabilities include embedded derivatives and such derivatives are required to be recognised separately Where the estimates of cash ows have been revised, the carrying amount of the financial asset or liability is adjusted to reect the For certain loans and advances and debt securities with xed actual and revised cash ows, discounted at the instruments rates of interest, interest rate swaps have been acquired with the original effective interest rate.
The adjustment is recognised as intention of signicantly reducing interest rate risk.
To signicantly interest income or expense in the period in which the revision reduce the accounting mismatch between assets and liabilities ismade.
andmeasurement bases, these loans and advances and debt securities have been designated at fair value through profit or loss.
If the financial asset has been reclassied, subsequent increases Details of financial assets designated at fair value are disclosed inthe estimates of future cash receipts as a result of increased innotes 15 and 16. recoverability are recognised as an adjustment to the effective interest rate from the date of the change in estimate.
The Group has also designated certain financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss where either the liabilities: Once a financial asset or a group of similar financial assets has been written down as a result of an impairment loss, interest t have xed rates of interest and interest rate swaps or other income is recognised using the rate of interest used to discount the interest rate derivatives have been entered into with the intention future cash ows for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss.
of signicantly reducing interest rate risk Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of availablet are exposed to foreign currency risk and derivatives have been for-sale financial assets, other than foreign exchange gains and acquired with the intention of signicantly reducing exposure losses from monetary items, are recognised directly in equity, until to market changes the financial asset is derecognised or impaired at which time the t have been acquired to fund trading asset portfolios or assets, cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is or where the assets and liabilities are managed, and performance recognised in profit or loss.
evaluated, on a fair value basis for a documented risk Dividends on equity instruments are recognised in the income management or investment strategy statement within other income when the Groups right to receive Designation of certain liabilities at fair value through profit or loss payment is established.
signicantly reduces the accounting mismatch between fair value and amortised cost expense recognition.
Details of financial Fees and commissions liabilities designated at fair value are disclosed in note 15.
Fees and commissions are generally recognised on an accrual basis when the service has been provided or significant act Loans and receivables performed.
Loan syndication fees are recognised as revenue when Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed the syndication has been completed and the Group retained no or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market part of the loan package for itself, or retained a part at the same and it is expected that substationally all of the initial investment will effective interest rate as for the other participants.
Portfolio and be recovered, other than because of credit deterioration.
other management advisory and service fees are recognised based on the applicable service contracts, usually on a time Held-to-maturity apportionment basis.
Held-to-maturity assets are non-derivative financial assets with xed or determinable payments and xed maturities that the l Cash and cash equivalents Groups management has the intention and ability to hold For the purposes of the cash ow statement, cash and cash tomaturity.
equivalents comprise cash, on demand and overnight balances with central banks unless restricted and balances with less than Available-for-sale three months maturity from the date of acquisition, including Available-for-sale assets are those non-derivative financial assets treasury bills and other eligible bills, loans and advances to banks, intended to be held for an indefinite period of time, which may be and short-term government securities.
sold in response to liquidity requirements or changes in interest rates, exchange rates, commodity prices or equity prices.
m Financial assets and liabilities classication excluding derivatives Further details on the application of these policies is set out in The Group classies its financial assets into the following note15.
measurement categories: a financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss: b loans and receivables: c held-to-maturity: and d available-for-sale.
Financial liabilities are classied as either held at fair value through profit or loss, or at amortised cost.
Management determines the classication of its financial assets and liabilities at initial recognition or, where applicable, at the time ofreclassication.
174 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Subsequent measurement Financial assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss are subsequently carried at fair value, with gains and losses arising Financial liabilities held at amortised cost from changes in fair value taken directly to the net trading income Financial liabilities, which include borrowings, not classied held line in the income statement.
atfair value through profit or loss are classied as amortised costinstruments.
Available-for-sale financial assets are subsequently carried at fair value, with gains and losses arising from changes in fair value taken Preference shares which carry a mandatory coupon that to the available-for-sale reserve within equity until the asset is sold, represents a market rate of interest at the issue date, or which are or is impaired, when the cumulative gain or loss is transferred to the redeemable on a specic date or at the option of the shareholder income statement.
are classied as financial liabilities and are presented in other borrowed funds.
The dividends on these preference shares are Loans and receivables and held-to-maturity financial assets are recognised in the income statement as interest expense on an subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective amortised cost basis using the effective interest method.
Financial liabilities are subsequently stated at amortised cost, Fair value of financial assets and liabilities withany difference between proceeds net of directly attributable Fair value is the amount for which an asset could be exchanged, transaction costs and the redemption value recognised in the ora liability settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an income statement over the period of the borrowings using the arms length transaction.
The fair values of quoted financial assets and liabilities in active In addition to these instruments, the carrying value of a financial markets are based on current prices.
If the market for a financial instrument carried at amortised cost that is the hedged item in a instrument, and for unlisted securities, is not active, the Group qualifying fair value hedge relationship is adjusted by the fair value establishes fair value by using valuation techniques.
These include gain or loss attributable to the hedged risk.
the use of recent arms length transactions, discounted cash ow analysis, option pricing models and other valuation techniques Impairment of financial assets commonly used by market participants.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is Where representative prices are unreliable because of illiquid objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets markets, the determination of fair value may require estimation is impaired.
A financial asset or a group of financial assets is ofcertain parameters, which are calibrated against industry impaired and impairment losses are incurred if, and only if, there is standards and observable market data, or the use of valuation objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events models that are based on observable market date.
occurring after the initial recognition of the asset a loss event, and that loss event or events has an impact on the estimated future Equity investments that do not have an observable market price cash ows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that arefair valued by applying various valuation techniques, such as can be reliably estimated.
earnings multiples, net assets multiples, discounted cash ows and industry valuation benchmarks.
These techniques are The Group considers the following factors in assessing objective generally applied prior to any initial public offering, after which an evidence of impairment: observable market price becomes available.
Disposal of such t whether the counterparty is in default of principal or interest investments are generally by market trades or private sales.
payments Initial recognition t when a counterparty les for bankruptcy protection or the Purchases and sales of financial assets and liabilities held at fair local equivalent and this would avoid or delay discharge value through profit or loss, and financial assets classied as of its obligation held-to-maturity and available-for-sale are initially recognised on t where the Group les to have the counterparty declared the trade-date the date on which the Group commits to purchase bankrupt or les a similar order in respect of a credit obligation or sell the asset.
Loans are recognised when cash is advanced to the borrowers.
t where the Group consents to a restructuring of the obligation, resulting in a diminished financial obligation, demonstrated All financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value, which by a material forgiveness of debt or postponement of is normally the transaction price plus, for those financial assets and scheduled payments liabilities not carried at fair value through profit and loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
t where the Group sells a credit obligation at a material creditrelated economic loss: or In certain circumstances, the initial fair value may be based on a valuation technique which may lead to the recognition of profits or t where there are observable data indicating that there is a losses at the time of initial recognition.
However, these profits or measurable decrease in the estimated future cash ows losses can only be recognised when the valuation technique used of a group of financial assets, although the decrease cannot is based solely on observable market.
In those cases where the yet be identied with specic individual financial assets initially recognised fair value is based on a valuation model that uses inputs which are not observable in the market, the difference between the transaction price and the valuation model is not recognised immediately in the income statement.
The difference isamortised to the income statement until the inputs become observable, or the transaction matures or is terminated.
Financial statements and notes Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 175 1.
Accounting policies continued Available-for-sale assets Where objective evidence of impairment exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference Assets carried at amortised cost between the amortised cost and the current fair value, less any The Group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the exists individually for financial assets that are individually significant, income statement is removed from equity and recognised in the and individually or collectively for financial assets that are not income statement.
A significant or prolonged decline in the fair individually significant.
value of an equity security below its cost is considered, amongst If the Group determines that no objective evidence of impairment other factors, in assessing objective evidence of impairment for exists for an individually assessed financial asset, whether significant equity securities.
or not, it includes the asset in a group of financial assets with similar If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt instrument credit risk characteristics and collectively assesses them for classied as available-for-sale increases and the increase can be impairment.
Assets that are individually assessed for impairment objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss andfor which an impairment loss is or continues to be recognised, was recognised, the impairment loss is reversed through the are not included in a collective assessment of impairment.
Impairment losses recognised in the income If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on a loan statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the andreceivable or a held-to-maturity asset has been incurred, the income statement.
amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future Renegotiated loans cash ows excluding future credit losses that have not been Loans whose original terms have been modied including those incurred, discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
subject to forbearance strategies are considered renegotiated The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an loans.
If the renegotiations are on terms that are not consistent allowance account and the amount of the loss is recognised in the withthose readily available on the market, this provides objective income statement.
If a loan and receivable or held-to-maturity evidence of impairment and the loan is assessed accordingly.
asset has a variable interest rate, the discount rate for measuring any impairment loss is the current effective interest rate determined Offsetting financial instruments under the contract.
As a practical expedient, the Group may Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount measure impairment on the basis of an instruments fair value reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable usingan observable market price.
right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention The calculation of the present value of the estimated future cash to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the ows of a collateralised financial asset reects the cash ows that liability simultaneously.
may result from foreclosure, less costs for obtaining and selling the collateral, whether or not foreclosure is probable.
Further details Reclassications on collateral held by the Group is discussed in the Risk review on Reclassications of financial assets, other than as set out below, pages 59 and 60.
For the purposes of a collective evaluation of orof financial liabilities between measurement categories are not impairment, financial assets are grouped on the basis of similar permitted following initial recognition.
credit risk characteristics i. e. on the basis of the Groups grading Held for trading non-derivative financial assets can only be process, which considers asset type, industry, geographic transferred out of the held at fair value through profit or loss location, collateral type, past-due status and other relevant factors.
These characteristics are relevant to the estimation of future cash category in the following circumstances: to the available-for-sale ows for groups of such assets being indicative of the debtors category, where, in rare circumstances, they are no longer held for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term: or to the ability to pay all amounts due according to the contractual terms of loan and receivables category, where they are no longer held for the assets being evaluated.
the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term and they Future cash ows in a group of financial assets that are collectively would have met the denition of a loan and receivable at the date evaluated for impairment are based on the probability of default of reclassication and the Group has the intent and ability to hold inherent within the portfolio of impaired loans or receivables and the the assets for the foreseeable future or until maturity.
historical loss experience for assets with credit risk characteristics similar to those in the group.
Historical loss experience is adjusted Financial assets can only be transferred out of the available-for-sale category to the loan and receivables category where they would on the basis of current observable data to reect the effects of have met the denition of a loan and receivable at the date of current conditions that did not affect the period on which the historical loss experience is based, and to remove the effects of reclassication and the Group has the intent and ability to hold the conditions in the historical period that do not exist currently.
assets for the foreseeable future or until maturity.
Held-to-maturity assets must be reclassied to the available-forTo the extent a loan is irrecoverable, it is written off against the sale category if the portfolio becomes tainted following the sale related provision for loan impairment.
Such loans are written off after all the necessary procedures have been completed, it is of other than an insignicant amount of held-to-maturity assets decided that there is no realistic probability of recovery and the prior to their maturity.
amount of the loss has been determined.
Subsequent recoveries Financial assets are reclassied at their fair value on the date ofamounts previously written off decrease the amount of the ofreclassication.
For financial assets reclassied out of the provision for loan impairment in the income statement.
If, in a available-for-sale category into loans and receivables, any gain subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases orloss on those assets recognised in shareholders equity prior and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring to the date of reclassication is amortised to the income statement after the impairment was recognised such as an improvement in over the remaining life of the financial asset, using the effective the debtors credit rating, the previously recognised impairment interest method.
loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance account.
The amount ofthe reversal is recognised in the income statement.
Further details on the application of these policies is set out in the Risk review on pages 50 to 86.
176 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued The method of recognising the resulting fair value gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Sale and repurchase agreements Group designates certain derivatives as either: 1 hedges of the Securities sold subject to repurchase agreements repos remain fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or rm commitments on the balance sheet: the counterparty liability is included in fair value hedge : 2 hedges of highly probable future cash ows deposits by banks, or customer accounts, as appropriate.
attributable to a recognised asset or liability, or a forecasted Securities purchased under agreements to resell reverse repos transaction cash ow hedge : or 3 hedges of the net investment are recorded as loans and advances to other banks or customers, of a foreign operation net investment hedges.
The difference between sale and repurchase price is used for derivatives designated in this way provided certain is treated as interest and accrued over the life of the agreements criteria are met.
using the effective interest method.
The Group and Company documents, at the inception of the Securities lent to counterparties are also retained in the financial transaction, the relationship between hedging instruments and statements.
Securities borrowed are not recognised in the financial hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and statements, unless these are sold to third parties, in which case the strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Group purchase and sale are recorded with the gain or loss included in also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on trading income.
an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in Details of the Groups repo transactions are provided in note 43. hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash ows of hedged items.
Derecognition Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash Fair value hedge ows from the financial assets have expired or where the Group Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
qualify as fair value hedging instruments are recorded in the income If substantially all the risks and rewards have been neither statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the retained nor transferred and the Group has retained control, the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
assets continue to be recognised to the extent of the Groups Ifthe hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the continuing involvement.
adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged item for which the effective interest method is used is amortised to the income Financial liabilities are derecognised when they are extinguished.
statement over the period to maturity or derecognition.
Anancial liability is extinguished when the obligation is discharged, cancelled or expires.
Cash ow hedge If the Group purchases its own debt, it is removed from the balance The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives sheet, and the difference between the carrying amount of the that are designated and qualify as cash ow hedging instruments liability and the consideration paid is included in Other income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
n Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled to the income Derivatives are financial instruments that derive their value in statement in the periods in which the hedged item affects profit response to changes in interest rates, financial instrument prices, orloss.
commodity prices, foreign exchange rates, credit risk and indices.
Derivatives are categorised as trading unless they are designated When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge as hedging instruments.
nolonger meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is All derivatives are initially recognised and subsequently measured recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised at fair value, with all revaluation gains recognised in profit and loss in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer except where cash ow or net investment hedging has been expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported achieved, in which case the effective portion of changes in fair in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
value is recognised within other comprehensive income.
Fair values may be obtained from quoted market prices in active Net investment hedge markets, recent market transactions, and valuation techniques, Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted including discounted cash ow models and option pricing models, forsimilarly to cash ow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging as appropriate.
Where the initially recognised fair value of a instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is derivative contract is based on a valuation model that uses inputs recognised in the translation reserve: the gain or loss relating to which are not observable in the market, it follows the same initial theineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income recognition accounting policy as for other financial assets and statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in liabilities.
All derivatives are carried as assets when fair value is the income statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
positive and as liabilities when fair value is negative.
Further details on the application of these policies are set out in Certain derivatives embedded in other financial instruments, such note 17. as the conversion option in a convertible bond held, are treated as separate derivatives when their economic characteristics and risks Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are not closely related to those of the host contract and the host Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments not contract is not carried at fair value through profit or loss.
These qualifyingfor hedge accounting are recognised immediately embedded derivatives are measured at fair value with changes in in theincome statement.
fair value recognised in the income statement.
Financial statements and notes Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 177 1.
Accounting policies continued Computer software Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specic o Leases software.
Costs associated with the development of software are Where a Group company is the lessee capitalised where it is probable that it will generate future economic The leases entered into by the Group are primarily operating benets in excess of its cost.
Computer software costs are leases.
The total payments made under operating leases are amortised on the basis of expected useful life three to five years.
charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the Costs associated with maintaining software are recognised as an period of the lease.
At each balance sheet date, these assets are assessed for indicators of impairment.
In the event that an assets When an operating lease is terminated before the lease period has carrying amount is determined to be greater than its recoverable expired, any payment required to be made to the lessor by way of amount, the asset is written down immediately.
penalty is recognised as an expense in the period in which termination takes place.
Property, plant and equipment Where the Group is a lessee under finance leases, the leased Land and buildings comprise mainly branches and ofces.
All assets are capitalised and included in Property, plant and property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated equipment with a corresponding liability to the lessor recognised in depreciation and impairment losses.
Cost includes expenditure Other liabilities.
Finance charges payable are recognised over the that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the assets.
period of the lease based on the interest rate implicit in the lease Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or to give a constant periodic rate of return.
are recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benets associated with the item will Where a Group company is the lessor ow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
When assets are leased to customers under finance leases, the All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income present value of the lease payments is recognised as a receivable.
statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
The difference between the gross receivable and the present value of the receivable is recognised as unearned finance income.
Lease Freehold land is not depreciated although it is subject to income is recognised over the term of the lease using the net impairment testing.
Depreciation on other assets is calculated investment method before tax, which reects a constant periodic using the straight-line method to allocate their cost to their residual rate of return ignoring tax cash ows.
values over their estimated useful lives, as follows: Assets leased to customers under operating leases are included Buildings up to 50 years within Property, plant and equipment and depreciated over their useful lives.
Rental income on these leased assets is recognised Leasehold improvements life of lease, up to 50 years in the income statement on a straight-line basis unless another Equipment and motor vehicles three to 15 years systematic basis is more representative.
Aircraft and ships up to 25 years p Intangible and tangible xed assets The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and Goodwill adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
At each Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over balance sheet date, assets are also assessed for indicators of the fair value of the Groups share of the identiable net assets and impairment.
In the event that an assets carrying amount is contingent liabilities of the acquired subsidiary, associate or joint determined to be greater than its recoverable amount, the asset venture at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of is written down immediately to the recoverable amount.
subsidiaries and joint ventures is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill on acquisitions of associates is included in Investments in Gains and losses on disposals are included in the income associates.
Goodwill included in Intangible assets is assessed at statement.
each balance sheet date for impairment and carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Gains and losses on the disposal q Taxation of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to Income tax payable on profits is based on the applicable tax law in the entity sold.
Detailed calculations are performed based on each jurisdiction and is recognised as an expense in the period in discounting expected pre-tax cash ows of the relevant cash which profits arise.
The tax effects of income tax losses available generating units and discounting these at an appropriate discount for carry forward are recognised as an asset when it is probable rate, the determination of which requires the exercise of judgment.
that future taxable profits will be available against which these Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of losses can be utilised.
Cash generating units represent the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on management purposes.
These are smaller than the Groups temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and reportable segments as set out in note 2 as the Group views its liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial reportable segments on a global basis.
Note 25 sets out the major statements.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated.
and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted as at the balance sheet date, and that are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income Acquired intangibles tax liability is settled.
At the date of acquisition of a subsidiary or associate, intangible assets which are deemed separable and that arise from Deferred tax assets are recognised where it is probable that future contractual or other legal rights are capitalised and included within taxable profit will be available against which the temporary the net identiable assets acquired.
These intangible assets are differences can be utilised.
initially measured at fair value, which reects market expectations Current and deferred tax relating to items which are charged or of the probability that the future economic benets embodied in the credited directly to equity, is credited or charged directly to equity asset will ow to the entity, and are amortised on the basis of their and is subsequently recognised in the income statement together expected useful lives 4 to 16 years.
At each balance sheet date, with the current or deferred gain or loss.
these assets are assessed for indicators of impairment.
In the event that an assets carrying amount is determined to be greater than its recoverable amount, the asset is written down immediately.
178 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 1.
For all other awards the expense is recognised over the period from the date of grant to the vesting date.
r Provisions For equity-settled awards, the total amount to be expensed over Provisions for restructuring costs and legal claims are recognised the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as the options at the date of grant, which excludes the impact of any aresult of past events: it is more likely than not that an outow of non-market vesting conditions for example, profitability and resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount growth targets.
The fair value of equity instruments granted is can be reliably estimated.
Where a liability arises based on based on market prices, if available, at the date of grant.
In the participation in a market at a specified date such as the UK bank absence of market prices, the fair value of the instruments is levy, the obligation is recognised in the financial statements on estimated using an appropriate valuation technique, such as a thatdate and is not accrued over the period.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are s Employee benets expected to vest.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest.
Pension obligations It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, The Group operates a number of pension and other postif any, in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment retirement benefit plans around the world, including dened to equity over the remaining vesting period.
Forfeitures prior to contribution plans and dened benefit plans.
vesting attributable to factors other than the failure to satisfy a non-market vesting condition are treated as a cancellation and For dened contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension plans on a mandatory, the remaining unamortised charge is debited to the income statement at the time of cancellation.
contractual or voluntary basis, and such amounts are charged to operating expenses.
The Group has no further payment obligations The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction once the contributions have been paid.
costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share For funded dened benefit plans, the liability recognised in the premium when the options are exercised.
balance sheet is the present value of the dened benefit obligation Cash-settled awards are revalued at each balance sheet date and at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets.
a liability recognised on the balance sheet for all unpaid amounts, For unfunded dened benefit plans the liability recognised at the with any changes in fair value charged or credited to staff costs balance sheet date is the present value of the dened benefit inthe income statement until the awards are exercised.
The dened benefit obligation is calculated annually forfeitures occur prior to vesting that are attributable to factors by independent actuaries using the projected unit method.
The other than a failure to satisfy market-based performance present value of the dened benefit obligation is determined by conditions, the cumulative charge incurred up to the date of discounting the estimated future cash outows using an interest forfeiture is credited to the income statement.
rate equal to the yield on high-quality corporate bonds that are The Company records the value of the equity settled awards denominated in the currency in which the benets will be paid, as a deemed investment in subsidiaries.
Any revaluation related and that have a term to maturity approximating to the term of the related pension liability.
to cash-settled awards is recorded as an amount due from subsidiary undertakings.
Actuarial gains and losses that arise are recognised in Details of the Groups share-based compensation scheme are set shareholders equity and presented in the statement of other comprehensive income in the period they arise.
Past service costs out in note 37. are recognised immediately to the extent that benets are vested and are otherwise recognised over the average period until benets t Share capital are vested on a straight-line basis.
Current service costs and any Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares past service costs, together with the unwinding of the discount on oroptions are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from plan liabilities, offset by the expected return on plan assets where theproceeds.
applicable, are charged to operating expenses.
Dividends on ordinary shares and preference shares classied asequity are recognised in equity in the period in which they Share-based compensation aredeclared.
The Group operates equity-settled and cash-settled share-based Where the Company or other members of the consolidated Group compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services purchases the Companys equity share capital, the consideration received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
For deferred share awards granted as part of an paid is deducted from the total shareholders equity of the Group and or of the Company as treasury shares until they are cancelled.
annual performance award, the expense is recognised over the Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any period from the start of the performance period to the vesting date.
consideration received is included in shareholders equity of the For example, the expense for awards granted in 2012 in respect of 2011 performance, which vest in 2013-2015, is recognised as an Group and or the Company.
expense over the period from 1 January 2011 to the vesting dates Financial statements and notes Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 179 2.
Segmental Information The Group is organised on a worldwide basis for management and reporting purposes into two main business segments: Consumer Banking and Wholesale Banking.
The products offered by these segments are summarised under Income by product below.
The businesses focus is on broadening and deepening the relationship with customers, rather than maximising a particular product line.
Hence the Group evaluates segmental performance based on overall profit or loss before taxation excluding corporate items not allocated and not individual product profitability.
Product revenue information is used as a way of assessing customer needs and trends in the marketplace.
The strategies adopted by Consumer Banking and Wholesale Banking need to be adapted to local market and regulatory requirements, which is the responsibility of country management teams.
While not the primary driver of the business, country performance is an important part of the Groups matrix structure and is also used to evaluate performance and reward staff.
Corporate items not allocated are not aggregated into the businesses because of the one-off nature of these items.
The Groups entity-wide disclosure comprises geographic areas, classied by the location of the customer, except for Financial Market products, which are classied by the location of the dealer.
Transactions between the business segments and geographic areas are carried out on an arms-length basis.
Apart from the entities that have been acquired in the last two years, Group central expenses have been distributed between the business segments and geographic areas in proportion to their direct costs, and the benefit of the Groups capital has been distributed between segments in proportion to their average risk weighted assets.
In the year in which an acquisition is made, the Group does not charge or allocate the benefit of the Groups capital.
The distribution of central expenses is phased in over two years, based on the estimate of central management costs associated with the acquisition.
By class of business 2011 2010 Total Corporate Total Corporate Consumer Wholesale reportable items not Consumer Wholesale reportable items not 2 3 Banking Banking segments allocated Total Banking Banking segments allocated Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Internal income 44 44 28 28 Net interest income 4,628 5,525 10,153 10,153 4,066 4,404 8,470 8,470 Other income 2,207 5,277 7,484 7,484 2,041 5,547 7,588 4 7,592 Operating income 6,791 10,846 17,637 17,637 6,079 9,979 16,058 4 16,062 Operating expenses 4,605 5,147 9,752 165 9,917 4,176 4,840 9,016 7 9,023 Operating profit before impairment losses and taxation 2,186 5,699 7,885 165 7,720 1,903 5,139 7,042 3 7,039 Impairment losses on loans and advances and other credit risk provisions 524 384 908 908 578 305 883 883 Other impairment 12 99 111 111 12 64 76 76 profit from associates 74 74 42 42 profit before taxation 1,650 5,216 6,866 91 6,775 1,313 4,770 6,083 39 6,122 Total assets employed 132,129 464,971 597,100 1,970 599,070 125,589 389,215 514,804 1,756 516,560 Total liabilities employed 169,685 386,874 556,559 1,136 557,695 160,991 315,540 476,531 1,164 477,695 Other segment items: 1 Capital expenditure 178 1,397 1,575 1,575 249 816 1,065 1,065 Depreciation 169 199 368 368 163 166 329 329 Investment in associates 903 903 631 631 Amortisation of intangible assets 73 180 253 253 83 147 230 230 1 Includes capital expenditure in Wholesale Banking of $1,049 million in respect of operating lease assets 2010: $498 million 2 Relates to UK bank levy, and the Groups share of profit from associates 3 Relates to UK payroll tax, gains on change in control, and the Groups share of profit from associates 180 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Segmental Information continued The following table details entity-wide operating income by product: 2011 2010 $million $million Consumer Banking Cards, Personal Loans and Unsecured Lending 2,422 2,044 Wealth Management 1,272 1,138 Deposits 1,409 1,202 Mortgage and Auto Finance 1,478 1,513 Other 210 182 6,791 6,079 Wholesale Banking Lending and Portfolio Management 841 868 Transaction Banking Trade 1,595 1,467 Cash Management and Custody 1,652 1,303 Global Markets Financial Markets 3,688 3,303 Asset and Liability Management ALM 921 912 Corporate Finance 1,873 1,710 Principal Finance 276 416 6,758 6,341 10,846 9,979 Entity-wide information By geography The Group manages its reportable business segments on a global basis.
The operations are based in eight main geographic areas.
The UK is the home country of the Company.
2011 Asia Pacic Middle Other East & Americas Hong Asia Other UK & 1 Kong Singapore Korea Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Internal income 70 98 66 17 96 51 87 157 Net interest income 1,532 1,075 1,430 2,331 889 1,146 598 1,152 10,153 Fees and commissions income, net 752 509 197 766 423 443 340 616 4,046 Net trading income 559 571 77 289 275 488 287 99 2,645 Other operating income 136 129 80 150 122 91 28 57 793 Operating income 3,049 2,186 1,718 3,553 1,805 2,219 1,340 1,767 17,637 Operating expenses 1,395 1,105 1,335 2,076 829 1,085 703 1,389 9,917 Operating profit before impairment losses and taxation 1,654 1,081 383 1,477 976 1,134 637 378 7,720 Impairment losses on loans and advances and other credit risk provisions 103 48 198 134 112 286 25 2 908 Other impairment 31 13 31 60 14 16 8 111 profit from associates 73 1 74 profit before taxation 1,551 1,002 172 1,447 804 834 596 369 6,775 2 Capital expenditure 781 221 25 74 60 20 25 369 1,575 1 Americas UK & Europe includes operating income of $799 million in respect of the UK, the Companys country of domicile 2 Includes capital expenditure in Hong Kong of $724 million and in the UK of $325 million in respect of operating lease assets.
Other capital expenditure comprises additions to property and equipment note 26 and software related intangibles note 25 including any post-acquisition additions made by the acquired entities Financial statements and notes Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 181 2.
Segmental Information continued 2010 Asia Pacic Middle Other East & Americas Hong Asia Other UK & 1 Kong Singapore Korea Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Internal income 5 47 49 64 349 2 82 406 Net interest income 1,229 907 1,158 1,833 767 1,145 517 914 8,470 Fees and commissions income, net 700 400 233 737 464 589 359 756 4,238 Net trading income 521 367 293 340 267 343 263 183 2,577 Other operating income 45 111 63 191 181 88 25 73 777 Operating income 2,500 1,738 1,698 3,165 2,028 2,167 1,246 1,520 16,062 Operating expenses 1,355 986 1,080 1,970 749 995 653 1,235 9,023 Operating profit before impairment losses and taxation 1,145 752 618 1,195 1,279 1,172 593 285 7,039 Impairment losses on loans and advances and other credit risk provisions 43 33 226 152 79 302 24 24 883 Other impairment 1 1 4 2 3 29 10 28 76 profit from associates 42 42 profit before taxation 1,103 718 388 1,083 1,197 841 559 233 6,122 2 Capital expenditure 23 286 60 74 38 18 57 509 1,065 1 Americas UK & Europe includes operating income of $739 million in respect of the UK, the Companys country of domicile 2 Includes capital expenditure in Americas, UK & Europe of $498 million in respect of operating lease assets.
Other capital expenditure comprises additions to property and equipment note 26 and software related intangibles note 25 including any post-acquisition additions made by the acquired entities Net interest margin and yield 2011 2010 $million $million Net interest margin % 2.3 2.2 Net interest yield % 2.2 2.1 Average interest-earning assets 441,892 383,359 Average interest-bearing liabilities 410,602 347,058 Net interest margin by geography 2011 Asia Pacic Middle Other East & Americas IntraHong Asia Other UK & group 1 Kong Singapore Korea Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe tax assets Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Total assets employed 117,245 102,768 63,134 115,588 42,300 56,223 17,276 157,473 72,937 599,070 Of which: loans to customers 50,541 42,574 38,072 54,196 23,379 23,299 10,004 26,688 268,753 Average interest-earning assets 91,923 67,952 57,031 95,513 31,299 33,851 12,389 96,396 44,462 441,892 Net interest income 1,631 1,011 1,348 2,346 985 1,202 675 955 10,153 Net interest margin % 1.8 1.5 2.4 2.5 3.1 3.6 5.4 1.0 2.3 1 Americas, UK & Europe includes total assets employed of $103,300 million in respect of the UK, the Companys country of domicile 2010 Asia Pacic Middle Other East & Americas IntraHong Asia Other UK & group 1 Kong Singapore Korea Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe tax assets Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Total assets employed 102,674 82,007 63,936 101,915 39,631 48,028 15,962 117,916 55,509 516,560 Of which: loans to customers 43,632 36,106 40,083 48,225 24,384 23,571 8,138 22,265 246,404 Average interest-earning assets 81,975 55,530 55,505 79,634 28,798 31,318 12,543 76,774 38,718 383,359 Net interest income 1,272 821 1,099 1,885 965 1,172 598 658 8,470 Net interest margin % 1.6 1.5 2.0 2.4 3.4 3.7 4.8 0.9 2.2 1 Americas, UK & Europe includes total assets employed of $75,930 million in respect of the UK, the Companys country of domicile 182 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Interest income 2011 2010 $million $million Balances at central banks 159 17 Treasury bills 790 674 Loans and advances to banks 1,251 764 Loans and advances to customers 12,296 9,964 Listed debt securities 749 882 Unlisted debt securities 1,269 1,137 Accrued on impaired assets discount unwind 70 62 16,584 13,500 Of which from financial instruments held at: Amortised cost 13,419 10,442 Available-for-sale 2,259 1,914 Held at fair value through profit or loss 906 1,144 Financial statements and notes Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 183 4.
Interest expense 2011 2010 $million $million Deposits by banks 429 486 Customer accounts: Interest-bearing current accounts and savings deposits 1,450 1,021 Time deposits 3,130 2,342 Debt securities in issue 948 751 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds: Wholly repayable within five years 13 24 Other 461 406 6,431 5,030 Of which from financial instruments held at: Amortised cost 5,953 4,535 Held at fair value through profit or loss 478 495 5.
Fees and commissions 2011 2010 $million $million Consumer Banking Cards, Personal Loans and Unsecured Lending 391 392 Wealth Management and Deposits 1,107 1,021 Mortgages and Auto Finance 92 86 Others 44 62 1,634 1,561 Wholesale Banking Lending and Portfolio Management 72 89 Transaction Banking 1,409 1,338 Financial Markets 142 392 Corporate Finance 766 852 Others 23 6 2,412 2,677 Net fee and commission income 4,046 4,238 Total fee income arising from financial instruments that are not fair valued through profit or loss of $1,380 million 2010: $1,468 million and arising from trust and other duciary activities of $155 million 2010: $198 million.
Total fee expense arising from financial instruments that are not fair valued through profit or loss of $74 million 2010: $183 million and arising from trust and other duciary activities of $22 million 2010: $16 million.
Net trading income 2011 2010 $million $million Gains less losses on instruments held for trading: 1 Foreign currency 1,789 1,677 Trading securities 23 349 Interest rate derivatives 333 339 Credit and other derivatives 632 38 2,777 2,403 Gains less losses from fair value hedging: Gains less losses from fair value hedged items 808 256 Gains less losses from fair value hedging instruments 795 272 13 16 Gains less losses on instruments designated at fair value: Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 52 201 Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss 438 14 Derivatives managed with financial instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss 267 29 119 158 2,645 2,577 1 Includes foreign currency gains and losses arising on the translation of foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities 184 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 7.
Other operating income 2011 2010 $million $million Other operating income includes: Gains less losses on disposal of financial assets: Available-for-sale 267 284 Loans and receivables 27 16 Dividend income 73 53 Gains arising on assets fair valued at acquisition 12 29 Rental income from operating lease assets 268 213 Gains on disposal of property, plant and equipment 52 65 Gain arising on change of control 4 Gains arising on assets fair valued at acquisition relates to acquisitions completed prior to 1 January 2010, and primarily consists of recoveries of fair value adjustments on loans and advances.
Operating expenses 2011 2010 $million $million Staff costs: Wages and salaries 4,973 4,465 Social security costs 155 124 Other pension costs note 34 282 182 Share based payment costs note 37 392 390 Other staff costs 828 604 6,630 5,765 The following tables summarise the number of employees within the Group: 2011 Consumer Wholesale Support Banking Banking Services Total At 31 December 54,604 19,517 12,744 86,865 Average for the year 53,242 19,236 12,758 85,236 2010 Consumer Wholesale Support Banking Banking Services Total At 31 December 53,382 18,869 12,980 85,231 Average for the year 51,367 18,022 13,270 82,659 The Company employed nil staff at 31 December 2011 2010: nil and it incurred costs of $3 million 2010: $3 million.
Details of directors pay and benets and interests in shares are disclosed in the Directors remuneration report on pages 126 to 151.
Transactions with directors, ofcers and other related parties are disclosed in note 47.
2011 2010 $million $million Premises and equipment expenses: Rental of premises 420 387 Other premises and equipment costs 410 386 Rental of computers and equipment 32 27 862 800 General administrative expenses: UK bank levy 165 Other general administrative expenses 1,639 1,899 1,804 1,899 Financial statements and notes Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 185 8.
Operating expenses continued The UK Finance No.
3 Act 2011 the 2011 Act that was enacted on 19 July 2011 introduced a levy on certain qualifying liabilities of the Group with effect from January 2011, based on the balance sheet at the end of the financial year.
The levy, which is not deductible for corporation tax, but is charged on total liabilities excluding Tier 1 capital, insured or guaranteed retail deposits and repos secured on certain sovereign debt.
There is also a deduction from chargeable liabilities for an amount equal to certain high quality liquid assets and an allowance of GBP 20 billion before the levy is due.
The rate of the levy for 2011 was set at 0.078 per cent of qualifying liabilities, with a lower rate of 0.039 per cent applied to liabilities with a maturity greater than one year and any deposits not otherwise excluded from the scope of levy except for those from financial institutions and financial traders.
The rate for 2012 has been set as 0.088 per cent of qualifying liabilities, with a lower rate of 0.044 per cent applicable as per above.
Auditors remuneration Auditors remuneration in relation to the Group statutory audit amounts to $3.6 million 2010: $3.7 million and is included within other general administration expenses.
The following fees were payable by the Group to their principal auditor, KPMG Audit Plc and its associates together KPMG : 2011 2010 $million $million Audit fees for the Group statutory audit: Fees relating to the current year 3.6 3.7 Fees payable to KPMG for other services provided to the Group: Audit of Standard Chartered PLC subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation Fees relating to the current year 10.5 10.1 Total audit and audit related fees 14.1 13.8 Other services pursuant to legislation 2.5 2.4 Tax services 0.6 1.0 Services relating to corporate finance transactions 0.1 0.1 All other services 1.7 1.9 Total fees payable 19.0 19.2 The following is a description of the type of services included within the categories listed above: t Audit fees are in respect of fees payable to KPMG Audit Plc for the statutory audit of the consolidated financial statements of the Group and the separate financial statements of Standard Chartered PLC.
It excludes amounts payable for the audit of Standard Chartered PLCs subsidiaries and amounts payable to KPMG Audit Plcs associates.
These amounts have been included in Fees payable to KPMG for other services provided to the Group t Other services pursuant to legislation include services for assurance and other services that are in relation to statutory and regulatory lings, including comfort letters and interim reviews t Tax services include tax compliance services and tax advisory services t Services related to corporate finance transactions include fees payable to KPMG for transaction related work irrespective of whether the Group is vendor or purchaser, such as acquisition due diligence and long-form reports t All other services include other assurance and advisory services such as translation services, ad-hoc accounting advice, reporting accountants work on capital raising and review of financial models Expenses incurred during the provision of services and which have been reimbursed by the Group are included within auditors remuneration.
In addition to the above, KPMG estimate they have been paid fees of $0.1 million 2010: $0.3 million by parties other than the Group but where the Group is connected with the contracting party and therefore may be involved in appointing KPMG.
These fees arise from services such as the audit of the Groups pension schemes.
Fees payable to KPMG for non-audit services for Standard Chartered PLC are not separately disclosed because such fees are disclosed on a consolidated basis for the Group.
186 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 9.
Depreciation and amortisation 2011 2010 $million $million Premises 123 118 Equipment: Operating lease assets 100 71 Others 145 140 Intangibles: Software 184 167 Acquired on business combinations 69 63 621 559 10.
Impairment losses on loans and advances and other credit risk provisions The following table reconciles the charge for impairment provisions on loans and advances to the total impairment charge and other credit risk commitments: 2011 2010 $million $million Net charge against profit on loans and advances: Individual impairment charge 867 1,002 Portfolio impairment charge release 14 130 881 872 Provisions related to credit commitments 2 9 Impairment charges relating to debt securities classied as loans and receivables 25 2 Total impairment losses and other credit risk provisions 908 883 An analysis of impairment provisions on loans and advances by geography and business is set out within the Risk review on pages 66 to 71.
Other impairment 2011 2010 $million $million Impairment losses on available-for-sale financial assets: Asset backed securities 7 22 Other debt securities 52 Equity shares 42 10 101 32 Other 40 45 141 77 Recovery of impairment on disposal of equity instruments 30 1 111 76 Recoveries of impairments of $30 million 2010: $1 million are in respect of private and strategic equity investments sold during the period that had impairment provisions raised against them in previous periods.
Financial statements and notes Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 187 12.
Taxation Analysis of taxation charge in the year: 2011 2010 $million $million The charge for taxation based upon the profits for the year comprises: Current tax: United Kingdom corporation tax at 26.5 per cent 2010: 28 per cent : Current tax on income for the year 1,037 865 Adjustments in respect of prior periods including double taxation relief 101 6 Double taxation relief 912 697 Foreign tax: Current tax on income for the year 1,645 1,310 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 8 36 1,677 1,520 Deferred tax: Origination reversal of temporary differences 207 303 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 42 115 165 188 Tax on profits on ordinary activities 1,842 1,708 Effective tax rate 27.2% 27.9% Determining income tax provisions involves judgment on the tax treatment of certain transactions.
The taxation charge for the year is higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the United Kingdom, 26.5 per cent.
The differences are explained below: 2011 2010 $million $million profit on ordinary activities before taxation 6,775 6,122 Tax at 26.5 per cent 2010: 28 per cent 1,795 1,714 Effects of: Tax free income 117 191 Lower tax rates on overseas earnings 200 196 Higher tax rates on overseas earnings 322 321 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of previous periods 135 73 1 Branch profits Exemption 138 Other items 39 133 Tax on profits on ordinary activities 1,842 1,708 1 The Group elected into the Branch profit Exemption Regime, which takes effect for the accounting period commencing from 1 January 2012.
The current period impact is to reduce the UK deferred tax asset by $138 million The UK corporation tax rate has been changed from 28 per cent to 26 per cent with an effective date of 1 April 2011, giving a blended rate of 26.5 per cent for the year.
A further reduction in the UK corporation tax rate to 25 per cent with an effective date of 1 April 2012 has been enacted at the balance sheet date.
The rate reduction to 25 per cent has reduced the UK deferred tax asset by $28 million.
Foreign taxation includes taxation on Hong Kong profits of $170 million 2010: $109 million provided at a rate of 16.5 per cent 2010: 16.5 per cent on the profits assessable in Hong Kong.
Deferred taxation includes origination reversal of temporary differences in Hong Kong profits of $28 million 2010: $25 million provided at a rate of 16.5 per cent 2010: 16.5 per cent on the profits assessable in Hong Kong.
2011 2010 Current tax Deferred tax Total Current tax Deferred tax Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Tax recognised in other comprehensive income Available-for-sale assets 33 74 41 76 9 67 Cash ow hedges 20 20 17 17 Retirement benefit obligations 37 37 17 17 33 131 98 76 25 101 Other tax recognised in equity Share based payments 80 21 59 15 33 18 80 21 59 15 33 18 Total tax charge credit recognised in equity 47 110 157 61 58 119 188 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 13.
Dividends 2011 2010 Pre-rights Ordinary equity shares Cents per share $million cents per share $million 2010 2009 final dividend declared and paid during the year 46.65 1,089 44.80 904 2011 2010 interim dividend declared and paid during the year 24.75 586 23.35 481 1,675 1,385 The amounts in the table above reect the actual dividend per share declared and paid to shareholders in 2011 and 2010.
Dividends on ordinary equity shares are recorded in the period in which they are declared and, in respect of the final dividend, have been approved by the shareholders.
Accordingly, the final ordinary equity share dividends set out above relate to the respective prior years.
The 2010 final dividend of 46.65 cents per ordinary share $1,089 million was paid to eligible shareholders on 11 May 2011 and the 2011 interim dividend of 24.75 cents per ordinary share $586 million was paid to eligible shareholders on 7 October 2011.
2011 recommended final ordinary equity share dividend The 2011 final ordinary equity share dividend recommended by the Board is 51.25 cents per share $1,216 million, which makes the total dividend for 2011 76.00 cents per share 2010: 70.00 cents per share, 2009: 66.03 cents per share: both on a pre-rights basis.
The final dividend will be paid in either pounds sterling, Hong Kong dollars or US dollars on 15 May 2012 to shareholders on the UK register of members at the close of business in the UK 10:00 pm London time on 9 March 2012, and to shareholders on the Hong Kong branch register of members at the opening of business in Hong Kong 9:00 am Hong Kong time on 9 March 2012.
The 2011 final ordinary equity share dividend will be paid in Indian rupees on 15 May 2012 to Indian Depository Receipt holders on the Indian register at the close of business in India on 9 March 2012.
It is intended that shareholders on the UK register and Hong Kong branch register will be able to elect to receive shares credited as fully paid instead of all or part of the final cash dividend.
Details of the dividend arrangements will be sent to shareholders on or around 23March 2012.
Indian Depository Receipt holders will receive their dividend in Indian rupees only.
Impact of the 2010 rights issue On 13 October 2010, the Company announced the issue of 260,525,763 new ordinary shares by way of rights to qualifying shareholders at 1280 pence per new ordinary share.
The issue was on the basis of 1 ordinary share for every 8 ordinary shares held on 21 October 2010.
In the absence of specic guidance in IFRS, the dividend per share amounts in the table below have been adjusted for the bonus element included within the 2010 rights issue in line with the restatement of prior period earnings per share amounts required by IAS 33 Earnings per share see note 14.
P ost-rights cents per share 2009 final dividend declared and paid during 2010 43.16 2010 interim dividend declared and paid during 2010 22.50 Total dividend recommended and declared relating to 2010 on a post-rights basis is 69.15 cents per share 2009: 63.61 cents per share, comprising interim dividend per share of 22.50 cents 2009: 20.45 cents and final dividend per share of 46.65 cents 2009: 43.16 cents.
For the 98.5 per cent of shareholders who exercised their rights, a comparison of the actual cash payments received by the shareholders is better reected by adjusting the dividend per share amounts by the ratio of shares outstanding immediately before the rights issue to the number of shares outstanding immediately following the rights issue as set out in the table below.
This approach is consistent with the adjustments to the dividend per share amounts following the rights issue in 2008.
Adjusted cents per share 2009 final dividend declared and paid during 2010 39.82 2010 interim dividend declared and paid during 2010 20.76 Total dividend recommended and declared relating to 2010 adjusted using the ratio above is 67.41 cents per share 2009: 58.69 cents pershare, comprising interim dividend per share of 20.76 cents 2009: 18.87 cents and final dividend per share of 46.65 cents 2009: 39.82 cents.
2011 2010 Preference shares $million $million 3 1 Non-cumulative irredeemable preference shares: 7 8 per cent preference shares of 1 each 11 11 1 1 8 4 per cent preference shares of 1 each 13 13 1 Non-cumulative redeemable preference shares: 8.125 per cent preference shares of $5 each 75 75 2 7.014 per cent preference shares of $5 each 53 53 2 6.409 per cent preference shares of $5 each 48 48 1 Dividends on these preference shares are treated as interest expense and accrued accordingly 2 Dividends on these preference shares classied as equity are recorded in the period in which they are declared Financial statements and notes Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 189 14.
Earnings per ordinary share 2011 2010 Weighted Weighted average average number of Per share number of Per share 1 1 profit shares amount profit shares amount $million 000 cents $million 000 cents Basic earnings per ordinaryshare Pre-rights issue bonus earnings per ordinary share 4,748 2,364,445 200.8 4,231 2,048,759 206.5 2 Impact of rights issue 106,559 Post-rights issue bonus basic earnings per ordinary share 4,748 2,364,445 200.8 4,231 2,155,318 196.3 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares: 3 Options 31,408 37,322 Diluted earnings per ordinary share 4,748 2,395,853 198.2 4,231 2,192,640 193.0 There were no ordinary shares issued after the balance sheet date that would have signicantly affected the number of ordinary shares used in the above calculation had they been issued prior to the end of the balance sheet date.
Normalised earnings per ordinary share The Group measures earnings per share on a normalised basis.
This differs from earnings dened in IAS 33 Earnings per share IAS 33.
The table below provides a reconciliation.
2011 2010 $million $million profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 4,748 4,231 Amortisation of intangible assets arising on business combinations 69 62 Gain on disposal of property 49 45 profit arising on change of control 4 Recovery on structured notes 96 UK bank payroll tax 7 Tax on normalised items 10 6 Normalised earnings 4,682 4,245 2 Normalised basic earnings per ordinary share cents 198.0 197.0 2 Normalised diluted earnings per ordinary share cents 195.4 193.6 1 The profit amounts represent the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders, which is profit for the year after non-controlling interest and the declaration of dividends payable to the holders of the non-cumulative redeemable preference shares classied as equity see note 13 2 On 13 October 2010 the Company announced the issue of 260,525,763 new ordinary shares by way of rights to qualifying shareholders at 1280 pence per share.
The issue was made as 1 share for every 8 shares held on 21 October 2010.
As required by IAS 33 the impact of the bonus element included within the rights issue has been included in the calculations of the basic and diluted earnings per share for 2010 3 The impact of anti-dilutive options has been excluded from this amount as required by IAS 33 190 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 15.
Financial instruments Classication Financial assets are classied between four measurement categories: held at fair value through profit or loss comprising trading and designated, available-for-sale, loans and receivables and held-to-maturity: and two measurement categories for financial liabilities: held at fair value through profit or loss comprising trading and designated and amortised cost.
Instruments are classied in the balance sheet in accordance with their legal form, except for instruments that are held for trading purposes and those that the Group has designated to hold at fair value through the profit and loss account.
The latter are combined on the face of the balance sheet and disclosed as financial assets or liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss.
The Groups classication of its principal financial assets and liabilities is summarised in the table below.
Assets at fair value Assets at amortised cost Designated at fair value Derivatives through Nonheld for profit AvailableLoans and Held-tofinancial Trading hedging or loss for-sale receivables maturity assets Total Assets Notes $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Cash and balances at central banks 47,364 47,364 Financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss 1 Loans and advances to banks 463 105 568 Loans and advances to 1 customers 4,676 312 4,988 Treasury bills and other eligiblebills 16 4,609 4,609 Debt securities 1613,025 45 13,070 Equity shares 16 1,028 565 1,593 23,801 1,027 24,828 Derivative financial instruments 1765,894 2,039 67,933 1 Loans and advances to banks 18 65,981 65,981 1 Loans and advances to customers 19 263,765 263,765 Investment securities Treasury bills and other eligiblebills 21 21,680 21,680 Debt securities 21 55,567 5,475 18 61,060 Equity shares 21 2,543 2,543 79,790 5,475 18 85,283 Other assets 22 20,554 6,732 27,286 Total at 31 December 2011 89,695 2,039 1,027 79,790 403,139 18 6,732 582,440 Cash and balances at central banks 32,724 32,724 Financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss 1 Loans and advances to banks 1,206 1,206 Loans and advances to 1 customers 5,651 395 6,046 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 16 5,933 265 6,198 Debt securities 1611,781 36 11,817 Equity shares 16 1,329 425 1,754 25,900 1,121 27,021 Derivative financial instruments 1746,256 1,603 47,859 1 Loans and advances to banks 18 52,058 52,058 1 Loans and advances to customers 19 240,358 240,358 Investment securities Treasury bills and other eligible bills 21 17,895 17,895 Debt securities 21 50,555 4,804 25 55,384 Equity shares 21 2,517 2,517 70,967 4,804 25 75,796 Other assets 22 19,628 5,728 25,356 Total at 31 December 2010 72,156 1,603 1,121 70,967 349,572 25 5,728 501,172 1 Further analysed in Risk review on pages 61 to 64 Financial statements and notes Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 191 15.
Financial instruments continued Liabilities at fair value Designated Derivatives at fair value held for through Amortised Non-financial Trading hedging profit or loss cost liabilities Total Liabilities Notes $million $million $million $million $million $million Financial liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss Deposits by banks 973 119 1,092 Customer accounts 1,518 7,600 9,118 Debt securities in issue 2,441 1,992 4,433 Short positions 4,956 4,956 9,888 9,711 19,599 Derivative financial instruments 17 64,850 1,076 65,926 Deposits by banks 28 35,296 35,296 Customer accounts 29 342,701 342,701 Debt securities in issue 30 47,140 47,140 Other liabilities 31 19,169 4,665 23,834 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 32 16,717 16,717 Total at 31 December 2011 74,738 1,076 9,711 461,023 4,665 551,213 Financial liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss Deposits by banks 885 38 923 Customer accounts 2,307 7,203 9,510 Debt securities in issue 2,256 1,054 3,310 Short positions 6,545 6,545 11,993 8,295 20,288 Derivative financial instruments17 46,192 941 47,133 Deposits by banks 28 28,551 28,551 Customer accounts 29 306,992 306,992 Debt securities in issue 30 31,381 31,381 Other liabilities 31 15,890 5,204 21,094 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 32 15,939 15,939 Total at 31 December 2010 58,185 941 8,295 398,753 5,204 471,378 Valuation of financial instruments Valuation of financial assets and liabilities held at fair value are subject to a review independent of the business by Valuation Control.
For those financial assets and liabilities whose fair value is determined by reference to externally quoted prices or market observable pricing inputs to valuation model, price testing is performed monthly against external market data.
Financial instruments held at fair value in the balance sheet have been classied into a three level valuation hierarchy see below for how each level is dened and the types of instruments included within them that reects the signicance of the observability of the inputs used in the fair value measurement.
The market data used for price testing may include those sourced from recent trade data involving external counterparties or third parties such as Bloomberg, Reuters, brokers and consensus pricing providers.
The market data used should be most representative of the market as much as possible, which can evolve over time as markets and financial instruments develop.
To determine the extent of how representative the market data is, factors such as independence, relevance, reliability, availability of multiple data sources and methodology employed by the pricing provider, are considered.
For instruments classied as level 2 or level 3 fair value adjustments are also made to system valuations to arrive at fair value in accordance with accounting requirements.
The main adjustments are described below: Bid Offer Valuation Adjustments Where market parameters are marked on a mid market basis in the revaluation systems, a bid offer valuation adjustment is required to quantify the expected cost of neutralising the business positions through dealing away in the market, thereby bringing long positions to bid and short positions to offer.
Where long positions are marked to bid and short positions marked to offer in the systems, e. g. for cash securities, no bid offer valuation adjustments are required.
Credit Adjustments The Group makes a credit adjustment CA against derivative products, which represents an estimate of the adjustment to fair value that reects the possibility that the counterparty may default such that the Group would not receive the full market value of the transactions.
For CA, AIRB models are used to calculate the PD and LGD which, together with the results of the exposure simulation engine, generates a view of expected losses.
The Group assesses actual losses and provisions incurred against expected losses on a portfolio basis, taking into account the fact that it takes a number of years for the workout recovery process to complete upon a default.
192 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 15.
Financial instruments continued In addition to periodic reassessment of the counterparties, credit exposures and external trends that may impact risk management outcomes are closely monitored.
Accounts or portfolios are placed on Early Alert when they display signs of weakness or financial deterioration, for example where there is a decline in the customers position within the industry, a breach of covenants, non-performance of an obligation, or there are issues relating to ownership or management.
As a result, the reserve represents a dynamic calculation based on the credit quality of the counterparties, collateral positions and exposure proles.
The CA is not significant in the context of the overall fair value of these financial instruments.
Model Valuation Adjustments Certain models may have pricing deficiencies or limitations that justify a valuation adjustment.
These pricing deficiencies or limitations could be due to the choice, implementation and calibration of the pricing model, amongst other reasons.
Day One profit and Loss A financial instrument is initially recognised at fair value, which is generally its transaction price.
In those cases where the value obtained from the relevant valuation model differs, we record the asset or liability based on our valuation model, but do not recognise that initial difference in profit and loss.
This is unless the valuation model used is widely accepted and all inputs to the model are observable.
Funding Adjustments The funding adjustment attributes underlying funding costs for derivative transactions or series of transactions where these involve a funding component a pre-paid swap, for example, or a funded loan in the form of a derivative.
The Group incurs funding costs where it matches the liquidity prole on these transactions and the overall funding for the Group.
In total, the Group has made $334 million 2010: $294 million of valuation adjustments in determining fair value for financial assets and nancialliabilities.
Control framework A Product Valuation Control Committee exists for each business where there is a material valuation risk.
The Committees meet monthly and comprise representatives from Front Ofce, Group market risk, Product control and Valuation control.
The Committees are responsible for reviewing the results of the valuation control process.
Valuation hierarchy The valuation hierarchy, and the types of instruments classied into each level within that hierarchy, is set out below: Level 1Level 2Level 3 Fair value determined using: Unadjusted quoted prices in Valuation models with directly Valuation models using anactive market for identical orindirectly market observable significant non-market assets and liabilities inputs observable inputs Types of financial assets: Actively traded government Corporate and other government Asset backed securities andagency securities bonds and loans Private equity investments Listed equities Over-the-counter OTC Highly structured OTC Listed derivative instruments derivatives derivatives with Investments in publicly traded Asset backed securities  mutual funds with listed Corporate bonds in marketprices illiquidmarkets Types of financial liabilities: Listed derivative instruments OTC derivatives Highly structured OTC Structured deposits derivatives with Credit structured debt securities unobservable parameters.
in issue Illiquid or highly structured debtsecurities in issue Level 1 portfolio Level 1 assets and liabilities are typically exchange traded positions and some government bonds traded in active markets.
These positions are valued using quoted prices in active markets.
Level 2 portfolio Where instruments are not quoted in an active market the Group utilises a number of valuation techniques to determine fair value.
These valuation techniques include discounted cash ow analysis models, option pricing models, simulation models and other standard models commonly used by market participants.
Valuation techniques incorporate assumptions that other market participants would use in their valuations, such as discount rates, default rates, credit spreads and option volatilities.
These inputs need to be directly or indirectly observable in order to be classied as Level 2.
In line with changes in market practice, certain interest rate swaps have been subject to overnight index swap OIS rate discounting in 2011.
The factors to be considered for the selection of such interest rate swaps include the currency in which the swaps are traded, counterparties with credit support annex agreement and the form of the collateral posted by the counterparties.
Level 3 portfolio Level 3 assets are valued using techniques similar to those outlined for Level 2, except that if the instrument has one or more inputs that are unobservable and significant to the fair value measurement of the instrument in its entirety, it will be classied as Level 3.
Financial statements and notes Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 193 15.
Financial instruments continued At 31 December 2011, Level 3 assets with a fair value of $3,347 million 2010: $2,348 million and Level 3 liabilities with a fair value of $356 million 2010: $593 million were held in respect of which there were no observable market data.
For these instruments, a sensitivity analysis is presented on page 196 in respect of reasonably possible changes to the valuation assumptions.
The primary products classied as Level 3 are as follows: Debt Securities Asset-backed securities Due to the severe lack of liquidity in the market and the prolonged period of time under which many securities have not traded, obtaining external prices is not a strong enough measure to determine whether an asset has an observable price or not.
Therefore, once external pricing has been veried, an assessment is made whether each security is traded in a liquid manner based on its credit rating and sector.
If a security is of low credit rating and or is traded in a less liquid sector, it will be classied as Level 3.
Where third party pricing is not available, the valuation of the security will be estimated from market standard cash ow models with input parameter assumptions which include prepayment speeds and default rates.
These input parameter assumptions are estimated with reference to factors such as underlying collateral performance, prices of comparable securities and sector spreads.
These securities are also classied as Level 3.
Debt Securities Non Asset backed securities These debt securities include certain convertible bonds, corporate bonds, credit and equity structured notes where there are significant valuation inputs that are unobservable in the market, due to illiquid trading or the complexity of the product.
Debt securities are valued using available prices provided through pricing vendors, brokers or trading activities.
Where such liquid external prices are not available, valuation of these cash securities are implied using input parameters such as bond spreads and credit spreads.
These input parameters are determined with reference to the same issuer if available or proxied from comparable issuers or assets.
Equity shares Private equity Private equity investments are generally valued based on earning multiples Price-to-Earnings P E or Enterprise Value to Earning Before Income Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation EV EBITDA ratios of comparable listed companies.
The two primary inputs for the valuation of these investments are the actual or forecast earnings of the investee companies and earning multiples for the comparable listed companies.
In circumstances where an investment does not have direct comparables or where the multiples for the comparable companies cannot be sourced from reliable external sources, alternate valuation techniques for example, discounted cash ow models, which use predominantly unobservable inputs or Level 3 inputs, may be applied.
Even though earning multiples for the comparable listed companies can be sourced from third party sources for example, Bloomberg, and those inputs can be deemed Level 2 inputs, all unlisted investments excluding those where observable inputs are available, for example, OTC prices are classied as Level 3 on the grounds that the valuation methods involve judgments ranging from determining comparable companies to discount rates where the discounted cash ow method is applied.
Derivatives These trading derivatives are classied as Level 3 if there are parameters that are unobservable in the market, such as products where the performance is linked to more than one underlying.
Examples are foreign exchange basket options, equity options based on the performance of two or more underlying indices and interest rate products with quanto payouts.
These unobservable correlation parameters could only be implied from the market, through methods such as historical analysis and comparison to historical levels or benchmark data.
Debt securities in issue These debt securities relate to credit structured notes issued by the Group where there are significant valuation inputs that are unobservable in the market, due to illiquid trading or the complexity of the product.
Where such liquid external prices are not available, valuation of these debt securities are implied using input parameters such as bond spreads and credit spreads.
The table below shows the classication of financial instruments held at fair value into the valuation hierarchy set out above as at 31December 2011.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets $million $million $million $million Financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss Loans and advances to banks 110 458 568 Loans and advances to customers 5 4,983 4,988 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 4,502 107 4,609 Debt securities 7,516 5,261 293 13,070 Equity shares 1,027 566 1,593 13,160 10,809 859 24,828 Derivative financial instruments 396 67,261 276 67,933 Investment securities Treasury bills and other eligible bills 18,831 2,800 49 21,680 Debt securities 17,938 36,884 745 55,567 Equity shares 1,116 9 1,418 2,543 37,885 39,693 2,212 79,790 At 31 December 2011 51,441 117,763 3,347 172,551 194 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 15.
Financial instruments continued Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Liabilities $million $million $million $million Financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss Deposit by banks 104 988 1,092 Customer accounts 9,118 9,118 Debt securities in issue 4,261 172 4,433 Short positions 4,483 473 4,956 4,587 14,840 172 19,599 Derivative financial instruments 549 65,193 184 65,926 At 31 December 2011 5,136 80,033 356 85,525 There were no significant transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 in 2011.
The table below shows the classication of financial instruments held at fair value into the valuation hierarchy set out above as at 31December 2010.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets $million $million $million $million Financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss Loans and advances to banks 406 800 1,206 Loans and advances to customers 19 6,027 6,046 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 6,055 143 6,198 Debt securities 7,257 4,333 227 11,817 Equity shares 1,434 19 301 1,754 15,171 11,322 528 27,021 Derivative financial instruments 135 47,537 187 47,859 Investment securities Treasury bills and other eligible bills 15,335 2,560 17,895 Debt securities 20,631 29,342 582 50,555 Equity shares 1,020 446 1,051 2,517 36,986 32,348 1,633 70,967 At 31 December 2010 52,292 91,207 2,348 145,847 Liabilities Financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss Deposit by banks 320 603 923 Customer accounts 9,510 9,510 Debt securities in issue 2,999 311 3,310 Short positions 6,072 473 6,545 6,392 13,585 311 20,288 Derivative financial instruments 105 46,746 282 47,133 At 31 December 2010 6,497 60,331 593 67,421 There were no significant transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 in 2010.
Financial statements and notes Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 195 15.
Financial instruments continued Level 3 movement tables Financial assets Held at fair value through profit or loss Investment securities Derivative Debt Equity financial Treasury Debt Equity securities shares instruments bills securities shares Total Assets $million $million $million $million $million $million $million At 1 January 2011 227 301 187 582 1,051 2,348 Total losses gains recognised in income statement 30 73 136 52 69 196 Total losses recognised in other comprehensive income 4 52 199 255 Purchases 223 210 68 226 416 1,143 Sales 73 18 7 189 142 429 Settlements 89 88 33 41 251 Transfers out 94 33 246 71 444 Transfers in 129 13 53 509 335 1,039 At 31 December 2011 293 566 276 49 745 1,418 3,347 Total gains recognised in the income statement relating to assets held at 31 December 2011 13 62 187 262 Transfers in during the year primarily relate to markets for certain financial instruments becoming illiquid or where the valuation parameters became unobservable during the year.
Transfers out during the year primarily relate to certain financial instruments where the valuation parameters became observable during the year.
Held at fair value through profit or loss Investment securities Derivative Debt Equity financial Debt Equity securities shares instruments securities shares Total Assets $million $million $million $million $million $million At 1 January 2010 129 576 138 437 756 2,036 Total losses gains recognised inincomestatement 3 170 39 15 191 Total gains recognised in other comprehensiveincome 103 146 249 Purchases 107 135 156 225 623 Sales 80 574 147 1 802 Settlements 63 6 50 119 Transfers out 23 24 12 59 Transfers in 160 34 33 2 229 At 31 December 2010 227 301 187 582 1,051 2,348 Total losses gains recognised in the income statement relating to assets held at 31 December 2010 6 50 130 1 173 Transfers in during the year primarily relate to markets for certain debt securities becoming illiquid or where the valuation parameters became unobservable during the year.
196 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 15.
Financial instruments continued Financial liabilities 2011 2010 Derivative Derivative Debt securities financial Debt securities financial in issue instruments Total in issue instruments Total Liabilities $million $million $million $million $million $million At 1 January 311 282 593 150 150 Total gains losses recognised in income statement 8 38 30 32 93 125 Issues 65 51 116 69 33 102 Settlements 242 128 370 2 2 Transfers out 34 59 93 23 23 Transfers in 80 80 212 29 241 At 31 December 172 184 356 311 282 593 Total gains losses recognised in the income statement relating to liabilities held at 31 December 38 37 1 32 163 195 Transfers in during the periods primarily relate to certain financial instruments for which parameters became unobservable during the year.
Sensitivities in respect of the fair values of Level 3 assets and liabilities Held at fair value through profit or loss Available-for-sale Net Favourable Unfavourable Net Favourable Unfavourable exposure changes changes exposure changes changes $million $million $million $million $million $million Financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss Debt securities 293 298 288 Equity shares 566 623 509 Derivative financial instruments 92 115 69 Debt securities in issue 172 172 172 Investment securities Treasury bills 49 49 48 Debt securities 745 774 716 Equity shares 1,418 1,557 1,279 At 31 December 2011 779 864 694 2,212 2,380 2,043 Financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss Debt securities 227 234 220 Equity shares 301 331 270 Derivative financial instruments 95 80 109 Debt securities in issue 311 310 312 Investment securities Debt securities 582 590 576 Equity shares 1,051 1,167 935 At 31 December 2010 122 175 69 1,633 1,757 1,511 Where the fair value of financial instruments is measured using valuation techniques that incorporate one or more significant inputs that are based on unobservable market data, we apply a 10 per cent increase or decrease on the values of these unobservable parameter inputs, to generate a range of reasonably possible alternative valuations in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 7.
The percentage shift is determined by statistical analyses performed on a set of reference prices, which included certain equity indices, credit indices and volatility indices, based on the composition of our Level 3 assets.
Favourable and unfavourable changes are determined on the basis of changes in the value of the instrument as a result of varying the levels of the unobservable parameters.
This Level 3 sensitivity analysis assumes a one way market move and does not consider offsets for hedges.
As of 31 December 2011, these reasonably possible alternatives could have increased fair values of financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss by $85 million 2010: $53 million and available-for-sale by $168 million 2010: $124 million or decreased fair values of financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss by $85 million 2010: $53 million and available-for-sale by $169 million 2010: $122 million.
Financial statements and notes Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 197 15.
Financial instruments continued Instruments carried at amortised cost The following table summarises the carrying amounts and fair values of those financial assets and liabilities not presented on the Groups balance sheet at fair value.
The fair values in the table below are stated as at 31 December and may be different from the actual amount that will be received paid on the settlement or maturity of the financial instrument.
2011 2010 Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value $million $million $million $million Assets Cash and balances at central banks 47,364 47,364 32,724 32,724 Loans and advances to banks 65,981 65,964 52,058 51,942 Loans and advances to customers 263,765 264,529 240,358 239,446 Investment securities 5,493 5,241 4,829 4,765 Other assets 20,554 20,554 19,628 19,628 Liabilities Deposits by banks 35,296 35,259 28,551 28,501 Customer accounts 342,701 342,544 306,992 305,560 Debt securities in issue 47,140 46,836 31,381 30,710 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 16,717 16,599 15,939 16,298 Other liabilities 19,169 19,169 15,890 15,890 The following sets out the Groups basis of establishing fair values of the financial instruments shown above.
Cash and balances at central banks The fair value of cash and balances at central banks is their carrying amounts.
Loans and advances to banks and customers For loans and advances to banks, the fair value of oating rate placements and overnight deposits is their carrying amounts.
The estimated fair value of xed interest bearing deposits is based on discounted cash ows using the prevailing money market rates for debts with a similar credit risk and remaining maturity.
The Groups loans and advances to customers portfolio is well diversied by geography and industry.
Approximately one-third of the portfolio reprices within one month, and approximately half reprices within 12 months.
The fair value of loans and advances to customers with a residual maturity of less than one year is their carrying value.
Loans and advances are presented net of provisions for impairment.
The estimated fair value of loans and advances with a residual maturity of more than one year represents the discounted amount of future cash ows expected to be received, including assumptions relating to prepayment rates and, where appropriate, credit spreads.
Expected cash ows are discounted at current market rates to determine fair value.
The Group has a wide range of individual instruments within its loans and advances portfolio and as a result providing quantication of the key assumptions used to value such instruments is impractical, with no one assumption being material.
Investment securities For investment securities that do not have directly observable market values, the Group utilises a number of valuation techniques to determine fair value.
Where available, securities are valued using inputs proxied from the same or closely related underlying for example, bond spreads from the same or closely related issuer or inputs proxied from a different underlying for example, a similar bond but using spreads for a particular sector and rating.
Certain instruments cannot be proxied as set out above, and in such cases the positions are valued using non-market observable inputs.
This includes those instruments held at amortised cost and predominantly relate to asset backed securities.
The fair value for such instruments is usually proxied from internal assessments of the underlying cash ows.
The Group has a wide range of individual investments within the unlisted debt securities portfolio.
Given the number of instruments involved, providing quantication of the key assumptions used to value such instruments is impractical, with no one assumption being material.
Deposits and borrowings The estimated fair value of deposits with no stated maturity is the amount repayable on demand.
The estimated fair value of xed interest bearing deposits and other borrowings without quoted market prices is based on discounting cash ows using the prevailing market rates for debts with a similar credit risk and remaining maturity.
Debt securities in issue, subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds The aggregate fair values are calculated based on quoted market prices.
For those notes where quoted market prices are not available, a discounted cash ow model is used based on a current market related yield curve appropriate for the remaining term to maturity.
198 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 15.
Financial instruments continued Reclassication of financial assets In 2008 the Group reclassied certain non-derivative financial assets classied as held for trading into the available-for-sale AFS category as these were no longer considered to be held for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term.
At the time of transfer, the Group identied the rare circumstances permitting such a transfer as the impact of the credit crisis in financial markets, particularly from the beginning of 2008, which signicantly impacted the liquidity in certain markets.
The Group also reclassied certain eligible financial assets from trading and available-for-sale categories to loans and receivables where the Group had the intent and ability to hold the reclassied assets for the foreseeable future or until maturity.
There have been no reclassications since 2008.
The following tables provide details of the remaining balances of assets reclassied during 2008: If assets had not been reclassied, fair value gains losses from 1 January 2011 to31 December 2011 Effective which would have Carrying Income interest been recognised amount Fair value recognised rate at Estimated within at 31 at 31 in income date of amounts of December December AFS statement reclassiexpected 2011 2011 Income reserve in 2011 cation cash ows For assets reclassied: $million $million $million $million $million % $million 1 From trading to AFS 176 176 1 9 5.8 316 From trading to loans and receivables 816 711 44 27 5.6 961 From AFS to loans and receivables 856 796 1 27 5.5 1,118 1,848 1,683 43 1 63 Of which asset backed securities: 1 Reclassied to AFS 114 114 1 5 Reclassied to loans and receivables 1,304 1,195 11 1 43 1 Post-reclassication, this is recognised within the available-for-sale reserve If assets had not been reclassied, fair value gains from 1 January 2010 Effective to 31 December 2010 Carrying Income interest which would have amount Fair value recognised rate at Estimated been recognised within at 31 at 31 in income date of amounts of December December AFS statement reclassiexpected 2010 2010 Income reserve in 2010 cation cash ows For assets reclassied: $million $million $million $million $million % $million 1 From trading to AFS 339 339 40 23 5.2 416 From trading to loans and receivables 1,562 1,490 80 73 5.6 1,686 From AFS to loans and receivables 1,090 1,052 75 35 5.4 1,132 2,991 2,881 120 75 131 Of which asset-backed securities: 1 Reclassied to AFS 122 122 35 8 Reclassied to loans and receivables 1,725 1,648 42 75 53 1 Post-reclassication, this is recognised within the available-for-sale reserve 16.
Financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss Loans and advances held at fair value through profit and loss The maximum exposure to credit risk for loans designated at fair value through profit or loss was $417 million 2010: $395 million.
The net fair value gain on loans and advances to customers designated at fair value through profit or loss was $2.3 million 2010: gain of $6.6 million.
Of this, $nil million 2010: $nil million relates to changes in credit risk.
The cumulative fair value movement relating to changes in credit risk was $3.4 million 2010: $3.4 million.
The changes in fair value attributable to credit risk has been determined by comparing fair value movements in risk-free bonds with similar maturities to the changes in fair value of loans designated at fair value through profit or loss.
For certain loans and advances designated at fair value through profit or loss, the difference arising between the fair value at initial recognition and the amount that would have arisen had the valuation techniques used for subsequent measurement been used at initial recognition, is amortised to the income statement until the inputs become observable or the transaction matures or is terminated.
This amount is not material for the Groups financial statements.
Financial statements and notes Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 199 16.
Financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss continued Debt securities, equity shares and treasury bills held at fair value through profit or loss 2011 Debt securities Equity shares Treasury bills Total $million $million $million $million Issued by public bodies: Government securities 7,766 Other public sector securities 65 7,831 Issued by banks: Certicates of deposit 488 Other debt securities 1,564 2,052 Issued by corporate entities and other issuers: Other debt securities 3,187 Total debt securities 13,070 Of which: Listed on a recognised UK exchange 517 26 543 Listed elsewhere 7,269 1,002 799 9,070 Unlisted 5,284 565 3,810 9,659 13,070 1,593 4,609 19,272 Market value of listed securities 7,786 1,028 799 9,613 2010 Debt securities Equity shares Treasury bills Total $million $million $million $million Issued by public bodies: Government securities 7,156 Other public sector securities 120 7,276 Issued by banks: Certicates of deposit 151 Other debt securities 1,302 1,453 Issued by corporate entities and other issuers: Other debt securities 3,088 Total debt securities 11,817 Of which: Listed on a recognised UK exchange 180 180 Listed elsewhere 5,865 1,453 769 8,087 Unlisted 5,772 301 5,429 11,502 11,817 1,754 6,198 19,769 Market value of listed securities 6,045 1,453 769 8,267 Financial liabilities held at fair value through profit and loss The net fair value loss on liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss was $438 million for the year 2010: net loss of $14 million.
The cumulative fair value movement relating to changes in credit risk was a loss of $10.4 million 2010: $10.4 million.
The change in fair value attributable to credit risk was determined by comparing fair value movements in risk-free debt instruments with similar maturities, to the changes in fair value of liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss.
As at 31 December 2011, the amount the Group is contractually obliged to pay at maturity to the holders of these obligations was $60million lower 2010: $446 million higher than the carrying amount at fair value.
200 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 17.
Derivative financial instruments The tables below analyse the notional principal amounts and the positive and negative fair values of the Groups derivative financial instruments.
Notional principal amounts are the amount of principal underlying the contract at the reporting date.
2011 2010 Notional Notional principal principal amounts Assets Liabilities amounts Assets Liabilities Total derivatives $million $million $million $million $million $million Foreign exchange derivative contracts: Forward foreign exchange contracts 1,130,075 17,412 16,521 986,615 12,503 12,236 Currency swaps and options 1,098,433 18,003 18,774 566,291 11,343 11,712 Exchange traded futures and options 363 855 2,228,871 35,415 35,295 1,553,761 23,846 23,948 Interest rate derivative contracts: Swaps 2,009,872 23,994 22,220 1,745,286 17,487 17,001 Forward rate agreements and options 242,843 1,086 1,093 234,926 1,010 1,029 Exchange traded futures and options 273,089 343 347 619,859 350 346 2,525,804 25,423 23,660 2,600,071 18,847 18,376 Credit derivative contracts 77,776 1,783 1,807 65,986 1,602 1,679 Equity and stock index options 12,057 678 845 8,842 479 757 Commodity derivative contracts 62,426 4,634 4,319 36,524 3,085 2,373 Total derivatives 4,906,934 67,933 65,926 4,265,184 47,859 47,133 The Group limits exposure to credit losses in the event of default by entering into master netting agreements with certain market counterparties.
As required by IAS 32, exposures are not presented net in these accounts as in the ordinary course of business they are not intended to be settled net.
Details of the amounts available for offset can be found in the Risk review on page 59.
The Derivatives and Hedging sections of the Risk review on page 81 explain the Groups risk management of derivative contracts and application of hedging.
Derivatives held for hedging Hedge accounting is applied to derivatives and hedged items when the criteria under IAS 39 have been met.
The tables below list the types of derivatives that the Group holds for hedge accounting.
Group 2011 2010 Notional Notional principal principal amounts Assets Liabilities amounts Assets Liabilities $million $million $million $million $million $million Derivatives designated as fair value hedges: Interest rate swaps 45,249 1,806 760 33,280 1,424 652 Currency swaps 3,768 60 221 3,178 46 172 Forward foreign exchange contracts 843 67 1,650 28 11 49,860 1,933 981 38,108 1,498 835 Derivatives designated as cash ow hedges: Interest rate swaps 23,536 40 21 18,591 20 23 Options 950 54 Forward foreign exchange contracts 2,999 2 72 148 22 6 Currency swaps 3,609 30 2 1,751 9 1 30,144 72 95 21,440 105 30 Derivatives designated as net investment hedges: Forward foreign exchange contracts 707 34 803 76 Total derivatives held for hedging 80,711 2,039 1,076 60,351 1,603 941 Financial statements and notes Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 201 17.
Derivative financial instruments continued Fair value hedges The swaps exchange xed rates for oating rates on funding to match oating rates received on assets, or exchange xed rates on assets to match the oating rates paid on funding.
For qualifying hedges, the fair value changes of the derivative are substantially matched by corresponding fair value changes of the hedged item, both of which are recognised in profit and loss.
In respect of fair value hedges, gains arising on the hedging instruments during the year were $795 million 2010: gains of $272 million compared to losses arising on the hedged items of $808 million 2010:losses of $256 million.
Cash ow hedges The Group uses interest rate swaps to manage the variability in future cash ows on assets and liabilities that have oating rates of interest by exchanging the oating rates for xed rates.
It also uses foreign exchange contracts, currency swaps and options to manage the variability in future exchange rates on its assets and liabilities and costs in foreign currencies.
Gains and losses arising on the effective portion of the hedges are deferred in equity until the variability on the cash ow affects profit and loss, at which time the gains or losses are transferred to profit and loss.
During the year, $nil million 2010: $2 million was recognised in the income statement in respect of ineffectiveness arising on cash ow hedges.
During the year net gains of $94 million 2010: losses of $17 million were reclassied to profit and loss from the cash ow hedge reserve, of which gains of $96 million 2010: losses of $30 million were recognised within operating costs and losses of $2 million 2010: gains of $13 million recognised within net interest income.
The Group has hedged the following cash ows that are expected to impact the income statement in the following periods: 2011 Less than One to Two to Three to Four to Over five one year two years three years four years five years years Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Forecast receivable cash ows 1,059 432 153 81 1 1,726 Forecast payable cash ows 2,686 1,781 143 80 1 4,691 1,627 1,349 10 1 2,965 2010 Less than One to Two to Three to Four to Over five one year two years three years four years five years years Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Forecast receivable cash ows 769 190 181 129 79 1,348 Forecast payable cash ows 1,432 170 170 124 80 1,976 663 20 11 5 1 628 Net investment hedges The Group uses a combination of foreign exchange contracts and non-derivative financial assets to manage the variability in future exchange rates on its net investments in foreign currencies.
Gains and losses arising on the effective portion of the hedges are deferred in equity until the net investment is disposed of.
During the year, $nil million 2010: $nil million was recognised in the income statement in respect of ineffectiveness arising on net investment hedges.
Loans and advances to banks 2011 2010 $million $million Loans and advances to banks 66,633 53,359 Individual impairment provision 82 93 Portfolio impairment provision 2 2 66,549 53,264 Of which: loans and advances held at fair value through profit or loss note 15 568 1,206 65,981 52,058 Analysis of loans and advances to banks by geography are set out in the Risk review section on pages 61 and 62.
202 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 19.
Loans and advances to customers 2011 2010 $million $million Loans and advances to customers 271,403 248,988 Individual impairment provision 1,890 1,824 Portfolio impairment provision 760 760 268,753 246,404 Of which: loans and advances held at fair value through profit or loss note 15 4,988 6,046 263,765 240,358 The Group has outstanding residential mortgage loans to Korea residents of $20.8 billion 2010: $23.1 billion and Hong Kong residents of $18.8 billion 2010: $18.2 billion.
Analysis of loans and advances to customers by geography and business and related impairment provisions are set out within the Riskreview on pages 61 to 71.
Assets leased to customers Finance leases and instalment credit 2011 2010 $million $million Finance leases 526 508 Instalment credit agreements 1,949 790 2,475 1,298 The above assets are included within loans and advances to customers.
The cost of assets acquired during the year for leasing to customers under finance leases and instalment credit agreements amounted to $275 million 2010: $131 million this excludes amounts relating to acquisitions during the year.
2011 2010 $million $million Minimum lease receivables under finance leases falling due: Within one year 91 282 Later than one year and less than five years 391 244 After five years 141 41 623 567 Interest income relating to future periods 97 59 Present value of finance lease receivables 526 508 Of which: Falls due within one year 73 261 Falls due later than one year and less than five years 344 219 Falls due after five years 109 28 Operating lease assets Assets leased to customers under operating leases consist of commercial aircraft and ships, which are included within Property, plant and equipment in note 26.
At 31 December 2011 these assets had a net book value of $2,782 million 2010: $2,033 million.
2011 2010 $million $million Minimum lease receivables under operating leases falling due: Within one year 317 196 Later than one year and less than five years 1,177 575 After five years 768 713 2,262 1,484 Financial statements and notes Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 203 21.
Investment securities 2011 Debt securities  and maturity for-sale receivables Equity shares Treasury bills Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Issued by public bodies: Government securities 18 20,462 389 Other public sector securities 690 18 21,152 389 Issued by banks: Certicates of deposit 5,811 Other debt securities 18,292 1,043 24,103 1,043 Issued by corporate entities and other issuers: Other debt securities 10,312 4,043 Total debt securities 18 55,567 5,475 Of which: Listed on a recognised 1 UKexchange 5,431 242 150 5,823 1 Listed elsewhere 18 17,082 820 869 7,516 26,305 Unlisted 33,054 4,413 1,524 14,164 53,155 18 55,567 5,475 2,543 21,680 85,283 Market value of listed securities 18 22,513 954 1,019 7,516 32,020 1 These debt securities listed or registered on a recognised UK exchange or elsewhere are thinly traded or the market for these securities is illiquid 2010 Debt securities  and maturity for-sale receivables Equity shares Treasury bills Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Issued by public bodies: Government securities 25 20,776 388 Other public sector securities 629 25 21,405 388 Issued by banks: Certicates of deposit 4,670 44 Other debt securities 15,135 864 19,805 908 Issued by corporate entities and other issuers: Other debt securities 9,345 3,508 Total debt securities 25 50,555 4,804 Of which: Listed on a recognised 1 UKexchange 1,443 285 140 1,868 1 Listed elsewhere 25 14,937 1,081 830 6,574 23,447 Unlisted 34,175 3,438 1,547 11,321 50,481 25 50,555 4,804 2,517 17,895 75,796 Market value of listed securities 25 16,380 1,348 970 6,574 25,297 1 These debt securities listed or registered on a recognised UK exchange or elsewhere are thinly traded or the market for these securities is illiquid Equity shares largely comprise investments in corporates.
204 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 21.
Investment securities continued The change in the carrying amount of investment securities comprised: 2011 2010 Debt Equity Treasury Debt Equity Treasury securities shares bills Total securities shares bills Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million At 1 January 55,384 2,517 17,895 75,796 55,121 1,649 18,958 75,728 Exchange translation differences 960 5 848 1,803 1,403 10 483 1,896 Additions 79,385 982 50,893 131,260 78,225 757 35,094 114,076 Maturities and disposals 72,668 672 46,491 119,831 79,595 279 36,784 116,658 Impairment, net of recoveries on disposal 84 12 96 24 9 33 Changes in fair value including the effect of fair value hedging 99 277 38 216 355 389 46 790 Amortisation of discounts and premiums 96 269 173 101 98 3 At 31 December 61,060 2,543 21,680 85,283 55,384 2,517 17,895 75,796 At 31 December 2011, unamortised premiums on debt securities held for investment purposes amounted to $387 million 2010: $430million and unamortised discounts amounted to $308 million 2010: $397 million.
Income from listed equity shares amounted to$36 million 2010: $8 million and income from unlisted equity shares amounted to $37 million 2010: $45 million.
The following table sets out the movement in the allowance of impairment provisions for investment securities classied as loans and receivables.
2011 2010 $million $million At 1 January 32 30 Exchange translation differences 1 1 Amounts written off 23 1 Impairment 25 2 At 31 December 33 32 22.
Other assets 2011 2010 $million $million Financial assets held at amortised cost note 15 Hong Kong SAR Government certicates of indebtedness note 31 4,043 4,063 Cash collateral 4,856 5,620 Acceptances and endorsements 5,485 4,847 Unsettled trades and other financial assets 6,170 5,098 20,554 19,628 Non-financial assets Commodities 3,523 2,852 Other 3,209 2,876 27,286 25,356 The Hong Kong SAR government certicates of indebtedness are subordinated to the claims of other parties in respect of bank notesissued.
Financial statements and notes Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 205 23.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates 2011 2010 Investment in subsidiary undertakings $million $million At 1 January 14,291 12,906 Additions 1,385 At 31 December 14,291 14,291 During the year the Company made a deemed contribution and received a deemed dividend of $430 million 2010: $360 million on account of share based payments.
At 31 December 2011, the principal subsidiary undertakings, all indirectly held and principally engaged in the business of banking and provision of other financial services, were as follows: Group interest in ordinary Country and place of incorporation or registration Main areas of operation share capital % Standard Chartered Bank, England and Wales United Kingdom, Middle East, South Asia, Asia Pacic, Americas and, through Group companies, Africa 100 1 Standard Chartered First Bank Korea Limited, Korea Korea 100 Standard Chartered Bank Malaysia Berhad, Malaysia Malaysia 100 Standard Chartered Bank Pakistan Limited, Pakistan Pakistan 98.99 Standard Chartered Bank Taiwan Limited, Taiwan Taiwan 100 Standard Chartered Bank Hong Kong Limited, Hong Kong Hong Kong 100 Standard Chartered Bank China Limited, China China 100 Standard Chartered Bank Thai Public Company Limited, Thailand Thailand 99.99 Standard Chartered Bank Nigeria Limited, Nigeria Nigeria 100 Standard Chartered Bank Kenya Limited, Kenya Kenya 73.9 Standard Chartered Private Equity Limited, Hong Kong Hong Kong 100 1 Subsequently renamed Standard Chartered Bank Korea Limited on 11 January 2012 Joint ventures The Group has a 44.51 per cent interest through a joint venture company that holds a majority investment in PT Bank Permata Tbk Permata, in Indonesia.
The Group proportionately consolidates its share of the assets, liabilities, income and expense of this joint venture on a line by line basis.
Contingent liabilities set out in note 42, include $286 million 2010: $175 million relating to this joint venture.
These mainly comprise banking guarantees and irrevocable letters of credit.
There are no capital commitments related to the Groups investment in this joint venture.
Related party transactions are disclosed in note 47.
The following amounts have been included in the consolidated accounts of the Group: 2011 2010 $million $million Current assets 3,006 1,878 Long-term assets 2,050 1,905 Total assets 5,056 3,783 Current liabilities 4,066 2,968 Long-term liabilities 314 190 Total liabilities 4,380 3,158 Net assets 676 625 Income 257 227 Expenses 151 132 Impairment 20 20 Operating profit 86 75 Tax 22 15 Share of post-tax result from joint ventures 64 60 Long-term assets are primarily loans to customers and current liabilities are primarily customer deposits based on contractual maturities.
206 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 23.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates continued Interests in associates 2011 2010 $million $million At 1 January 631 514 Translation 10 Additions 272 139 Dividends received 10 22 At 31 December 903 631 The following amounts represent the total profit, assets and liabilities of the Groups associated undertakings: 2011 2010 $million $million profit for the year 405 227 Total assets 57,006 47,344 Total liabilities 53,738 45,368 Net assets 3,268 1,976 The Groups principal associates are: Group interest Main areas in ordinary Associate of operation share capital % China Bohai Bank China 19.9 Fleming Family & Partners Asia 20.0 Asia Commercial Bank Vietnam 15.0 The fair value of the listed element of our investment in Asia Commercial Bank ACB at 31 December 2011 is $145 million 2010: $157million.
The Groups investments in ACB and China Bohai Bank are less than 20 per cent but both ACB and China Bohai Bank are considered to be associates because of the significant inuence the Group is able to exercise over the management of these companies and their financial and operating policies.
significant inuence is evidenced largely through the interchange of management personnel and the provision of expertise.
The reporting dates of these associates are within three months of the Groups reporting date.
Financial statements and notes Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 207 24. Business Combinations 2011 acquisitions Following the nalisation of the provisional fair values relating to deferred tax in respect of the Groups acquisition of the custody business of Barclays Bank PLC across various locations in Africa in 2010, the fair value of net assets acquired decreased by $18 million increasing goodwill by the same amount.
Prior period numbers have been restated accordingly.
On 8 April 2011, the Group acquired 100 per cent interest in GE Money Pte Limited, a leading specialist in auto and unsecured personal loans in Singapore, for a total cash consideration of $695 million, recognising goodwill of $199 million.
On 2 September 2011, the Group acquired 100 per cent interest in Gryphon Partners Advisory Pty Ltd and Gryphon Partners Canada Inc together Gryphon Partners for a total consideration of $53 million.
As required by IFRS 3 Business Combinations, only $28 million of this consideration is deemed to relate to the cost of acquisition: for accounting purposes the balance is deemed to represent remuneration and is charged to the income statement over the period to 2015.
Goodwill of $11 million was recognised on this transaction.
If these acquisitions had occurred on 1 January 2011 the operating income of the Group would have been approximately $17,671 million and profit before taxation would have been $6,793 million.
These acquisitions contributed $66 million to the Groups operating income and $40 million to the Groups profit before taxation since acquisition.
The assets and liabilities arising from the acquisitions are as follows: Fair value $million Cash and balances at central banks 6 Loans and advances to customers 1,545 Intangibles other than goodwill 17 Other assets 24 Total assets 1,592 Other liabilities 1,079 Total liabilities 1,079 Net assets acquired 513 Purchase consideration settled in cash 718 Cash and cash equivalents in subsidiary acquired 6 Cash outow on acquisition 712 Purchase consideration: Cash paid 718 Contingent consideration 5 Less: Fair value of net assets acquired 513 Goodwill 210 Intangible assets acquired: Customer relationships 17 Total 17 Goodwill arising on the acquisitions is attributable to the synergies expected to arise from their integration with the Group, the skilled workforce acquired and the distribution networks.
The primary reason for these acquisitions is to enhance capability and broaden product offering to customers.
The fair value amounts contain some provisional balances that will be nalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
The fair value of loans to banks is $16 million.
The gross contractual amount due is $16 million, which is expected to be collected.
The fair value of loans to customers is $1,545 million.
The gross contractual amount due is $1,554 million, of which $9 million is the best estimate of the contractual cash ows not expected to be collected.
Acquisition related costs of $1.9 million are included within operating expenses.
208 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 24. Business Combinations continued 2010 acquisitions On 12 April 2010, the Group acquired 100 per cent of the consumer finance business of GE Capital Hong Kong Limited, a Hong Kong restricted licence banking company.
The Group purchased this interest for $144 million, recognising goodwill of $3 million.
On 2 August 2010, the Group acquired 100 per cent of the consumer finance business of GE Commercial Financing Singapore Limited in Singapore.
The businesses were acquired for $70 million and goodwill of $14 million was recognised.
On 1 October 2010 the Group purchased the remaining 25.1 per cent interest in Standard Chartered STCI Capital Markets STCI for $18million.
By virtue of this transaction STCI became a subsidiary of the Group.
The fair value of the 74.9 per cent interest held by the Group at 1 October 2010, which is included in the purchase consideration, was $55 million.
As required by IFRS 3 Business Combinations, the Group recognised a gain net of foreign exchange of $4 million within Other operating income from remeasuring the74.9 per cent interest held by the Group to fair value.
Following this transaction, goodwill relating to STCI increased to $75 million.
Between 31 October 2010 and 5 December 2010 the Group acquired the custody business of Barclays Bank PLC across various locations in Africa.
The business was acquired for $130 million and goodwill of $21 million was recognised.
If the acquisitions had occurred on 1 January 2010, the operating income of the Group would have been approximately $16,099 million and profit before taxation would have been approximately $6,135 million.
The acquisitions contributed $22 million to the Groups operating income and $8 million to the Groups profit before taxation following acquisition.
The assets and liabilities arising from the acquisitions were as follows: Fair value $million Cash and balances at central banks 20 Loans and advances to banks 6 Loans and advances to customers 894 Investment securities 2 Intangibles other than goodwill 112 Deferred tax assets 4 Other assets 16 Total assets 1,054 Other liabilities 737 Accruals and deferred income 11 Total liabilities 748 Net assets acquired 306 Purchase consideration settled in cash 364 Cash and cash equivalents in subsidiary acquired 20 Cash outow on acquisition 344 Purchase consideration: Cash paid 364 Fair value of interest held prior to change in control 55 Fair value of net assets acquired 306 Goodwill 113 Intangible assets acquired: Customer relationships 112 Total 112 Goodwill arising on the acquisitions is attributable to the synergies expected to arise from their integration with the Group and to those intangibles that are not recognised separately, such as the acquired skilled workforce.
The primary reason for its acquisition was to enhance capability and for strategic intent.
Financial statements and notes Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 209 25.
Goodwill and intangible assets 2011 2010 Acquired Acquired 1 Goodwill intangibles Software Total Goodwill intangibles Software Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Cost At 1 January 6,257 654 774 7,685 6,016 519 650 7,185 Exchange translation differences 120 5 10 135 154 18 64 236 Acquisitions 210 17 227 87 117 204 Additions 240 240 197 197 Disposals 47 47 Amounts written off 141 141 137 137 At 31 December 6,347 666 816 7,829 6,257 654 774 7,685 Provision for amortisation At 1 January 359 328 687 285 280 565 Exchange translation differences 5 1 6 12 17 29 Amortisation for the period 69 184 253 62 168 230 Disposals 31 31 Amounts written off 135 135 137 137 At 31 December 423 345 768 359 328 687 Net book value 6,347 243 471 7,061 6,257 295 446 6,998 1 Amounts have been restated as explained in note 46 At 1 January 2010, the net book value was: goodwill, $6,016 million: acquired intangibles, $234 million: and software, $370 million.
At 31 December 2011, accumulated goodwill impairment losses incurred from 1 January 2005 amounted to $69 million 2010: $69million.
2011 2010 $million $million Acquired intangibles comprise: Core deposits 25 37 Customer relationships 174 202 Brand names 40 51 Licences 4 5 Net book value 243 295 Acquired intangibles primarily comprise those recognised as part of the acquisitions of Korea First Bank subsequently renamed Standard Chartered First Bank Korea Limited and from 11 January 2012, Standard Chartered Bank Korea Limited, Permata, Union Bank now amalgamated into Standard Chartered Bank Pakistan Limited, Hsinchu now amalgamated into Standard Chartered Bank Taiwan Limited, Pembroke, Harrison Lovegrove, American Express Bank and the custody business in Africa.
The acquired intangibles are amortised over periods from four years to a maximum of 16 years in the case of the customer relationships intangible acquired in Korea First Bank KFB.
An annual assessment is made as to whether the current carrying value of goodwill is impaired.
For the purposes of impairment testing goodwill is allocated at the date of acquisition to a cash-generating unit CGU, and the table on page 210 sets out the goodwill allocated to each CGU.
Goodwill is considered to be impaired if the carrying amount of the relevant CGU exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amounts for all the CGUs were measured based on value-in-use.
The key assumptions used in determining the recoverable amounts are set out below and are solely estimates for the purposes of assessing impairment of acquired goodwill.
The calculation of value-in-use for each CGU is based on cash ow projections over a 20-year period, including a terminal value which is determined based on long-term earnings multiples consistent with available market data.
These cash ows are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate which reects current market rates appropriate to the CGU as set out in the table on page 210.
The cash ow projections are based on budgets and forecasts approved by management covering one year, except for Taiwan, Korea, Thailand, Pakistan and Permata CGUs, where management forecasts cover the three years to 2015.
Management forecasts project growth rates greater than long-term GDP rates but which are in line with past performance as adjusted to reect the current economic climate.
For the period after management approved forecasts, the cash ows are extrapolated forward using steady long-term forecast GDP growth rates appropriate to the CGU.
Management believes that a reasonable possible change in any of the key assumptions on which the recoverable amounts have been based would not cause the carrying amounts to exceed their recoverable amount.
210 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 25.
Goodwill and intangible assets continued The following table sets out the allocation of goodwill arising on acquisitions to CGUs, together with the pre-tax discount rate and long-term GDP growth rates used in determining value-in-use.
2011 2010 Long-term Long-term forecast forecast Pre-tax GDP Pre-tax GDP discount growth discount growth Goodwill rate rates Goodwill rate rates Acquisition Cash Generating Unit $million % % $million % % KFB, A Brain and Yeahreum Korean business 1,720 18.1 4.0 1,745 16.3 4.5 Union Bank Pakistan business 292 27.1 4.8 307 24.7 5.9 Hsinchu and Asia Trust Taiwan business 1,294 17.2 4.9 1,286 16.2 4.9 Manhattan Card Business Credit card and personal loan Asia, India & MESA 895 16.5 1.6 896 16.7 1.8 Grindlays India and STCI India business 377 18.7 8.1 444 22.4 8.0 Grindlays MESA MESA business 370 21.1 3.7 370 18.2 1.8 Standard Chartered Bank Thai Thailand business 324 16.3 4.9 337 25.2 5.3 Permata Groups share of Permata Indonesia business 172 20 6.9 174 23.3 7.5 American Express Bank Financial Institutions and Private Banking business 396 15.6 1.6 396 16.7 1.8 Harrison Lovegrove, Pembroke, Corporate advisory business Cazenove Asia, First Africa and Gryphon partners.
Property, plant and equipment 2011 2010 Operating Operating lease lease Premises Equipment assets Total Premises Equipment assets Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Cost or valuation At 1 January 2,665 837 2,183 5,685 2,647 775 1,685 5,107 Exchange translation differences 74 40 114 69 33 102 Additions 138 148 1,049 1,335 240 130 498 868 Acquisitions 1 1 1 1 Disposals and fully depreciated assets written off 138 120 211 469 200 102 302 Transfers from to assets held for re-sale 32 32 91 91 At 31 December 2,559 826 3,021 6,406 2,665 837 2,183 5,685 Depreciation Accumulated at 1 January 471 557 150 1,178 423 502 79 1,004 Exchange translation differences 7 29 36 9 15 24 Charge for the year 123 145 100 368 118 140 71 329 Attributable to assets sold, transferred or written off 56 115 11 182 79 100 179 Accumulated at 31 December 531 558 239 1,328 471 557 150 1,178 Net book amount at 31 December 2,028 268 2,782 5,078 2,194 280 2,033 4,507 At 1 January 2010, the net book value was: premises, $2,224 million: equipment, $273 million: and operating lease assets, $1,606 million.
Assets held under finance leases have a net book value of $192 million 2010: $44 million with minimum lease payments of $7 million 2010: $7 million before and after future finance charges.
Financial statements and notes Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 211 27.
Deferred tax The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the year: At Exchange Charge Charge At 1 January & other Acquisitions credit credit 31 December 2011 adjustments disposals to profit to equity 2011 $million $million $million $million $million $million Deferred taxation comprises: Accelerated tax depreciation 174 16 25 118 47 Impairment provisions on loans and advances 41 9 31 19 Tax losses carried forward 324 13 96 433 Available-for-sale assets 71 74 3 Premises revaluation 1 1 Cash ow hedges 18 20 2 Retirement benefit obligations 77 2 7 37 105 Share based payments 175 66 21 88 Other temporary differences 144 11 13 101 45 Net deferred tax assets 763 8 12 165 110 704 At Exchange Charge Charge At 1 January & other Acquisitions credit credit 31 December 2010 adjustments disposals to profit to equity 2010 $million $million $million $million $million $million Deferred taxation comprises: Accelerated tax depreciation 193 25 94 88 174 Impairment provisions on loans and advances 131 172 41 Tax losses carried forward 277 20 1 26 324 Available-for-sale assets 75 5 9 71 Premises revaluation 1 1 Cash ow hedges 1 17 18 Unrelieved foreign tax 53 53 Retirement benefit obligations 119 25 17 77 Share based payments 149 1 58 33 175 Other temporary differences 57 37 16 66 144 Net deferred tax assets 903 27 79 188 58 763 Deferred taxation comprises assets and liabilities as follows: 2011 2010 Total Asset Liability Total Asset Liability $million $million $million $million $million $million Deferred taxation comprises: Accelerated tax depreciation 47 114 67 174 222 48 Impairment provisions on loans and advances 19 196 215 41 180 221 Tax losses carried forward 433 401 32 324 309 15 Available-for-sale assets 3 18 15 71 42 29 Premises revaluation 1 1 1 1 Cash ow hedges 2 6 4 18 16 2 Retirement benefit obligations 105 98 7 77 77 Share based payments 88 63 25 175 162 13 Other temporary differences 45 60 105 144 54 90 704 835 131 763 946 183 Where permitted deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset on an entity basis and not by component of deferred taxation.
Deferred tax assets are recognised where it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised based on enacted laws and rates.
Managements judgment is used to assess availability of future taxable profit.
For the majority of deferred tax assets, the period over which availability of future taxable profit is assessed is less than 5 years.
For those deferred tax assets where the period exceeds 5 years to a maximum of 10 years, there are dened profit streams that are expected to continue beyond that point.
2011 2010 $million $million No account has been taken of the following potential deferred taxation assets liabilities : 1 Unrelieved foreign tax 664 Withholding tax on unremitted earnings from overseas subsidiaries 294 309 Foreign exchange movements on investments in branches 45 117 Tax losses 78 124 Held over gains on incorporations of overseas branches 476 473 1 Following election into Branch profits Exemption Regime, unrelieved foreign tax suffered by branches will no longer be eligible for UK relief 212 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 28.
Deposits by banks 2011 2010 $million $million Deposits by banks 35,296 28,551 Deposits by banks included within: Financial liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss note 15 1,092 923 36,388 29,474 29.
Customer accounts 2011 2010 $million $million Customer accounts 342,701 306,992 Customer accounts included within: Financial liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss note 15 9,118 9,510 351,819 316,502 Included in customer accounts were deposits of $2,000 million 2010: $1,659 million held as collateral for irrevocable commitments under import letters of credit.
Debt securities in issue 2011 2010 Certicates of Certicates of deposit of Other debt deposit of Other debt $100,000 securities $100,000 securities or more in issue Total or more in issue Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Debt securities in issue 15,783 31,357 47,140 9,021 22,360 31,381 Debt securities in issue includedwithin: Financial liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss note 15 166 4,267 4,433 207 3,103 3,310 15,949 35,624 51,573 9,228 25,463 34,691 31.
Other liabilities 2011 2010 $million $million Financial liabilities held at amortised cost note 15 Notes in circulation 4,043 4,063 Acceptances and endorsements 5,473 4,774 Cash collateral 3,145 2,527 Unsettled trades and other financial liabilities 6,508 4,526 19,169 15,890 Non-financial liabilities Cash-settled share based payments 85 128 Other liabilities 4,580 5,076 23,834 21,094 Hong Kong currency notes in circulation of $4,043 million 2010: $4,063 million that are secured by the government of Hong Kong SAR certicates of indebtedness of the same amount included in other assets note 22.
Financial statements and notes Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 213 32.
Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 2011 2010 $million $million Subordinated loan capital issued by subsidiary undertakings 675 million 5.375 per cent undated Step Up Subordinated Notes Callable and oating rate from 2020 730 659 600 million 8.103 per cent Step Up Callable Perpetual Preferred Securities Callable and oating rate from 2016 1,154 1,137 700 million 7.75 per cent Subordinated Notes 2018 1,281 1,192 300 million 6.0 per cent Subordinated Notes 2018 Callable and oating rate from 2013 488 509 200 million 7.75 per cent undated Step Up Subordinated Notes Callable and oating rate from 2022 419 384 1,100 million 5.875 per cent Subordinated Notes 2017 1,662 1,622 750 million 3.625 per cent Subordinated Notes 2017 Callable and oating rate from 2012 977 1,034 675 million Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2018 Callable 2013 886 915 $1.5 billion 9.5 per cent Step Up Perpetual Preferred Securities Callable 2014 1,602 1,580 $1 billion 6.4 per cent Subordinated Notes 2017 1,193 1,143 $750 million 5.875 per cent Subordinated Notes 763 738 $700 million 8.0 per cent Subordinated Notes 2031 683 594 $500 million Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016 Callable 2011 499 $300 million Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2017 Callable 2012 300 299 $100 million Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2018 Callable 2013 100 100 $22 million 9.75 per cent xed to oating rate note 2021 Callable and oating rate from 2016 25 22 BWP 75 million Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2017 Callable 2012 10 12 BWP 70 million Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2021 Callable 2016 9 BWP 50 million Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2015 Callable 2011 8 IDR 1,750 billion 11 per cent Subordinated notes 2018 82 IDR 500 billion Floating Rate Notes 2016 Callable 2011 22 JPY 10 billion 3.35 per cent Subordinated Note 2023 Callable 2018 149 138 KRW 300 billion 7.05 per cent Subordinated debt 2019 Callable 2014 260 266 KRW 270 billion 4.67 per cent Subordinated debt 2021 Callable 2016 235 KRW 260 billion 6.08 per cent Subordinated debt 2018 callable 2013 230 236 KRW 90 billion 6.05 per cent Subordinated debt 2018 86 84 KRW 30 billion Floating Rate Subordinated debt 2011 26 26 KRW 3 billion 6.11 per cent Subordinated debt 2011 2 MYR 500 million 4.28 per cent Subordinated Bonds 2017 Callable and oating rate from 2012 157 164 PKR 1 billion Floating Rate Notes 2013 8 11 PKR 750 million Floating Rate Notes 2011 2 SGD 750 million 4.15 per cent Subordinated Notes 2021 Callable and Floating rate from 2016 624 SGD 450 million 5.25 per cent Subordinated Notes 2023 Callable and oating rate from 2018 376 363 TWD 10 billion 2.9 per cent Subordinated debt 2019 Callable 2014 337 331 TZS 10 billion 11 per cent Subordinated Notes 2021 Callable and oating rate from 2015 6 7 UGX 40 billion 13 per cent Subordinated Notes 2020 Callable 2015 16 17 14,874 14,116 Issued by the Company: Primary capital oating rate notes $400 million 57 57 $300 million Series 2 81 81 $400 million Series 3 83 83 $200 million Series 4 51 51 150 million 233 234 1, 2 Other borrowings 1,338 1,317 1,843 1,823 Total for Group 16,717 15,939 1 In the balance sheet of the Company the amount recognised is $1,223 million 2010: $1,224 million with the difference being the effect of hedge accounting achieved on a Group basis 2 Other borrowings comprise irredeemable sterling preference shares and US dollar non-cumulative redeemable preference shares 214 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 32.
Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds continued All subordinated liabilities are unsecured, unguaranteed and subordinated to the claims of other creditors including without limitation, customer deposits and deposits by banks.
The Group has the right to settle these debt instruments in certain circumstances as set out inthe contractual agreements.
Of the total subordinated liabilities and other borrowings, $12,918 million is at xed interest rates 2010: $11,611 million.
On 12 May 2011, Standard Chartered Bank Botswana Limited issued BWP 70 million oating notes due May 2021.
On 28 June 2011, PT Bank Permata Tbk issued IDR 1,750 billion xed interest rate subordinated notes due June 2018.
On 27 October 2011, Standard Chartered Bank Hong Kong Limited issued SGD 750 million xed interest rate subordinated notes due2021.
1 On 6 December 2011, Standard Chartered First Bank Korea Limited issued KRW 270 billion xed interest rate subordinated debt due2021.
During January 2011, Standard Chartered Pakistan Limited redeemed the remaining balance of its PKR 750 million oating rates note 2011 of PKR 187 million.
1 On 21 January 2011, Standard Chartered First Bank Korea Limited redeemed its KRW 3 billion 6.11 per cent notes in full.
On 9 June 2011, Standard Chartered Bank exercised its right to redeem its $500 million subordinated oating rate notes in full on the first optional call date.
On 20 June 2011, Standard Chartered Bank Botswana Limited redeemed BWP 50 million xed rates notes in full.
On 15 December 2011, PT Bank Permata Tbk redeemed IDR 500 billion oating rate notes.
1 Has been renamed as Standard Chartered Bank Korea Limited on 11 January 2012 33.
Provisions for liabilities and charges Provision for credit Other commitments provisions Total $million $million $million At 1 January 2011 21 294 315 Exchange translation differences 1 1 Charge against profit 2 263 265 Provisions utilised 8 202 210 At 31 December 2011 14 355 369 Provision for credit commitment comprises those undrawn contractually committed facilities where there is doubt as to the borrowers ability to meet their repayment obligations.
Other provisions include provisions for regulatory settlements, legal claims and restructuring.
Financial statements and notes Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 215 34.
Retirement benefit obligations Retirement benefit obligations comprise: 2011 2010 $million $million Dened benefit schemes obligation 499 297 Dened contribution schemes obligation 20 13 Net book amount 519 310 2011 2010 $million $million At 1 January 310 506 Exchange translation differences 5 9 Acquisitions 2 Charge against profit 282 182 Change in other comprehensive income 189 83 Net payments 257 288 At 31 December 519 310 Retirement benefit charge comprises: 2011 2010 $million $million Dened benefit schemes 103 39 Dened contribution schemes 179 143 Charge against profit note 8 282 182 The disclosures required under IAS 19 have been calculated by qualied independent actuaries based on the most recent full actuarial valuations updated, where necessary, to 31 December 2011.
Pension costs for the purpose of these accounts were assessed using the projected unit method and the assumptions set out below, which were based on market data at the date of calculation.
The principal assumptions relate to the rate of ination and the discount rate.
The discount rate is equal to the yield on high-quality corporate bonds that have a term to maturity approximating that of the related liability, and is potentially subject to significant variation.
UK Fund The financial position of the Groups principal retirement benefit scheme, the Standard Chartered Pension Fund the Fund a dened benefit scheme, is assessed in the light of the advice of an independent qualied actuary.
The most recent actuarial assessment of the Fund for the purpose of funding was performed as at 31 December 2008 by A Zegelman, Fellow of the Faculty of Actuaries, of Towers Watson Actuaries, using the projected unit method.
As part of the 31 December 2008 actuarial valuation, the Trustee reviewed the life expectancy assumptions adopted.
The actuarial assumptions having the most significant effect on valuing future dened benefit obligations were: Return from Gilts 3.85 per cent per annum Return from return seeking assets 6.05 per cent per annum General increase in salaries 2.80 per cent per annum Rate of price ination 2.80 per cent per annum Applying these assumptions, at the valuation date the market value of the assets of the Fund $1,228 million was sufficient to cover 89.3 per cent of the benets that had accrued to members.
Regular contributions were set at 28 per cent of pensionable salary for all members.
No additional contributions were paid in 2011 and none are payable over the two years to 31 December 2013.
Contributions paid to the Fund during 2011 were $10 million 2010: $78 million.
With effect from 1 July 1998 the Fund was closed to new entrants, and new employees have subsequently been offered membership of a dened contribution scheme.
Due to the closure of the Fund to new entrants, it is expected that the current service cost will increase, as a percentage of pensionable pay, as the members approach retirement.
216 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 34.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Overseas schemes The principal overseas dened benefit arrangements operated by the Group are in Germany, Hong Kong, India, Jersey, Korea, Taiwan and the United States US.
Employer contributions to dened benefit plans over 2012 are expected to be $87 million.
The financial assumptions used at 31 December 2011 were: Funded dened benefit schemes 1 2 UK Fund Overseas Schemes 2011 2010 2011 2010 % % % % Price ination 3.10 3.50 1.50-4.50 1.50-4.50 Salary increases 3.10 3.50 3.10-6.00 3.50-5.00 Pension increases 2.10 2.60 1.75-3.10 1.75-3.30 Discount rate 4.80 5.50 1.40-8.80 1.60-8.10 1 The assumptions for life expectancy for the UK Fund assumes that a male member currently aged 60 will live for 26 years 2010: 26 years and a female member 29 years 2010: 29 years and a male member currently aged 40 will live for 29 years 2010: 29 years and a female member 31 years 2010: 31 years after their 60th birthday 2 The range of assumptions shown is for the main funded dened benefit overseas schemes in Germany, Hong Kong, India, Jersey, Korea, Taiwan and the US.
These comprise over 87 per cent of the total liabilities of funded overseas schemes There is uncertainty that these assumptions will continue in the future and any changes would affect the value placed on the liabilities.
Forexample, if the discount rate for the UK Fund increased by 25 basis points the liability would reduce by approximately $50 million and vice versa.
Whilst changes in other assumptions would also have an impact, the effect would not be as significant.
Unfunded schemes 1 2 Post-retirement medical Other 2011 2010 2011 2010 % % % % Price ination 2.50 2.50 3.10-5.00 1.50-7.50 Salary increases 4.00 4.00 3.10-6.00 3.50-9.00 Pension increases N A N A 2.10 1.75-2.60 Discount rate 4.70 5.40 4.70-8.80 1.60-9.00 Post-retirement medical rate 8% in 2011 9% in 2010 N A N A reducing by reducing by 1% per 1% per annum to annum to 5% in 2014 5% in 2014 1 The Post-retirement medical plan is in the US 2 The range of assumptions shown is for the main Unfunded schemes in India, Indonesia, UAE and the UK Financial statements and notes Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 217 34.
Retirement benefit obligations continued The assets and liabilities of the schemes, attributable to dened benefit members, at 31 December 2011 were: Funded dened benefit schemes Unfunded schemes UK Fund Overseas schemes Post-retirement medical Other Expected Expected Expected Expected return on Value return on Value return on Value return on Value At 31 December 2011 assets % $million assets % $million assets % $million assets % $million Equities 8.00 320 6.38-16.00 210 N A N A N A N A Bonds 3.20 889 1.00-16.00 208 N A N A N A N A Property 7.50 50 5.25-16.00 7 N A N A N A N A Others 8.00 276 0.50-16.00 158 N A N A N A N A Total market value of assets 1,535 583 N A N A 1 Present value of the schemes liabilities 1,609 832 28 148 Net pension liability 74 249 28 148 1 Includes $4 million impact as a result of IFRIC 14 unrecognisable surplus in Kenya Funded dened benefit schemes Unfunded schemes UK Fund Overseas schemes Post-retirement medical Other Expected Expected Expected Expected return on Value return on Value return on Value return on Value At 31 December 2010 assets % $million assets % $million assets % $million assets % $million Equities 8.00 375 5.00-12.00 242 N A N A N A N A Bonds 4.00 856 2.75-14.00 196 N A N A N A N A Property 7.50 21 5.00-12.00 4 N A N A N A N A Others 8.00 300 0.50-12.00 155 N A N A N A N A Total market value of assets 1,552 597 N A N A Present value of the schemes liabilities 1,545 741 21 139 Net pension asset liability 7 144 21 139 Funded dened benefit schemes Unfunded schemes Overseas Post-retirement UK Fund schemes medical Other Value Value Value Value At 31 December 2009 $million $million $million $million Total market value of assets 1,478 531 N A N A Present value of the schemes liabilities 1,704 649 20 134 Net pension liability 226 118 20 134 At 31 December 2008 Total market value of assets 1,232 489 N A N A Present value of the schemes liabilities 1,296 693 12 153 Net pension liability 64 204 12 153 At 31 December 2007 Total market value of assets 1,913 575 N A N A Present value of the schemes liabilities 1,931 602 11 257 Net pension liability 18 27 11 257 The expected return on plan assets is set by reference to historical returns in each of the main asset classes, current market indicators such as long-term bond yields and the expected long-term strategic asset allocation of each plan.
218 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 34.
Retirement benefit obligations continued The pension cost for dened benefit schemes was: Funded dened benefit schemes Unfunded schemes Overseas Post-retirement UK Fund schemes medical Other Total Year ending 31 December 2011 $million $million $million $million $million Current service cost 8 74 1 18 101 Past service cost 2 1 3 Gain loss on settlements and curtailments 6 1 5 Expected return on pension scheme assets 86 34 120 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 85 30 1 8 124 Total charge to profit before deduction of tax 9 65 2 27 103 1 Loss on assets below expected return 26 32 58 Experience loss on liabilities 58 61 7 5 131 Total loss recognised directly in statement of comprehensive income before tax 84 93 7 5 189 Deferred taxation 11 22 3 1 37 Total loss after tax 73 71 4 4 152 1 The actual return on the UK fund assets was $60 million and on overseas scheme assets was $2 million The total cumulative amount recognised directly in the statement of comprehensive income before tax to date is a loss of $300 million 2010: loss of $111 million.
Funded dened benefit schemes Unfunded schemes Overseas Post-retirement UK Fund schemes medical Other Total Year ending 31 December 2010 $million $million $million $million $million Current service cost 8 63 1 16 88 Past service benefit cost 54 5 4 53 Gain on settlements and curtailments 1 9 10 Expected return on pension scheme assets 79 32 111 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 91 26 1 7 125 Total credit charge to profit before deduction of tax 34 61 2 10 39 1 Gain on assets in excess of expected return 42 17 59 Experience gain loss on liabilities 67 35 8 24 Total gain loss recognised directly in statement of comprehensive income before tax 109 18 8 83 Deferred taxation 30 12 1 17 Total gain loss after tax 79 6 7 66 1 The actual return on the UK fund assets was $122 million and on overseas scheme assets was $48 million Financial statements and notes Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 219 34.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Funded dened benefit schemes Unfunded schemes Overseas Post-retirement UK Fund schemes medical Other Total Year ending 31 December 2009 $million $million $million $million $million 1 Gain on assets in excess of expected return 76 38 114 Experience loss gain on liabilities 236 4 7 25 264 Total loss gain recognised directly in statement of comprehensive income before tax 160 42 7 25 150 Deferred taxation 41 4 37 Total loss gain after tax 119 38 7 25 113 Year ending 31 December 2008 2 Loss on assets below expected return 203 130 333 Experience gain loss on liabilities 143 35 4 104 Total loss recognised directly in statement of comprehensive income before tax 60 165 4 229 Deferred taxation 16 44 60 Total loss after tax 44 121 4 169 Year ending 31 December 2007 3 Gain on assets in excess of expected return 28 2 30 Experience gain loss on liabilities 113 12 2 108 207 Total gain loss recognised directly in statement of comprehensive income before tax 141 10 2 108 237 Deferred taxation 44 27 71 Total gain loss after tax 97 10 2 81 166 1 The actual return on the UK fund assets was $159 million and on overseas scheme assets was $67 million 2 The actual return on the UK fund assets was $99 million and on overseas scheme assets was $94 million 3 The actual return on the UK fund assets was $128 million and on overseas scheme assets was $34 million Movement in the dened benefit pension schemes and post retirement medical deficit during the year comprise: Funded dened benefit schemes Unfunded schemes Overseas Post-retirement UK Fund schemes medical Other Total Year ending 31 December 2011 $million $million $million $million $million Surplus deficit at 1 January 2011 7 144 21 139 297 Contributions 10 46 1 20 77 Current service cost 8 74 1 18 101 Past service cost 2 1 3 Settlement curtailment costs 6 1 5 Other finance income charge 1 4 1 8 4 Actuarial loss 84 93 7 5 189 Exchange rate adjustment 2 7 1 3 13 deficit at 31 December 2011 74 249 28 148 499 Movement in the dened benefit pension schemes and post retirement medical deficit during the year comprise: Funded dened benefit schemes Unfunded schemes Overseas Post-retirement UK Fund schemes medical Other Total Year ending 31 December 2010 $million $million $million $million $million deficit at 1 January 2010 226 118 20 134 498 Contributions 78 55 1 16 150 Current service cost 8 63 1 16 88 Past service benefit cost 54 5 4 53 Settlement curtailment costs 1 9 10 Other finance charge income 12 6 1 7 14 Actuarial gain loss 109 18 8 83 Acquisitions 2 2 Exchange rate adjustment 12 2 1 9 Surplus deficit at 31 December 2010 7 144 21 139 297 220 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 34.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Movement in pension schemes and post-retirement medical gross assets and obligations during the year comprise: Assets Obligations Total Year ending 31 December 2011 $million $million $million deficit at 1 January 2011 2,149 2,446 297 Contributions 77 77 Current service cost 101 101 Past service cost 3 3 Settlement curtailment costs 19 24 5 Interest cost 124 124 Expected return on scheme assets 120 120 Benets paid out 140 140 Actuarial loss 58 131 189 Exchange rate adjustment 11 24 13 deficit at 31 December 2011 2,118 2,617 499 Assets Obligations Total Year ending 31 December 2010 $million $million $million deficit at 1 January 2010 2,009 2,507 498 Contributions 150 150 Current service cost 88 88 Past service cost 53 53 Settlement curtailment costs 4 14 10 Interest cost 125 125 Expected return on scheme assets 111 111 Benets paid out 129 129 Actuarial gain 59 24 83 Acquisitions 2 2 Exchange rate adjustment 47 56 9 deficit at 31 December 2010 2,149 2,446 297 35.
Share capital, reserves and own shares Share capital In 2010 the Company amended its Articles of Association to remove the provision for authorised share capital following an amendment to corporate law in the UK through the Companies Act 2006.
The available profits of the Company are distributed to the holders of the issued preference shares in priority to payments made to holders of the ordinary shares and in priority to, or pari passu with, any payments to the holders of any other class of shares in issue.
On a winding up, the assets of the Company are applied to the holders of the preference shares in priority to any payment to the ordinary shareholders and in priority to, or pari passu with, the holders of any other shares in issue, for an amount equal to any dividends accrued and or payable and the nominal value of the shares together with any premium as determined by the board.
The redeemable preference shares are redeemable at the paid up amount which includes premium at the option of the Company in accordance with the terms of the shares.
The holders of the preference shares are not entitled to attend or vote at any general meeting except where any relevant dividend due is not paid in full or where a resolution is proposed varying the rights of the preference shares.
The nominal value of each ordinary share is 50 cents.
As at 31 December 2011, 477,500 $5 non-cumulative redeemable preference shares were in issue, of which 462,500 are classied within subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds and which includes a premium of $923 million.
The irredeemable preference shares of 1 each are also classied as other borrowed funds as required by IAS 32.
Financial statements and notes Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 221 35.
Share capital, reserves and own shares continued Group and Company Number of Ordinary Preference ordinary shares share capital share capital Total millions $million $million $million At 1 January 2010 2,025 1,013 1,013 Capitalised on scrip dividend 28 14 14 Shares issued 295 147 147 At 31 December 2010 2,348 1,174 1,174 Capitalised on scrip dividend 25 12 12 Shares issued 11 6 6 At 31 December 2011 2,384 1,192 1,192 2011 On 11 May 2011, the Company issued 23,196,890 new ordinary shares instead of the 2010 final dividend.
On 4 October 2011 the Company issued 1,274,109 new ordinary shares instead of the 2011 interim dividend.
During the year 11,425,223 shares were issued under employee share plans at prices between nil and 1463 pence.
2010 On 11 June 2010, the Company completed the listing of Indian Depository Receipts IDRs on the Bombay and National stock exchanges by issuing 24,000,000 shares of the Company against 240,000,000 IDRs at a ratio of 10 IDRs representing 1 Company share.
The shares were issued at a price of Indian Rupees INR 104 per IDR representing a 6 per cent discount to the Companys closing share price of 1637 pence on 28 May 2010, which contributed $504 million towards the Groups capital, net of expenses of $27 million.
The proceeds of this listing will be used by the Group in the ordinary course of business.
On 13 May 2010, the Company issued 18,190,898 new ordinary shares instead of the 2009 final dividend.
On 4 October 2010 the Company issued 9,688,558 new ordinary shares instead of the 2010 Interim dividend.
During the year 10,550,826 shares were issued under employee share plans at prices between nil and 1146 pence.
On 13 October 2010, the Company announced the issue of 260,525,763 new ordinary shares by way of rights to qualifying shareholders at 1280 pence per new ordinary share.
The rights issue raised $5.2 billion in additional capital for the Company, net of expenses of $122 million.
The proceeds will be used in the ordinary course of business.
The rights issue used a cash box structure involving a Jersey subsidiary JerseyCo, which was fully owned by the Company prior to the transaction.
In return for an issue of shares by the Company to the investors, the net proceeds of theshare issue were paid to JerseyCo.
Pursuant to the issue of those shares, the Company acquired the remaining share capital of JerseyCo, being all of its redeemable preference shares it did not own.
Under this structure merger relief applies under Section 612 of theCompanies Act 2006, which provides relief from the requirements under Section 610 of the Companies Act 2006 to create a share premium account.
JerseyCo then redeemed its redeemable shares in exchange for the share issue proceeds.
Reserves Transaction costs relating to share issues deducted from reserves account total $149 million 2010: $149 million.
The cumulative amount of goodwill on the acquisition of subsidiary and associated undertakings written off against Group reserves since 1973 is $27 million 2010: $27 million.
The premium of $923 million arising on the issue of the $5 non-cumulative redeemable preference shares classied within Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds is not included within the share premium account and forms part of the reported liability.
The capital reserve represents the exchange difference on redenomination of share capital and share premium from sterling to US dollars in 2001.
The capital redemption reserve represents the nominal value of preference shares redeemed.
The merger reserve represents the premium arising on shares issued using a cash box nancing structure, which required the Company to create a merger reserve under section 612 of the Companies Act 2006.
Shares were issued using this structure in 2005 and 2006 to assist in the funding of certain acquisitions, in 2008 and 2010 for the shares issued by way of a rights issue, and for the shares issued in 2009 in the placing.
The funding raised by the 2008 and 2010 rights issues and 2009 share issue was retained within the Company.
The available-for-sale reserve represents the unrealised fair value gains and losses in respect of financial assets classied as available-for-sale, net of taxation.
Gains and losses are deferred in this reserve until such time as the underlying asset is sold, matures or becomes impaired.
222 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 35.
Share capital, reserves and own shares continued The cash ow hedge reserve represents the effective portion of the gains and losses on derivatives that meet the criteria for these types of hedges.
Gains and losses are deferred in this reserve until such time as the underlying hedged item affects profit and loss when a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur.
The translation reserve represents the cumulative foreign exchange gains and losses on translation of the net investment of the Group in foreign operations.
Since 1 January 2004, gains and losses are deferred to this reserve until such time as the underlying foreign operation is disposed.
Gains and losses arising from derivatives used as hedges of net investments are netted against the foreign exchange gains and losses on translation of the net investment of the foreign operations.
Retained earnings represents profits and other comprehensive income earned by the Group and Company in the current and prior periods, together with the after tax increase relating to equity-settled share options, less dividend distributions and own shares held treasury shares.
A substantial part of the Groups reserves are held in overseas subsidiary undertakings and branches, principally to support local operations or to comply with local regulations.
The maintenance of local regulatory capital ratios could potentially restrict the amount ofreserves that can be remitted.
In addition, if these overseas reserves were to be remitted, further unprovided taxation liabilities mightarise.
Own shares Bedell Cristin Trustees Limited is trustee of both the 1995 Employees Share Ownership Plan Trust the 1995 trust, which is an employee benefit trust used in conjunction with some of the Groups employee share schemes, and of the Standard Chartered 2004 Employee benefit Trust the 2004 trust, which is an employee benefit trust used in conjunction with the Groups deferred bonus plan.
The trustee has agreed to satisfy a number of awards made under the employee share schemes and the deferred bonus plan through the relevant employee benefit trust.
As part of these arrangements Group companies fund the trust, from time to time, to enable the trustee to acquire shares to satisfy these awards.
All shares have been acquired through the London Stock Exchange.
Except as disclosed, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has bought, sold or redeemed any securities of the Company listed on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited during the year.
Details of the shares purchased and held by the trusts are set out below.
Non-controlling interests $300m 7.267% Other Hybrid Tier 1 non-controlling Securities interests Total $million $million $million At 1 January 2010 324 256 580 Income in equity attributable to non-controlling interests 30 30 Other profits attributable to non-controlling interests 19 63 82 Comprehensive income for the year 19 93 112 Distributions 22 32 54 Other increases 15 15 At 31 December 2010 321 332 653 Expenses in equity attributable to non-controlling interests 28 28 Other profits attributable to non-controlling interests 22 62 84 Comprehensive income for the year 22 34 56 Distributions 23 46 69 Other increases 21 21 At 31 December 2011 320 341 661 Financial statements and notes Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 223 37.
Share based payments The Group operates a number of share based arrangements for its directors and employees.
Details of the share based payment charge are set out below: 2011 2010 Cash Equity Total Cash Equity Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Deferred share awards 17 264 281 28 234 262 Other share awards 4 115 111 45 83 128 Total share based payments 13 379 392 73 317 390 Deferred and current tax charge credit 59 18 Total charge taken to the income statement 451 372 2011 Standard Chartered Share Plan the 2011 Plan The 2011 Standard Chartered Share Plan replaced all the Groups existing discretionary share plan arrangements following approval by shareholders at the Groups Annual General Meeting on 5 May 2011.
It is the Groups main share plan, applicable to all employees with the exibility to provide a variety of award types including performance shares, deferred awards shares or cash and restricted shares.
Performance and restricted share awards will generally be in the form of nil price options to acquire shares in the Company.
The remaining life of the plan is 10 years.
Further details regarding the 2011 Plan are included in the Directors remuneration report.
Performance shares Performance share awards vest after a three-year period and are subject to Total Shareholder Return TSR, Earnings per share EPS and Return on Risk Weighted Assets RoRWA performance measures.
As set out in the Directors remuneration report, the weighting between the three elements is split equally one third of the award depending each on the achievement of TSR, EPS and RoRWA, assessed independently of one another.
Valuation The fair value of awards is based on the market value less an adjustment to take into account the expected dividends over the vesting period and the relevant performance condition applying to that portion of the award.
The fair value of the TSR component is derived by discounting a third of the award that is subject to the TSR condition by the loss of expected dividends over the performance period together with the probability of meeting the TSR condition, which is calculated by the area under the TSR vesting schedule curve.
The EPS fair value is derived by discounting one third of the award respectively by the loss of expected dividends over the performance period.
The same approach is applied to calculate the RoRWA fair value for one third of the award.
In respect of the EPS and RoRWA components only, the number of shares expected to vest is adjusted for actual performance when calculating the charge for the year.
Thesame fair value is applied to awards made to both directors and employees of the Group.
2011 Grant date 14 December 20 September 22 June 6 May Share price at grant date 14.35 13.52 15.75 16.31 Vesting period years 3333 Expected dividend yield % 4.0 4.0 3.7 3.7 Fair value EPS 4.26 4.01 4.70 4.87 Fair value RoRWA 4.26 4.01 4.70 4.87 Fair value TSR 1.67 1.58 1.85 1.91 The expected dividend yield is based on the historical dividend yield over the three years prior to grant.
Deferred share awards restricted shares Deferred share awards will be granted as restricted shares and are subject to a three-year deferral period, vesting equally one-third on each of the first, second and third anniversaries.
On vesting the awards will be adjusted for dividend equivalent payments.
Awards that are made outside of the annual performance process, as additional incentive or retention mechanisms, are provided asrestricted shares under the 2011 Plan.
These awards vest in equal instalments on the second and the third anniversaries of the awarddate.
Deferred and restricted share awards do not have any performance conditions, although the Groups claw-back policy will apply.
Valuation For awards, the fair value is based on the market value less an adjustment to take into account the expected dividends over the vesting period for non-deferred awards.
The same fair value is applied for awards made to both the directors and employees of the Group.
224 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 37.
Share based payments continued Deferred share awards 2011 Grant date 22 June Share price at grant date 15.75 Vesting period years 1 2 3 Expected dividend yield % n a Fair value 15.75 Deferred awards accrue dividend equivalent payments during the vesting period.
Other restricted share awards 2011 Grant date 14 December 20 September 22 June Share price at grant date 14.35 13.52 15.75 Vesting period years 2 3 2 3 2 3 Expected dividend yield % 2.9 2.9 4.1 Fair value 13.36 12.59 14.25 The expected dividend yield is based on the historical dividend for three years prior to grant.
2000 Executive Share Option Scheme 2000 ESOS The Group previously operated the 2000 ESOS for executive directors and selected senior managers.
Executive share options to purchase ordinary shares in Standard Chartered PLC were exercisable after the third, but before the 10th, anniversary of the date of grant subject to EPS performance criteria being satisfied.
The exercise price per share is the share price at the date of grant.
Although there are unexercised awards outstanding under the 2000 ESOS, the scheme is now closed to new grants.
2001 Performance Share Plan PSP The Groups previous plan for delivering performance shares was the PSP.
Although the PSP was replaced in 2011, there are still outstanding vested and unvested awards under the plan.
Under the PSP half the award is dependent upon TSR performance and the balance is subject to a target of dened EPS growth.
Both measures use the same three-year period and are assessed independently.
No PSP awards were granted in 2011 and no further awards can be granted under the plan.
Valuation The fair value of awards is based on the same principles as the TSR and EPS element of performance shares granted under the 2011 Plan with half the awards subject to the TSR valuation and the balance subject to the EPS valuation.
2010 Grant date 16 December 21 September 18 June 11 March Share price at grant date 17.66 19.12 17.40 17.40 Vesting period years 3333 Expected dividend yield % 3.8 3.8 3.5 3.5 Fair value EPS 7.90 8.55 7.85 7.85 Fair value TSR 3.10 3.36 3.08 3.08 The expected dividend yield is based on the historical dividend yield over the three years prior to grant.
Financial statements and notes Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 225 37.
Share based payments continued 1997 2006 Restricted Share Scheme 2006 RSS 2007 Supplementary Restricted Share Scheme 2007 SRSS The Groups previous plans for delivering restricted shares were the 2006 RSS and 2007 SRSS both now replaced by the 2011 Plan.
There are still unvested and vested awards outstanding under these plans which were previously used to deliver the deferred portion of annual performance awards and as an incentive to motivate and retain high performing employees.
Awards will generally be in the form of nil cost options and do not have any performance conditions.
Generally deferred restricted share awards vest equally over three years and for non-deferred awards, half vests two years after the date of grant and the balance after three years.
No further awards will be granted under the 2006 RSS and 2007 SRSS.
Valuation For awards, the fair value is based on the market value less an adjustment to take into account the expected dividends over the vesting period.
Deferred awards accrue dividend equivalent payments during the vesting period.
2004 Deferred Bonus Plan DBP Under the DBP, shares are conditionally awarded as part of certain executive directors annual performance award.
Awards under the DBP are made in very limited circumstances to a small number of employees.
Further details are contained in the Directors remuneration report.
The remaining life of the plan is three years.
All Employee Sharesave Schemes Sharesave Under the Sharesave schemes, employees have the choice of opening a three-year or five-year savings contract.
Within a period of six months after the third or fifth anniversary, as appropriate, employees may purchase ordinary shares in the Company.
The price at which they may purchase shares is at a discount of up to 20 per cent on the share price at the date of invitation.
There are no performance conditions attached to options granted under the Sharesave schemes.
In some countries in which the Group operates, it is not possible to operate Sharesave schemes, typically due to securities law and regulatory restrictions.
In these countries the Group offers an equivalent cash-based scheme to its employees.
The remaining life of the Sharesave schemes is three years.
Valuation Options under the Sharesave schemes are valued using a binomial option-pricing model.
The same fair value is applied for awards madeto both the directors and employees of the Group.
The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation areas follows: 2011 2010 Grant date 11 October 4 October 9 October 5 October Share price at grant date 14.11 11.70 18.70 18.48 Exercise price 10.65 10.65 15.19 15.19 Vesting period years 3 5 3 5 3 5 3 5 Expected volatility % 53.8 45.8 53.3 45.5 56.0 46.0 56.0 46.0 Expected option life years 3.33 5.33 3.33 5.33 3.33 5.33 3.33 5.33 Risk free rate % 0.9 1.4 0.7 1.2 0.9 0.6 0.9 0.6 Expected dividend yield % 3.9 3.5 3.9 3.5 3.5 3.4 3.5 3.4 Fair value 5.46 5.39 3.87 3.87 7.2 7.0 7.0 6.9 The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the last three to five years, or three to five years prior to grant.
The expected life is the average expected period to exercise.
The risk free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK Government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life.
The expected dividend yield is based on historical dividend for three years prior to grant.
Where two amounts are shown for volatility, risk free rates, expected dividend yield and fair values, the first relates to a three-year vesting period and the second to a five-year vesting period.
226 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 37.
c A notional scrip dividend accrues on the shares held in the Trust.
The dividend is normally delivered in the form of shares and is released on vesting Financial statements and notes Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 227 37.
The dividend is normally delivered in the form of shares and is released on vesting 38.
Cash ow statement Adjustment for non-cash items and other adjustments included within income statement Group Company 1 1 2011 2010 2011 2010 $million $million $million $million Amortisation of discounts and premiums of investment securities 173 3 Interest expense on subordinated liabilities 474 430 104 102 Interest expense on senior debts liabilities 809 328 228 183 Other non-cash items 204 95 3 Pension costs for dened benefit schemes 103 39 Share based payment costs 392 390 UK bank levy 69 Impairment losses on loans and advances and other credit risk provisions 908 883 Dividend income from subsidiaries 1,176 770 Other impairment 111 76 profit from associates 74 42 Total 2,823 2,202 841 485 Change in operating assets Group Company 1 1 2011 2010 2011 2010 $million $million $million $million Increase in derivative financial instruments 21,617 8,736 160 150 Net increase in debt securities, treasury bills and equity shares held at fair value through profit or loss 2,373 13,554 Net increase in loans and advances to banks and customers 38,771 50,519 Increase decrease in pre-payments and accrued income 440 1,165 Increase decrease in other assets 4,810 10,708 184 182 Total 68,011 82,352 24 332 1 Amounts have been restated as explained in note 46 228 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 38.
Cash ow statement continued Change in operating liabilities Group Company 1 1 2011 2010 2011 2010 $million $million $million $million Increase decrease in derivative financial instruments 20,266 9,628 48 65 Net increase in deposits from banks, customer accounts, debt securities in issue, Hong Kong notes in circulation and short positions 55,069 43,879 598 3,573 Increase decrease in accruals and deferred income 217 298 22 23 Increase decrease in other liabilities 2,926 5,159 4 2,832 Total 78,478 58,964 524 699 1 Amounts have been restated as explained in note 46 39.
Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the cash ow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following balances with less than three months maturity from the date of acquisition.
Restricted balances comprise minimum balances required to be held at central banks.
Group Company 2011 2010 2011 2010 $million $million $million $million Cash and balances at central banks 47,364 32,724 Less restricted balances 9,961 7,385 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 3,244 4,770 Loans and advances to banks 27,470 26,161 Trading securities 2,333 3,464 Amounts owed by and due to subsidiary undertakings 15,878 13,931 Total 70,450 59,734 15,878 13,931 40.
Capital commitments Capital expenditure approved by the directors but not provided for in these accounts amounted to: 2011 2010 $million $million Contracted 9 42 41.
Operating lease commitments 2011 2010 Premises Equipment Premises Equipment $million $million $million $million Commitments under non-cancellable operating leasesexpiring: Within one year 290 2 259 4 Later than one year and less than five years 637 2 518 5 After five years 479 405 1,406 4 1,182 9 During the year $393 million 2010: $354 million was recognised as an expense in the income statement in respect of operating leases.
The Group leases various premises and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The total future minimum sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases at 31 December 2011 is $2 million 2010: $3 million.
Financial statements and notes Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 229 42.
Contingent liabilities and commitments The table below shows the contract or underlying principal amounts of unmatured off-balance sheet transactions at the balance sheet date.
The contract or underlying principal amounts indicate the volume of business outstanding and do not represent amounts at risk.
2011 2010 $million $million 1 Contingent liabilities Guarantees and irrevocable letters of credit 27,022 31,765 Other contingent liabilities 15,858 10,039 42,880 41,804 1 Commitments Documentary credits and short-term trade-related transactions 8,612 7,505 Forward asset purchases and forward deposits placed 733 877 Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend: One year and over 28,507 24,014 Less than one year 24,193 21,610 2 Unconditionally cancellable 88,652 80,525 150,697 134,531 1 Includes amounts relating to the Groups share of its joint ventures 2 Amounts have been restated to include facilities extended to certain Consumer Banking customers Contingent liabilities Where the Group undertakes to make a payment on behalf of its customers for guarantees issued such as for performance bonds or as irrevocable letters of credit as part of the Groups transaction banking business for which an obligation to make a payment has not arisen at the reporting date those are included in these financial statements as contingent liabilities.
Other contingent liabilities primarily include revocable letters of credit and bonds issued on behalf of customers to customs ofcials, for bids or offers and as shipping guarantees.
The Group receives legal claims against it in a number of jurisdictions arising in the normal course of business.
The Group considers none of these matters as material either individually or in aggregate.
Where appropriate the Group recognises a provision for liabilities when it is probable that an outow of economic resources embodying economic benets will be required and for which a reliable estimate can be made of the obligation see note 33.
Commitments Where the Group has confirmed its intention to provide funds to a customer or on behalf of a customer in the form of loans, overdrafts, future guarantees whether cancellable or not or letters of credit and the Group has not made payments at the balance sheet date, those instruments are included in these financial statements as commitments.
230 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 43.
Repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements The Group enters into collateralised reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements and securities borrowing and lending transactions.
It also receives securities as collateral for commercial lending.
Balance sheet assets Reverse repurchase agreements 2011 2010 $million $million Banks 5,706 10,740 Customers 1,890 3,540 7,596 14,280 Under reverse repurchase and securities borrowing arrangements, the Group obtains securities on terms that permit it to repledge or resell the securities to others.
Amounts on such terms are: 2011 2010 $million $million Securities and collateral which can be repledged or sold at fair value 7,076 14,168 Thereof repledged transferred to others for nancing activities, to satisfy commitments under short sale transactions or liabilities under sale and repurchase agreements at fair value 1,005 2,153 Balance sheet liabilities Repurchase agreements 2011 2010 $million $million Banks 1,913 1,707 Customers 1,850 1,305 3,763 3,012 The terms and conditions relating to the collateral pledged typically permits the collateral to be sold or repledged, subject to the obligation to return the collateral at the end of the agreement.
The table below discloses the collateral pledged against repurchase agreements.
Collateral pledged against repurchase agreements 2011 2010 $million $million Debt securities 2,055 1,242 Treasury bills 724 1,198 Loans and advances to customers 15 39 Repledged securities 1,005 2,153 3,799 4,632 Financial statements and notes Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 231 44.
Special purpose entities The Group uses Special Purpose Entities SPEs in the normal course of business across a variety of activities.
SPEs are established for specic limited purposes and take a number of legal forms.
The main types of activities for which the Group utilises SPEs cover synthetic credit default swaps for portfolio management purposes, managed investment funds including specialised principal finance funds and structured finance.
SPEs are consolidated into the Groups financial statements where the Group bears the majority of the residual risk or reward.
Most of the Groups consolidated SPEs are in respect of the Groups securitised portfolios of residential mortgages see page 59 of the Risk review.
The total assets of unconsolidated SPEs in which the Group has an interest are set out below.
2011 2010 Total Maximum Total Maximum assets exposure assets exposure $million $million $million $million Portfolio management vehicles 1,136 130 2,083 262 1 Principal Finance Funds 1,089 131 995 134 Structured finance 291 99 948 690 2,516 360 4,026 1,086 1 Committed capital for these funds is $375 million 2010: $375 million of which $129 million 2010: $129 million has been drawn down net of provisions for impairment of $33 million 2010: $33 million For the purposes of portfolio management, the Group has entered into synthetic credit default swaps with note-issuing SPEs.
The referenced assets remain on the Groups balance sheet as the credit risk is not transferred to these SPEs.
The Groups exposure arises from a the capitalised start-up costs in respect of the swap vehicles and b interest in the first loss notes and investment in a minimal portion of the mezzanine and senior rated notes issued by the note issuing SPEs.
The proceeds of the notes issuance are typically invested in AAA rated Government securities, which are used to collateralise the SPEs swap obligations to the Group, and to repay the principal to investors at maturity.
The SPEs reimburse the Group on actual losses incurred, through the realisation of the collateral security.
Correspondingly, the SPEs write down the notes issued by an equal amount of the losses incurred, in reverse order of seniority.
All the funding is committed for the life of these vehicles and hence the Group has no indirect exposure in respect of the vehicles liquidity position.
The Groups exposure to Principal Finance Funds represents committed or invested capital in unleveraged investment funds, primarily investing in pan-Asian infrastructure and real estate.
Structured finance comprises interests in transactions that the Group or, more usually, a customer has structured, using one or more SPEs, which provide beneficial arrangements for customers.
The Groups exposure primarily represents the provision of funding to these structures as a financial intermediary, for which it receives a lenders return.
The transactions in 2011 largely related to the provision of ship finance.
The Group has reputational risk in respect of certain portfolio management vehicles and investment funds either because the Group is the arranger and lead manager or because the SPEs have Standard Chartered branding.
Post balance sheet events Tax On 23 March 2011, the UK government announced a further reduction in the UK corporation tax rate of 1 per cent with effect from 1 April 2011, in addition to the stepped reductions as announced in June 2010.
The effect of the further reduction is to reduce the UK corporation tax rate from 28 per cent in 2010-11 to 26 per cent in 2011-12, with further reductions to 25 per cent in 2012-13, 24 per cent in 2013-14 and 23 per cent in 2014-15.
As of 31 December 2011, only the further tax rate change for 2012-13 to 25 per cent had been substantively enacted.
Had the changes of UK corporation tax rates for 2013-15 been enacted at that date, the Group estimates that the UK deferred tax assets for 2011 would have reduced by a further $25 million.
232 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 46.
Restatement of prior periods Cash ow statement The cash ow statement has been re-presented as follows: t Interest expense relating to senior debts has been reclassied to non-cash items included within income statement from change in operating liabilities.
t Also reects restatement relating to Groups acquisition of the custody business from Barclays Bank PLC in 2010 of $18 million.
As reported at Re-presented at 2010 Reclassied 2010 Group $million $million $million Non-cash items included within income statement 1,874 328 2,202 Change in operating assets 82,334 18 82,352 Change in operating liabilities 59,274 310 58,964 As reported at Re-presented at 2010 Reclassied 2010 Company $million $million $million Non-cash items included within income statement 668 183 485 Change in operating liabilities 882 183 699 Acquisitions Provisional balances relating to the Groups acquisition of the custody business from Barclays Bank PLC in 2010 have been nalised.
As a result, the Group has revised the fair value of the deferred tax balances by $18 million.
Goodwill at acquisition has been restated to $39million.
As reported Restated at 2010 Restated 2010 Balance sheet $million $million $million Goodwill and intangible assets 6,980 18 6,998 Deferred tax liabilities 165 18 183 Tangible net asset value per share cents 1,274.1 0.7 1,273.4 Cash ow statement Change in operating assets 24,355 18 24,373 Change in operating liabilities 14,425 18 14,443 47.
Related party transactions Directors and ofcers Details of directors remuneration and interests in shares are disclosed in the Directors remuneration report.
IAS 24 Related party disclosures requires the following additional information for key management compensation.
Key management comprises non-executive directors and members of the Group Management Committee, which includes all executive directors.
2011 2010 $million $million Salaries, allowances and benets in kind 19 19 Pension contributions 5 6 Bonuses paid or receivable 11 12 Share based payments 39 35 74 72 Transactions with directors, ofcers and others At 31 December 2011, the total amounts to be disclosed under the Companies Act 2006 the Act and the Listing Rules of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange Limited HK Listing Rules about loans to directors and ofcers were as follows: 2011 2010 Number $000 Number $000 Directors 2 2,550 2 3,030 1 Ofcers 2 3,064 2 3,458 1 For this disclosure the term ofcers means the members of the Group Management Committee, other than those who are directors of Standard Chartered PLC and the Group Company Secretary Financial statements and notes Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 233 47.
Related party transactions continued As at 31 December 2011, Standard Chartered Bank had created a charge over $42 million 2010: $38 million of cash assets in favour of the independent trustees of its employer financial retirement benefit schemes.
Other than as disclosed in this Annual Report and Accounts, there were no other transactions, arrangements or agreements outstanding for any director, connected person or officer of the Company that have to be disclosed under the Act, the rules of the UK Listing Authority or the HK Listing Rules.
Associates The Group has loans and advances to Merchant Solutions and China Bohai Bank totalling $39 million and $172 million respectively at 31December 2011 2010: $42 million and $6 million respectively and amounts payable to Merchant Solutions and China Bohai Bank of $30 million and $10 million respectively at 31 December 2011 2010: $34 million and $2 million respectively.
During the year China Bohai Bank and ACB undertook a rights issue to which the Group subscribed, increasing its investment by $182 million and $12 million respectively.
Joint ventures The Group has loans and advances to PT Bank Permata Tbk totalling $7 million at 31 December 2011 2010: $2 million, and deposits of $29 million 2010: $24 million.
The Group has investments in subordinated debt issued by PT Bank Permata Tbk of $132 million 2010: $127 million.
Company The Company has received $318 million 2010: $208 million of interest income from Standard Chartered Bank.
The Company issues debt externally and lends proceeds to Group companies.
At 31 December 2011, it had loans to and debt instruments issued by Standard Chartered Bank of $17,625 million 2010: $14,691 million, derivative financial assets of $601 million 2010: $441 million and derivative financial liabilities of $43 million 2010: $90 million with Standard Chartered Bank, loans of $1,731 million 2010: $1,700 million to Standard Chartered Holdings Limited.
In 2006, the Company licensed intellectual property rights related to the Companys main brands to an indirect wholly owned subsidiary, Standard Chartered Strategic Brand Management Limited, the income from which is held on the Companys balance sheet and released over the term of licence, which expires in 2015.
At 31 December 2011, $72 million 2010: $91 million has been included as deferred income in the Company balance sheet in relation to this licence.
The Company has an agreement with Standard Chartered Bank that in the event of Standard Chartered Bank defaulting on its debt coupon interest payments, where the terms of such debt requires it, the Company shall issue shares as settlement for non-payment of the coupon interest.
Standard Chartered PLC Company Classication and measurement of financial instruments 2011 2010 Derivatives Derivatives held for Amortised held for Amortised hedging cost Total hedging cost Total Financial assets $million $million $million $million $million $million Derivatives 601 601 441 441 Debt securities 4,025 4,025 2,725 2,725 Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 15,878 15,878 13,931 13,931 Total at 31 December 601 19,903 20,504 441 16,656 17,097 Derivatives held for hedging are held at fair value, are classied as Level 2 and counterparty is Standard Chartered Bank.
Debt securities comprise corporate securities issued by Standard Chartered Bank with a fair value of $4,062 million 2010: $2,762 million.
In 2010 and 2011, amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings have a fair value equal to carrying value.
2011 2010 Derivatives Derivatives held for Amortised held for Amortised hedging cost Total hedging cost Total Financial liabilities $million $million $million $million $million $million Derivatives 43 43 90 90 Debt securities in issue 11,374 11,374 8,343 8,343 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 1,728 1,728 1,730 1,730 Total at 31 December 43 13,102 13,145 90 10,073 10,163 Derivatives held for hedging are held at fair value, are classied as Level 2 and counterparty is Standard Chartered Bank.
The fair value of debt securities in issue is $11,374 million 2010: $8,343 million.
The fair value of subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds is $1,584 million 2010: $1,608 million.
234 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements continued 48.
Standard Chartered PLC Company continued Derivative financial instruments 2011 2010 Notional Notional principal principal amounts Assets Liabilities amounts Assets Liabilities Total derivatives $million $million $million $million $million $million Foreign exchange derivative contracts: Currency swaps 5,180 326 43 4,671 318 90 Interest rate derivative contracts: Swaps 5,250 275 3,500 123 Total derivatives 10,430 601 43 8,171 441 90 Credit Risk Maximum exposure to credit risk 2011 2010 $million $million Derivative financial instruments 601 441 Investment Securities 4,025 2,725 Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 15,878 13,931 20,504 17,097 In 2010 and 2011, amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings were neither past due nor impaired: the Company had no individually impaired loans.
In 2010 and 2011, the Company had no impaired debt securities.
The debt securities held by the Group are issued by Standard Chartered Bank, a wholly owned subsidiary undertaking with a credit rating of AAto AA.
Liquidity risk The following table analyses the residual contractual maturity of the assets and liabilities of the Company, on a discounted basis: 2011 Between Three three Between More than months months and one year and five years and or less one year five years undated Total $million $million $million $million $million Assets Derivative financial instruments 325 276 601 Investment securities 250 3,775 4,025 Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 15,878 15,878 Investments in subsidiary undertakings 14,291 14,291 Other assets 45 45 Total assets 575 34,265 34,840 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments 43 43 Debt securities in issue 11,374 11,374 Other liabilities 69 68 218 355 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 915 813 1,728 Total liabilities 69 12,400 1,031 13,500 Net liquidity gap 69 11,825 33,234 21,340 Financial statements and notes Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 235 48.
Standard Chartered PLC Company continued 2010 Between Three three Between More than months months and one year and five years and or less one year five years undated Total $million $million $million $million $million Assets Derivative financial instruments 441 441 Investment securities 250 2,475 2,725 Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 13,931 13,931 Investments in subsidiary undertakings 14,291 14,291 Other assets 48 48 Total assets 691 30,745 31,436 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments 90 90 Debt securities in issue 8,343 8,343 Other liabilities 273 92 365 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 1,730 1,730 Total liabilities 90 8,616 1,822 10,528 Net liquidity gap 90 7,925 28,923 20,908 Financial liabilities excluding derivative financial instruments on an undiscounted basis 2011 2010 Between Between three Between More than three Between More than Three months one year five years Three months one year five years months and and and months and and and or less one year five years undated or less one year five years undated $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Debt securities in issue 2 107 11,649 49 1,333 6,733 1,640 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 1 102 1,264 813 13 90 255 1,892 Other liabilities 68 127 192 154 Total liabilities 3 209 12,981 940 62 1,423 7,180 3,686 Derivative financial instruments on an undiscounted basis Derivative financial instruments include those net settled derivative contracts in a net liability position, together with the pay leg of gross settled contracts regardless of whether the overall contract is in an asset or liability position.
The receiving leg is not shown in this table and as a result the derivative amounts in this table are inated by their exclusion.
2011 2010 Between Between three Between More than three Between More than Three months one year five years Three months one year five years months and and and months and and and or less one year five years undated or less one year five years undated $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Derivative financial instruments 21 142 495 4 69 166 236 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Marina Bay, Singapore Supplementary information Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 237 238 Supplementary financial information Supplementary 253 Shareholder information 255 Glossary information 259 Major awards 263 Index
