SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2011 109 Glossary of terms Early-stage Distributions Seed: Payments to investors after the realisation of investments of the Financing provided to allow a business concept to be developed, perhaps partnership.
involving production of prototypes and additional research, prior to bringing a product to market.
Divestments or realisations or exits Start-up: Exits of investments, usually via a trade sale or an IPO Initial Public Financing provided to companies for the use in product development Offering on a stock market.
Companies may be in the process of being set up or may have been in business for a short time, but have not sold their product commercially.
Draw downs calls Other early-stage: Payments to the partnership by investors in order to finance investments.
Financing provided to companies that have completed the product Funds are drawn down from investors on a deal-by-deal basis.
development stage and require further funds to initiate commercial manufacturing and sales.
They will not yet be generating profit.
Fund of funds Private equity funds whose principal activity consists of investing in other Late-stage private equity funds.
Investors in funds of funds can thereby increase their level of diversication.
Expansion nancing: Capital provided for the growth and expansion of a company which is breaking even or even trading profitably.
Funds may be used to finance Gearing, debt equity ratio or leverage increased production capacity, market or product development and or The level of a companys borrowings as a percentage of shareholder funds.
Capital provided for turnaround situations is also included in this category.
Management Buy-Out MBO : Hurdle rate Funds provided to enable current operating management and investors Arrangement that caps the downside risk for investors.
It allows investors to acquire an existing business.
to get preferential access to the profits of the partnership.
In the absence of reaching the hurdle return, general partners will not receive a share of Management Buy-In MBI : the profit carried interest.
A hurdle rate of 10% means that the private Funds provided to enable a manager or group of managers from outside equity fund needs to achieve a return of at least 10% before the profits the Company to buy into the Company.
are shared according to the carried interest arrangement.
Follow-on investment Limited partnership A company which has previously received private equity.
Most private equity rms structure their funds as limited partnerships.
Investors represent the limited partners and private equity managers Secondary purchase thegeneral partners.
Purchase of existing shares in a company from another private equity rm, or from other shareholders.
Realisation The sale of an investment.
Public to private Purchase of the share capital of a company quoted on a stock exchange Secondary market with the intention of fide-listing the company and taking it private.
The secondary market enables institutional investors to sell their stakes ina private equity partnership before it is wound up.
General Terms Carried interest carry.
Trade sale Carried interest or simply carry represents the share of a private equity Sale of the equity share of an investee company to another company.
funds profit usually 20% that will accrue to the general partners.
Committed funds or raised funds or committed capital is capital Turnaround committed by investors.
This will be requested or drawn down by A loss-making company which can be successfully transformed into private equity managers on a deal-by-deal basis.
This amount is different aprot maker.
from invested funds for two reasons.
Firstly, most partnerships will invest only between 80% and 95% of committed funds.
Second, one has to Further information on our website deduct the annual management fee which is supposed to cover the cost www.
com of operation of a fund.
Company information SVG Capital plc Head ofce 61 Aldwych London WC2B 4AE Telephone 020 7010 8900 Fax 020 7010 8950 www.
com Design and production by Radley Yeldar www.
com This report has been printed on Amadeus 50% recycled silk a paper which is certied by the Forest Stewardship Council and contains 50%recycled waste and 50% virgin bre.
The paper is made at a millwith EMAS and ISO 14001 environmental management system accreditation.
This report was printed using vegetable oil based inks and 100% renewable energy by a CarbonNeutral printer certied toISO 14001 environmental management system and registered toEMAS the EcoManagement Audit Scheme.
