Overview Overview Dir Directors r ectors report: eport: Dir Directors r ectors report: eport: Financial Statements Financial statements Business r Business review eview Gover Governance finance 27 Investor relations There is a formal investor relations programme based around the results presentations and interim management statements.
All of the Non-Executive Directors are available to attend meetings at shareholder request.
The Chairman and Executive Directors feed back any investor comments to the Board.
All Directors normally attend the Annual General Meeting and are available to answer any questions that shareholders may raise.
All shareholders will have at least 20 working days notice of the Annual General Meeting.
As required by the Code the Board will, at the 2011 Annual General Meeting, announce the proxy votes in favour of and against each resolution following a vote by a show of hands, and the votes cast will be posted on the corporate website.
Authority to purchase own shares At the 2010 Annual General Meeting shareholders gave the Company renewed authority to purchase a maximum of 6,721,934 shares of one penny each.
This resolution remains valid until the date of this years Annual General Meeting.
As at 30 April 2011, the Directors had not used this authority.
The Companys present intention is to cancel any shares acquired under such authority, unless purchased to satisfy outstanding awards under employee share incentive plans.
A resolution seeking renewal of the authority will be proposed at this years Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting The 2011 Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on 8 September 2011 at Harris House, Purfleet Bypass, Purfleet, Essex RM19 1TT at 12.00 noon.
A full description of the business to be conducted at the meeting is set out in the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
UK company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Company and Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state that the financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys websites www.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Going concern The Directors confirm that, after reviewing expenditure commitments, expected cash flows and borrowing facilities, they have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the next financial year and the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Further details of the Groups liquidity are given in the financial review on page 10.
Disclosure of information to auditors Each of the Directors of the Company has confirmed that as far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware and that each Director has taken all steps to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
uk 28 Other information continued Responsibility Statement We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the business review, which is incorporated into the Directors report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
This Directors Report, including the Statement of Directors responsibilities, has been approved by the Board.
By order of the Board Lord Harris Chairman and Chief Executive 27 June 2011 Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2011
