223791 TempleBarAR pg16-27 22 02 2012 18:43 Page 21 Active investment working for you Report of the directors continued ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Directors authority to purchase the Groups own shares The notice of the Annual General Meeting of the Company The directors consider it desirable to give the Group the to be held on 26 March 2012 is on pages 45 to 48.
In opportunity to buy back shares in circumstances where the addition to the ordinary business three resolutions are shares may be bought for a price which is below the net proposed as special business.
asset value per share of the Group.
The purchase of ordinary shares is intended to reduce the discount at which Authority to allot shares and disapplication of ordinary shares trade in the market through the Group pre-emption rights becoming a new source of demand for ordinary shares.
The It is proposed that the directors be authorised to allot up rules of the UK Listing Authority provide that the to 1,492,534 of relevant securities in the Group maximum price which can be paid by the Group is 5% equivalent to 5,970,136 ordinary shares of 25p each, above the average of the market value of the ordinary representing 10.0% of its ordinary shares in issue as at shares for the five business days before the purchase is 22 February 2012. made.
When shares are to be allotted for cash, the Companies It is expected that any shares bought back pursuant to Act 2006 requires such new shares to be offered first to this authority will be cancelled rather than being held in existing shareholders in proportion to their existing Treasury.
The appropriate resolution is set out in the Notice holdings of ordinary shares.
However, in certain of Meeting on page 45. circumstances, it is beneficial to allot shares for cash otherwise than pro rata to existing shareholders and the Recommendation ordinary shareholders can by special resolution waive their The Board considers the resolutions to be proposed at the pre-emption rights.
Therefore, a special resolution will be AGM to be in the best interests of the Group and its proposed at the AGM which, if passed, will give the members as a whole.
Accordingly, the directors directors the power to allot for cash equity securities up to unanimously recommend that shareholders should vote in an aggregate nominal amount of 1,492,534 equivalent to favour of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM, as 5,970,136 ordinary shares of 25p each or 10.0% of the they intend to do so in respect of their own beneficial Groups existing issued ordinary share capital.
holdings, amounting to 85,996 ordinary shares.
The directors intend to use this authority to issue new shares to participants in the Temple Bar Investment Trust Savings Scheme or to other prospective purchasers whenever they believe it may be advantageous to shareholders to do so.
Any such issues would only be made at prices greater than net asset value, as adjusted for the market value of the Groups debt and, therefore, would increase the assets underlying each share.
The issue proceeds would be available for investment in line with the Groups investment policy.
No issues of shares will be made which would alter the By order of the Board of Directors control of the Group without the prior approval of M K Slade shareholders in general meeting.
For Investec Asset Management Limited The appropriate resolutions are set out in the Notice of Secretary Meeting on page 45.
22 February 2012 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 21
