223791 TempleBarAR pg28-50 22 02 2012 18:43 Page 45 Active investment working for you Notice of meeting THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take you should consult your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 immediately.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your ordinary shares in Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC, please forward this document and the accompanying form of proxy as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was or is being effected for delivery to the purchaser or transferee.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the eighty-sixth Annual General Meeting of Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC will be held at 11.00am on Monday 26 March 2012 at 2 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QP for the following purposes: ORDINARY BUSINESS: 1.
To approve the Group accounts for the year ended 31 December 2011 together with the reports of the directors and auditor thereon.
To approve the report on directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2011.
To declare a final dividend of 21.23p per ordinary share.
To re-elect Mr R W Jewson as a director.
To re-elect Mr J Reeve as a director.
To re-elect Mr M R Riley as a director.
To re-elect Mr A T Copple as a director.
To re-elect Mr D G C Webster as a director.
To re-elect Mrs J F fide Moller as a director.
To re-appoint the auditor and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration.
SPECIAL BUSINESS: To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions: ORDINARY RESOLUTION: 11.
That the directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares Rights up to an aggregate maximum nominal amount of 1,492,534, being approximately 10% of the issued share capital of the Group as at 22 February 2012, provided that: i the authority granted shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Group in 2013 but may be revoked or varied by the Group in general meeting and may be renewed by the Group in general meeting: and ii the said authority shall allow and enable the directors to make an offer or agreement before the expiry of that authority which would or might require shares to be allotted or Rights to be granted after such expiry and the directors may allot shares and grant Rights in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if that authority had not expired.
That, subject to the passing of resolution 11 set out above, the directors be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 570-573 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot equity securities as defined in Section 570-573 of that Act for cash, in accordance with the authority conferred on them by this meeting to allot shares, as if Section 561 i of that Act did not apply to the allotment, provided that the power conferred by this resolution shall be limited to: i the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all ordinary shareholders are proportionate to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them on the record date of such allotment but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal problems under the law of or the requirements of any recognised regulatory body or any stock exchange in any territory : and ii the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub paragraph i above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value not exceeding 1,492,534: and shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Group in 2013 save that the Group may make an offer or agreement before this power has expired, which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 45 223791 TempleBarAR pg28-50 22 02 2012 18:43 Page 46 Active investment working for you Notice of meeting continued 13.
That the Group generally be and is hereby authorised for the purpose of Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 to make market purchases as defined in Section 693 of the Act of ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Group ordinary shares provided that: i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 14.99% of the issued share capital of the Group as at the date of the passing of this resolution: ii the minimum price which may be paid for such shares is 25p per share: iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses payable by the Group which may be paid for such shares shall be 5% above the average of the market value of the share quotations taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days before the purchase is made: iv the authority hereby conferred shall unless previously renewed or revoked expire at the end of the Annual General Meeting of the Group in 2013, or, if earlier, the date falling fifteen months from the date of this resolution: v the Group may make a contract to purchase its own shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may make a purchase of its own shares in pursuance of any such contract.
By order of the Board of Directors 2 Gresham Street M K Slade London EC2V 7QP For Investec Asset Management Limited Secretary 22 February 2012 Shown is a plan of the location of Investec Asset Management Limited, 2 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QP where the Annual General Meeting will be held on Monday 26 March 2012 at 11.00am.
46 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 223791 TempleBarAR pg28-50 22 02 2012 18:43 Page 47 Active investment working for you Notice of meeting continued NOTES 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the above 5.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend the proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy meeting to speak and vote on a show of hands and, on appointment service may do so for the meeting and a poll, to vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures member of the Group.
A member wishing to appoint described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal more than one proxy must appoint each proxy in members or other CREST sponsored members and respect of a specified number of shares within his those CREST members who have appointed a voting holding.
For this purpose, a member may photocopy service provider s should refer to their CREST sponsor the enclosed Form of Proxy before completion and or voting service provider s who will be able to take must indicate the number of shares in respect of which the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a 2.
Instruments of proxy should be sent to Equiniti CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West authenticated in accordance with Euroclears specifications Sussex BN99 6DA so as to arrive no later than and must contain the information required for such 11.00am on 22 March 2012.
Completion and return of instructions, as described in the CREST Manual available the form of proxy will not preclude shareholders from via www.
The CREST message must attending and voting at the meeting in person should be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent they wish to do so.
ID RA19 by not later than 48 hours excluding nonworking days before the time appointed for the holding 3.
Members who hold ordinary shares in the Group in of the meeting or the adjourned meeting.
For this uncertificated form must have been entered on the purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time Groups register of members by 6.00pm on 22 March as determined by the timestamp applied to the CREST 2012 in order to be able to attend and vote at the message by the CREST Applications Host from which meeting, or if the meeting is adjourned, 6.00pm on the the issuers agent is able to retrieve the CREST message day two business days before the time fixed for the by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by adjourned meeting.
Such members may only vote at CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to the meeting in respect of ordinary shares held at the proxies appointed through CREST should be time.
communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST 4.
In accordance with Section 325 of the Companies Act sponsors or voting service provider s, should note that 2006, the right to appoint proxies does not apply to Euroclear does not make available special procedures in persons nominated to receive information rights under CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system Section 146 of the Act.
Persons nominated to receive timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to information rights under Section 146 of the Act who the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the have been sent a copy of this notice of meeting are responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take hereby informed, in accordance with Section 149 2 of or, if the CREST member s is are a CREST personal the Act, that they may have a right under an member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting agreement with the registered member by whom they service provider s, to procure that the CREST sponsor or were nominated to be appointed, or to have someone voting service provider takes such action as shall be else appointed, as a proxy for this meeting.
If they necessary to ensure that a CREST message is transmitted have no such right, or do not wish to exercise it, they by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In may have a right under such an agreement to give this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s is are rights.
Nominated persons should contact the referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST registered member by whom they were nominated in Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST respect of these arrangements.
The Group may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 47 223791 TempleBarAR pg28-50 22 02 2012 18:43 Page 48 Active investment working for you Notice of meeting continued NOTES CONTINUED 6.
Shareholders should note that, under Section 527 of the 8.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this Companies Act 2006 members meeting the threshold notice of meeting to communicate with the Company requirements set out in that section have the right to for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
require the Group to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: 9.
Any member attending the meeting has the right to i the audit of the Groups accounts including the ask questions.
The Group must cause to be answered auditors report and the conduct of the audit that any such question relating to the business being dealt are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting for with at the meeting but no such answer need be given the financial year beginning 1 January 2011: or if a to do so would interfere unduly with the ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure Group appointed for the financial year 1 January of confidential information, b the answer has already 2011 ceasing to hold office since the previous been given on a website in the form of an answer to a meeting at which annual accounts and reports were question, or c it is undesirable in the interests of the laid.
The Group may not require the shareholders Group or the good order of the meeting that the requesting any such website publication to pay its question be answered.
expenses in complying with Sections 527 or 528 requirements as to website availability of the 10.
None of the directors has a service contract with the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Group is required to Group.
place a statement on a website under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the 11.
As at 22 February 2012, the latest practicable date statement to the Groups auditor not later than the prior to publication of this document, the Group had time when it makes the statement available on the 59,701,367 ordinary shares in issue with a total of website.
The business which may be dealt with at the 59,701,367 voting rights.
Annual General Meeting for the relevant financial year includes any statement that the Group has been 12.
In accordance with Section 311A of the Companies Act required under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, the contents of this notice of meeting, details of 2006 to publish on a website.
the total number of shares in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the 7.
A member of the Company which is a corporation may AGM and, if applicable, any members statements, authorise a person or persons to act as its members resolutions or members matters of business representative s at the AGM.
In accordance with the received by the Group after the date of this notice will provisions of the Companies Act 2006, each such be available on the Groups website: representative may exercise on behalf of the www.
corporation the same powers as the corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the Company, provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
It is no longer necessary to nominate a designated corporate representative.
48 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
