223791 TempleBarAR pg28-50 22 02 2012 18:43 Page 33 Active investment working for you Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of accounting Income The consolidated financial statements of the Group and the Dividend income from investments is recognised when the Company have been prepared in accordance with Groups right to receive payment has been established, International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, which normally the ex-dividend date.
comprise standards and interpretations approved by the Where the Group has elected to receive its dividends in International Accounting Standards Board IASB, and the form of additional shares rather than cash, the amount International Accounting Standards and Standing of cash dividend foregone is recognised as income.
Any Interpretations Committee interpretations approved by the excess in the value of shares received over the amount of International Accounting Standards Committee IASC cash dividend foregone is recognised as a gain in the that remain in effect, and to the extent that they have Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
been adopted by the European Union.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest are set out below.
Where presentational guidance set out in rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP for estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Companies AIC in January 2009 is consistent with the requirements of IFRS, the directors have sought to prepare Foreign Currency the financial statements on a basis compliant with the The financial statements are prepared in Pounds Sterling recommendations of the SORP.
because that is the currency of the primary economic All values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds environment in which the Group operates.
The primary objective of the Group is to generate returns in Pounds Sterling, its capital-raising currency.
The Basis of consolidation liquidity of the Group is managed on a day-to-day basis in The consolidated financial statements incorporate the Sterling as the Groups performance is evaluated in that financial statements of the Group and entities controlled currency.
Therefore, the directors consider Pounds Sterling by the Group its subsidiaries made up to 31 December as the currency that most faithfully represents the each year.
Control is achieved where the Group has the economic effects of the underlying transactions, events and power to govern the financial and operating policies of an conditions.
investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Transactions involving foreign currencies are converted All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated into Pounds Sterling at the exchange rate ruling Presentation of Consolidated Statement of on the year-end date.
Foreign exchange differences arising Comprehensive Income on translation are recognised in the Consolidated In order better to reflect the activities of an investment Statement of Comprehensive Income.
trust company and in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC, supplementary information which analyses the Expenses Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income All expenses are accounted for on the accruals basis.
In between items of a revenue and capital nature has been respect of the analysis between revenue and capital items presented alongside the Consolidated Statement of presented within the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
In accordance with the Groups Comprehensive Income, all expenses have been presented status as a UK investment company under Section 833 of as revenue items except as follows: the Companies Act 2006, net capital returns may not be Transaction costs which are incurred on the purchases or distributed by way of dividend.
Additionally, the net sales of investments designated as fair value through revenue is the measure the directors believe appropriate in profit or loss are expensed to capital in the Consolidated assessing the Groups compliance with certain Statement of Comprehensive Income.
requirements set out in Section 1158 of the Corporation Expenses are split and presented partly as capital items Tax Act 2010. where a connection with the maintenance or enhancement of the value of the investments held can be demonstrated and, accordingly, the investment management fee and finance costs have been allocated 40% to revenue and 60% to capital, in order to reflect the directors long-term view of the nature of the expected investment returns of the Group.
Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 33
