qxp:u10775 13 p42 Statement of Directors Res 14 6 11 17:06 Page 39 Bleed: 0 mm Scale STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare the financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU.
The financial statements are required by law and IFRS as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position of the Company and the performance for that period.
The Companies Act 2006 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, as adopted by the EU: and prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for the system of internal control, for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and the Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Annual Report is available on the Companys website www.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements and other information included in annual reports may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company: and the Directors report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By Order of the Board Peter Smith Chairman 14 June 2011 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 39
