qxp:u10775 22 p65-72 Notice of Meeting 14 6 11 17:07 Page 62 Bleed: 0 mm Scale: 100% NOTICE OF MEETING NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Annual General Meeting of Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust Public Limited Company the Company will be held at Stationers Hall, Ave Maria Lane, London EC4M 7DD on 22 July 2011 at 12 noon to transact the following business: To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions.
Resolutions 1 to 13 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and resolutions 14 to 16 will be proposed as special resolutions.
To receive and adopt the Directors and Auditors Reports and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2011.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2011.
To declare a dividend of 4.25 pence per share.
To re-elect Peter A Smith as a Director.
To re-elect Christopher D Brady as a Director.
To re-elect Hamish N Buchan as a Director.
To re-elect Sir Peter Burt as a Director.
To re-elect Neil A Collins as a Director.
To re-elect Peter O Harrison as a Director.
To re-elect Gregory E Johnson as a Director.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as Auditors, to act until the conclusion of the next general meeting of the Company at which audited accounts are laid before the members.
To authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors remuneration.
That the Directors be generally and unconditionally authorised to allot equity securities as defined in Section 560 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act pursuant to Section 551 of the Act, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 4,123,304 being an amount equal to 5% of the existing issued share capital of the Company as at 3 June 2011, being the latest practicable date before the date of this notice, provided that this authority shall, unless renewed, varied or revoked by the Company, expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2012 save that the Company may, before such expiry, make offers or agreements which would or might require equity securities to be allotted and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement notwithstanding that the authority conferred by this resolution has expired.
That, subject to the passing of resolution 13, the Directors be given the general power to allot equity securities as defined by Section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 9, as if Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 4,123,304 being an amount equal to 5% of the existing issued share capital of the Company as at 3 June 2011, being the latest practicable date before the date of this notice.
The power granted by this resolution will expire on conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company to be held in 2012 unless renewed, varied or revoked by the Company prior to or on such date save that the Company may, before such expiry make offers or agreements which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of any such offer or agreement notwithstanding that the power conferred by this resolution has expired.
62 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC u10775 22 p62-69 Notice of Meeting.
That, the Company be and is hereby authorised in accordance with Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 4 of the Companies Act 2006 of shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company shares provided that: i the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall not exceed 14.99 per cent.
of the shares in issue on 22 July 2011, or 49,446,666 shares, whichever is lower: ii the minimum price which may be paid for a share shall be 25 pence: iii the maximum price which may be paid for a share shall not be more than the higher of an amount equal to 105 per cent.
of the average of the closing mid-market price of shares as derived from the daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase and the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the regulation entitled the Buy-Back and Stabilisation Regulation: and iv unless renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire on the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2012, save that the Company may, prior to such expiry enter into a contract to purchase shares which will or may be completed wholly or partly after such expiry.
That a General Meeting, other than an Annual General Meeting, may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
By Order of the Board Registered Office 5 Morrison Street Edinburgh EH3 8BH Sara A MacIntosh for and on behalf of Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited Secretary 14 June 2011 Please ensure that you read the notes to this Notice on pages 63 to 65.
The Company specifies that only those members registered on the Companys register of members at 6.00pm on 20 July 2011 shall be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting the Meeting.
A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint a proxy or proxies to attend, to speak and, on a poll, vote thereat instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
Appointment of a proxy will not preclude a member from attending and voting in person.
A member may appoint more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares.
A member may not appoint more than one proxy to exercise rights attached to one share.
Please contact the Companys registrar Equiniti, at Aspect House, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6ZN to appoint more than one proxy.
The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose shares are held on their behalf by another person and who have been nominated to receive communications from the Company in accordance with Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 nominated persons.
Nominated persons may have a right under an agreement with the registered shareholder who holds the shares on their behalf to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the person holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
A member can only appoint a proxy using the procedures set out in these notes and the notes to the proxy form.
A proxy form must be returned to the Companys registrar, Equiniti, Aspect House, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6ZN to arrive not later than 12 noon on 20 July 2011.
New Zealand shareholders must return a proxy form to Computershare, Private Bag 92119, Auckland 1142, New Zealand to arrive not later than 4.00pm on 18 July 2011 New Zealand time.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 63 u10775 22 p62-69 Notice of Meeting.
qxp:u10775 22 p65-72 Notice of Meeting 14 6 11 17:07 Page 64 Bleed: 0 mm Scale: 100% NOTICE OF MEETING CONTINUED 7.
A corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise, on its behalf, all its powers as a member provided that no more than one corporate representative exercises powers over the same share.
As at 3 June 2011, the Companys issued share capital was 329,864,352 shares of 25p each.
Each share carries the right to vote at an Annual General Meeting of the Company and, therefore, the total number of voting rights in the Company as at 3 June 2011 is 329,864,352.
Copies of the letters of appointment of the Directors of the Company are available for inspection at the Companys registered office at 5 Morrison Street, Edinburgh, EH3 8BH, at Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited, The Adelphi, 1-11 John Adam Street, London WC2N 6HT and at the Meeting for 15 minutes prior to the Meeting and during the Meeting.
Electronic proxy appointment for CREST members for UK only.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual which can be viewed at www.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy, must in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent RA19 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Electronic proxy appointment for non-CREST members for UK only.
Shareholders who prefer to register the appointment of their proxy electronically via the Internet can do so through the Equinitis website at www.
co. uk where full instructions on the procedure are given.
The personal Voting ID, Task ID and Shareholder Reference Number printed in the voting pack will be required to use this electronic proxy appointment system.
Alternatively, shareholders who have already registered with Equinitis on-line portfolio service, Shareview, can appoint their proxy electronically by logging on to their portfolio at www.
co. uk and clicking on the lists to vote underneath your Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust holding.
A proxy appointment made electronically will not be valid if sent to any address other than those provided or if received after 12 noon on 20 July 2011.
Please note that any electronic communication found to contain a computer virus will not be accepted.
Electronic proxy appointment for New Zealand registered shareholders.
New Zealand registered investors who prefer to register the appointment of their proxy electronically via the Internet can do so through the Computershare website at www.
co. nz investor centre, click on Proxy voting, choose the Company, where full instructions on the procedure are given.
Your CSN Common Shareholder Number and personal FIN Number will be required to use this electronic proxy appointment system.
A proxy appointment made electronically will not be valid if sent to any address other than that provided or if received after 4.00pm New Zealand time on 18 July 2011.
New Zealand registered investors cannot appoint more than one proxy when registering the appointment of their proxy electronically.
64 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC u10775 22 p62-69 Notice of Meeting.
A member of the Company may make a request in accordance with Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to have a statement published on the Companys website setting out an audit concern.
This allows a member or members having a right to vote at the Meeting and holding at least 5% of total voting rights of the Company: or at least 100 members have a right to vote at the Meeting and holding, on average, at least 100 of paid up share capital, to make a request so that the Company must publish on its website, a statement setting out any matter that such members propose to raise at the Meeting relating to the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Meeting.
Where the Company is required to publish such a statement on its website: i it may not require the members making the request to pay any expenses incurred by the Company in complying with the request: ii it must forward the statement to the Companys Auditors no later than the time the statement is made available on the Companys website: and ii the statement may be dealt with as part of the business of the Meeting.
A member wishing to request publication of such a statement on the Companys website must send the request to the Company in hard copy form to the Company Secretary or by email to enquiries@franklintempleton.
The request must either set out the statement in full or, if supporting a statement sent by another member, clearly identify the statement which is being supported and be received by the Company at least one week before the Meeting.
Pursuant to Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company must provide an answer to any question which is put by a member attending the Meeting relating to the business being considered, except if a response would not be in the interest of the Company or for the good order of the meeting or if to do so would involve the disclosure of confidential information.
The Company may however elect to provide an answer to a question, within a reasonable period of days after the conclusion of the Meeting.
In accordance with Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the contents of this notice of meeting, details of the total number of shares in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the Meeting and, if applicable, any members statements, members resolutions or members matters of business received by the Company after the date of this notice will be available on the Companys website, www.
You may not use any electronic address provided either in this Notice of Meeting or any related documents including the Form of Proxy to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 65
