THE GROUP COMPANY Explanation of Notice of Annual General Meeting Resolutions 1, 2, 3 and 4: Accounts, Directors of the maximum nominal amount in respect of Ordinary shares Remuneration Report and Dividends and not more than one-third 8,761,115 of the maximum These are the resolutions which deal with the presentation of the nominal amount in respect of Sigma shares.
audited accounts and the approval of the directors remuneration Resolution 12: Disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights report and the declaration of the final dividends.
The vote to This resolution would give the Directors the authority to allot approve the remuneration report is advisory only and will not shares or sell any shares which the Company elects to hold in require the Company to alter any arrangements detailed in the treasury for cash without first offering them to existing report should the resolution not be passed.
shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
Resolution 5: Re-election of Director This authority would be limited to allotments or sales in connection Resolution 5 deals with the re-election of Paul Spencer as director.
with pre-emptive offers and offers to holders of other equity Under the Articles of Association, Paul Spencer is required to retire securities if required by the rights of those shares or as the board by rotation at the AGM: he has confirmed he will offer himself for otherwise considers necessary, or otherwise up to an aggregate re-election.
nominal amount of 3,982,325 representing a maximum of Resolution 6: Re-election of Director 15,929,300 Ordinary shares or a maximum of 31,858,600 Sigma Resolution 6 deals with the re-election of Caroline Burton, who has shares.
This aggregate nominal amount represents approximately served on the Board for more than nine years.
In accordance with 5% of the total issued share capital of the Company as at 10 June the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, which requires 2011, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
In directors who have served for more than nine years to seek annual respect of this aggregate nominal amount, the Directors confirm their re-election, Caroline Burton will retire at the forthcoming AGM and intention to follow the provisions of the Pre-Emption Groups she has confirmed she will offer herself for re-election.
Statement of Principles regarding cumulative usage of authorities within a rolling 3-year period where the Principles provide that usage Resolution 7: Re-election of Director in excess of 7.5% should not take place without prior consultation Resolution 7 is for the re-election of Peter Salsbury, who has with shareholders.
The Directors would intend not to exercise more served on the Board for more than nine years.
In accordance with than two-thirds 2,654,883 of the aggregate nominal amount in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, which requires respect of Ordinary shares and not to exercise more than one-third directors who have served for more than nine years to seek annual 1,327,442 of the aggregate nominal amount in respect of re-election, Peter Salsbury will retire at the forthcoming AGM and Sigma shares.
he has confirmed he will offer himself for re-election.
The authority will expire at the earlier of close of business on Resolution 8: Re-election of Director 26 October 2012 and the conclusion of the annual general Resolution 8 is for the re-election of Richard Stone, who has meeting of the Company held in 2012. served on the Board for more than nine years.
In accordance with Resolution 13: Authority to make Market Purchases of the the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, which requires directors who have served for more than nine years to seek annual Companys Ordinary and Sigma shares re-election, Richard Stone will retire at the forthcoming AGM and At the AGM held on 27 July 2010, a special resolution was he has confirmed he will offer himself for re-election.
proposed and passed, giving the directors authority, until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2011, to make Resolutions 9 and 10: Auditors market purchases of the Companys own issued Ordinary and These deal with the re-appointment of the auditors, Ernst & Young Sigma shares up to a maximum of 14.99% of the issued share LLP, and the authorisation for the directors to determine their capital.
This authority will expire at this years AGM.
Your Board is proposing that they should be given renewed Resolution 11: Allotment of share capital authority to purchase Ordinary and Sigma shares in the market.
Our Board considers it appropriate that an authority be granted to Your Board believes that to make such purchases in the market at allot shares in the capital of the Company up to a maximum appropriate times and prices is a suitable method of enhancing nominal amount of 26,283,345 representing approximately shareholder value.
The Company would, within guidelines set from 33% of the Companys issued share capital as at 10 June 2011, time to time by the Board, make either a single purchase or a being the latest practical date prior to publication.
As at the date series of purchases, when market conditions are suitable, with the of this notice the Company does not hold any shares in treasury.
aim of maximising the benefits to shareholders.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising this authority Where purchases are made at prices below the prevailing Net Asset and would only expect to use the authority if shares could be issued at, or at a premium to, the NAV per share of the relevant Value per share, this will enhance the Net Asset Value for the share class.
If the Directors were to exercise this authority, they remaining shareholders.
It is therefore intended that purchases would intend to exercise not more than two-thirds 17,522,230 would only be made at prices below Net Asset Value.
Your Board TR Property Investment Trust 93 THE GROUP COMPANY Explanation of Notice of Annual General Meeting continued considers that it will be most advantageous to shareholders for the ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and Company to be able to make such purchases as and when it the highest current independent bid for an Ordinary share considers the timing to be favourable and therefore does not or Sigma share in the Company on the trading venue propose to set a timetable for making any such purchases.
where the purchase is carried out.
The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares The minimum price to be paid will be 25p per Ordinary share and Regulations 2003 the Regulations came into force on 12.5p per Sigma share being the nominal values.
The Regulations enable companies in the also limit a listed company to purchases of shares representing up to United Kingdom to hold in treasury any of their own shares they 15% of its issued share capital in the market pursuant to a general have purchased with a view to possible resale at a future date, authority such as this.
For this reason, the Company is limiting its rather than cancelling them.
If the Company does re-purchase any authority to make such purchases to 14.99% of the Companys of its shares, the directors do not currently intend to hold any of Ordinary and Sigma shares in issue at the date of the AGM: this is the shares re-purchased in treasury.
The shares so re-purchased equivalent to 38,408,128 Ordinary shares of 25p each nominal will continue to be cancelled.
value 9,602,032 and 18,695,828 Sigma shares of 12.5p each nominal value 2,336,978 at 10 June 2011, the date of the Notice The Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority limit the maximum of the AGM.
The authority will last until the AGM of the Company to price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for any such be held in 2012 or at any other general meeting.
It shall not be more than the higher of: i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an Ordinary share if an Ordinary share is being purchased or of a Sigma share if a Sigma share is being purchased as taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which the Company agrees to buy shares concerned: and 94 TR Property Investment Trust
