THE GROUP COMPANY Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued e Taxation Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Income tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity.
Otherwise income tax is recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The tax effect of different items of expenditure is allocated between capital and revenue for the Ordinary shares and the Sigma shares using the Groups effective rate of tax for the year.
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred taxation is provided using the liability method on all timing differences, calculated at the rate at which it is anticipated the timing differences will reverse.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only when, on the basis of available evidence, it is more likely than not that there will be taxable profits in the future against which the deferred tax asset can be offset.
The brought forward tax losses held within TR Property Investment Trust plc prior to the introduction of the new Sigma share class have been split between the Ordinary shares and the Sigma shares based on the proportion of Ordinary shares converted to Sigma shares on 24 July 2007 18.9943%.
Tax losses will in the future only be transferred from one share class to another to the extent that there are insufficient current year losses available to the share class claiming the losses to cover the taxable income arising.
The Company is an investment trust under s. 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and, as such, is not liable for tax on capital gains.
Capital gains arising in subsidiary companies are subject to capital gains tax.
f Investment property Investment property Investment property is measured initially at cost including transaction costs.
Transaction costs include transfer taxes, professional fees for legal services and initial leasing commissions to bring the property to the condition necessary for it to be capable of operating.
The carrying amount also includes the cost of replacing part of an existing investment property at the time that cost is incurred if the recognition criteria are met.
The purchase and sale of properties is recognised to be effected on the date unconditional contracts are exchanged.
Subsequent to initial recognition, investment property is stated at fair value.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair values are included in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income in the year in which they arise.
Investment property is derecognised when it has been disposed of or permanently withdrawn from use and no future economic benefit is expected from its disposal.
Any gains or losses on the retirement or disposal of investment property are recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income in the year of retirement or disposal.
Gains or losses on the disposal of investment property are determined as the difference between net disposal proceeds and the carrying value of the asset in the previous full period financial statements.
Revaluation of Investment Properties The Group carries its investment properties at fair value market value revalued twice a year, with changes in fair values being recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The Group engaged Drivers Jonas Deloitte as independent valuation specialists to determine market value as at 31 March 2011.
Valuations of Property Determination of the market value of investment properties has been prepared on the basis defined by the RICS Valuation Standards 6th Edition The Red Book as follows: The estimated amount for which a property should exchange on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms length transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
