THE GROUP COMPANY Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of 12 THAT TR Property Investment Trust plc will be held at 12 noon on a subject to the passing of resolution 11 set out above Tuesday 26 July 2011 at the Royal Automobile Club, 89 91 Pall the Directors be empowered pursuant to Section 570 Mall, London SW1Y 5HS for the purpose of transacting the and Section 573 of the Act to allot equity securities as following business: defined in Section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 11 above and or To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following Resolutions, to sell shares held by the Company as treasury shares of which Resolutions 1 to 11 will be proposed as Ordinary for cash as if Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply Resolutions and Resolutions 12 and 13 shall be proposed as to any such allotment, provided that this power shall Special Resolutions.
be limited to: Ordinary Business i the allotment of equity securities and sale of 1 To receive the Report of the Directors and the Audited treasury shares for cash in connection with an offer Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2011. of, or invitation to apply for, equity securities: 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year aa to shareholders in proportion as nearly as ended 31 March 2011. may be practicable to their existing holdings: and 3 To declare a final dividend of 3.70 pence per Ordinary share.
bb to holders of other equity securities, as 4 To declare a final dividend of 1.25 pence per Sigma share.
required by the rights of those securities, or as the Board otherwise considers necessary, 5 To re-elect Paul Spencer as a Director.
and so that the Board may impose any limits or 6 To re-elect Caroline Burton as a Director.
restrictions and make any arrangements which it considers necessary or appropriate to deal with 7 To re-elect Peter Salsbury as a Director.
treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under 8 To re-elect Richard Stone as a Director.
the laws of, any territory or any other matter: and 9 To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the Company.
ii in the case of the authority granted under Resolution 11 and or in the case of any sale of 10 To authorise the directors to determine the remuneration treasury shares for cash, to the allotment of the auditors.
otherwise than under paragraph i above of equity securities or sale of treasury shares up to a Special Business nominal amount of 3,982,325 being 11 THAT the Directors be generally and unconditionally approximately 5% of the total issued share capital authorised pursuant to and in accordance to Section 551 of of the Company as at the latest practicable date the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the prior to publication of the notice of meeting, powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security b the power given by this resolution shall expire upon into, shares in the Company up to a nominal value of the expiry of the authority conferred by Resolution 11 26,283,345 being approximately 33% of the total issued above, save that the Company shall be entitled to share capital of the Company as at the latest practicable make offers or agreements before the expiry of such date prior to publication of the notice of the meeting power which would or might require equity securities provided that this authority shall expire at the date of the to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors shall next Annual General Meeting of the Company or, if earlier, be entitled to allot equity securities pursuant to any at the close of business on 26 October 2012, save that such offer or agreement as if the power conferred the Company shall be entitled to make offers or hereby had not expired.
agreements before the expiry of this authority which would or might require shares to be allotted or rights to be granted after such expiry and the Directors shall be entitled to allot shares and grant rights pursuant to any such offers or agreements as if this authority had not expired.
TR Property Investment Trust 89 THE GROUP COMPANY Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 13 THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and In accordance with the Articles of Association holders of unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 701 Sigma shares do not have the right to vote on a declaration of the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of of a dividend in respect of the Ordinary shares.
Section 693 4 of the Act of Ordinary shares of 25 pence each and Sigma shares of 12.5 pence each in the capital of In accordance with the Articles of Association holders of Ordinary shares do not have the right to vote on a the Company on such terms and in such manner as the Directors may from time to time determine provided that: declaration of a dividend in respect of the Sigma shares.
Holders of Ordinary shares will vote on Resolution 13 a the maximum number of Ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 14.99% of the only in respect of market purchases of Ordinary shares and holders of Sigma shares will vote on Resolution 13 only in Companys Ordinary shares in issue at the date of the Annual General Meeting equivalent to 38,408,128 respect of market purchases of Sigma shares.
Ordinary shares of 25 pence each at 10 June 2011, Registered Office: Registered in England No: 84492 the date of this Notice of Annual General Meeting : 51 Berkeley Square London b the maximum number of Sigma shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 14.99% of the W1J 5BB Companys Sigma shares in issue at the date of the Annual General Meeting equivalent to 18,695,828 By Order of the Board Sigma shares of 12.5 pence each at 10 June 2011, John Crehan the date of this Notice of Annual General Meeting : For and on behalf of Capita Company Secretarial Services c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for any such share shall not be more than the Secretary 10 June 2011 higher of: i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an Ordinary share if an Ordinary share is being purchased or of a Sigma share if a Sigma share is being purchased as taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which the Company agrees to buy the shares concerned: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid for an Ordinary share or Sigma share as the case may be in the Company on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out.
d the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an Ordinary share shall be 25 pence, being the nominal value per Ordinary share and for Sigma shares the minimum price shall be 12.5 pence, being the nominal value per Sigma share: e the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2012 or at any other general meeting prior to such time.
90 TR Property Investment Trust D WHITEHALL A O UR STREET R CHARING CRO AIR ST S R E GREEK ST DEAN STREET G E N T S T S R RUPERT ST OXENDON WARDOUR STREET E E T WHITCOMB STREET SACKVILLE ST ST WARDO DUKE ST BURY ST MARLBOROUGH ROAD REGENT STEET SHERWOOD ST SAVILE ROW ST JAMESS STREET GT WINDMILL ST HAYMARKET LEXINGTON ST ARLINGTON STREET NEW BOND STREET OLD BOND STREET CARNABY ST C IRVING ST I Y Q S T T S S R U E P L DOWNING ST S S U O K H S C S DENMAN ST O THE GROUP COMPANY Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 2 In order to be able to attend and vote at the AGM or any Directions Pall Mall Clubhouse adjourned meeting, and also for the purpose of calculating how many votes a person may cast a person must have his her name entered on the Register of Members of the Company by 6.00 pm on 24 July 2011 or 6.00 pm on the date 2 days before any adjourned meeting.
Changes Leicester Square to entries on the Register of Members after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
Piccadilly Circus 3 Shareholders should note that it is possible that, pursuant to Royal Academy National of Arts Gallery requests made by shareholders of the Company under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company Nelsons Column may be required to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Green Park Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting GREEN ST JAMESS at which annual accounts and reports were laid in PARK PARK accordance with Section 437 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with Sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to place a statement The Royal Automobile Club has a dress code: on a website under Section 527 of the Companies Act Jacket and Tie.
2006, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company 1 Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or has been required under Section 527 of the Companies any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their Act 2006 to publish on a website.
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting 4 Any corporation which is a member of the Company can AGM provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member the rights attached to a different share or shares held by provided that they do not do so in relation to the same that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the shares.
To appoint more than one proxy, the proxy form should be photocopied and the name of the proxy to be 5 The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons appointed indicated on each proxy form together with the whose shares are held on their behalf by another person number of shares that such proxy is appointed in respect of.
and who have been nominated to receive To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a communication from the Company in accordance with proxy must be returned by post, by courier or by hand to Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 nominated the Company's Registrars, Computershare Investor Services persons.
Nominated persons may have a right under an PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY, or agreement with the registered shareholder who holds alternatively, by going to www.
com and shares on their behalf to be appointed or to have following the instructions provided.
All proxies must be someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if appointed by no later than 48 hours before the time of the nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not AGM.
The return of a completed proxy form or other such wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an instrument will not prevent a shareholder attending the agreement to given instructions to the person holding the AGM and voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
TR Property Investment Trust 91 L R A C STREET T L R E G I E A R S D T N S D G G P A E I C C N L L O T A S G MADDOX N I F LEIC I L L R A U GERRARD ST B R BROADWICK STREET T ORANGE ST JAMESS PANTON ST SQ PICCADILY KING STREET OLD COMPTON STREET ST JAMESS PLACE PALL MALL E S RYD R T SQUARE E JERMYN STREET CHARLES II STREET L L UE A N P M BEAK STREET A ESTER CRANBOURN STREET LL E THE MALL V A Y R U B S BREWER STREET E T F A STRAND STREET H SHAFTESBURY AVENUE S CONDUIT STREET MONMOUTH ST ST MARTI ST MARTINS LANE NS PL THE GROUP COMPANY Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 6 CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST may do so for the AGM to be held on 26 July 2011 and sponsor or voting service provider are referred in particular any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
members or other CREST sponsored members, and The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy those CREST members who have appointed a voting Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation service provider should refer to their CREST sponsors or 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. voting service provider s, who will be able to take the 7 Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask appropriate action on their behalf.
The Company must cause to be answered any In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made by such question relating to the business being dealt with at means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST the meeting but no such answer need be given if a to message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential Limiteds specifications and must contain the information information, b the answer has already been given on a required for such instructions, as described in the CREST website in the form of an answer to a question, or c it Manual.
The message must be transmitted so as to be is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the received by the Companys agent, Computershare good order of the meeting that the question be Investor Services PLC CREST Participant ID: 3RA50, no answered.
later than 48 hours before the time appointed for the 8 A copy of this notice, and other information required by meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found at www.
applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the Companys agent is able to retrieve the 9 Biographical details of the Directors are shown on page 44 message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed of the Annual Report & Accounts.
10 The issued share capital of the Company is 256,225,000 CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST Ordinary shares of 25p each and 124,722,000 Sigma sponsor or voting service provider should note that shares of 12.5p each.
The total number of voting rights in Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available the Company is 380,947,000.
Shareholders are reminded special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
that on a poll vote, the total number of votes cast is Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply calculated according to the NAV per Ordinary share and in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the NAV per Sigma share.
the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take 11 The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, the or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service Management Engagement Committee and the Letters of Appointment for Directors will be available for inspection provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider takes such action as shall be necessary for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the Companys AGM.
to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the 92 TR Property Investment Trust
