THE GROUP COMPANY Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued h Movements in fair value Changes in the fair value of all investments held at fair value are recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income.
On disposal, realised gains and losses are also recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income.
i Non-current liabilities All loans and debentures are initially recognised at cost, being the fair value of the consideration received, less issue costs where applicable.
After initial recognition, all interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on settlement.
The costs of arranging any interestbearing loans are capitalised and amortised over the life of the loan.
j Foreign currency translation Transactions involving foreign currencies are converted at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated into Sterling at the rate ruling on the balance sheet date.
Foreign exchange differences are recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income.
k Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and demand deposits.
l Adoption of new and revised Standards Standards and Interpretations effective in the current period The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous consolidated financial statements except as follows.
The Group has adopted the following new and amended IFRS and IFRIC interpretations as of 1 April 2010: IFRS 2 Share-based Payment Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment Arrangements, effective 1 January 2010 IFRS 3 Business Combinations Revised and IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements Amended, effective 1 July 2009: IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Eligible Hedged Items, effective 1 July 2009: IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements, effective 1 April 2009: IFRIC 17 Distributions on Non-cash Assets to Owners, effective 1 November 2009: IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers, effective 1 November 2009: Improvements to IFRSs Issued May 2008, effective 1 January 2010: and Improvements to IFRSs Issued April 2009, effective 1 January 2010.
When the adoption of the standard or interpretation is deemed to have an impact on the consolidated financial statements or the performance of the Group, its impact is described below: IFRS 3 Business Combinations Revised and IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements Amended IFRS 3 Business Combinations Revised and IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements Amended are applicable to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual period beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
IFRS 3 Revised introduces significant changes in the accounting for business combinations occurring after this date.
Changes affect the valuation of non-controlling interest, the accounting for transaction costs, the initial recognition and subsequent measurement of a contingent consideration and business combinations achieved in stages.
These changes will impact the amount of goodwill recognised, the reported results in the period that an acquisition occurs and future reported results.
IAS 27 Amended requires that a change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary without loss of control is accounted for as a transaction with owners in their capacity as owners.
Therefore, such transactions will no longer give rise to goodwill, nor will it give rise to a gain or loss.
Furthermore, the amended standard changes the accounting for losses incurred by the subsidiary as well as the loss of control of a subsidiary.
The changes by IFRS 3 Revised and IAS 27 Amended will be applied prospectively and will affect future business combinations or loss of control of subsidiaries and transactions with non-controlling interest.
