THE GROUP COMPANY Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued The valuation takes into account future cash flow from assets such as lettings, tenants profiles, future revenue streams, capital values of fixtures and fittings, plant and machinery, any environmental matters and the overall repair and condition of the property and discount rates applicable to those assets.
These assumptions are based on local market conditions existing at the balance sheet date.
In arriving at their estimates of market values as at 31 March 2011, the valuers have used their market knowledge and professional judgement and have not only relied solely on historical transactional comparables.
Rental income Rental income receivable under operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease, except for contingent rental income which is recognised when it arises.
Incentives for lessees to enter into lease agreements are spread evenly over the lease term, even if the payments are not made on such a basis.
The lease term is the non-cancellable period of the lease together with any further term for which the tenant has the option to continue the lease, where, at the inception of the lease, the directors are reasonably certain that the tenant will exercise that option.
Premiums received to terminate or extend leases are recognised in the capital account of the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income when they arise.
Service charges and expenses recoverable from tenants Income arising from expenses recharged to tenants is recognised in the period in which the expense can be contractually recovered.
Service charges and other such receipts are included gross of the related costs in revenue as the directors consider that the Group acts as principal in this respect.
g Investments When a purchase or sale is made under contract, the terms of which require delivery within the timeframe of the relevant market, the investments concerned are recognised or derecognised on the trade date.
All the Groups investments are defined under IFRS as investments designated as fair value through profit or loss but are also described in these financial statements as investments held at fair value.
All investments are designated upon initial recognition as held at fair value, and are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value, which, for quoted investments, is either the bid price or the last traded price, depending on the convention of the exchange on which the investment is quoted.
Unquoted investments or investments for which there is only an inactive market are held at fair value which is based on valuations made by the directors in accordance with IPEVCA guidelines and using current market prices, trading conditions and the general economic climate.
In its financial statements the Company recognises its investments in subsidiaries at fair value, being the net asset value of each subsidiary.
Derivatives Derivatives are held at fair value based either on traded prices or Directors fair valuation to the extent that traded prices are unavailable.
Gains and losses on derivative transactions are recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income.
They are recognised as capital and are shown in the capital column of the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income if they are of a capital nature and are recognised as revenue and shown in the revenue column of the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income if they are of a revenue nature.
To the extent that any gains or losses are of a mixed revenue and capital nature, they are apportioned between revenue and capital accordingly.
CFDs are synthetic equities and are valued by reference to the investments underlying market values.
The sources of the returns under the derivative contract e. g. notional dividends, financing costs, interest returns and capital changes are allocated to the revenue and capital accounts in alignment with the nature of the underlying source of income and in accordance with the guidance given in the AIC SORP.
Notional dividend income or expenses arising on long or short positions are apportioned wholly to the revenue account.
Notional interest income on short positions is allocated wholly to the revenue account.
Notional interest expense on long positions is apportioned between revenue and capital in accordance with the Boards long term expected returns of the Company currently determined to be 50% to the revenue account and 50% to capital reserves.
Changes in value relating to underlying price movements of securities in relation to CFD exposures are allocated wholly to capital reserves.
