Witan Investment Trust plc Marketing Review 2011 equity based products from retail explain to clients when Witans marketing investors could be suppressed.
recommending an investment programme aims to However, we have seen in 2011 that trust, such as premiums discounts stimulate interest in many private investors are prepared and gearing although it should be the Trust's shares to look beyond the short term kept in mind that these factors are and to create volatility, in the belief that over the potential extra levers for delivering liquidity, thereby longer term equities offer the performance, not random sector enabling potential to deliver positive real eccentricities!.
James Frost, shareholders to buy returns.
The introduction of Marketing Director and sell shares at a increased university tuition fees has The sector is competing with open price reflecting the again highlighted the importance of ended managers who have large net asset growth performance of the saving for children.
Jump, with the marketing budgets, albeit that the Trust.
Using a blend of marketing addition of its Junior ISA, will previous tailwind of trail disciplines this programme focuses continue to offer a range of ways for commissions is coming to an end on private investors who invest families to save for their childrens under the new rules.
through Witan Investment Services needs as they grow up.
savings schemes, online brokers and Witan offers good liquidity a market via the main share register, as well as As mentioned earlier, we intend to capitalization of over 860m at the professional investors such as focus more of our resources on end of 2011, a straight forward discretionary managers and private information and service for financial capital structure and a relatively client brokers who invest on behalf advisers because of the opportunity stable discount close to 10%.
Witan is of their clients.
2012 will bring the offered by the RDR.
The aim of the also the only global wholly multisavings industry one step closer to RDR is to introduce transparency and managed investment trust.
Openthe Retail Distribution Review RDR, reduce conflicts in the way in which ended multi-managed funds have for requiring changes in the nature of financial advice is paid for.
The many years been popular with advice financial advisers offer and in removal of commission will level the financial advisers because multithe way it is paid for.
This is expected playing field and to that extent manager helps smooth out the to increase the number of financial make conditions more favourable for volatility normally associated with advisers and investors actively investors to choose investment considering the merits of investment trusts.
Furthermore as a result of TM Witan wisdom trusts for their portfolios.
Witan RDR we have started to see some Money frees you from intends to focus more resource on data aggregators rating funds and doing things you dislike.
Since I dislike the Financial Adviser market in 2012 investment trusts on the same doing nearly everything, money is handy.
Groucho Marx 1890-1977 to help inform the decision making basis, which enables advisers to be The benefits of ISAs are fairly well-known but you may wonder process of these new potential able to compare them directly.
why should you consider Witan for this years stocks and shares ISA.
Well, Witan offers diversified exposure to global equities using a multi-manager approach.
This aims to deliver added value for shareholders while smoothing out the volatility There are however a number of normally associated with a single manager approach.
Whats more, if you decide Witan is suitable for your needs Despite the market conditions, and key challenges that the and you choose to invest a lump sum of more than 2,000 in a Witan wisdom ISA before 30th April 2012, we will waive our standard 1% dealing fee.
And as Groucho rightly says, poor investor appetite for funds, investment trust sector must thats handy.
Please remember that past performance is not Witan saw continued demand for its address in order to maximise a guide to future performance.
The value of an investment and the income from it can fall as well as rise, as a result of currency and market fluctuations, shares from both within its own this opportunity: and investors may not get back the amount Make the most originally invested.
of your savings by savings schemes and externally Contact us for more information to help you consider Witan for this years ISA.
This was in The 3 biggest IFA platforms part down to strong ISA season sales, have yet to make clear their TM Witan wisdom ISA and also the continued growth of plans for including investment Visit www.
com mobile Call 0800 082 81 80 Jump, which has been strengthened trusts.
Access all the information Please send me a Witan wisdom brochure... you need by using your Smartphone - simply take a picture of the QR code Title: Simply complete this coupon, pop it in further by the launch of the Jump below.
an envelope and post it to the FREEPOST First name: address.
Surname: Freepost RSUA-EJZZ-RBXS Junior ISA in November 2011.
Financial advisers need Address: Witan 8 Portland Place Pritchard Street Postcode: Bristol information and training in Email: BS2 8RH Data Protection Act.
We would like to keep you updated with details of our other products.
If you would prefer not to receive this information please tick this box 2012 the key features of investment Witan Investment Trust is an equity investment.
Issued and approved by Witan Investment Services Limited.
Witan Investment Services Limited If market conditions remain volatile trusts.
There is more to is registered in England no.
5272533 of 14 Queen Annes Gate, London SW1H 9AA.
Witan Investment Services Limited provides investment products and services and is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Calls may be recorded for our mutual protection and then the short term appetite for understand and therefore to improve customer service.
As well as the made from as little as 25 per month originally invested.
Please note that or quarter.
tax assumptions may change if the inherent benefits of multi-manager, law changes, and the value of tax Witan also has a competitive TER Jump is available in three different relief if any will depend upon your and unlike open-ended funds it has wrappers: individual circumstances.
Investors the ability to gear and to build up should consult their own tax advisers Junior ISA Is a tax efficient wrapper dividend reserves.
in order to understand any applicable available to children born before tax consequences.
1 September 2002, born on or after How to Invest 3 January 2012, or those who did not There are a variety of ways to invest Witan Investment Trust plc is an qualify for a Child Trust Fund.
The in Witan Investment Trust plc.
Issued and account can only be opened by the Naturally, Witans shares can be approved by Witan Investment parent though others can add to it.
It traded through any UK stockbroker: Services Limited.
Witan Investment currently has an annual subscription however, Witan is also available for Services Limited of 14 Queen Annes limit of 3,600 each tax year.
You can investment through the two savings Gate, London SW1H 9AA is open a Jump Junior ISA with a lump schemes managed by Witan registered in England number sum investment of just 250 or 50 Investment Services Witan 5272533.
Witan Investment Services per month or quarter.
provides investment products and services and is authorised and Jump Child Trust Fund Like the Witan Wisdom regulated by the Financial Services Junior ISA, the Child Trust Fund Witan Wisdom offers two different Authority.
We may record telephone CTF is a tax efficient savings vehicle savings wrappers: calls for our mutual protection and to with an annual limit of 3,600 each improve customer service.
The Witan Wisdom ISA is a stocks year measured by the childs and shares ISA that enables birthday.
Each child born in the UK investors to buy Witan shares born between 1 September 2002 and within a tax efficient wrapper.
3 January 2012 was eligible for a CTF.
Investors have an annual ISA You can transfer existing CTFs to Jump subject to a minimum transfer allowance of up to 10,680 for the In the future you can miss one of my recitals or a rugby game but please dont miss this!
The Jump Savings Plan Unlike the minimum lump sum investment Junior ISA or Child Trust Fund the I understand that when I grow up, you will both lead very busy lives and may miss the odd performance of mine, what with Daddys with Witan Wisdom is 2,000, with golfing trips to Portugal and Mummys lunches.
Jump Savings Plan is not tax efficient But Im willing to let the odd parenting faux pas slip if you remember to take out a Jump Junior ISA for me by the end of the tax year 5th April 2012.
The opportunity to put away 3,600 cant be the regular savings minimum being missed whereas there will be at least 20 games in my rugby season.
however it offers greater flexibility in Jump already look after the accounts of over 17,000 children and I certainly dont want to be left out of this elite club because you missed the deadline for the tax year.
You can also And remember, if you open a Jump Junior ISA today, youll receive a John Lewis terms of the limits, access and Gift Voucher worth 25.
Something you definitely wont want to miss.
transfer existing ISAs to Witan As Jump is an equity investment in Witan Investment Trust plc, please remember that past performance is not a guide to future performance.
The control of the investment, and can value of an investment and the income from it can fall as well as rise, as a result of currency and market fluctuations, and you may not get back the Wisdom while retaining their tax amount originally invested.
also be opened by grandparents, To take out a Jump Junior ISA phone 0800 011 2015 or visit www.
com junior-isa efficient wrapper during and after relatives and other family friends.
Receive 25 worth of John Lewis Gift Vouchers if you open a Jump Junior ISA by 30th April 2012.
The minimum subscription level of 250 lump sum or 50 monthly quarterly direct debit applies.
We will send you your John Lewis Gift Vouchers once You can open a Jump Savings Plan your account is up and running.
Witan Investment Services Limited is registered in England no.
Calls may be recorded for our mutual protection and to improve customer service.
For further with a lump sum investment of just I would like to receive a Jump Junior ISA brochure...
The Witan Wisdom Share Plan is information, simply scan or take a picture Title: Simply complete this coupon, pop it in of the QR code using an envelope and post it to the FREEPOST your Smartphone.
Surname: 250 or 50 per month or Freepost RSUA-ECAX-HGEZ our straightforward, low-cost Address: Jump 8 Portland Place Pritchard Street Once I turn 18 Ill need to go and Po stcode: Bristol quarter.
The minimum find myself somewhere.
If you would prefer not to receive this information please tick this box lump sum investment is 500, and Brochures and applications for all the minimum regular contribution of our products are available by I already know that the leafy villages of Surrey are not where my soul belongs and I will need is 50 per month or quarter.
There to travel to Burma, Vietnam and Peru to fully discover my spiritual place in this world.
calling 0800 082 81 80 or online But unearthing my true self is not as free as it sounds, it will cost money.
Which is why I want you to take out a Jump Junior ISA for me.
Jump have already set up is no maximum.
Accounts can also accounts for over 17,000 born to be free spirits and I would love the chance to bump via www.
If you would into one or two of them on an island off the coast of Thailand one day.
In addition, when you take out a Jump Junior ISA youll be held jointly, or designated to a receive a John Lewis Gift Voucher worth 25. prefer to write to request further If you felt really generous you could buy me an atlas to plan my travels with, and you never know it might even help me with my geography.
information, the address details As Jump is an equity investment in Witan Investment Trust plc, please remember that past performance is not a guide to future performance.
The value of an investment and the income from it can fall as well as rise, as a result of currency and market fluctuations, and you may not get back the can be found on page 72. amount originally invested.
Jump Savings for children To take out a Jump Junior ISA phone 0800 011 2015 or visit www.
com junior-isa Jump gives parents, grandparents and Investors are reminded that the Junior ISA Receive 25 worth of John Lewis Gift Vouchers if you open a Jump Junior ISA by 30th April 2012.
We will send you your John Lewis Gift Vouchers once other adults the chance to invest in your account is up and running.
value of investments and the Issued and approved by Witan Investment Services Limited.
Witan on behalf of a child.
This For further I would like to receive a Jump Junior ISA brochure... information, simply income from them may go down scan or take a picture Title: Simply complete this coupon, pop it in of the QR code using an envelope and post it to the FREEPOST your Smartphone.
flexible savings plan has a minimum Surname: Freepost RSUA-ECAX-HGEZ Address: Jump as well as up and investors may 8 Portland Place Pritchard Street Postcode: Bristol lump sum investment set at 100 Email: BS2 8RH Data Protection Act.
If you would prefer not to receive not get back the amount this information please tick this box and regular contributions can be 71
