Additional Information Glossary Market definitions United States of America Other Established Markets Emerging Markets US Western Europe Japan Emerging Europe China Other Emerging ROW Austria Albania Egypt Belgium Canada Belarus Emerging Asia Pacific Gulf States Denmark Bosnia and Herzegovina Bangladesh Israel Finland Other Established ROW Bulgaria Cambodia Latin America France Australia Croatia Hong Kong Lebanon Germany New Zealand Czech Republic India Maghreb Greece Estonia Indonesia Saudi Arabia Iceland Georgia Laos South Africa Ireland Hungary Malaysia Italy Kazakhstan Philippines Luxembourg Latvia Singapore Netherlands Lithuania South Korea Norway Macedonia Sri Lanka Portugal Poland Taiwan Spain Romania Thailand Sweden Russia Vietnam Switzerland Serbia and Montenegro UK Slovakia Slovenia Turkey Ukraine Rest of World means Other Established Markets and Emerging Markets.
Established Markets means the US and Other Established Markets.
Established ROW means Canada, Japan and Other Established ROW.
Latin America includes Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Peru and Venezuela.
Gulf States includes Bahrain, Dubai, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar and UAE.
Maghreb means Algeria, Morocco and Tunisia.
IMS Health, IMS Midas Quantum Q3 2011 data is not available or AstraZeneca does not subscribe for IMS Health quarterly data for these countries.
The above table is not an exhaustive list of all the countries in which AstraZeneca operates.
US equivalents Terms used in this Annual Report US equivalent or brief description Accruals Accrued expenses Allotted Issued Called-up share capital Issued share capital Creditors Liabilities payables Debtors Receivables and prepaid expenses Earnings Net income Employee share schemes Employee stock benefit plans Fixed asset investments Non-current investments Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity Interest payable Interest expense Loans Long-term debt Prepayments Prepaid expenses Profit Income Profit and loss account Income statement consolidated statement of comprehensive income Share premium account Premiums paid in excess of par value of Ordinary Shares Short-term investments Redeemable securities and short-term deposits AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Glossary 209 Glossary The following abbreviations and expressions have the following meanings when used in this Annual Report: Abbott Abbott Pharmaceuticals PR Ltd. with respect to Certriad EMA the European Medicines Agency.
and Abbott Laboratories, Inc. with respect to Crestor.
EMEA Europe, Middle East and Africa.
Accord Accord Healthcare, Inc. EU the European Union.
Affordable Care Act the Patient Protection and Affordable Care FDA the US Food and Drug Administration, which is part of the US Act which was signed into law on 23 March 2010 as amended by the Department of Health and Human Services Agency, which is the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act which was signed into regulatory authority for all pharmaceuticals including biologics and law on 30 March 2010. vaccines and medical devices in the US.
ADR an American Depositary Receipt evidencing title to an ADS.
Forest Forest Laboratories Holdings Limited.
ADS an American Depositary Share representing one underlying EFPIA European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Ordinary Share.
AGM an Annual General Meeting of the Company.
GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
ANDA an abbreviated new drug application, which is a marketing GDP gross domestic product.
approval application for a generic drug submitted to the FDA.
Annual Report this Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011.
GIA AstraZenecas group internal audit function.
gross margin the margin, as a percentage, by which sales exceed Articles the Articles of Association of the Company.
the cost of sales, calculated by dividing the difference between the ASA acetylsalicylic acid.
Astellas Astellas Pharma, Inc. Group AstraZeneca PLC and its subsidiaries.
Astra Astra AB, being the company with whom the Company GSK GlaxoSmithKline plc.
HealthCore HealthCore Inc. AstraZeneca the Company and its subsidiaries.
IAS the International Accounting Standards.
IASB the International Accounting Standards Board.
IFRS the International Financial Reporting Standards or an Board the Board of Directors of the Company.
International Financial Reporting Standard, as the context requires.
Bureau Veritas Bureau Veritas UK Limited.
CEO the Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
CFO the Chief Financial Officer of the Company.
CHMP the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use, krona or SEK references to the currency of Sweden.
being a committee of the EMA.
Lean means enhancing value for customers with fewer resources.
CIS Commonwealth of Independent States.
MAA a marketing authorisation application, which is an application Code of Conduct the Groups Code of Conduct.
for authorisation to place medical products on the market.
This is a specific term used in the EU and European Economic Area markets.
Company or Parent Company AstraZeneca PLC formerly Zeneca Group PLC Zeneca.
MAb monoclonal antibody, a biologic that is specific, that is, it binds to and attacks one particular antigen.
Complete Response Letter CRL a letter issued by the FDA communicating its decision to a drug company that its NDA or MedImmune MedImmune, LLC formerly MedImmune, Inc.. biological licensing application is not approvable as submitted.
The Merck Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp. formerly Merck & Co. Inc.. submitting drug company is required to respond to the Complete Response Letter if it wishes to pursue an approval for its submission.
moving annual total MAT a figure that represents the financial value of a variable for 12 months.
Corporate Integrity Agreement the agreement described in the US Corporate Integrity Agreement reporting section on page 51.
NDA a new drug application to the FDA for approval to market a new medicine in the US.
Daiichi Sankyo Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited.
Dainippon Sumitomo Dainippon Sumitomo Pharmaceuticals Co. Limited.
Director a director of the Company.
earnings per share EPS profit for the year after tax and minority n m not meaningful.
interests, divided by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares Novartis Novartis Pharma A. G. in issue during the year.
Novexel Novexel S. A. ECG electrocardiagram.
210 Glossary AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Additional Information NSAID a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug.
Regulatory Exclusivity any of the IP rights arising from generation of clinical data and includes Regulatory Data Protection as explained NYSE the New York Stock Exchange.
in the Intellectual Property section from page 34, Paediatric Exclusivity operating profit sales, less cost of sales, less operating costs, plus and Orphan Drug status.
Responsible Business Plan the plan described in the Ordinary Share an ordinary share of $0.25 each in the share Responsible Business section from page 47, further details of which capital of the Company.
can be found at our website, astrazeneca.
Orphan Drug a drug which has been approved for use in a relatively low-incidence indication an orphan indication and has been Rigel Rigel Pharmaceuticals, Inc. rewarded with a period of market exclusivity: the period of exclusivity RSV respiratory syncytial virus.
and the available orphan indications vary between markets.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
SEC the US Securities and Exchange Commission, the Paediatric Exclusivity in the US, a six-month period of exclusivity governmental agency that regulates the US securities industry stock to market a drug which is awarded by the FDA in return for certain market.
paediatric clinical studies using that drug.
This six-month period runs from the date of relevant patent expiry.
Analogous provisions are Seroquel Seroquel IR and Seroquel XR unless otherwise stated.
available in certain other territories eg European SPC paediatric SET the Senior Executive Team.
SHE Safety, Health and Environment.
Patent Term Extension PTE an extension of up to five years in the term of a US patent relating to a drug which compensates for SFDA State Food and Drug Administration of China.
delays in marketing resulting from the need to obtain FDA approval.
SG&A costs selling, general and administrative costs.
The analogous right in the EU is a supplementary protection certificate SPC.
Six Sigma a rigorous and disciplined methodology that uses data and statistical analysis to measure and improve a companys PDUFA Prescription Drug User Fee Act.
operational performance by identifying and eliminating defects.
Pfizer Pfizer, Inc. sNDA a supplemental new drug application, which is an application Phase I the phase of clinical research where a new drug or made to the FDA to seek approval to market an additional indication treatment is tested in small groups of people 20 to 80 to check for a drug already on the market.
that the drug can achieve appropriate concentrations in the body, SOP AstraZeneca Share Option Plan.
determine a safe dosage range and identify side effects.
This phase includes healthy volunteer studies.
Phase II the phase of clinical research which includes the controlled Teva Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. clinical activities conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of the drug in TKI Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitors.
patients with the disease under study and to determine the common short-term side effects and risks associated with the drug.
PhaseII TSR total shareholder return, being the total return on a share over a studies are typically conducted in a relatively small number of patients period of time, including dividends reinvested.
usually no more than several hundred.
UK the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
Phase III the phase of clinical research which is performed to UK Bribery Act means the UK Bribery Act 2010. gather additional information about effectiveness and safety of the drug, often in a comparative setting, to evaluate the overall benefit risk UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Corporate Governance profile of the drug.
PhaseIII studies usually include between several Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in May 2010 hundred and several thousand patients.
that sets out standards of good practice in corporate governance for the UK.
PhRMA Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America.
US the United States of America.
pounds sterling, GBP, pence or p references to the currency of the UK.
US dollar, US$, USD or $ references to the currency of the US.
Pozen Pozen Inc. WHO the World Health Organization, the United Nations specialised agency for health.
Proof of Concept data demonstrating that a candidate drug results in a clinical change on an acceptable endpoint or surrogate in patients with the disease.
PSP AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan.
QT prolongation a biomarker of ventricular tachyarrhythmias measured by ECG.
Redeemable Preference Share a redeemable preference share of 1 each in the share capital of the Company.
Regulatory Data Protection see the Intellectual Property section from page 34.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Glossary 211
