Consolidated financial statements of the BP group Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on the Annual Report on Form 20-F The Board of Directors and Shareholders of BP p. l. c. We have audited the accompanying group balance sheets of BP p. l. c. as of 31 December 2011 and 2010, and the related group income statement, group statement of comprehensive income, group statement of changes in equity and group cash ow statement for each of the three years in the period ended 31 December 2011.
These financial statements are the responsibility of the companys management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.
An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the group financial position of BP p. l. c. at 31 December 2011 and 2010, and the group results of operations and cash ows for each of the three years in the period ended 31 December 2011, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
In forming our opinion we have considered the adequacy of the disclosures made in Notes 2, 36 and 43 to the financial statements concerning the provisions, future expenditures for which reliable estimates cannot be made and other contingencies related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill significant event.
The total amounts that will ultimately be paid by BP in relation to all obligations relating to the incident are subject to significant uncertainty and the ultimate exposure and cost to BP will be dependent on many factors, including any determination of BPs culpability based on any findings of negligence, gross negligence or wilful misconduct.
Actual costs could ultimately be signicantly higher or lower than those recorded in relation to all obligations relating to the oil spill.
Our opinion is not qualied in respect of these matters.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States, BP p. l. c. s internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2011, based on criteria established in the Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code Turnbull as issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales the Turnbull criteria and our report dated 6 March 2012 expressed an unqualied opinion thereon.
s ERNST & YOUNG LLP Ernst & Young LLP London, England 6 March 2012 The maintenance and integrity of the BP p. l. c. website are the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
176 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011
