Financial statements Notes on financial statements 10.
Impairment review of goodwill continued The key assumptions required for the value-in-use estimation are the oil and natural gas prices, production volumes and the discount rate.
To test the sensitivity of the headroom to changes in production volumes and oil and natural gas prices, management has developed rules of thumb for key assumptions.
Applying these gives an indication of the impact on the headroom of possible changes in the key assumptions.
Due to the non-linear relationship of different variables, the calculations were performed using a number of simplied assumptions, therefore a detailed calculation at any given price may produce a different result.
It was estimated that if the oil price assumption was around 25% lower than the current assumption for 2017 and beyond, this would cause the recoverable amount to be equal to the carrying amount of goodwill and related non-current assets of the segment.
It was estimated that no reasonably possible change in the long-term price of natural gas would cause the headroom to be reduced to zero.
Estimated production volumes are based on detailed data for the elds and take into account development plans for the elds agreed by management as part of the long-term planning process.
In 2011, it was estimated that, if all our production were to be reduced by 10% for the whole of the next 15 years, this would not be sufficient to reduce the excess of recoverable amount over the carrying amount to zero.
Consequently, management believes no reasonably possible change in the production assumption would cause the carrying amount to exceed the recoverable amount.
Management also believes that currently there is no reasonably possible change in discount rate that would cause the carrying amount to exceed the recoverable amount.
Rening and Marketing $ million 2011 2010 Rhine FVC Lubricants Other Total Rhine FVC Lubricants Other Total Goodwill 618 3,284 112 4,014 629 3,285 160 4,074 Excess of recoverable amount over carrying amount 2,264 n a n a n a 4,091 n a n a n a Cash ows for each cash-generating unit are derived from the business segment plans, which cover a period of two to five years.
To determine the value in use for each of the cash-generating units, cash ows for a period of 10 years are discounted and aggregated with a terminal value.
Rhine FVC The key assumptions to which the calculation of value in use for the Rhine FVC is most sensitive are renery gross margins, throughput volumes and discount rate.
Gross margin assumptions used in the Rhine FVC plan are consistent with those used to develop the regional Rening Marker Margin RMM.
The regional RMM is a margin measure based upon product yields and a marker crude oil deemed appropriate for the region.
The average values assigned to the regional RMM and renery throughput volume over the plan period are $11.35 per barrel and 257 million barrels per year 2010 $11.05 per barrel and 248 million barrels per year.
These values reect past experience and are consistent with external sources.
Cash ows beyond the five-year plan period are extrapolated using a nominal 4% growth rate 2010 cash ows beyond the five-year plan period were extrapolated using a nominal 4% growth rate.
2011 Sensitivity analysis Sensitivity of value in use to a change in renery margins of $1 per barrel $ billion 1.5 Adverse change in renery margins to reduce recoverable amount to carrying amount $ per barrel 1.5 Sensitivity of value in use to a 5% change in throughput volume $ billion 0.9 Adverse change in throughput volume to reduce recoverable amount to carrying amount million barrels per year 31 Sensitivity of value in use to a change in the discount rate of 1% $ billion 0.7 Discount rate to reduce recoverable amount to carrying amount 16% Lubricants As permitted by IAS 36, the detailed calculations of the Lubricants units recoverable amount performed in the most recent detailed calculation in 2009 were used for the 2011 impairment test as the criteria in that standard were considered satisfied: the headroom was substantial in 2009: there have been no significant changes in the assets and liabilities: and the likelihood that the recoverable amount would be less than the carrying amount at the time of the test was remote.
The key assumptions to which the calculation of value in use for the Lubricants unit is most sensitive are operating unit margins, sales volumes and discount rate.
The values assigned to these key assumptions reect past experience.
No reasonably possible changes in any of these key assumptions would cause the units carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount.
Cash ows beyond the two-year plan period were extrapolated using a nominal 3% growth rate.
