Business review In a legal settlement with environmental advocacy groups the Certain denitions EPA committed to propose regulations under their New Source Performance Standards NSPS for GHG emissions from reneries Unless the context indicates otherwise, the following terms have the by December 2011 and to nalize these by November 2012: the EPA meaning shown below: was unable to meet the December deadline, which may delay final rulemaking.
The EPA has communicated that they are considering Replacement cost profit three options for these standards, energy management, command Replacement cost profit or loss reects the replacement cost of supplies.
and control source specic emission limits and benchmarking e. g. a The replacement cost profit or loss for the year is arrived at by excluding Solomon-type GHG intensity index or variation.
from profit or loss inventory holding gains and losses and their associated Legal challenges to the EPAs efforts to regulate GHG emissions tax effect.
Replacement cost profit or loss for the group is not a recognized through the CAA continue along with active political debate with GAAP measure.
the final content and scope of GHG regulation in the US remaining BP believes that replacement cost profit before interest and uncertain.
"taxation for the group is a useful measure for investors because it is t "" OVNCFS PG BEEJUJPOBM TUBUF BOE SFHJPOBM JOJUJBUJWFT JO UIF 64 XJMM BGGFDU the profitability measure used by management."
See Selected financial our operations.
Of particular signicance, California is seeking to reduce information on page 56 for the nearest equivalent measure on an IFRS GHG emissions to 1990 levels by 2020 and to reduce the carbon basis, which is profit loss for the year attributable to BP shareholders.
intensity of transport fuel sold in the state.
California implemented a low-carbon fuel standard in 2010 although a preliminary injunction led in Inventory holding gains and losses late December 2011 is preventing its implementation.
California issued Inventory holding gains and losses represent the difference between the final rules for its cap and trade programme in December 2011, with the cost of sales calculated using the average cost to BP of supplies acquired scheduled start of the scheme to begin January 2012, with obligations during the period and the cost of sales calculated on the first-in first-out commencing in 2013.
FIFO method after adjusting for any changes in provisions where the t $BOBEB IBT FTUBCMJTIFE BO BDUJPO QMBO UP SFEVDF FNJTTJPOT UP net realizable value of the inventory is lower than its cost.
Under the FIFO below 2005 levels by 2020 and the national government continues to method, which we use for IFRS reporting, the cost of inventory charged seek a co-ordinated approach with the US on environmental and energy to the income statement is based on its historic cost of purchase, or objectives.
Additionally, Canadas highest emitting province, Alberta, manufacture, rather than its replacement cost.
In volatile energy markets, has been running a market mechanism to reduce GHG since 2007. this can have a significant distorting effect on reported income.
The Controversy, partially driven by perceived GHG intensity regarding amounts disclosed represent the difference between the charge to the Canadian oil sand produced crude, continues with some jurisdictions income statement for inventory on a FIFO basis after adjusting for any contemplating policies to restrict or penalize its use.
related movements in net realizable value provisions and the charge t $IJOB IBT DPNNJUUFE UP SFEVDJOH DBSCPO JOUFOTJUZ PG %1 that would have arisen if an average cost of supplies was used for the below 2005 levels by 2020 and increasing the share of non-fossil fuels period.
For this purpose, the average cost of supplies during the period in total energy consumption from 7.5% in 2005 to 15% by 2020.
The is principally calculated on a monthly basis by dividing the total cost of countrys 12th 2011-2015 Development Programme has set the target inventory acquired in the period by the number of barrels acquired.
The to reduce carbon intensity by 17% within five years, and this national amounts disclosed are not separately reected in the financial statements target has been deconstructed into provincial ones for local actions.
No adjustment is made in respect of the cost of Meanwhile, five provinces and eight cities were selected as pilots for inventories held as part of a trading position and certain other temporary low carbon development, and seven provinces cities were formally inventory positions.
given instruction to start emission trading trials.
As part of the countrys Management believes this information is useful to illustrate to energy saving programme, the government also requires any operating investors the fact that crude oil and product prices can vary signicantly entity with annual energy consumption of 10 thousand tonnes of coal from period to period and that the impact on our reported result under equivalent 7ktoe a to have an energy saving target for the next five IFRS can be significant.
Inventory holding gains and losses vary from years.
A number of BP joint venture companies in China will be required period to period due principally to changes in oil prices as well as changes to participate in this initiative.
In order for investors to understand the operating performance of the group excluding the impact of oil price changes on the replacement of inventories, and to make comparisons of operating performance between reporting periods, BPs management believes it is helpful to disclose this information.
Non-GAAP information on fair value accounting effects BP uses derivative instruments to manage the economic exposure relating to inventories above normal operating requirements of crude oil, natural gas and petroleum products.
Under IFRS, these inventories are recorded at historic cost.
The related derivative instruments, however, are required to be recorded at fair value with gains and losses recognized in income because hedge accounting is either not permitted or not followed, principally due to the impracticality of effectiveness testing requirements.
Therefore, measurement differences in relation to recognition of gains and losses occur.
Gains and losses on these inventories are not recognized until the commodity is sold in a subsequent accounting period.
Gains and losses on the related derivative commodity contracts are recognized in the income statement from the time the derivative commodity contract is entered into on a fair value basis using forward prices consistent with the contract maturity.
BP enters into commodity contracts to meet certain business requirements, such as the purchase of crude for a renery or the sale of BPs gas production.
Under IFRS these contracts are treated as derivatives and are required to be fair valued when they are managed as 110 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 Business review: BP in more depth Business review part of a larger portfolio of similar transactions.
Gains and losses arising Gas and power OTC markets are highly developed in North America and are recognized in the income statement from the time the derivative the UK, where the commodities can be bought and sold for delivery in commodity contract is entered into.
These contracts are negotiated between two parties to IFRS requires that inventory held for trading be recorded at its purchase and sell gas and power at a specified price, with delivery and fair value using period end spot prices whereas any related derivative settlement at a future date.
Typically, these contracts specify delivery commodity instruments are required to be recorded at values based on terms for the underlying commodity.
Certain of these transactions are not forward prices consistent with the contract maturity.
Depending on market settled physically, which can be achieved by transacting offsetting sale conditions, these forward prices can be either higher or lower than spot or purchase contracts for the same location and delivery period that are prices resulting in measurement differences.
offset during the scheduling of delivery or dispatch.
The contracts contain BP enters into contracts for pipelines and storage capacity, oil standard terms such as delivery point, pricing mechanism, settlement and gas processing and liqueed natural gas LNG that, under IFRS, are terms and specication of the commodity.
Typically, volume and price are recorded on an accruals basis.
These contracts are risk-managed using a the main variable terms.
variety of derivative instruments, which are fair valued under IFRS.
This Swaps are often contractual obligations to exchange cash ows results in measurement differences in relation to recognition of gains and between two parties: a typical swap transaction usually references a losses.
oating price and a xed price with the net difference of the cash ows The way that BP manages the economic exposures described being settled.
Options give the holder the right, but not the obligation, to above, and measures performance internally, differs from the way these buy or sell crude, oil products, natural gas or power at a specified price on activities are measured under IFRS.
BP calculates this difference for or before a specic future date.
Amounts under these derivative financial consolidated entities by comparing the IFRS result with managements instruments are settled at expiry.
Typically, netting agreements are used to internal measure of performance.
Under managements internal measure limit credit exposure and support liquidity.
of performance the inventory, capacity, oil and gas processing and LNG contracts in question are valued based on fair value using relevant forward Spot and term contracts prices prevailing at the end of the period and the commodity contracts for Spot contracts are contracts to purchase or sell a commodity at the market business requirements are accounted for on an accruals basis.
We believe price prevailing on or around the delivery date when title to the inventory that disclosing managements estimate of this difference provides useful is taken.
Term contracts are contracts to purchase or sell a commodity at information for investors because it enables investors to see the economic regular intervals over an agreed term.
Though spot and term contracts may effect of these activities as a whole.
The impacts of fair value accounting have a standard form, there is no offsetting mechanism in place.
These effects, relative to managements internal measure of performance and a transactions result in physical delivery with operational and price risk.
Spot reconciliation to GAAP information is shown on page 58. and term contracts typically relate to purchases of crude for a renery, purchases of products for marketing, purchases of third-party natural Commodity trading contracts gas, sales of the groups oil production, sales of the groups oil products BPs Exploration and Production and Rening and Marketing segments and sales of the groups gas production to third parties.
For accounting both participate in regional and global commodity trading markets in order purposes, spot and term sales are included in sales and other operating to manage, transact and hedge the crude oil, rened products and natural revenues, when title passes.
Similarly, spot and term purchases are gas that the group either produces or consumes in its manufacturing included in purchases for accounting purposes.
These physical trading activities, together with associated incremental trading opportunities, are discussed further in Exploration and Production on pages 88-89 and in Rening and Marketing on page 98.
The range of contracts the group enters into in its commodity trading operations is as follows.
Exchange-traded commodity derivatives These contracts are typically in the form of futures and options traded on a recognized exchange, such as Nymex, SGX and ICE.
Such contracts are traded in standard specications for the main marker crude oils, such as Brent and West Texas Intermediate, the main product grades, such as gasoline and gasoil, and for natural gas and power.
Gains and losses, otherwise referred to as variation margins, are settled on a daily basis with the relevant exchange.
These contracts are used for the trading and risk management of crude oil, rened products, natural gas and power.
Realized and unrealized gains and losses on exchange-traded commodity derivatives are included in sales and other operating revenues for accounting purposes.
Over-the-counter contracts These contracts are typically in the form of forwards, swaps and options.
Some of these contracts are traded bilaterally between counterparties: others may be cleared by a central clearing counterparty.
These contracts can be used both for trading and risk management activities.
Realized and unrealized gains and losses on OTC contracts are included in sales and other operating revenues for accounting purposes.
The main grades of crude oil bought and sold forward using standard contracts are West Texas Intermediate and a standard North Sea crude blend Brent, Forties and Oseberg or BFO.
Although the contracts specify physical delivery terms for each crude blend, a significant number are not settled physically.
The contracts typically contain standard delivery, pricing and settlement terms.
Additionally, the BFO contract species a standard volume and tolerance given that the physically settled transactions are delivered by cargo.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 111 112 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011
