Definitions Inventory holding gains and losses represent the difference between the The way that BP manages the economic exposures described above, and cost of sales calculated using the average cost to BP of supplies acquired measures performance internally, differs from the way these activities are during the period and the cost of sales calculated on the first-in first-out measured under IFRS.
BP calculates this difference for consolidated FIFO method, after adjusting for any changes in provisions where the net entities by comparing the IFRS result with managements internal realizable value of the inventory is lower than its cost.
measure of performance, under which the inventory and the supply and capacity contracts in question are valued based on fair value using Non-operating items are charges and credits arising in consolidated relevant forward prices prevailing at the end of the period.
We believe that entities that BP discloses separately because it considers such disclosing managements estimate of this difference provides useful disclosures to be meaningful and relevant to investors.
The main information for investors because it enables investors to see the economic categories of non-operating items included here are: impairments: gains effect of these activities as a whole.
or losses on sale of fixed assets and the sale of businesses: environmental remediation costs: restructuring, integration and Proved reserves replacement ratio is the extent to which production is rationalization costs: and changes in the fair value of embedded replaced by proved reserves additions.
This ratio is expressed in oil derivatives.
These disclosures are provided in order to enable investors equivalent terms and includes changes resulting from revisions to better to understand and evaluate the groups financial performance.
previous estimates, improved recovery and extensions and discoveries, Tax on non-operating items is calculated using the effective tax rate on and may be expressed as a replacement ratio excluding acquisitions and replacement cost profit or loss.
However, in 2011 and 2010 the US divestments or as a total replacement ratio including acquisitions and statutory tax rate has been used for recoveries relating to the Gulf of divestments.
For 2011 the proved reserves replacement ratio excluding Mexico oil spill and expenditures that qualify for tax relief.
In 2009 no tax acquisitions and divestments was 103% 106% in 2010 and 129% in credit was calculated on the goodwill impairment in Refining and 2009 for subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities, 45% for subsidiaries Marketing because the charge is not tax deductible.
alone and 194% for equity-accounted entities alone.
The 2011 reserves additions for TNK-BP, which is an equity-accounted entity, include the Fair value accounting effects occur where BP uses derivative instruments effect of moving from life-of-licence measurement to life-of-field to manage the economic exposure relating to inventories above normal measurement, reflecting TNK-BPs track record of successful licence operating requirements of crude oil, natural gas and petroleum products renewal.
Excluding this effect, BPs 2011 proved reserves replacement as well as certain contracts to supply physical volumes at future dates.
ratio excluding acquisitions and disposals would have been 83% for Under IFRS, these inventories and contracts are recorded at historic cost subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities.
and on an accruals basis respectively.
The related derivative instruments, however, are required to be recorded at fair value with gains and losses recognized in income because hedge accounting is either not permitted or not followed, principally due to the impracticality of effectiveness testing requirements.
Therefore, measurement differences in relation to recognition of gains and losses occur.
Gains and losses on these inventories and contracts are not recognized until the commodity is sold in a subsequent accounting period.
Gains and losses on the related derivative commodity contracts are recognized in the income statement from the time the derivative commodity contract is entered into on a fair value basis using forward prices consistent with the contract maturity.
IFRS requires that inventory held for trading be recorded at its fair value using period end spot prices whereas any related derivative commodity instruments are required to be recorded at values based on forward prices consistent with the contract maturity.
Depending on market conditions, these forward prices can be either higher or lower than spot prices resulting in measurement differences.
BP enters into contracts for pipelines and storage capacity, oil and gas processing and liquefied natural gas LNG that, under IFRS, are recorded on an accruals basis.
These contracts are risk-managed using a variety of derivative instruments, which are fair valued under IFRS.
This results in measurement differences in relation to recognition of gains and losses.
