Independent auditors statement To the members of BP p. l. c. Emphasis of matter significant uncertainty over provisions and We have examined the summary financial statement for the year ended contingencies related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill 31 December 2011 set out on pages 1 to 33.
Our report on the consolidated financial statements of BP p. l. c. for the This statement is made solely to the companys members, as a year ended 31 December 2011 contained within BP Annual Report and body, in accordance with Section 428 4 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our Form 20-F 2011 includes an emphasis of matter on the significant audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys uncertainty over provisions and contingencies related to the Gulf of members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors Mexico oil spill.
statement and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by In forming our opinion on the summary financial statement, we law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the have considered the adequacy of the disclosures made in Note 2 of the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for summary financial statement which summarize the disclosures in BP this statement, or for the opinions we have formed.
Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 concerning the provisions, future expenditures for which reliable estimates cannot be made and other Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor contingencies related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill significant event.
The The directors are responsible for preparing BP Summary Review 2011 in total amounts that will ultimately be paid by BP in relation to all obligations accordance with applicable United Kingdom law.
relating to the incident are subject to significant uncertainty and the Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency ultimate exposure and cost to BP will be dependent on many factors of the summary financial statement within BP Summary Review 2011 including any determination of BPs culpability based on any findings of with the consolidated financial statements, the Summary Directors negligence, gross negligence or wilful misconduct.
Actual costs could Remuneration Report and the Directors Report, and its compliance with ultimately be significantly higher or lower than those recorded in relation the relevant requirements of Section 428 of the Companies Act 2006 and to all obligations relating to the oil spill.
Our opinion on the summary the regulations made thereunder.
financial statement is not qualified in respect of these matters.
We also read the other information contained in BP Summary Review 2011 and consider the implications for our report if we become Ernst & Young LLP aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Statutory auditor summary financial statement.
London We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 2008 3 issued by 6 March 2012 the Auditing Practices Board.
Our reports on the consolidated and parent company financial statements contained within BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 describe the basis of our opinions on those financial statements, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Directors Report.
Opinion In our opinion the summary financial statement is consistent with the consolidated financial statements, the Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration Report of BP p. l. c. for the year ended 31 December 2011 and complies with the applicable requirements of Section 428 of the Companies Act 2006, and the regulations made thereunder.
Directors statement The auditor has issued unqualified reports on the consolidated and parent company financial statements, the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report and on the consistency of the Directors Report with those financial statements.
Their report on the consolidated and parent company financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report contained no statement under Sections 498 2 or 498 3 of the Companies Act 2006.
The maintenance and integrity of the BP p. l. c. website are the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
