Notes 1 Presentation of the financial statements These summarized financial statements represent an abridged version of the financial statements in BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011, which have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and IFRS as adopted for use by the European Union EU.
IFRS as adopted for use by the EU differs in certain respects from IFRS as issued by the IASB: however, the differences have no impact on the groups consolidated financial statements for the years presented.
2 Significant event Gulf of Mexico oil spill As a consequence of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, BP continues to incur costs and has also recognized liabilities for future costs.
The group income statement for 2011 includes a pre-tax credit of $3.7 billion which reflects credits of $5.5 billion relating to settlements, partially offset by further costs associated with the spill response, adjustments to provisions for future costs, and an increase in the amount provided for legal fees, as well as functional expenses of the Gulf Coast Restoration Organization.
In 2010, the pre-tax charge recognized was $40.9 billion, which included the $20-billion Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Trust the Trust commitment.
During 2011, settlements were agreed with BPs two co-owners of the Macondo well comprising $5.1 billion in cash, plus the co-owners interests in the lease.
In addition, settlements were also agreed with the manufacturer of the float collar used in the well and the designer and manufacturer of the blowout preventer, totalling $0.3 billion in cash.
Cash settlements of $5.1 billion were received by BP during 2011 and a further $0.3 billion in January 2012, all of which was contributed to the trust fund.
Under US law, BP is required to compensate individuals, businesses, government entities and others who have been impacted by the oil spill.
Individual and business claims have been administered by the Gulf Coast Claims Facility GCCF, which is separate from BP.
BP established a trust fund of $20 billion to be funded over the period to the fourth quarter of 2013, which is available to satisfy legitimate individual and business claims administered by the GCCF, state and local government claims resolved by BP, final judgments and settlements, state and local response costs, and natural resource damages and related costs arising as a consequence of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
BP has made regular contributions of $1.25 billion per quarter to the trust fund during 2011, and as a consequence of the accelerated contributions of the settlement receipts the remaining $4.9 billion obligation is now expected to be paid in full by the end of 2012.
The income statement charge for 2010 includes $20 billion in relation to the trust fund, adjusted to take account of the time value of money.
The establishment of the trust fund does not represent a cap or floor on BPs liabilities and BP does not admit to a liability of this amount.
BP has provided for all liabilities that can be estimated reliably at this time, including fines and penalties under the Clean Water Act CWA.
The total amounts that will ultimately by paid by BP in relation to all obligations relating to the incident are subject to significant uncertainty and the ultimate exposure and cost to BP will be dependent on many factors.
Although the provision recognized is the current best estimate of expenditures required to settle certain present obligations at the end of the reporting period, there are future expenditures for which it is not possible to measure the obligation reliably.
BP considers that it is not possible to estimate reliably any obligation in relation to Natural Resource Damage claims under the Oil Pollution Act 1990 other than the cost of emergency and early restoration projects, litigation other than that related to the proposed settlement with the Plaintiffs Steering Committee noted below, and fines and penalties except for those in relation to the CWA.
These items are therefore disclosed as contingent liabilities.
Adjusting event after the reporting period Settlement with the Plaintiffs Steering Committee, subject to final written agreement and court approvals, to resolve economic loss and medical claims Subsequent to BP releasing its preliminary announcement of the fourth quarter 2011 results on 7 February 2012, BP announced on 3 March 2012 that it had reached a proposed settlement with the Plaintiffs Steering Committee PSC, subject to final written agreement and court approvals, to resolve the substantial majority of legitimate economic loss and medical claims stemming from the Deepwater Horizon accident and oil spill.
The PSC acts on behalf of individual and business plaintiffs in the Multi-District Litigation proceedings pending in New Orleans MDL 2179.
Under the proposed settlement, class members would release and dismiss their claims against BP.
The proposed settlement is not an admission of liability by BP.
The proposed settlement is an adjusting event after the reporting period and therefore has been reflected in the financial statements for 2011 included in this report.
The proposed settlement has not resulted in any increase in the $37.2 billion net pre-tax charge previously recorded in the financial statements.
BP estimates that the cost of the proposed settlement, which covers Individual and Business Claims and associated costs that are expected to be paid from the $20-billion trust fund, would be approximately $7.8 billion.
This represents an increase of $2.1 billion in the provision compared to the amount reflected in the fourth quarter 2011 preliminary results announcement, with no net impact to either the income statement or the cash flow statement, since it is expected to be payable from the trust fund.
The amount that can further be provided with no net impact to the income statement is therefore reduced from approximately $5.5 billion to approximately $3.4 billion.
While this is BPs reliable best estimate of the cost of the proposed settlement, it is possible that the actual cost could be higher or lower than this estimate depending on the outcomes of the court-supervised claims processes.
Costs of the proposed settlement will be paid either from the $20-billion trust or, should the Trust not be sufficient, directly by BP.
At this time BP expects all claims to be paid from the Trust.
The proposed settlement does not include claims against BP made by the United States Department of Justice or other federal agencies including under the Clean Water Act and for Natural Resource Damages under the Oil Pollution Act or by the states and local governments.
The proposed settlement also excludes certain other claims against BP, such as securities and shareholder claims, and claims based solely on the deepwater drilling moratorium and or the related permitting process.
The proposed settlement is subject to reaching definitive and fully documented agreements within 45 days of 2 March 2012.
If those agreements are not reached, either party has the right to terminate the proposed settlement.
Once there are definitive and fully documented agreements, BP and the PSC would then seek the courts preliminary approval of the settlement.
Under US federal law, there is an established procedure for determining the fairness, reasonableness and adequacy of class action settlements.
Pursuant to this procedure and subject to the court granting preliminary approval of the agreements, there will be an extensive outreach programme to the public to explain the settlement agreements, class members rights, including the right to opt out of the classes and the process of making claims.
The court would then conduct fairness hearings at which class members and various other parties would have the opportunity to be heard and present evidence.
The court would then decide whether or not to approve each proposed settlement agreement.
For further details of the proposed settlement and a full understanding of the impacts and uncertainties relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, refer to BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011.
