Our management of risk During 2011, functions, strategic performance units, divisions and segments within BP were requested to prepare RMRs using the new, common approach.
This helped provide an overall data set of the key risks identied, an assessment of their potential impact and likelihood on a consistent basis, information on how they are being managed and any actions planned or in progress to improve the management of risk.
Based on these RMRs, together with additional executive overview, a single group RMR has been prepared.
Those risks identied on the group RMR as requiring particular group-level oversight in the coming year have been allocated to specic board and executive committees for oversight and monitoring.
Also see Risk factors on pages 59-63 for a description of the material risks we face in our business.
Risk management can also be a foundation for creating value.
The willingness to take and appropriately manage certain risk is fundamental to the success of any commercial enterprise.
For example, in our upstream business Above BPs Cooper River we consciously place significant amounts of capital at risk in exploring for new petrochemicals plant in South Carolina operates hydrocarbon resources.
Where this exploration is successful, we would generally two PTA units.
PTA is expect it to lead to future increases in our proved reserves and future cash ows.
used in the production of plastic bottles.
However, exploration expenditure may not yield adequate returns, for example in the case of unproductive wells or discoveries that prove uneconomic to develop.
Below Working with Falex Corporation, Air BP has developed a faster and Safety and operational risk function more reliable way to test We have redened and strengthened the scope and accountabilities of the aviation lubricants.
group function for safety and operational risk S&OR, creating a new team independent of business line management to drive safe, compliant and reliable operations in BP.
The S&OR function, which continues to build towards its full stafng complement, includes S&OR teams which have been formed to work alongside line management but are independent of them.
In pursuit of safe, compliant and reliable operations, S&OR personnel can assist, challenge and escalate or intervene as necessary to promote and assure the operating businesses systematic and disciplined application of global standards on safety and operational risk.
The function helps provide assurance as to whether line operations are carried out in accordance with the groups operating management system, and seeks to facilitate more comprehensive and assured S&OR risk action plans for operational units, more incisive interventions on emerging risk situations, and improved investigations and learning from significant incidents.
How we seek to manage our risks The following is a summary of how we seek to manage the risks we have identied as having a high priority in 2012.
There can be no guarantee that our risk management activities will mitigate or prevent these, or other, risks from occurring.
Strategic risks In response to risks associated with the general macroeconomic outlook and changes in prices and markets, we monitor early warnings from our treasury team and customer-facing businesses.
To manage our liquidity, financial capacity and financial exposure risks, we apply our financial framework see Liquidity and capital resources on page 103 and we conduct liquidity stress testing and scenario-planning interventions.
44 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011
