Business review Reporting failure to accurately report our data could lead to Our business activities could also be severely disrupted by civil strife and regulatory action, legal liability and reputational damage.
political unrest in areas where we operate.
External reporting of financial and non-financial data is reliant on the integrity of systems and people.
Failure to report data accurately and in Product quality failure to meet product quality standards could lead compliance with external standards could result in regulatory action, legal to harm to people and the environment and loss of customers.
liability and damage to our reputation.
Supplying customers with on-specication products is critical to maintaining our licence to operate and our reputation in the marketplace.
Safety and operational risks Failure to meet product quality standards throughout the value chain could The risks inherent in our operations include a number of hazards that, lead to harm to people and the environment and loss of customers.
although many may have a low probability of occurrence, can have extremely serious consequences if they do occur, such as the Gulf of Drilling and production these activities require high levels Mexico oil spill.
The occurrence of any such risks could have a consequent of investment and are subject to natural hazards and other material adverse impact on the groups business, competitive position, uncertainties.
Activities in challenging environments heighten many cash ows, results of operations, financial position, prospects, liquidity, of the drilling and production risks including those of integrity shareholder returns and or implementation of the groups strategic goals.
failures, which could lead to curtailment, delay or cancellation of drilling operations, or inadequate returns from exploration Process safety, personal safety and environmental risks the nature expenditure.
of our operations exposes us to a wide range of significant health, Exploration and production require high levels of investment and are safety, security and environmental risks, the occurrence of which subject to natural hazards and other uncertainties, including those relating could result in regulatory action, legal liability and increased costs to the physical characteristics of an oil or natural gas eld.
Our exploration and damage to our reputation.
and production activities are often conducted in extremely challenging The nature of the groups operations exposes us to a wide range of environments, which heighten the risks of technical integrity failure and significant health, safety, security and environmental risks.
The scope of natural disasters discussed above.
The cost of drilling, completing or these risks is inuenced by the geographic range, operational diversity operating wells is often uncertain.
We may be required to curtail, delay and technical complexity of our activities.
In addition, in many of our major or cancel drilling operations because of a variety of factors, including projects and operations, risk allocation and management is shared with unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in geological third parties, such as contractors, sub-contractors, joint venture partners formations, equipment failures or accidents, adverse weather conditions and associates.
See Joint ventures and other contractual arrangements and compliance with governmental requirements.
In addition, exploration BP may not have full operational control and may have exposure to expenditure may not yield adequate returns, for example in the case of counterparty credit risk and disruptions to our operations and strategic unproductive wells or discoveries that prove uneconomic to develop.
objectives due to the nature of some of its business relationships on The Gulf of Mexico oil spill illustrates the risks we face in our drilling and page 63. production activities.
There are risks of technical integrity failure as well as risk of natural disasters and other adverse conditions in many of the areas in which we Transportation all modes of transportation of hydrocarbons involve operate, which could lead to loss of containment of hydrocarbons and inherent and significant risks.
other hazardous material, as well as the risk of res, explosions or other All modes of transportation of hydrocarbons involve inherent risks.
explosion or re or loss of containment of hydrocarbons or other hazardous In addition, inability to provide safe environments for our workforce material could occur during transportation by road, rail, sea or pipeline.
This and the public could lead to injuries or loss of life and could result in is a significant risk due to the potential impact of a release on people and regulatory action, legal liability and damage to our reputation.
the environment and given the high volumes potentially involved.
Our operations are often conducted in difficult or environmentally sensitive locations, in which the consequences of a spill, explosion, Major project delivery our group plan depends upon successful re or other incident could be greater than in other locations.
These delivery of major projects, and failure to deliver major projects operations are subject to various environmental and safety laws, successfully could adversely affect our financial performance.
regulations and permits and the consequences of failure to comply Successful execution of our group plan depends critically on implementing with these requirements can include remediation obligations, penalties, the activities to deliver the major projects over the plan period.
Poor loss of operating permits and other sanctions.
Accordingly, inherent in delivery of any major project that underpins production or production our operations is the risk that if we fail to abide by environmental and growth, including maintenance turnaround programmes, and or a major safety and protection standards, such failure could lead to damage to the programme designed to enhance shareholder value could adversely affect environment and could result in regulatory action, legal liability, material our financial performance.
Successful project delivery requires, among costs, damage to our reputation or denial of our licence to operate.
other things, adequate engineering and other capabilities and therefore To help address health, safety, security, environmental and successful recruitment and development of staff is central to our plans.
operations risks, and to provide a consistent framework within which See People and capability successful recruitment and development of the group can analyse the performance of its activities and identify staff is central to our plans on page 63. and remediate shortfalls, BP has introduced a group-wide operating management system OMS.
Work on the application of OMS in individual Digital infrastructure is an important part of maintaining our operating businesses continues and following the Gulf of Mexico oil spill operations, and a breach of our digital security could result in serious an enhanced safety and operational risk S&OR function was established, damage to business operations, personal injury, damage to assets, reporting directly to the group chief executive.
There can be no assurance harm to the environment, breaches of regulations, litigation, legal that OMS will adequately identify all process safety, personal safety and liabilities and reparation costs.
environmental risk or provide the correct mitigations, or that all operations The reliability and security of our digital infrastructure are critical to will be in conformance with OMS at all times.
maintaining the availability of our business applications, including the reliable operation of technology in our various business operations and Security hostile activities against our staff and activities could the collection and processing of financial and operational data, as well as cause harm to people and disrupt our operations.
the condentiality of certain third-party information.
A breach of our digital Security threats require continuous oversight and control.
Acts of terrorism, security, either due to intentional actions or due to negligence, could cause piracy, sabotage, cyber-attacks and similar activities directed against our serious damage to business operations and, in some circumstances, could operations and ofces, pipelines, transportation or computer systems could result in injury to people, damage to assets, harm to the environment, cause harm to people and could severely disrupt business and operations.
breaches of regulations, litigation, legal liabilities and reparation costs.
62 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 Business review: BP in more depth Business review Business continuity and disaster recovery the group must be able unable to make a drawdown under certain of its committed borrowing to recover quickly and effectively from any disruption or incident, as facilities in the event we are aware that there are pending or threatened failure to do so could adversely affect our business and operations.
legal, arbitration or administrative proceedings which, if determined Contingency plans are required to continue or recover operations following adversely, might reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect a disruption or incident.
Inability to restore or replace critical capacity to an on our ability to meet the payment obligations under any of these facilities.
agreed level within an agreed timeframe would prolong the impact of any Credit rating downgrades could trigger a requirement for the company to disruption and could severely affect our business and operations.
review its funding arrangements with the BP pension trustees.
Extended constraints on the groups ability to obtain nancing and to engage in its Crisis management crisis management plans are essential to trading activities on acceptable terms or at all would put pressure on the respond effectively to emergencies and to avoid a potentially severe groups liquidity.
In addition, this could occur at a time when cash ows disruption in our business and operations.
from our business operations would be constrained following a significant Crisis management plans and capability are essential to deal with operational incident, and the group could be required to reduce planned emergencies at every level of our operations.
If we do not respond, or are capital expenditures and or increase asset disposals in order to provide perceived not to respond, in an appropriate manner to either an external or additional liquidity, as the group did following the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
internal crisis, our business and operations could be severely disrupted.
Joint ventures and other contractual arrangements BP may not People and capability successful recruitment and development of have full operational control and may have exposure to counterparty staff is central to our plans.
credit risk and disruptions to our operations and strategic objectives Successful recruitment of new staff, employee training, development due to the nature of some of its business relationships.
and long-term renewal of skills, in particular technical capabilities such Many of our major projects and operations are conducted through joint as petroleum engineers and scientists, are key to implementing our ventures or associates and through contracting and sub-contracting plans.
Inability to develop human capacity and capability, both across arrangements.
These arrangements often involve complex risk allocation, the organization and in specic operating locations, could jeopardize decision-making processes and indemnification arrangements.
cases, we may have less control of such activities than we would have In addition, significant management focus is required in responding if BP had full operational control.
Our partners may have economic or to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill Incident.
Although BP set up the Gulf Coast business interests or objectives that are inconsistent with or opposed to, Restoration Organization to manage the groups long-term response, key those of BP, and may exercise veto rights to block certain key decisions management and operating personnel will need to continue to devote or actions that BP believes are in its or the joint ventures or associates substantial attention to responding to the Incident and to address the best interests, or approve such matters without our consent.
Additionally, associated consequences for the group.
The group relies on recruiting our joint venture partners or associates or contractual counterparties and retaining high-quality employees to execute its strategic plans and are primarily responsible for the adequacy of the human or technical to operate its business.
The Incident response has placed significant competencies and capabilities which they bring to bear on the joint project, demands on our employees, and the reputational damage suffered by the and in the event these are found to be lacking, our joint venture partners group as a result of the Incident and any consequent adverse impact on our or associates may not be able to meet their financial or other obligations to performance could affect employee recruitment and retention.
their counterparties or to the relevant project, potentially threatening the viability of such projects.
Furthermore, should accidents or incidents occur Treasury and trading activities control of these activities depends in operations in which BP participates, whether as operator or otherwise, on our ability to process, manage and monitor a large number of and where it is held that our sub-contractors or joint-venture partners transactions.
Failure to do this effectively could lead to business are legally liable to share any aspects of the cost of responding to such disruption, financial loss, regulatory intervention or damage to our incidents, the financial capacity of these third parties may prove inadequate reputation.
to fully indemnify BP against the costs we incur on behalf of the joint In the normal course of business, we are subject to operational risk around venture or contractual arrangement.
Should a key sub-contractor, such as our treasury and trading activities.
Control of these activities is highly a lessor of drilling rigs, be no longer able to make these assets available dependent on our ability to process, manage and monitor a large number of to BP, this could result in serious disruption to our operations.
Where BP complex transactions across many markets and currencies.
Shortcomings does not have operational control of a venture, BP may nonetheless still be or failures in our systems, risk management methodology, internal control pursued by regulators or claimants in the event of an incident.
processes or people could lead to disruption of our business, financial loss, regulatory intervention or damage to our reputation.
Following the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, Moodys Investors Service, Standard and Poors and Fitch Ratings downgraded the groups long-term credit ratings.
Since that time, the groups credit ratings have improved somewhat but are still lower than they were immediately before the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
The impact that a significant operational incident can have on the groups credit ratings, taken together with the reputational consequences of any such incident, the ratings and assessments published by analysts and investors concerns about the groups costs arising from any such incident, ongoing contingencies, liquidity, financial performance and volatile credit spreads, could increase the groups nancing costs and limit the groups access to nancing.
The groups ability to engage in its trading activities could also be impacted due to counterparty concerns about the groups financial and business risk prole in such circumstances.
Such counterparties could require that the group provide collateral or other forms of financial security for its obligations, particularly if the groups credit ratings are downgraded.
Certain counterparties for the groups non-trading businesses could also require that the group provide collateral for certain of its contractual obligations, particularly if the groups credit ratings were downgraded below investment grade or where a counterparty had concerns about the groups financial and business risk prole following a significant operational incident.
In addition, BP may be BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 63
