com summaryreview Building a stronger, safer BP The Summary Review for the year ended 31 December 2011 constitutes the summary financial statement and comprises summaries of the Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration Report and a summary of the information in the consolidated financial statements.
The summary financial statement complies with the information requirements under the Companies Summary Financial Statement Regulations 2008.
It does not contain suf cient information to allow as full an understanding of the results and the state of affairs of BP and of its policies and arrangements concerning directors remuneration as BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011.
Shareholders may obtain a copy of BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 online or on request, free of charge see page 33.
BP p. l. c. is the parent company of the BP group of companies.
Unless otherwise stated, the text does not distinguish between the activities and operations of the parent company and those of its subsidiaries.
The term shareholder in this Summary Review means, unless the context otherwise requires, investors in the equity capital of BP p. l. c. both direct and or indirect.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 and BP Summary Review 2011 may be downloaded from bp.
No material on the BP website, other than the items identi ed as BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 and BP Summary Review 2011, forms any part of those documents.
As BP shares, in the form of ADSs, are listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE, an Annual Report on Form 20-F is led with the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC in accordance with the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
When led, copies may be obtained free of charge see page 33.
BP discloses in BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 and on its website at bp.
com  signi cant ways if any in which its corporate governance practices differ from those mandated for US companies under NYSE listing standards.
Cautionary statement BP Summary Review 2011 contains certain forward-looking statements, particularly those relating to strategy and strategic priorities, plans to deliver shareholder value, expectations regarding the 10-point plan, expectations regarding future dividend payments, BPs outlook on global energy trends to 2030 and beyond, the intention to make $38 billion of disposals, anticipated increase in operating cash ow and margins, future capital expenditure, expected level of investments, the anticipated timing for completion of and final proceeds from the disposition of certain BP assets, future production levels including expectations for an increase in high-margin production, the timing and composition of future projects including expected start-up, completion, timing of production, level of production and margins, expectations for drilling and rig activity in the Gulf of Mexico, the timing and quantum of and timing for completion of contributions to and payments from the $20-billion trust fund, the expected terms of the proposed settlement agreement with the Plaintiffs Steering Committee in MDL 2179 and the expected timing of the fairness hearing and court approvals in respect thereof, the expected amount, source and timing of payments under any settlements, expectations regarding regulation and taxation of the energy industry and energy users, the timing for completion of the Whiting re nery upgrade, plans regarding the implementation of enhancements to BPs risk management system, expectations regarding the reduction of net debt and the net debt ratio, the completion of planned and announced divestments, dates or periods in which production is scheduled or expected to come onstream or a project or action is scheduled or expected to begin or be completed, and costs for providing pension and other post-retirement bene ts.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will or may occur in the future.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in such statements, depending on a variety of factors, including the speci c factors identi ed in the discussions accompanying such forward-looking statements: the timing of bringing new elds onstream: the timing of certain disposals: future levels of industry product supply, demand and pricing: OPEC quota restrictions: PSA effects: operational problems: general economic conditions: political stability and economic growth in relevant areas of the world: changes in laws and governmental regulations: regulatory or legal actions including the types of enforcement action pursued and the nature of remedies sought: the actions of prosecutors, regulatory authorities and courts: the actions of all parties to the Deepwater Horizon oil spill-related litigation at various phases of the litigation: exchange rate uctuations: development and use Cover image of new technology: the success or otherwise of partnering: the actions of competitors: the actions of Photograph of Hull research contractors: natural disasters and adverse weather conditions: changes in public expectations and other and technology centre, UK changes to business conditions: wars and acts of terrorism or sabotage: and other factors discussed taken as part of the We are BP programme.
elsewhere in this document and in the BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011.
Reconciliations to GAAP This Summary Review contains financial information that is not presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles GAAP.
A quantitative reconciliation of this information to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP can be found in the BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011.
The registered of ce of BP p. l. c. is 1 St Jamess Square, London SW1Y 4PD, UK.
Registered in England and Wales no.
Contents 2011 was a year of recovery, consolidation and change.
We laid strong foundations, reshaped the portfolio and recovered momentum.
2 Chairmans letter 6 Group chief executives letter Carl-Henric Svanberg sets out the Bob Dudley reports on BPs progress actions taken by the board to establish against its priorities of enhancing safety, a stronger, safer BP.
earning back trust and growing value.
10 Our business model 13 Our strategy How BP creates and preserves value What you can expect from us and what across the hydrocarbon chain.
you can measure, as we work to create a stronger, safer BP.
16 Our performance 25 Independent auditors statement 18 Our financial performance 25 Directors statement 19 Group income statement26 Supplementary information 19 Group statement of 27 Definitions comprehensive income 20 Group statement of changes 28 B oard of directors in equity 20 Group cash flow statement 30 Summary directors remuneration report 21 G roup balance sheet 32 Information for shareholders 22 Notes 33 Reports and publications BP Summary Review 2011 1
