Our business model BPs business model is to create value across the entire hydrocarbon value chain.
This starts with exploration and ends with the supply of energy and other products that are fundamental to everyday life.
a BP is one of the worlds leading integrated oil and gas companies.
Our objective is to create value for shareholders and supplies of energy for the world in a safe and responsible way.
We strive to be a safety leader in our industry, a world-class operator, a responsible corporate citizen and a good employer.
At each stage of the hydrocarbon value chain there are opportunities for us to create value both through the successful execution of activities that are core to our industry, and through the application of our own distinctive strengths and capabilities in performing those activities.
We have two main business segments: Exploration and Production, and Refining and Marketing.
Through these, our activities are focused on finding, developing and producing essential sources of energy, and turning these sources into products that people need.
We provide our customers with fuel for transportation, energy for heat and light, lubricants to keep engines moving, and Above When completed in the the petrochemicals products used to make everyday items like plastic bottles.
second half of 2013, modernization We also invest in renewable energy sources, which we believe will be an work at our Whiting refinery should enable BP to capture additional increasing source of value for BP.
Our activities are focused on biofuels and wind.
Value creation in our industry Below Operations at BPs Na Kika field in deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
BPs core activities are similar to those carried out by other global, integrated, oil BP is one of the largest producers and gas companies.
of hydrocarbons in the region.
First, we acquire the rights to explore for oil and gas.
When we are successful in finding hydrocarbon resources, we create value by seeking to develop them into proved reserves or by selling them on if they do not fit with our strategic objectives.
We often work with partners to mitigate risk or gain from complementary skills.
Through disciplined execution of capital projects we then develop, extract and sell the resources.
The benefits are shared with governments and other partners.
We move oil and gas through pipelines and by ship, truck and rail.
We use our skills and knowledge to find the best routes to deliver supplies to the most attractive markets.
We manufacture fuels and products, creating value by seeking to operate a high-quality portfolio of well-located assets safely, reliably and efficiently.
We use our sales and marketing skills to add value to our fuels and other products.
BPs distinctive capabilities and sources of value By operating across the full hydrocarbon value chain we believe we can create more value for shareholders, as benefits and costs can often be shared by our two segments.
We can develop shared functional excellence more efficiently in areas such as safety and operational risk, environmental and social practices, procurement, technology and treasury management.
a On the basis of market capitalization, proved reserves and production.
10 BP Summary Review 2011 We have a distinctive integrated supply and trading function, which aims to maximize the value of our production while ensuring our refineries are fully supplied.
We buy and sell at each stage in the value chain to optimize value for the group, often selling our own production and buying from elsewhere to satisfy demand from our refineries and customers.
The function also creates value through entrepreneurial trading, where our presence across the major energy trading hubs of the world provides access to vital information on the fundamentals of markets that are increasingly connected.
We consider our ability to build a wide range of strong, long-term relationships to be both a key strength and crucial to our success.
We partner with national oil companies and our international oil company peers: with universities and governments in the pursuit of improving the technologies available: we work with contractors and suppliers: and we also actively participate in industry bodies.
We believe our development and application of technology represents a distinctive capability that is central to our reputation and competitive advantage.
For us, technology is the practical application of scientific knowledge to manage risks, capture business value and inform strategy development.
This includes In detail the research, development, demonstration and acquisition of new technical Find out more online.
com technology capabilities and support for the deployment of BPs know-how.
Integrated model 2 Developing Moving oil 3 and extracting and gas oil and gas Finding oil 1 and gas Selling fuels 5 and products Making fuels 4 and products Investing in 6 renewable energy BP Summary Review 2011 11 Our business model Upstream and midstream playing to our strengths Our exploration division obtains access to and finds resources at scale in the worlds key hydrocarbon basins.
We are an industry leader in seismic imaging, a key technology in the identification of potential hydrocarbon resources.
Our developments division develops our hydrocarbon resources, applying effective project execution and capital efficiency.
Our production division then extracts resources efficiently and maximizes their recovery.
We focus on areas that play to our strengths deepwater, gas value chains including the infrastructure required from field to market and giant fields.
We are increasing investment with a particular focus on exploration.
We actively manage our portfolio, including divesting assets when we believe they may be more valuable to others than to ourselves.
This allows us to focus our leadership, technical resources, and organizational capability on the resources we believe are most likely to flourish in our portfolio.
Left In 2011, we received local government approval for a 1.25mtpa PTA plant to be added to existing BP petrochemicals facilities in Zhuhai, China.
Right During 2011, full commercial operations started at Cedar Creek 2 wind farm in Colorado.
Downstream working across the value chain Our Refining and Marketing segment comprises three main businesses: fuels, lubricants and petrochemicals.
All of our businesses operate as value chains.
The fuels businesses sell refined petroleum products including gasoline, diesel and aviation fuel.
Within this, the fuels value chains integrate the activities of refining, logistics, marketing, and supply and trading on a regional basis.
This recognizes the geographic nature of the markets in which we compete, providing the opportunity to optimize our activities from crude oil purchases to endconsumer sales through our physical assets refineries, terminals, pipelines and retail stations.
We focus on complex, upgraded refineries that are able to process cheaper feedstocks yet yield more valuable products.
In addition, we operate a global aviation fuels and an LPG marketing business.
Our lubricants business is involved in manufacturing and marketing lubricants and related services to markets around the world.
In 2011, approximately 45% of our profit from lubricants was generated from non-OECD markets, and we see good opportunities for further growth in these areas.
We market lubricants to the automotive, industrial, marine, aviation and energy markets.
The business blends and markets lubricants globally through our key brands of Castrol, BP and Aral.
Our petrochemicals business operates on a global basis and includes the manufacture and marketing of petrochemicals that are used in many everyday products, such as plastic bottles and textiles for clothing.
Future growth in our business is focused on the demand centres of Asia, where our relationships with joint venture partners are key to our strategy in these increasingly important markets.
