Additional information for shareholders It is not unusual to have exploration wells and exploratory-type stratigraphic Critical accounting policies test wells remaining suspended on the balance sheet for several years while additional appraisal drilling and seismic work on the potential oil and The significant accounting policies of the group are summarized in Financial natural gas eld is performed or while the optimum development plans and statements Note 1 on pages 182-189. timing are established.
Inherent in the application of many of the accounting policies used All such carried costs are subject to regular technical, commercial in preparing the financial statements is the need for BP management to and management review on at least an annual basis to confirm the make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported continued intent to develop, or otherwise extract value from, the discovery.
amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and Where this is no longer the case, the costs are immediately expensed.
the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period.
Actual The determination of the groups estimated oil and gas reserves outcomes could differ from the estimates and assumptions used.
The requires significant judgements and estimates to be applied and these following summary provides more information about the critical accounting are regularly reviewed and updated.
Factors such as the availability of judgements and estimates that could have a significant impact on the geological and engineering data, reservoir performance data, acquisition results of the group and should be read in conjunction with the information and divestment activity, drilling of new wells and commodity prices all provided in the Notes on financial statements, including Note 1 significant impact on the determination of the groups estimates of its oil and gas accounting policies.
BP bases its proved reserves estimates on the requirement of The areas requiring the most significant judgement and estimation reasonable certainty with rigorous technical and commercial assessments in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are in relation based on conventional industry practice.
to oil and natural gas accounting, including the estimation of reserves, the The estimation of oil and natural gas reserves and BPs process recoverability of asset carrying values, business combinations, taxation, to manage reserves bookings is described in Exploration and Production derivative financial instruments, provisions and contingencies, and in Oil and gas disclosures on page 89, which is unaudited.
Details on BPs particular, provisions and contingencies related to the Gulf of Mexico oil proved reserves and production compliance and governance processes are spill, and pensions and other post-retirement benets.
Estimates of oil and gas reserves are used to calculate depreciation, Oil and natural gas accounting depletion and amortization charges for the groups oil and gas properties.
The group follows the principles of the successful efforts method The impact of changes in estimated proved reserves is dealt with of accounting for its oil and natural gas exploration, appraisal and prospectively by amortizing the remaining carrying value of the asset over development expenditure.
The groups accounting policy for oil and natural the expected future production.
As discussed below, oil and natural gas gas exploration, appraisal and development expenditure is provided in reserves also have a direct impact on the assessment of the recoverability Financial statements Note 1 on page 184. of asset carrying values reported in the financial statements.
The accounting for oil and natural gas exploration, appraisal and If proved reserves estimates are revised downwards, earnings development expenditure requires the use of various judgements and could be affected by higher depreciation expense or an immediate writeestimates in managements determination of the economic viability of a down of the propertys carrying value see discussion of recoverability of project based on a range of technical and commercial considerations, the asset carrying values below.
establishment of development plans and timing, and estimates of future The 2011 movements in proved reserves are reected in the expenditure.
tables showing movements in oil and gas reserves by region in Financial Exploration licence and leasehold property acquisition costs are statements Supplementary information on oil and natural gas unaudited capitalized within intangible assets and are reviewed at each reporting date on pages 259-281.
Information on the carrying amounts of the groups oil to confirm that there is no indication that the carrying amount exceeds and gas properties, together with the amounts recognized in the income the recoverable amount.
This review includes conrming that exploration statement as depreciation, depletion and amortization is contained in drilling is still under way or rmly planned or that it has been determined, Financial statements Note 15 and Note 9 respectively.
or work is under way to determine, that the discovery is economically viable based on a range of technical and commercial considerations and Recoverability of asset carrying values sufficient progress is being made on establishing development plans and BP assesses its xed assets, including goodwill, for possible impairment timing.
If no future activity is planned, the remaining balance of the licence if there are events or changes in circumstances that indicate that carrying and property acquisition costs is written off.
Lower value licences are values of the assets may not be recoverable and, as a result, charges for pooled and amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated period of impairment are recognized in the groups results from time to time, with exploration.
corresponding reductions in the carrying values of the groups assets.
For exploration wells and exploratory-type stratigraphic test wells, Such indicators include changes in the groups business plans, changes costs directly associated with the drilling of wells are initially capitalized in commodity prices leading to sustained unprofitable performance, an within intangible assets, pending determination of whether potentially increase in the discount rate, low plant utilization, evidence of physical economic oil and gas reserves have been discovered by the drilling effort.
damage and, for oil and natural gas properties, significant downward These costs include employee remuneration, materials and fuel used, rig revisions of estimated volumes or increases in estimated future costs, delay rentals and payments made to contractors.
If there are low oil prices, natural gas prices, is usually made within one year after well completion, but can take longer, rening margins or marketing margins during an extended period, the depending on the complexity of the geological structure.
If the well did group may need to recognize significant impairment charges.
not encounter potentially economic oil and gas quantities, the well costs The assessment for impairment entails comparing the carrying are expensed as a dry hole and are reported in exploration expense.
value of the asset or cash-generating unit with its recoverable amount, Exploration wells that discover potentially economic quantities of oil and that is, the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Value natural gas and are in areas where major capital expenditure e. g. offshore in use is usually determined on the basis of discounted estimated future platform or a pipeline would be required before production could begin, net cash ows.
Determination as to whether and how much an asset is and where the economic viability of that major capital expenditure depends impaired involves management estimates on highly uncertain matters such on the successful completion of further exploration work in the area, as future commodity prices, the effects of ination on operating expenses, remain capitalized on the balance sheet as long as additional exploration discount rates, production proles and the outlook for global or regional appraisal work is under way or rmly planned.
market supply-and-demand conditions for crude oil, natural gas and rened products.
154 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 Additional information for shareholders Additional information for shareholders For oil and natural gas properties, the expected future cash ows are Taxation estimated using managements best estimate of future oil and natural The computation of the groups income tax expense and liability gas prices and reserves volumes.
Prices for oil and natural gas used for involves the interpretation of applicable tax laws and regulations in many future cash ow calculations are based on market prices for the first jurisdictions throughout the world.
The resolution of tax positions taken five years and the groups long-term price assumptions thereafter.
As at by the group, through negotiations with relevant tax authorities or through 31 December 2011, the groups long-term price assumptions were $90 litigation, can take several years to complete and in some cases it is per barrel for Brent and $6.50 mmBtu for Henry Hub 2010 $75 per barrel difficult to predict the ultimate outcome.
These long-term price assumptions are subject to In addition, the group has carry-forward tax losses and tax credits in periodic review and modication.
The estimated future level of production certain taxing jurisdictions that are available to offset against future taxable is based on assumptions about future commodity prices, production profit.
However, deferred tax assets are recognized only to the extent and development costs, eld decline rates, current scal regimes and that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the other factors.
unused tax losses or tax credits can be utilized.
Management judgement is The future cash ows are adjusted for risks specic to the cashexercised in assessing whether this is the case.
generating unit and are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate.
The To the extent that actual outcomes differ from managements discount rate is derived from the groups post-tax weighted average estimates, income tax charges or credits, and changes in deferred tax cost of capital and is adjusted where applicable to take into account any assets or liabilities, may arise in future periods.
For more information see specic risks relating to the country where the cash-generating unit is Financial statements Note 18 on page 210 and Note 43 on page 249. located, although other rates may be used if appropriate to the specic circumstances.
In 2011 the rates ranged from 12% to 14% nominal Derivative financial instruments 2010 11% to 14% nominal.
The rate applied in each country is The group uses derivative financial instruments to manage certain reassessed each year.
exposures to uctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest Irrespective of whether there is any indication of impairment, BP is rates and commodity prices as well as for trading purposes.
In addition, required to test annually for impairment of goodwill acquired in a business derivatives embedded within other financial instruments or other host combination.
The group carries goodwill of approximately $12.1 billion contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and on its balance sheet 2010 $8.6 billion, principally relating to the Atlantic characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract.
All Richeld, Burmah Castrol, Devon Energy and Reliance transactions.
In such derivatives are initially recognized at fair value on the date on which a testing goodwill for impairment, the group uses a similar approach to that derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair described above for asset impairment.
If there are low oil prices or natural value.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives gas prices or rening margins or marketing margins for an extended period, that are not designated as effective hedging instruments are recognized in the group may need to recognize significant goodwill impairment charges.
In 2009, an impairment loss of $1.6 billion was recognized to write off all In some cases the fair values of derivatives are estimated using of the goodwill allocated to the US West Coast fuels value chain FVC.
internal models and other valuation methods due to the absence of quoted The prevailing weak rening environment, together with a review of future prices or other observable, market-corroborated data.
This applies to the margin expectations in the FVC, led to a reduction in the expected future groups longer-term, structured derivative products and complex options, cash ows.
as well as to the majority of the groups natural gas embedded derivatives.
Refer to Oil and natural gas accounting above for a discussion on The groups embedded derivatives arise primarily from long-term UK gas the recoverability of intangible exploration and appraisal expenditure.
contracts that use pricing formulae not related to gas prices, for example, Details of impairment charges recognized in the income statement oil product and power prices.
These contracts are valued using models are provided in Financial statements Note 5 and details on the carrying with inputs that include price curves for each of the different products that amounts of assets are shown in Financial statements Note 21, Note 22 are built up from active market pricing data and extrapolated to the expiry and Note 23. of the contracts using the maximum available external pricing information.
Additionally, where limited data exists for certain products, prices are Business combinations interpolated using historic and long-term pricing relationships.
Price Accounting for business combinations using the acquisition method volatility is also an input for the models.
requires the determination of the fair value of the consideration transferred, Changes in the key assumptions could have a material impact on together with the fair value of the identiable assets acquired and liabilities the fair value gains and losses on derivatives and embedded derivatives assumed at the acquisition date.
Goodwill is measured as being the excess recognized in the income statement.
For more information see Financial of the aggregate of the consideration transferred, the amount recognized statements Note 33 on page 224. for any minority interest and the acquisition-date fair values of any Details of the value-at-risk techniques used by the group to previously held interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identiable measure market risk exposure arising from its derivative trading positions assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date.
is provided in Financial statements Note 26 on page 217.
An analysis of Judgement is required in determining whether a transaction meets the sensitivity of the fair value of the embedded derivatives to changes the criteria to be treated as a business combination or not.
Judgements in the key assumptions is provided in Financial statements Note 26 on and estimates are also required in order to determine the fair values of the page 217. assets acquired and the liabilities assumed, and the group uses all available information, including external valuations and appraisals where appropriate, to determine these fair values.
If necessary, the group has up to one year from the acquisition date to nalize the determinations of fair value.
Details of the business combinations undertaken by the group in 2011 are provided in Financial statements Note 3 on page 194.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 155 Additional information for shareholders Provisions and contingencies Gulf of Mexico oil spill The group holds provisions for the future decommissioning of oil and Detailed information on the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, including the financial natural gas production facilities and pipelines at the end of their economic impacts, is provided in Financial statements Note 2 on pages 190-194. lives.
The largest decommissioning obligations facing BP relate to the As a consequence of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, as described on plugging and abandonment of wells and the removal and disposal of oil pages 76-79, BP continues to incur costs and has also recognized liabilities and natural gas platforms and pipelines around the world.
The estimated for future costs.
Liabilities of uncertain timing or amount and contingent discounted costs of performing this work are recognized as we drill the liabilities have been accounted for and or disclosed in accordance with IAS wells and install the facilities, reecting our legal obligations at that time.
37 Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets.
BPs rights and A corresponding asset of an amount equivalent to the provision is also obligations in relation to the $20-billion trust fund which was established created within property, plant and equipment.
This asset is depreciated in 2010 are accounted for in accordance with IFRIC 5 Rights to interests over the expected life of the production facility or pipeline.
Most of these arising from decommissioning, restoration and environmental rehabilitation decommissioning events are many years in the future and the precise funds.
requirements that will have to be met when the removal event actually The total amounts that will ultimately be paid by BP in relation to all occurs are uncertain.
Decommissioning technologies and costs are obligations relating to the incident are subject to significant uncertainty and constantly changing, as well as political, environmental, safety and public the ultimate exposure and cost to BP will be dependent on many factors expectations.
Consequently, the timing and amounts of future cash ows including, with respect to certain of the obligations, any determination of are subject to significant uncertainty.
Any changes in the expected future BPs culpability based on any findings of negligence, gross negligence or costs are reected in both the provision and the asset.
Furthermore, significant uncertainty exists in relation to Decommissioning provisions associated with downstream and the amount of claims that will become payable by BP, the amount of fines petrochemicals facilities are generally not recognized, as such potential that will ultimately be levied on BP, the outcome of litigation and arbitration obligations cannot be measured, given their indeterminate settlement proceedings, the amount and timing of payments under any settlements, dates.
The group performs periodic reviews of its downstream and any costs arising from any longer-term environmental consequences and petrochemicals long-lived assets for any changes in facts and of the oil spill, which will also impact upon the ultimate cost for BP.
Any circumstances that might require the recognition of a decommissioning further settlements which may be reached relating to the Deepwater provision.
Horizon oil spill could impact the amount and timing of any future The timing and amount of future expenditures are reviewed payments.
Although the provision recognized is the current best reliable annually, together with the interest rate used in discounting the cash ows.
estimate of expenditures required to settle certain present obligations at The interest rate used to determine the balance sheet obligation at the end the end of the reporting period, there are future expenditures for which of 2011 was 0.5% 2010 1.5%.
The interest rate represents the real rate it is not possible to measure the obligation reliably as noted below under i. e. excluding the impacts of ination on long-dated government bonds.
Other provisions and liabilities are recognized in the period when The magnitude and timing of possible obligations in relation to the it becomes probable that there will be a future outow of funds resulting Gulf of Mexico oil spill are subject to a very high degree of uncertainty from past operations or events and the amount of cash outow can as described further in Risk factors on pages 59-63.
Furthermore, other be reliably estimated.
The timing of recognition and quantication of material unanticipated obligations may arise in future in relation to the the liability require the application of judgement to existing facts and incident.
Refer to Financial statements Note 43 on page 249 for further circumstances, which can be subject to change.
Since the actual cash information.
outows can take place many years in the future, the carrying amounts of provisions and liabilities are reviewed regularly and adjusted to take Expenditure to be met from the $20-billion trust fund account of changing facts and circumstances.
In 2010, BP established the Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Trust the Trust to A change in estimate of a recognized provision or liability would be funded in the amount of $20 billion over the period to the fourth quarter result in a charge or credit to net income in the period in which the change of 2013, which is available to satisfy legitimate individual and business occurs with the exception of decommissioning costs as described above.
claims administered by the Gulf Coast Claims Facility GCCF, state and Provisions for environmental remediation are made when a local government claims resolved by BP, final judgments and settlements, clean-up is probable and the amount of the obligation can be reliably state and local response costs, and natural resource damages and related estimated.
Generally, this coincides with commitment to a formal plan costs.
It is currently expected that the cost of the proposed settlement of action or, if earlier, on divestment or on closure of inactive sites.
The will be payable from the Trust.
In 2010, BP contributed $5 billion to the provision for environmental liabilities is estimated based on current legal fund, and further regular contributions totalling $5 billion were made in and constructive requirements, technology, price levels and expected 2011.
During 2011, BP also contributed the cash settlements received plans for remediation.
Actual costs and cash outows can differ from from MOEX, Weatherford and Anadarko amounting in total to $5.1 billion.
estimates because of changes in laws and regulations, public expectations, A further cash settlement from Cameron was received in January 2012 prices, discovery and analysis of site conditions and changes in clean-up and was also contributed to the trust fund.
As a result of these accelerated technology.
contributions, it is now expected that the $20-billion commitment will have The provision for environmental liabilities is reviewed at least been paid in full by the end of 2012. annually.
The interest rate used to determine the balance sheet obligation Fines, penalties and claims administration costs are not covered by at 31 December 2011 was 0.5% 2010 1.5%.
BPs obligation to make contributions to the trust fund was Information about the groups provisions is provided in Financial recognized in full in the 2010 group income statement and the remaining statements Note 36. liability to fund the Trust is included within other payables on the balance As further described in Financial statements Note 43 on page 249, sheet after taking account of the time value of money.
The establishment the group is subject to claims and actions.
The facts and circumstances of the trust fund does not represent a cap or oor on BPs liabilities and BP relating to particular cases are evaluated regularly in determining whether does not admit to a liability of this amount.
it is probable that there will be a future outow of funds and, once An asset has been recognized representing BPs right to receive established, whether a provision relating to a specic litigation should be reimbursement from the trust fund.
This is the portion of the estimated established or revised.
Accordingly, significant management judgement future expenditure provided for that will be settled by payments from relating to provisions and contingent liabilities is required, since the the trust fund.
We use the term reimbursement asset to describe this outcome of litigation is difficult to predict.
BP will not actually receive any reimbursements from the trust fund, instead payments will be made directly to claimants from the trust fund, and BP will be released from its corresponding obligation.
156 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011
