Information for shareholders Annual general meeting company, and generally provide for options and conditional awards to vest The 2012 annual general meeting will be held on Thursday, 12 April 2012 on an accelerated basis.
at 11.30 a. m. at ExCeL London, One Western Gateway, Royal Victoria Employee benefit trusts hold the shares unless and until employees Dock, London E16 1XL.
A separate notice convening the meeting is become entitled to them under most of the companys employee share distributed to shareholders, which includes an explanation of the items plans.
Each trust has an independent trustee.
In relation to the BP of special business to be considered at the meeting.
ShareMatch plans, once shares have been awarded to an employee under All resolutions of which notice has been given will be decided the plan, the employee may instruct the trustee how to vote their shares.
the Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts ESOPs, pending vesting, the Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in trustees have the discretion in relation to the voting of such shares.
In relation office as auditors and a resolution for their reappointment is included in to the Executive Directors Incentive Plan, a director is the beneficial owner of Notice of BP Annual General Meeting 2012. vested shares that are still subject to the retention period and, save for a restriction on transfer of the shares, enjoys all rights attaching to the shares Share capital including dividend and voting rights.
In relation to the defined contribution The allotted, called-up and fully paid share capital at 31 December 2011 is: 401k plan, participants in the BP Stock Fund as of the record date may 7,232,838 8% cumulative first preference shares of 1 each: 5,473,414 instruct the trustee how to vote their portion of the BP Stock Fund.
9% cumulative second preference shares of 1 each: and 18,975,902,659 ordinary shares of 25 cents each excluding shares held in treasury.
The Dividends total preference shares in issue comprised only 0.44% of the companys When dividends are paid on its ordinary shares, BPs policy is to pay total issued nominal share capital, the rest being ordinary shares.
interim dividends on a quarterly basis.
BPs policy is also to announce The rights attaching to each class of share, including any dividends for ordinary shares in US dollars and state an equivalent sterling restrictions on transfer, are set out in the companys Articles of dividend.
Dividends on BP ordinary shares will be paid in sterling and on Association, which may only be amended by a special resolution at a BP ADSs in US dollars.
The rate of exchange used to determine the general meeting of the company.
Voting on substantive resolutions tabled sterling equivalent is the average of the market exchange rates in London at a general meeting is on a poll.
On a poll, shareholders present in person over the four business days prior to the sterling equivalent announcement or by proxy have two votes for every 5 in nominal amount of the first and date.
The directors may choose to declare dividends in any currency second preference shares held and one vote for every ordinary share held.
provided that a sterling equivalent is announced, but it is not the On a show-of-hands vote on other resolutions procedural matters at a companys intention to change its current policy of announcing dividends general meeting, shareholders present in person or by proxy have one on ordinary shares in US dollars.
The companys Articles of Association provide that directors Information regarding dividends announced and paid by the may be appointed by the existing directors or by the shareholders in a company on ordinary shares, ADSs and preference shares is provided in general meeting.
Any person appointed by the directors will hold office the BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011.
The following table shows only until the next general meeting and will then be eligible for re-election dividends announced and paid by the company in the past year.
The directors may, if authorized by the shareholders in a general meeting, allot BP shares and may buy back BP shares.
The Pence per Cents per Cents per Dividends ordinary share ordinary share ADS company did not repurchase any ordinary shares in 2011, other than as 4Q 2010 4.3372 7.00 42.00 required to satisfy requirements of certain employee share-based 1Q 2011 4.2809 7.00 42.00 payment plans.
2Q 2011 4.3160 7.00 42.00 3Q 2011 4.4694 7.00 42.00 Major shareholders In accordance with Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5, we have received A Scrip Dividend Programme Programme was introduced in 2011 which notification that as at 31 December 2011 BlackRock, Inc. held 5.69% and enables BP ordinary shareholders and ADS holders to elect to receive Legal & General Group Plc held 3.90% of the voting rights of the issued new fully paid ordinary shares in BP or ADSs in the case of ADS holders share capital of the company.
As at 17 February 2012 BlackRock, Inc. held instead of cash.
The operation of the Programme is always subject to the 5.37% and Legal & General Group Plc held 3.99% of the voting rights of directors decision to make the scrip offer available in respect of any the issued share capital of the company.
The company has been notified particular dividend.
Should the directors decide not to offer the scrip in that, as at 17 February 2012, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. depositary for respect of any particular dividend, cash will automatically be paid instead.
American depositary shares ADSs, through its nominee, Guaranty Nominees Limited, holds 5,031,905,448 ordinary shares 26.51% of the More information companys ordinary share capital excluding shares held in treasury.
For more information on holding BP shares or ADSs, visit our investor As at 17 February 2012, the company has also been notified that centre at bp.
the largest holder of 8% cumulative first preference shares and 9% BP Summary Review 2011 contains a summary of certain cumulative second preference shares was the National Farmers Union information in BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011.
For a full Mutual Insurance Society with a holding of 13.07% and 18.03% understanding of the results and state of affairs of BP and of its respectively.
As at the same date, the total preference shares in issue policies and arrangements concerning directors remuneration, please comprised only 0.44% of the companys total issued nominal share capital see BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011. excluding shares held in treasury, the rest being ordinary shares.
Employee share plans BP offers most of its employees the opportunity to acquire a shareholding in the company through savings-related and or matching share plan arrangements.
BP also uses performance plans and option plans as elements of remuneration for executive directors and senior employees.
Shares acquired through the companys employee share plans rank pari passu with shares in issue.
For legal and practical reasons, the rules of these plans set out the consequences of a change of control of the 32 BP Summary Review 2011
