Notes on financial statements Notes on financial statements The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as the 1. significant accounting policies groups accounting policies described in this note, except that IFRS requires that the measure of profit or loss disclosed for each operating segment Authorization of financial statements and statement of compliance is the measure that is provided regularly to the chief operating decision with International Financial Reporting Standards maker.
For BP, this measure of profit or loss is replacement cost profit The consolidated financial statements of the BP group for the year ended before interest and tax which reects the replacement cost of supplies by 31 December 2011 were approved and signed by the chairman and group excluding from profit inventory holding gains and losses.
Replacement cost chief executive on 6 March 2012 having been duly authorized to do so by profit for the group is not a recognized measure under generally accepted the board of directors.
BP p. l. c. is a public limited company incorporated and accounting practice GAAP.
For further information see Note 6. domiciled in England and Wales.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Interests in joint ventures IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and in accordance with the venturers undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
IFRS as adopted by the EU differs in Joint control exists only when the strategic financial and operating decisions certain respects from IFRS as issued by the IASB, however, the differences relating to the activity require the unanimous consent of the venturers.
A have no impact on the groups consolidated financial statements for the jointly controlled entity is a joint venture that involves the establishment of a years presented.
The significant accounting policies of the group are set out company, partnership or other entity to engage in economic activity that the below.
group jointly controls with its fellow venturers.
The results, assets and liabilities of a jointly controlled entity are Basis of preparation incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance accounting.
Under the equity method, the investment in a jointly controlled with IFRS and IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations entity is carried in the balance sheet at cost, plus post-acquisition changes issued and effective for the year ended 31 December 2011, or issued and in the groups share of net assets of the jointly controlled entity, less early adopted.
The standards and interpretations adopted in the year are distributions received and less any impairment in value of the investment.
Loans advanced to jointly controlled entities that have the characteristics of The accounting policies that follow have been consistently applied equity nancing are also included in the investment on the group balance to all years presented.
The group balance sheet as at 1 January 2010 is sheet.
The group income statement reects the groups share of the not presented as it is not affected by the retrospective adoption of any results after tax of the jointly controlled entity.
new accounting policies during the year, nor any other retrospective Financial statements of jointly controlled entities are prepared for restatements or reclassications.
the same reporting year as the group.
Where necessary, adjustments are The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars made to those financial statements to bring the accounting policies used and all values are rounded to the nearest million dollars $ million, except into line with those of the group.
Unrealized gains on transactions between the group and its jointly For further information regarding the key judgements and estimates controlled entities are eliminated to the extent of the groups interest in the made by management in applying the groups accounting policies, refer to jointly controlled entities.
Unrealized losses are also eliminated unless the Critical accounting policies on pages 154 to 157, which forms part of these transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
The group assesses investments in jointly controlled entities for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the Basis of consolidation carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication of impairment The group financial statements consolidate the financial statements exists, the carrying amount of the investment is compared with its of BP p. l. c. and the entities it controls its subsidiaries drawn up to 31 recoverable amount, being the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and December each year.
Control comprises the power to govern the financial value in use.
Where the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount, and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its the investment is written down to its recoverable amount.
activities and is achieved through direct and indirect ownership of voting The group ceases to use the equity method of accounting on the rights: currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights: or by way date from which it no longer has joint control or significant inuence over of contractual agreement.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of the joint venture or associate respectively, or when the interest becomes their acquisition, being the date on which the group obtains control, and held for sale.
continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
The Certain of the groups activities, particularly in the Exploration and financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting Production segment, are conducted through joint ventures where the year as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies.
venturers have a direct ownership interest in, and jointly control, the assets Intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealized profits arising of the venture.
BP recognizes, on a line-by-line basis in the consolidated from intragroup transactions, have been eliminated.
Unrealized losses are financial statements, its share of the assets, liabilities and expenses of eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the these jointly controlled assets incurred jointly with the other partners, along asset transferred.
Minority interests represent the equity in subsidiaries that with the groups income from the sale of its share of the output and any is not attributable, directly or indirectly, to the group.
liabilities and expenses that the group has incurred in relation to the venture.
Segmental reporting Interests in associates The groups operating segments are established on the basis of those An associate is an entity over which the group is in a position to exercise components of the group that are evaluated regularly by the chief operating significant inuence through participation in the financial and operating decision maker in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing policy decisions of the investee, but which is not a subsidiary or a jointly performance.
During the second quarter of 2010 a separate organization controlled entity.
The results, assets and liabilities of an associate are was created within the group to deal with the ongoing response to the incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
This organization reports directly to the group accounting as described above for jointly controlled entities.
chief executive officer and its costs are excluded from the results of the existing operating segments.
Under IFRS its costs are therefore presented as a reconciling item between the sum of the results of the reportable segments and the group results.
182 182 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 Financial statements Notes on financial statements Goodwill may also arise upon investments in jointly controlled entities and 1. significant accounting policies continued associates, being the surplus of the cost of investment over the groups Foreign currency translation share of the net fair value of the identiable assets.
Such goodwill is The functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment recorded within investments in jointly controlled entities and associates, in which an entity operates and is normally the currency in which the entity and any impairment of the investment is included within the earnings from primarily generates and expends cash.
jointly controlled entities and associates.
In individual companies, transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency by applying the rate of exchange ruling Non-current assets held for sale at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated Non-current assets and disposal groups classied as held for sale are in foreign currencies are retranslated into the functional currency at the measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Any resulting exchange Non-current assets and disposal groups are classied as held for differences are included in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets sale if their carrying amounts will be recovered through a sale transaction and liabilities, other than those measured at fair value, are not retranslated rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only subsequent to initial recognition.
when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available In the consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities for immediate sale in its present condition subject only to terms that are of non-US dollar functional currency subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities usual and customary for sales of such assets.
Management must be and associates, including related goodwill, are translated into US dollars at committed to the sale, which should be expected to qualify for recognition the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
The results and cash as a completed sale within one year from the date of classication as held ows of non-US dollar functional currency subsidiaries, jointly controlled for sale.
entities and associates are translated into US dollars using average rates Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets once classied of exchange.
Exchange adjustments arising when the opening net assets as held for sale are not depreciated.
The group ceases to use the equity and the profits for the year retained by non-US dollar functional currency method of accounting on the date from which an interest in a jointly subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates are translated into controlled entity or an interest in an associate becomes held for sale.
US dollars are taken to a separate component of equity and reported in If a non-current asset or disposal group has been classied as held the statement of comprehensive income.
Exchange gains and losses for sale, but subsequently ceases to meet the criteria to be classied as arising on long-term intragroup foreign currency borrowings used to held for sale, the group ceases to classify the asset or disposal group as finance the groups non-US dollar investments are also taken to other held for sale.
Non-current assets and disposal groups that cease to be comprehensive income.
On disposal or partial disposal of a non-US dollar classied as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount functional currency subsidiary, jointly controlled entity or associate, the before the asset or disposal group was classied as held for sale adjusted deferred cumulative amount of exchange gains and losses recognized in for any depreciation, amortization or revaluation that would have been equity relating to that particular non-US dollar operation is reclassied to recognized had the asset or disposal group not been classied as held for income statement.
sale and its recoverable amount at the date of the subsequent decision not to sell.
Except for any interests in equity-accounted entities that cease Business combinations and goodwill to be classied as held for sale, any adjustment to the carrying amount A business combination is a transaction or other event in which an acquirer is recognized in profit or loss in the period in which the asset ceases to obtains control of one or more businesses.
A business is an integrated set be classied as held for sale.
When an interest in an equity-accounted of activities and assets that is capable of being conducted and managed entity ceases to be classied as held for sale, it is accounted for using the for the purpose of providing a return in the form of dividends or lower equity method as from the date of its classication as held for sale and the costs or other economic benets directly to investors or other owners or financial statements for the periods since classication as held for sale are participants.
A business consists of inputs and processes applied to those amended accordingly.
inputs that have the ability to create outputs.
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition Intangible assets method.
The identiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are Intangible assets, other than goodwill, include expenditure on the measured at their fair values at the acquisition date.
The cost of an exploration for and evaluation of oil and natural gas resources, computer acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, software, patents, licences and trademarks and are stated at the amount measured at acquisition-date fair value, and the amount of any minority initially recognized, less accumulated amortization and accumulated interest in the acquiree.
Minority interests are stated either at fair value impairment losses.
For information on accounting for expenditures on the or at the proportionate share of the recognized amounts of the acquirees exploration for and evaluation of oil and gas resources, see the accounting identiable net assets.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and policy for oil and natural gas exploration, appraisal and development included in distribution and administration expenses.
Goodwill is initially measured as the excess of the aggregate of the Intangible assets acquired separately from a business are carried consideration transferred, the amount recognized for any minority interest initially at cost.
The initial cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair and the acquisition-date fair values of any previously held interest in the value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset.
An intangible acquiree over the fair value of the identiable assets acquired and liabilities asset acquired as part of a business combination is measured at fair value assumed at the acquisition date.
at the date of acquisition and is recognized separately from goodwill if the At the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to each of asset is separable or arises from contractual or other legal rights.
the cash-generating units, or groups of cash-generating units, expected to Intangible assets with a nite life are amortized on a straight-line benefit from the combinations synergies.
basis over their expected useful lives.
For patents, licences and trademarks, Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any expected useful life is the shorter of the duration of the legal agreement accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually and economic useful life, and can range from three to 15 years.
Computer or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the software costs generally have a useful life of three to five years.
carrying value may be impaired.
Impairment is determined by assessing the The expected useful lives of assets are reviewed on an annual basis recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill relates.
and, if necessary, changes in useful lives are accounted for prospectively.
Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognized.
An impairment loss whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value recognized for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
Goodwill arising on business combinations prior to 1 January 2003 is stated at the previous carrying amount, less subsequent impairments, under UK generally accepted accounting practice.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 183 Notes on financial statements Expenditure on major maintenance rets or repairs comprises the cost 1. significant accounting policies continued of replacement assets or parts of assets, inspection costs and overhaul Oil and natural gas exploration, appraisal and development expenditure costs.
Where an asset or part of an asset that was separately depreciated Oil and natural gas exploration, appraisal and development expenditure is replaced and it is probable that future economic benets associated is accounted for using the principles of the successful efforts method of with the item will ow to the group, the expenditure is capitalized and accounting.
the carrying amount of the replaced asset is derecognized.
Inspection costs associated with major maintenance programmes are capitalized and Licence and property acquisition costs amortized over the period to the next inspection.
Overhaul costs for major Exploration licence and leasehold property acquisition costs are capitalized maintenance programmes, and all other maintenance costs are expensed within intangible assets and are reviewed at each reporting date to confirm as incurred.
that there is no indication that the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable Oil and natural gas properties, including related pipelines, are amount.
This review includes conrming that exploration drilling is still depreciated using a unit-of-production method.
The cost of producing wells under way or rmly planned or that it has been determined, or work is is amortized over proved developed reserves.
Licence acquisition, common under way to determine, that the discovery is economically viable based on facilities and future decommissioning costs are amortized over total proved a range of technical and commercial considerations and sufficient progress reserves.
The unit-of-production rate for the amortization of common is being made on establishing development plans and timing.
If no future facilities costs takes into account expenditures incurred to date, together activity is planned, the remaining balance of the licence and property with the future capital expenditure expected to be incurred in relation to acquisition costs is written off.
Lower value licences are pooled and these common facilities.
amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated period of exploration.
Other property, plant and equipment is depreciated on a straight Upon recognition of proved reserves and internal approval for development, line basis over its expected useful life.
The useful lives of the groups other the relevant expenditure is transferred to property, plant and equipment.
property, plant and equipment are as follows: Exploration and appraisal expenditure Land improvements 15 to 25 years Geological and geophysical exploration costs are charged against income Buildings 20 to 50 years as incurred.
Costs directly associated with an exploration well are initially Reneries 20 to 30 years capitalized as an intangible asset until the drilling of the well is complete Petrochemicals 20 to 30 years and the results have been evaluated.
These costs include employee Pipelines 10 to 50 years remuneration, materials and fuel used, rig costs and payments made to Service stations 15 years contractors.
If potentially commercial quantities of hydrocarbons are not Ofce equipment 3 to 7 years found, the exploration well is written off as a dry hole.
If hydrocarbons are Fixtures and ttings 5 to 15 years found and, subject to further appraisal activity, are likely to be capable of commercial development, the costs continue to be carried as an asset.
The expected useful lives of property, plant and equipment are reviewed on Costs directly associated with appraisal activity, undertaken to an annual basis and, if necessary, changes in useful lives are accounted for determine the size, characteristics and commercial potential of a reservoir prospectively.
following the initial discovery of hydrocarbons, including the costs of The carrying amount of property, plant and equipment is reviewed appraisal wells where hydrocarbons were not found, are initially capitalized for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the as an intangible asset.
carrying value may not be recoverable.
All such carried costs are subject to technical, commercial and An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognized upon management review at least once a year to confirm the continued intent disposal or when no future economic benets are expected to arise from to develop or otherwise extract value from the discovery.
When this is no the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of longer the case, the costs are written off.
When proved reserves of oil and the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds natural gas are determined and development is approved by management, and the carrying amount of the item is included in the income statement in the relevant expenditure is transferred to property, plant and equipment.
the period in which the item is derecognized.
Development expenditure Impairment of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment Expenditure on the construction, installation and completion of infrastructure The group assesses assets or groups of assets for impairment whenever facilities such as platforms, pipelines and the drilling of development wells, events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of including service and unsuccessful development or delineation wells, is an asset may not be recoverable, for example, low prices or margins for an capitalized within property, plant and equipment and is depreciated from the extended period or, for oil and gas assets, significant downward revisions commencement of production as described below in the accounting policy of estimated volumes or increases in estimated future development for property, plant and equipment.
If any such indication of impairment exists, the group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
Individual assets are grouped Property, plant and equipment for impairment assessment purposes at the lowest level at which there are Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, less accumulated identiable cash ows that are largely independent of the cash ows of other depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
An asset groups recoverable amount is the higher of its fair The initial cost of an asset comprises its purchase price or construction value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Where the carrying amount of an cost, any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset into operation, the asset group exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset group is considered initial estimate of any decommissioning obligation, if any, and, for qualifying impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
In assessing value in assets, borrowing costs.
The purchase price or construction cost is the use, the estimated future cash ows are adjusted for the risks specic to the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given asset group and are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount to acquire the asset.
The capitalized value of a finance lease is also included rate that reects current market assessments of the time value of money.
within property, plant and equipment.
Exchanges of assets are measured An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there at fair value unless the exchange transaction lacks commercial substance or is any indication that previously recognized impairment losses may no longer the fair value of neither the asset received nor the asset given up is reliably exist or may have decreased.
If such an indication exists, the recoverable measurable.
The cost of the acquired asset is measured at the fair value amount is estimated.
A previously recognized impairment loss is reversed of the asset given up, unless the fair value of the asset received is more only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the clearly evident.
Where fair value is not used, the cost of the acquired asset is assets recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognized.
measured at the carrying amount of the asset given up.
The gain or loss on If that is the case, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its derecognition of the asset given up is recognized in profit or loss.
That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no 184 184 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 Financial statements Notes on financial statements Available-for-sale financial assets 1. significant accounting policies continued If an available-for-sale financial asset is impaired, the cumulative loss impairment loss been recognized for the asset in prior years.
Such reversal previously recognized in equity is transferred to the income statement.
Any is recognized in profit or loss.
After such a reversal, the depreciation charge subsequent recovery in the fair value of the asset is recognized within other is adjusted in future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying amount, comprehensive income.
less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on an unquoted equity instrument that is carried at cost has been incurred, the Financial assets amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets Financial assets are classied as loans and receivables: available-for-sale carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash ows financial assets: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: or as discounted at the current market rate of return for a similar financial asset.
derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate.
Financial assets include cash and cash equivalents, trade Inventories receivables, other receivables, loans, other investments, and derivative Inventories, other than inventory held for trading purposes, are stated at financial instruments.
The group determines the classication of its financial the lower of cost and net realizable value.
Cost is determined by the first-in assets at initial recognition.
Financial assets are recognized initially at fair first-out method and comprises direct purchase costs, cost of production, value, normally being the transaction price plus, in the case of financial assets transportation and manufacturing expenses.
Net realizable value is not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
determined by reference to prices existing at the balance sheet date.
The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on their Inventories held for trading purposes are stated at fair value less classication, as follows: costs to sell and any changes in net realizable value are recognized in the income statement.
Loans and receivables Supplies are valued at cost to the group mainly using the average Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed or method or net realizable value, whichever is the lower.
determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Such assets are carried at amortized cost using the effective interest method if Financial liabilities the time value of money is significant.
Gains and losses are recognized in Financial liabilities are classied as financial liabilities at fair value through income when the loans and receivables are derecognized or impaired, as profit or loss: derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective well as through the amortization process.
This category of financial assets hedge: or as financial liabilities measured at amortized cost, as appropriate.
includes trade and other receivables.
Financial liabilities include trade and other payables, accruals, most items of finance debt and derivative financial instruments.
The group determines the Available-for-sale financial assets classication of its financial liabilities at initial recognition.
The measurement Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets of financial liabilities depends on their classication, as follows: that are not classied as loans and receivables.
After initial recognition, available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value, with gains Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss or losses recognized within other comprehensive income.
Accumulated Derivatives, other than those designated as effective hedging instruments, changes in fair value are recorded as a separate component of equity until are classied as held for trading and are included in this category.
These the investment is derecognized or impaired.
liabilities are carried on the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses The fair value of quoted investments is determined by reference to recognized in the income statement.
bid prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
Where there is no active market, fair value is determined using valuation techniques.
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge Where fair value cannot be reliably measured, assets are carried at cost.
Such derivatives are carried on the balance sheet at fair value.
The treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluation is described below in the Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss accounting policy for derivative financial instruments and hedging activities.
Derivatives, other than those designated as effective hedging instruments, are classied as held for trading and are included in this category.
These Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost assets are carried on the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses All other financial liabilities are initially recognized at fair value.
For interestrecognized in the income statement.
bearing loans and borrowings this is the fair value of the proceeds received net of issue costs associated with the borrowing.
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge After initial recognition, other financial liabilities are subsequently Such derivatives are carried on the balance sheet at fair value.
The measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method.
Amortized treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluation is described below cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs, and any discount in the accounting policy for derivative financial instruments and hedging or premium on settlement.
Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, activities.
settlement or cancellation of liabilities are recognized respectively in interest and other income and finance costs.
Impairment of financial assets This category of financial liabilities includes trade and other payables The group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset or and finance debt.
group of financial assets is impaired.
Loans and receivables If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables carried at amortized cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash ows discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced, with the amount of the loss recognized in the income statement.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 185 Notes on financial statements Cash ow hedges 1. significant accounting policies continued For cash ow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the Leases hedging instrument is recognized within other comprehensive income, Finance leases, which transfer to the group substantially all the risks and while the ineffective portion is recognized in profit or loss.
Amounts taken benets incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalized at the to other comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement commencement of the lease term at the fair value of the leased property when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss.
The gain or loss or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Finance relating to the effective portion of interest rate swaps hedging variable rate charges are allocated to each period so as to achieve a constant rate of borrowings is recognized in the income statement within finance costs.
interest on the remaining balance of the liability and are charged directly Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or against income.
liability, such as a forecast transaction for the purchase of property, plant Capitalized leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of and equipment, the amounts recognized within other comprehensive the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Operating lease income are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial payments are recognized as an expense in the income statement on a asset or liability.
straight-line basis over the lease term.
For both finance and operating If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised leases, contingent rents are recognized in the income statement in the without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, period in which they are incurred.
amounts previously recognized within other comprehensive income remain in equity until the forecast transaction occurs and are transferred to the income Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities statement or to the initial carrying amount of a non-financial asset or liability The group uses derivative financial instruments to manage certain as above.
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts exposures to uctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest previously recognized in equity are reclassied to the income statement.
rates and commodity prices as well as for trading purposes.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognized at fair value on the Embedded derivatives date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
not closely related to those of the host contract.
Contracts are assessed for Contracts to buy or sell a non-financial item that can be settled net in embedded derivatives when the group becomes a party to them, including cash or another financial instrument, or by exchanging financial instruments at the date of a business combination.
Embedded derivatives are measured as if the contracts were financial instruments, with the exception of at fair value at each balance sheet date.
Any gains or losses arising from contracts that were entered into and continue to be held for the purpose changes in fair value are taken directly to the income statement.
of the receipt or delivery of a non-financial item in accordance with the groups expected purchase, sale or usage requirements, are accounted for Provisions, contingencies and reimbursement assets as financial instruments.
Provisions are recognized when the group has a present obligation legal Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outow that are not designated as effective hedging instruments are recognized in of resources embodying economic benets will be required to settle the income statement.
the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classied as: obligation.
Where appropriate, the future cash ow estimates are adjusted t 'BJS WBMVF IFEHFT XIFO IFEHJOH FYQPTVSF UP DIBOHFT JO UIF GBJS WBMVF PG to reect risks specic to the liability.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are t $BTI nPX IFEHFT XIFO IFEHJOH FYQPTVSF UP WBSJBCJMJUZ JO DBTI nPXT UIBU determined by discounting the expected future cash ows at a pre-tax is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognized asset risk-free rate that reects current market assessments of the time value or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognized within finance costs.
Provisions are split Hedge relationships are formally designated and documented at between amounts expected to be settled within 12 months of the balance inception, together with the risk management objective and strategy for sheet date current and amounts expected to be settled later non-current.
The documentation includes identication of the Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence will only be hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the confirmed by future events not wholly within the control of the group, or risk being hedged, and how the entity will assess the hedging instrument present obligations where it is not probable that an outow of resources effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged items will be required or the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with fair value or cash ows attributable to the hedged item.
are expected at inception to be highly effective in achieving offsetting Contingent liabilities are not recognized in the financial statements changes in fair value or cash ows.
Hedges meeting the criteria for hedge but are disclosed unless the possibility of an outow of economic resources accounting are accounted for as follows: is considered remote.
Where the group makes contributions into a separately administered Fair value hedges fund for restoration, environmental or other obligations, which it does The change in fair value of a hedging derivative is recognized in profit or loss.
not control, and the groups right to the assets in the fund is restricted, The change in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to the risk being the obligation to contribute to the fund is recognized as a liability where hedged is recorded as part of the carrying value of the hedged item and is it is probable that such additional contributions will be made.
The group also recognized in profit or loss.
recognizes a reimbursement asset separately, being the lower of the The group applies fair value hedge accounting for hedging xed amount of the associated restoration, environmental or other provision and interest rate risk on borrowings.
The gain or loss relating to the effective the groups share of the fair value of the net assets of the fund available to portion of the interest rate swap is recognized in the income statement contributors.
within finance costs, offsetting the amortization of the interest on the underlying borrowings.
If the criteria for hedge accounting are no longer met, or if the group revokes the designation, the adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged item for which the effective interest method is used is amortized to profit or loss over the period to maturity.
186 186 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 Financial statements Notes on financial statements At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is 1. significant accounting policies continued calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired Decommissioning and managements best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of nonLiabilities for decommissioning costs are recognized when the group has market conditions and the number of equity instruments that will ultimately an obligation to dismantle and remove a facility or an item of plant and vest or, in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be to restore the site on which it is located, and when a reliable estimate of treated as vesting as described above.
The movement in cumulative that liability can be made.
Where an obligation exists for a new facility, expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognized in the income such as oil and natural gas production or transportation facilities, this statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
liability will be recognized on construction or installation.
An obligation for When the terms of an equity-settled award are modied or a new decommissioning may also crystallize during the period of operation of a award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the cost facility through a change in legislation or through a decision to terminate based on the original award terms continues to be recognized over the operations.
The amount recognized is the present value of the estimated original vesting period.
In addition, an expense is recognized over the future expenditure determined in accordance with local conditions and remainder of the new vesting period for the incremental fair value of any requirements.
modication, based on the difference between the fair value of the original A corresponding item of property, plant and equipment of an award and the fair value of the modied award, both as measured on the amount equivalent to the provision is also recognized.
This is subsequently date of the modication.
No reduction is recognized if this difference is depreciated as part of the asset.
Other than the unwinding discount on the provision, any change When an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had in the present value of the estimated expenditure is reected as an vested on the date of cancellation and any cost not yet recognized in the adjustment to the provision and the corresponding item of property, plant income statement for the award is expensed immediately.
Such changes include foreign exchange gains and losses arising on the retranslation of the liability into the functional currency of the Cash-settled transactions reporting entity, when it is known that the liability will be settled in a foreign The cost of cash-settled transactions is measured at fair value and currency.
recognized as an expense over the vesting period, with a corresponding liability recognized on the balance sheet.
Environmental expenditures and liabilities Environmental expenditures that relate to current or future revenues are Pensions and other post-retirement benets expensed or capitalized as appropriate.
Expenditures that relate to an The cost of providing benets under the dened benefit plans is existing condition caused by past operations and do not contribute to determined separately for each plan using the projected unit credit method, current or future earnings are expensed.
which attributes entitlement to benets to the current period to determine Liabilities for environmental costs are recognized when a clean-up is current service cost and to the current and prior periods to determine probable and the associated costs can be reliably estimated.
Generally, the the present value of the dened benefit obligation.
Past service costs timing of recognition of these provisions coincides with the commitment to are recognized immediately when the company becomes committed a formal plan of action or, if earlier, on divestment or on closure of inactive to a change in pension plan design.
When a settlement eliminating all sites.
obligations for benets already accrued or a curtailment reducing future The amount recognized is the best estimate of the expenditure obligations as a result of a material reduction in the scheme membership required.
Where the liability will not be settled for a number of years, or a reduction in future entitlement occurs, the obligation and related the amount recognized is the present value of the estimated future plan assets are remeasured using current actuarial assumptions and the expenditure.
resultant gain or loss is recognized in the income statement during the period in which the settlement or curtailment occurs.
Employee benets The interest element of the dened benefit cost represents the Wages, salaries, bonuses, social security contributions, paid annual leave change in present value of scheme obligations resulting from the passage and sick leave are accrued in the period in which the associated services of time, and is determined by applying the discount rate to the opening are rendered by employees of the group.
Deferred bonus arrangements present value of the benefit obligation, taking into account material changes that have a vesting date more than 12 months after the period end are in the obligation during the year.
The expected return on plan assets is valued on an actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method and based on an assessment made at the beginning of the year of long-term amortized on a straight-line basis over the service period until the award market returns on plan assets, adjusted for the forecasts of contributions vests.
The accounting policies for share-based payments and for pensions received and benets paid during the year.
The difference between the and other post-retirement benets are described below.
expected return on plan assets and the interest cost is recognized in the income statement as other finance income or expense.
Share-based payments Actuarial gains and losses are recognized in full within other Equity-settled transactions comprehensive income in the year in which they occur.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by The dened benefit pension plan surplus or deficit in the balance reference to the fair value at the date at which equity instruments are sheet comprises the total for each plan of the present value of the dened granted and is recognized as an expense over the vesting period, which benefit obligation using a discount rate based on high quality corporate ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to bonds, less the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to the award.
Fair value is determined by using an appropriate valuation model.
Fair value is based on market price information and, in In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting the case of quoted securities, is the published bid price.
conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of the Contributions to dened contribution schemes are recognized in the company market conditions.
Non-vesting conditions, such as the condition income statement in the period in which they become payable.
that employees contribute to a savings-related plan, are taken into account in the grant-date fair value, and failure to meet a non-vesting condition is treated as a cancellation, where this is within the control of the employee.
No expense is recognized for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 187 Notes on financial statements The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation 1. significant accounting policies continued authority is included within receivables or payables in the balance sheet.
Corporate taxes Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and Own equity instruments deferred tax.
Interest and penalties relating to tax are also included in The groups holdings in its own equity instruments, including ordinary income tax expense.
shares held by Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts ESOPs, are The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profits for the classied as treasury shares, or own shares for the ESOPs, and are period.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income shown as deductions from shareholders equity at cost.
Consideration statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable received for the sale of such shares is also recognized in equity, with any or deductible in other periods and it further excludes items that are never difference between the proceeds from sale and the original cost being taxable or deductible.
The groups liability for current tax is calculated using taken to the profit and loss account reserve.
No gain or loss is recognized tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the in the income statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on all temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and Revenue liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Revenue arising from the sale of goods is recognized when the significant Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for all taxable temporary risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the buyer, which is typically differences except: at the point that title passes, and the revenue can be reliably measured.
t 8IFSF UIF EFGFSSFE UBY MJBCJMJUZ BSJTFT PO HPPEXJMM UIBU JT OPU UBY Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received deductible or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods provided in the that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, normal course of business, net of discounts, customs duties and sales affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss.
t O SFTQFDU PG UBYBCMF UFNQPSBSZ EJGGFSFODFT BTTPDJBUFE XJUI JOWFTUNFOUT Physical exchanges are reported net, as are sales and purchases in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates, where the group made with a common counterparty, as part of an arrangement similar to is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences a physical exchange.
Similarly, where the group acts as agent on behalf and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the of a third party to procure or market energy commodities, any associated foreseeable future.
fee income is recognized but no purchase or sale is recorded.
Additionally, where forward sale and purchase contracts for oil, natural gas or power Deferred tax assets are recognized for all deductible temporary differences, have been determined to be for trading purposes, the associated sales carry-forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent and purchases are reported net within sales and other operating revenues that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the whether or not physical delivery has occurred.
deductible temporary differences and the carry-forward of unused tax Generally, revenues from the production of oil and natural gas credits and unused tax losses can be utilized: properties in which the group has an interest with joint venture partners are t &YDFQU XIFSF UIF EFGFSSFE JODPNF UBY BTTFU SFMBUJOH UP UIF EFEVDUJCMF recognized on the basis of the groups working interest in those properties temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability the entitlement method.
Differences between the production sold and the in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the groups share of production are not significant.
transaction, affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss.
Interest income is recognized as the interest accrues using the t O SFTQFDU PG EFEVDUJCMF UFNQPSBSZ EJGGFSFODFT BTTPDJBUFE XJUI effective interest rate that is the rate that exactly discounts estimated investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates, future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument to deferred tax assets are recognized only to the extent that it is probable the net carrying amount of the financial asset.
that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and Dividend income from investments is recognized when the taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences shareholders right to receive the payment is established.
Research The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance Research costs are expensed as incurred.
sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred Finance costs income tax asset to be utilized.
Finance costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realized or the liability substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use, are added is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
ready for their intended use.
All other finance costs are recognized in the Tax relating to items recognized in other comprehensive income income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
is recognized in other comprehensive income and tax relating to items recognized directly in equity is recognized directly in equity and not in the Use of estimates income statement.
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and Customs duties and sales taxes liabilities as well as the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the Revenues, expenses and assets are recognized net of the amount of balance sheet date and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses customs duties or sales tax except: during the reporting period.
Actual outcomes could differ from those t 8IFSF UIF DVTUPNT EVUZ PS TBMFT UBY JODVSSFE PO B QVSDIBTF PG HPPET estimates.
and services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case the customs duty or sales tax is recognized as part of the cost of Impact of new International Financial Reporting Standards acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item as applicable.
Adopted for 2011 t 3FDFJWBCMFT BOE QBZBCMFT BSF TUBUFE XJUI UIF BNPVOU PG DVTUPNT EVUZ PS There are no new or amended standards or interpretations adopted with sales tax included.
effect from 1 January 2011 that have a significant impact on the financial statements.
188 188 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 Financial statements Notes on financial statements addition to those already required or permitted by other IFRSs, rather it 1. significant accounting policies continued prescribes how fair value should be measured if another IFRS requires it.
Not yet adopted Fair value is dened as the price that would be received to sell an asset The following pronouncements from the IASB will become effective for or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market future financial reporting periods and have not yet been adopted by the group.
participants at the measurement date i. e. it is an exit price.
IFRS 13 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 and BP t Interests in other entities and related disclosures intends to adopt it from this date.
The evaluation of the effect of adoption of In May 2011, the IASB issued three new standards relating to interests IFRS 13 has not yet been completed.
in other entities and related disclosures.
The new standards are IFRS 10 In June 2011, the IASB issued an amended version of IAS Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements and 19 Employee Benets, which brings in various changes relating to IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities.
In addition, the IASB the recognition and measurement of termination benets and postissued amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial employment dened benefit expense, and to the disclosures for all Statements now renamed IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements and employee benets.
The main impact for BP will be that the expense for IAS 28 Investments in Associates now renamed IAS 28 Investments in dened benefit pension and other post-retirement benefit plans will include Associates and Joint Ventures.
a net interest income or expense, which will be calculated by applying the IFRS 10 introduces a single consolidation model that identies discount rate used for measuring the obligation and applying that to the net control as the basis for consolidation.
The new model applies to all types dened benefit asset or liability.
This means that the expected return on of entities, including structured entities.
Under the new model, an investor assets credited to profit or loss currently calculated based on the expected controls an investee when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns long-term return on pension assets will now be based on a lower corporate from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those bond rate, the same rate that is used to discount the pension liability.
The returns through its power over the investee.
amended IAS 19 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 IFRS 11 establishes a principle that applies to the accounting January 2013 and BP intends to adopt this new standard with effect from for all joint arrangements, whereby parties to the arrangement account that date.
The evaluation of the effect of adoption of the amended standard for their underlying contractual rights and obligations relating to the has not yet been completed, however, based upon our analysis to date, joint arrangement.
IFRS 11 identies two types of joint arrangements.
we expect the change to result in a signicantly higher net charge to the A joint venture is dened as a joint arrangement whereby the parties income statement once adopted.
that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets In June 2011, the IASB issued amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of the arrangement.
A joint operation is dened as a joint arrangement of Financial Statements on the presentation of other comprehensive whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have income OCI.
The amendments require that those items of OCI that could rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the be reclassied to profit or loss at a future date be presented separately arrangement.
Investments in joint ventures will be accounted for using the from those items that will never be reclassied to profit or loss.
Investments in joint operations will be accounted for by amendments to IAS 1 are effective for annual periods beginning on or recognizing the groups assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses relating to after 1 July 2012.
BP intends to adopt the amendments with effect from the joint operation.
The adoption of the amended standard is expected to only IFRS 12 combines all the disclosure requirements for an entitys have a presentational impact on the groups financial statements, with no interests in subsidiaries, joint arrangements, associates and structured effect on the reported income or net assets of the group.
entities into one comprehensive disclosure standard.
In December 2011, the IASB issued amendments to IFRS 7 These new and amended standards are effective for annual periods Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities and beginning on or after 1 January 2013 and BP intends to adopt them from amendments to IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.
The evaluation of the effect of adoption of these standards has These amendments introduce new disclosure requirements about the not yet been completed.
It is expected that the main impact of this suite effects of offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities and related of new standards is that certain of the groups existing jointly controlled arrangements on an entitys financial position.
The amendments to IFRS 7 entities, which are currently equity accounted, will fall under the denition are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013, with of a joint operation under IFRS 11 and thus we will be required to cease the amendments to IAS 32 effective for annual periods beginning on or equity accounting and instead recognize the groups assets, liabilities, after 1 January 2014.
BP intends to adopt these amendments with effect revenue and expenses relating to these arrangements.
This new suite of from 1 January 2013 and 1 January 2014 respectively.
The evaluation of the standards has not yet been adopted by the EU.
effect of adoption of these amendments has not yet been completed.
In October 2010, the IASB issued amendments to IFRS 7 Financial t Other new standards not yet adopted Instruments: Disclosures Transfers of Financial Assets.
The amendments As part of the IASBs project to replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: address the disclosures of transfers of financial assets.
These amendments Recognition and Measurement, in November 2009 the IASB issued the to IFRS 7 are effective for periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011.
BP first phase of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, dealing with the classication intends to adopt the amendments with effect from 1 January 2012.
The and measurement of financial assets.
In October 2010, the IASB updated extent to which BP will be required to amend its disclosures in the light of IFRS 9 by incorporating the requirements for the accounting for financial these new requirements is currently being evaluated.
The remaining phases of IFRS 9 covering impairment and hedge With the exception of the amendments to IFRS 7 regarding the accounting are still to be completed.
In December 2011, the IASB decided disclosures of transfers of financial assets, the EU has not yet adopted any that IFRS 9 will be effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 of the above-mentioned other new standards that have been issued but not January 2015, rather than 1 January 2013 as originally indicated.
BP has not yet adopted by the group.
yet decided the date of adoption for the group and has not yet completed There are no other standards and interpretations in issue but not its evaluation of the effect of adoption.
The new standard has not yet been yet adopted that the directors anticipate will have a material effect on the adopted by the EU.
reported income or net assets of the group.
In May 2011, the IASB issued a new standard, IFRS 13 Fair value measurement.
The new standard defines fair value, sets out a framework for measuring fair value and the required disclosures about fair value measurements.
IFRS 13 does not require fair value measurements in BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 189
