Our management of risk Safety and operational risk The nature of the groups operations exposes us to a wide range of significant health, safety and environmental risks such as incidents associated with the In detail For more information drilling of wells, operation of facilities, transportation of hydrocarbons and product on OMS, see Safety.
In addressing these risks we seek to apply our operating management Page 65 system OMS including group and engineering technical practices as applicable.
We seek to conduct maintenance and equipment testing and to apply product quality control and testing procedures.
We also provide our staff with training and competency development.
To better manage the risks inherent in drilling wells where we are the operator, we conduct activity through a global wells organization that is accountable for systems and processes for designing, constructing and managing wells.
See Safety on page 66 for information on the recommendations of BPs internal investigation into the Deepwater Horizon oil spill and the actions we are pursuing to address them.
Security threats require continuous oversight and control as hostile actions against our staff, our activities and our digital infrastructure cyber security could cause harm to people and could disrupt our operations.
We have procedures that are intended to monitor for threats and vulnerabilities.
We also maintain business continuity plans.
Crisis-management plans are developed to help us to respond effectively to emergencies and to avoid a potentially severe disruption in our business and operations.
For deepwater drilling, interim requirements for oil spill preparedness and response, including crisis management response capability, were introduced in 2011 in the Gulf of Mexico.
The intention is to build on these interim requirements to put in place group-wide practices for both oil spill preparedness and response and crisis management.
Successful recruitment and development of staff is central to our plans.
We have programmes to recruit both graduates and experienced staff and we maintain succession plans for key roles.
We also operate training and development programmes, including relating to leadership, and we engage all employees in regular  processes.
Compliance and control risk Ethical misconduct or breaches of applicable laws or regulations could be damaging to our reputation, results of operations and shareholder value and could affect our licence to operate.
Central to managing these risks is our code of conduct see page 31, the requirements of which apply to all employees, supported by our various group standards covering issues such as anti-bribery and corruption, anti-money laundering and competition anti-trust law compliance.
We seek to monitor for new regulations and legislation and plan our response to them.
We also operate a range of compliance training and monitoring programmes for our employees.
In the normal course of business, we are subject to risks around our treasury and trading activities, which could arise from shortcomings or failures in our systems, risk management methodology, internal control processes or employees.
In addressing these risks, we have adopted specic operating standards and control processes, including guidelines in relation to trading, and seek to monitor compliance through dedicated compliance and risk organizations.
We also seek to maintain a positive and collaborative relationship with regulators and the industry at large.
46 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011
