Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Kofax up to a maximum aggregate number of 29,460,103 plc the Company will be held at the offices of Dechert LLP ordinary shares of 2.5p each in the capital of the Company located at 160 Queen Victoria Street, London EC4V 4QQ on which authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual November 3, 2011 at 10:00 a. m. to consider and, if thought fit, General Meeting of the Company which takes place in pass the following resolutions of which resolutions 1 to 13 will 2012 or upon the expiry of the period of 15 months from be proposed as ordinary resolutions and of which resolutions 14 the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier and 16 will be proposed as special resolutions: unless such authority is revoked, varied, renewed or extended at or prior to such time save that, before the Ordinary Business expiry of such authority, the Directors of the Company may 1.
That the Directors Report and Accounts for the year ended make an offer or agreement which would or might require June 30, 2011 and the Auditors Report thereon be and is the allotment of shares in the Company or the grant of hereby approved and adopted.
rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company after such expiry and the Directors of the 2.
That the Directors Remuneration Report as set out on Company may act in pursuance of such an offer or pages 31 to 35 of the Report and Accounts for the year agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not ended June 30, 2011 be and is hereby approved.
That Wade Loo be and is hereby re-elected as a Director of b the authority conferred by this resolution be in the Company.
substitution for all existing authorities granted to the Directors 4.
That Reynolds C. Bish be and is hereby re-elected as a of the Company pursuant to section 551 of the 2006 Act.
That the Directors of the Company be and are hereby 5.
That James Arnold, Jr. be and is hereby re-elected as a authorized and empowered pursuant to section 570 and Director of the Company.
573 of the 2006 Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 560 1 of the 2006 Act of the Company 6.
That Greg Lock be and is hereby re-elected as a Director of pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 14 above the Company.
or by way of sale of treasury shares as if section 561 of the 7.
That Bruce Powell be and is hereby re-elected as a Director 2006 Act did not apply to such allotment provided that the of the Company.
authority and power contained in this resolution shall be 8.
That Chris Conway be and is hereby re-elected as a limited to: Director of the Company.
a the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue, open offer or any other pre-emptive offer in 9.
That Mark Wells be and is hereby re-elected as a Director favour of holders of equity securities where the equity of the Company.
securities respectively attributable to the interests of such 10.
That William T Comfort III be and is hereby re-elected as a holders are proportionate as nearly as may be to the Director of the Company.
respective amounts of equity securities held by them subject only to such exclusions or other arrangements as 11.
That Joe Rose be and is hereby re-elected as a Director of the Directors of the Company may consider appropriate to the Company.
deal with fractional entitlements or legal or practical 12.
That Ernst & Young LLP be and are hereby re-appointed as difficulties under the laws or the rules or regulations of any auditors to the Company from the conclusion of this jurisdiction, stock exchange or other regulatory body meeting until the conclusion of the next Annual General whatsoever: and Meeting and that the Directors of the Company be and are b the allotment otherwise than pursuant to hereby authorized to fix the remuneration of Ernst & Young subparagraph a above of equity securities which are or are LLP as auditors.
to be wholly paid up in cash to an aggregate nominal Special Buisness amount of 110,475 and provided further that the authority 13.
That the term of the Kofax 2000 Share Option Plan the and power conferred by this resolution shall expire at the Plan be extended by an additional two years to expire on conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company 26 January 2014, and the definition of Plan Period in the which takes place in 2012 or upon the expiry of the period Plan Rules be amended accordingly by the substitution of of 15 months from the passing of this resolution, whichever the words 12th anniversary with the words 14th is the earlier, unless such authority is revoked, varied, anniversary.
renewed or extended at or prior to such time, save that the Company may before such expiry make any offer or 14.
That: agreement which would or might require the allotment of a the Directors of the Company be and are hereby shares in the Company or the grant of rights to subscribe generally and unconditionally authorized for the purposes for or to convert any security into shares in the Company of section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act after such expiry and the Directors of the Company may act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot any in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the shares in the Company or to grant any rights to subscribe authority conferred hereby had not expired.
for or to convert any security into shares in the Company Notice of Annual General Meeting 85 16.
That the Company be and is hereby generally and Notes unconditionally authorized for the purposes of section 701 1.
The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the of the 2006 Act to make market purchases within the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 as amended, meaning of section 693 4 of the 2006 Act of ordinary specifies that only those shareholders registered in the shares of 2.5p each in the capital of the Company Register of Members of the Company at 6:00 p. m. on Ordinary Shares provided that: November 1, 2011 shall be entitled to attend and vote at the a the maximum aggregate number of Ordinary Shares Annual General Meeting, or if the Annual General Meeting is hereby authorized to be purchased is 8,838,031, being such adjourned, at 6:00 p. m. on the day two days before the time number of Ordinary Shares as represents 10 per cent of fixed for the adjourned meeting as the case may be.
Such the current issued ordinary share capital of the Company: shareholders may only cast votes in respect of such shares b the minimum price, exclusive of any expenses, which held at such time.
Changes to entries on the register after may be paid for an Ordinary Share is 2.5p, being the that time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of nominal value of each Ordinary Share: any person to attend and vote at the Annual General c the maximum price, exclusive of any expenses, which Meeting or adjourned Annual General Meeting.
may be paid for an Ordinary Share is the higher of: 2.
A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the above i. an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average of meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to the middle market quotations for an Ordinary Share exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at derived from the London Stock Exchange plc Daily the meeting.
A shareholder can appoint more than one Official List for the five business days immediately proxy in relation to the meeting, provided that each proxy is preceding the date on which such Ordinary Share appointed to exercise the rights attaching to different shares is contracted to be purchased: and held by him.
the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid for 3.
A proxy need not also be a shareholder of the Company but an Ordinary Share on the London Stock Exchange must attend the meeting in person.
A form of proxy plc Daily Official List at the time the purchase is accompanies this notice of Annual General Meeting and the carried out: notes to the form of proxy set out the details of how to d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the appoint a proxy.
To be effective, the relevant proxy form must conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company be completed and lodged with the Companys registrar, which takes place in 2012 or upon the expiry of the period Capita Registrars, by post to Capita Registrars, PXS, 34 of 15 months from the passing of this resolution, Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU, no later than whichever is the earlier: and 48 hours before the meeting together with the original of e the Company may make a contract for the purchase of any power of attorney or other authority under which the Ordinary Shares under this authority before the expiry of form of proxy has been signed.
Shareholders may not use this authority which would or might require to be executed any electronic address provided either in this notice of wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may Annual General Meeting or any related documents including make purchases of Ordinary Shares in pursuance of such a the proxy form to communicate with the Company for any contract as if such authority had not expired.
purpose other than those expressly stated.
In the case of a corporation, the form of proxy must be executed under its common seal or under the hand of any officer or attorney By order of the Board duly authorized.
A shareholder may only appoint a proxy using the procedures set out in these notes and the notes to the form of proxy.
If a shareholder wishes to terminate the authority of a person s to act as their proxy, they must notify Capita Registrars in writing at the address provided above no later than 48 hours before the meeting.
Completion and Bradford Weller return of a form of proxy will not prevent a shareholder from Company Secretary attending and voting in person.
If a shareholder has October 3, 2011 appointed a proxy and attends the meeting in person, his Registered Office: 1 Cedarwood, Chineham Business Park proxy appointment will automatically be terminated and his Basingstoke, Hampshire RG24 8WD votes in person will stand in its place.
As an alternative to completing a hard-copy proxy form, you can appoint a proxy electronically at www.
For an electronic proxy appointment to be valid your appointment must be received no later than 10:00 a. m. on November 1, 2011.
In the case of joint holders, where more than one of the joint holders purports to appoint a proxy, only the appointment submitted by the most senior holder will be accepted.
Seniority is determined by the order in which the 86 Notice of Annual General Meeting names of the joint holders appear in the Companys register the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the of members in respect of the joint holding the first name instruction given by a previously appointed proxy must, in being the most senior.
order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Companys agent ID RA10 by no later than 48 hours before 6.
At August 31, 2011, the Companys issued share capital in the meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be respect of which shareholders are entitled to exercise voting taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp rights at the Annual General Meeting consists of 88,380,309 applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host ordinary shares of 2.5p each, with each ordinary share from which the Companys agent is able to retrieve the carrying one vote.
Therefore the total voting rights in the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by Company are 88,380,309 at the date of this document.
After this time, no change of instructions to proxies 7.
A Vote Withheld is not a vote at law, which means that the appointed through CREST can be made.
CREST members vote will not be counted in the proportion of votes For and and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or CREST Against the relevant resolution.
A shareholder who does electronic proxy appointment service providers should note not give any voting instructions in relation to a resolution that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available should note that his proxy will have authority to vote or special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
withhold a vote on that resolution as he thinks fit.
A proxy Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in will also have authority to vote or to withhold a vote on any relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the other business including amendments to resolutions which responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if is properly put before the Annual General Meeting, as he the CREST member is a CREST personal member or thinks fit.
sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting 8.
Shareholders attending the Annual General Meeting in provider s take s such action as is necessary to ensure person or by proxy or, in the case of a body corporate, by that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST duly authorized corporate representative, are entitled to ask system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST questions at the Annual General Meeting.
If a shareholder members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or has a general query about the Annual General Meeting or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those wishes to give the Company prior notification of any sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical question he wishes to ask at the Annual General Meeting, limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company he should write to the Company Secretary at the Companys may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the registered office.
circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the 9.
A copy of this notice has been sent for information only to Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 as amended.
persons who have been nominated by a shareholder to 11.
A copy of this notice of Annual General Meeting will be enjoy information rights under section 146 of the Companies published on the Companys web site at www.
The rights to appoint a together with details of those matters required to be proxy cannot be exercised by a Nominated Person: they can published pursuant to the Companies Act 2006. only be exercised by the registered shareholder.
However, a Nominated Person may have a right under an agreement 12.
The following documents will be available for inspection at between him and the shareholder by whom he was the registered office of the Company during normal business nominated to be appointed as a proxy for the meeting or to hours from the date of this notice until the date of the have someone else so appointed.
If a Nominated Person does Annual General Meeting and on November 3, 2011 from not have such a right or does not wish to exercise it, he may 8.00 a. m. until the conclusion of the Annual General have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to Meeting: the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
a the register of Directors interests: 10.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies b the Directors service agreements: and through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting and any c copies of the terms of reference of the Audit Committee, adjournment s of the meeting by using the procedures the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration described in the CREST Manual.
or other CREST sponsored members and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST electronic proxy appointment service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes Notice of Annual General Meeting 87
