Directors Responsibilities Statement The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Responsibility Statements under the and the Group Financial Statements in accordance with Disclosure and Transparency Rules applicable law and regulations.
In accordance with the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules, Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial the Directors listed on pages 17 and 18 confirm to the best of their statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors knowledge that: have elected to prepare the Group and Company Financial a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs Statements in accordance with applicable law and International as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company European Union.
Under company law the Directors must not and the undertakings included within the consolidation taken as a approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied whole: and that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the b the Business Review, Financial Review and Business Risks Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group sections include a fair review of the development and performance for that period.
of the business and the position of the Company and the In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are undertakings included within the consolidation taken as a whole, required to: together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties select suitable accounting policies and then apply them they face.
consistently: By Order of the Board make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable IFRS as adopted by the European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Reynolds C. Bish James Arnold, Jr. prepare the financial statements on the going concern Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company and the Groups transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the U. K. governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
