Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 59 Notes to the Group Financial Statements IAS 28 Revised Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 1.
General information Chemring Group PLC is a company incorporated in England and Amendment to IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting Wales under registration number 86662.
The address of the Amendment to IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes registered of ce is Chemring House, 1500 Parkway, Whiteley, Fareham, Hampshire, PO15 7AF.
The nature of the Groups Amendment to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum operations and its principal activities are set out in Note 5 and in Funding Requirement the Directors Report on pages 36 to 38.
These financial statements IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a are the consolidated financial statements of Chemring Group PLC Surface Mine and its subsidiaries the Group.
The directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards and These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling.
interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policy set financial statements of the Group, except for: out in Note 3 of the financial statements.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments This will introduce a number of Going concern changes in the presentation of financial instruments.
The directors have, at the time of approving the financial IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 11 Joint statements, a reasonable expectation that the Group and Company Arrangements, IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities, have adequate resources to continue to adopt the going concern IAS 27 Revised Separate Financial Statements and IAS 28 basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Further Revised Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures detail is contained in the Statement on Corporate Governance on These will restrict the presentation options of the results of page 52. joint ventures in the financial statements, which the Group 2.
Adoption of new and revised standards expect to enter into.
The following IFRIC interpretations, amendments to existing Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements standards and new standards have been adopted in the This will impact the presentation of various items within the current year but have not impacted the reported results or the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income by requiring the financial position: separation of items that will later be reclassi ed through the Comparative IFRS 7 Disclosures for First Time Adopters Income Statement from those that will never pass through the Income Statement.
Amendment to IAS 32 Classi cation of Rights Issues IAS 19 Employee Bene ts Revised This will impact the IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments measurement of the various components representing Amendment to IFRS 1 Limited Exemption from Comparative movements in the fide ned bene t pension obligation and IFRS 7 Disclosures for First Time Adopters associated disclosures, but not the Groups total obligation.
Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of these standards until a detailed Amendment to IFRS 3 revised 2008 Business Combinations review has been completed.
Improvements to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statement 3.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the IFRS adopted for use in the European Union.
These will be those following standards and interpretations which have not been IAS, IFRS and related Interpretations Standing Interpretations applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet Committee SIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : Committee IFRIC interpretations, subsequent amendments to Amendments to IFRS 1 Severe Hyperin ation and Removal of those standards and related interpretations, future standards and related interpretations issued or adopted by the International Fixed Dates for First Time Adopters Accounting Standards Board IASB that have been endorsed by Amendments to IFRS 7 Disclosures: Transfers of Financial Assets the European Commission collectively referred to as IFRS.
These IFRS 9 Financial Instruments are subject to ongoing review and endorsement by the European Commission or possible amendment by interpretive guidance from IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements the IASB and the IFRIC and are therefore still subject to change.
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements Basis of accounting IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other The particular accounting policies adopted have been applied Comprehensive Income consistently throughout the current and previous years and are Amendments to IAS 12 Deferred Tax: Recovery of described below.
Underlying Assets Accounting convention IAS 19 Revised Employee Bene ts The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, except for the revaluation of certain properties and IAS 24 Revised Related Party Disclosures financial instruments.
IAS 27 Revised Separate Financial Statements Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 60 Financial statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements provided that the economic bene ts will ow to the Group and the 3.
Accounting policies continued amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
Basis of consolidation Interest income is recognised when it is probable that the economic The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company bene ts will ow to the Group and the amount of revenue can be and all of its subsidiaries.
A subsidiary undertaking is an entity measured reliably.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest operating policies of an entity so as to obtain bene ts from its rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired are consolidated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset from the date on which control passes to the Group and the results to that assets net carrying amount on initial recognition.
of disposed subsidiaries are consolidated up to the date on which Acquisitions control passes from the Group.
On acquisition of a subsidiary, the cost is measured as the fair value All companies within the Group make up their financial statements of the consideration.
The assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities to the same date.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income of subsidiary undertakings that meet the IFRS 3 revised 2008 and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Business Combinations recognition criteria are measured at the fair value at the date of acquisition, except that: Operating pro t Operating pro t is stated before the share of results of associates deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets relating and before finance expense.
to employee bene t arrangements are recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 Employee Revenue recognition Bene ts respectively: Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods liabilities or equity instruments related to the replacement by and services provided in the normal course of business, net of the Group of an acquirees share-based payment awards are discounts, VAT and other revenue related taxes.
measured in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment: and Sale of goods assets or disposal groups that are classi ed as held for sale, Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when all of the in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale following conditions are satis ed: and Discontinued Operations are measured in accordance with that standard.
the Group has transferred to the buyer the signi cant risks and reward of ownership, typically on formal acceptance: Where cost exceeds fair value of the net assets acquired the difference is recorded as goodwill.
the Group retains neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership nor effective Where the fair value of the net assets exceeds the cost, the control over the goods sold: difference is recorded directly in the Income Statement.
The accounting policies of subsidiary undertakings are changed where the amount of revenue can be measured reliably: necessary to be consistent with those of the Group.
it is probable that the economic bene ts associated with the If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by transaction will ow to the entity: and the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the can be measured reliably.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement period see below, or additional assets Rendering of services or liabilities recognised, to re ect new information obtained about Revenue from a contract to provide services is recognised by facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date reference to the stage of completion of the contract.
that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised as of Long term contracts that date.
When the outcome of a long term contract can be estimated The measurement period is from the date of acquisition to the reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage date the Group obtains complete information about facts and of completion at the Balance Sheet date.
This is normally measured circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date, and is subject by the proportion of contract costs incurred for work performed to to a maximum of one year.
date bear to the estimated total contract costs, except where this would not be representative of the stage of completion.
Variations In accordance with IFRS 3 revised 2008 Business Combinations, in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included to the acquisition costs have been expensed through the Income extent that the amount can be measured reliably and its receipt is Statement.
Acquisition related costs refer to external costs incurred considered probable.
in acquiring companies, together with the costs of abortive bids and the establishment of joint ventures.
When the outcome of a long term contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent of contract Intangible assets costs incurred where it is probable they will be recoverable.
Goodwill Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which The purchased goodwill of the Group is regarded as having an they are incurred.
When it is probable that total contract costs will inde nite useful economic life and, in accordance with IAS 36 exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as Impairment of Assets, is not amortised but is subject to annual tests an expense immediately.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount to goodwill is included in Investment income the determination of the pro t or loss on disposal.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 61 Acquired intangibles estimated selling price, less further costs expected to be incurred For acquisitions after 1 November 2004, the Group recognises to completion and disposal.
separately from goodwill intangible assets that are separable or Provision is made for slow moving, obsolete and defective items arise from contractual or other legal rights and whose fair value where appropriate.
These intangible assets are amortised Borrowing costs at rates calculated to write down their cost or valuation to their Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, estimated residual values by equal instalments over their estimated construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets useful economic lives, which are considered to be: that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for Technology average of 10 years their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, Customer relationships average of 10 years until such time as the assets are subsequently ready for their intended use or sale.
Once the assets are ready for their intended Orderbooks average of 2 years use these capitalised borrowing costs are depreciated in line with Development costs the underlying asset.
Development costs that qualify as intangible assets are capitalised Investment income earned on the temporary investment of speci c as incurred, and once the relevant intangible asset is ready for use borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is are amortised on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life, deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
averaging three years 2010: three years.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in pro t or loss in the Patents and licences period in which they are incurred.
Patents and licences are measured initially at purchase cost and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, Government grants averaging ten years 2010: ten years.
Government grants are not recognised until there is reasonable assurance that the Group will comply with the conditions attaching Property, plant and equipment to them and that the grants will be received.
Other than historically revalued land and buildings, property, plant and equipment are held at cost less accumulated depreciation and The bene t of a government loan at a below-market rate of interest any recognised impairment loss.
Borrowing costs on signi cant is treated as a government grant, measured as the difference capital expenditure projects are capitalised and allocated to the between proceeds received and the fair value of the loan based on cost of the project.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land.
On other assets depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write Government grants towards staff re-training costs are recognised down their cost or valuation to their estimated residual values by as income over the periods necessary to match them with the equal instalments over their estimated useful economic lives, which related costs and are deducted in reporting the related expense.
are considered to be: Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are Freehold buildings up to 50 years treated as deferred income and released to the Income Statement Leasehold buildings the period of the lease over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned.
Plant and equipment up to 10 years Tax The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable Investments in associates and deferred tax.
The results and the assets and liabilities of associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Any excess The tax currently payable is based on taxable pro t for the year.
of the cost of investment over the Groups share of the fair value Taxable pro t differs from net pro t as reported in the Income of identi able assets and liabilities within the associate at the date Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are of acquisition is accounted for as goodwill that is included in the taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items carrying value of the investment and is assessed for impairment as of income that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability part of that investment.
for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the Balance Sheet date.
Impairment of non-current assets Assets that have inde nite lives are allocated to the Groups cash Deferred tax is expected to be payable or recoverable on generating units and tested for impairment at least annually.
differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities Assets that are subject to depreciation or amortisation are in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used reviewed for impairment whenever changes in circumstances in the computation of taxable pro t, and is accounted for using the indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
To the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally extent that the carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount an recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred impairment loss is recorded for the difference as an expense in the tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable taxable Income Statement.
The recoverable amount used for impairment pro ts will be available in the future against which deductible testing is the higher of the value in use and its fair value less temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are costs of disposal.
For the purpose of impairment testing assets not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately from the initial recognition other than in a business combination identi able cash ows.
of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax pro t nor the accounting pro t. Inventories Inventories are recorded at the lower of cost and net realisable Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary value.
Cost represents materials, direct labour, other direct costs differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and related production overheads and is determined using the and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able first-in first-out FIFO method.
Net realisable value is based on to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 62 Financial statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements Financial instruments 3.
Accounting policies continued Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Groups Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each Trade receivables Balance Sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their probable that suf cient taxable pro ts will be available to allow nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated irrecoverable amounts.
at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or Cash and cash equivalents credited in the Income Statement, except where it relates to items Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred deposits, and other short term highly liquid investments that are tax is also dealt with in equity.
readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insigni cant risk of change in value.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax Financial liabilities and equity instruments liabilities and when they relate to income taxed levied by the same Financial liabilities tax authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classi ed according and liabilities on a net basis.
to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest Special capital reserve in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
The special capital reserve was created as part of a capital reduction scheme involving the cancellation of the share premium Bank borrowings account which was approved by the Court in 1986, in accordance Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985. proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges including premiums payable on settlement or redemption, and Foreign currencies direct issue costs are accounted for on an accruals basis to the The individual financial statements of each Group company are Income Statement using the effective interest method and are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that which it operates its functional currency.
For the purpose of the they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each Group company are expressed in pounds sterling, which Trade payables is the functional currency of the Company, and the presentation Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their currency for the consolidated financial statements.
In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks currency foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange of interest rate and foreign currency transactions, and it uses prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each Balance derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to these Sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated transactional risks.
The Group uses interest rate swap contracts, in foreign currencies are re-translated at the rates prevailing on foreign exchange forward contracts and other forward currency the Balance Sheet date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value structures to reduce these exposures and does not use derivative that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the financial instruments for speculative purposes.
rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value at Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost the date the derivative contract is entered into and are revalued in a foreign currency are not re-translated.
at fair value at each Balance Sheet date.
The method by which Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, any gain or loss is recognised depends on whether the instrument and on the re-translation of monetary items, are included in the is designated a hedging instrument or not.
To be designated as a pro t or loss for the period.
hedging instrument the instrument must be documented as such at inception and must be assessed at inception and on an ongoing In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, basis to be highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or the Group enters into forward contracts and forward currency cash ows of hedged items.
structures which are accounted for as derivative financial instruments see below for details of the Groups accounting Hedge accounting principles are used for foreign currency policies in respect of such derivative financial instruments.
forward contracts and interest rate swaps where appropriate, with movements in fair value taken to equity for cash ow hedges and For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the pro t and loss account for fair value hedges until such time the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are as the underlying amounts of the contract mature.
At maturity translated at exchange rates prevailing on the Balance Sheet date.
or disposal of the net investment the amounts held in equity will Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange be recycled to the Income Statement.
Changes in fair value of rates for the period.
any ineffective portion of net investment hedges and interest rate swaps are recognised in the Income Statement immediately.
The fair values of derivative financial instruments are calculated by third party valuers.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 63 Where derivatives do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting vesting estimates is recognised in the Income Statement over the the changes in fair value are immediately recognised in the vesting period.
Proceeds received, net of any directly attributable Income Statement.
transaction costs, are credited to share capital and share premium.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations For cash settled share-based grants, the total amount recognised is Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the based on the fair value of the liability incurred.
The fair value of the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in the Statement of liability is re-measured at each Balance Sheet date with changes in Comprehensive Income and accumulated in the foreign currency the fair value recognised in the Income Statement for the period.
translation reserve that forms part of the revenue reserve.
The gain Post balance sheet events or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately Following IAS 10 Events after the Balance Sheet Date, the Group in the Income Statement.
continues to disclose events that it considers material and Embedded derivatives non-disclosure of which can in uence the economic decisions Embedded derivatives that are not closely related to the host of users of the financial statements.
contract are treated as separate derivatives, with unrealised gains Critical accounting judgements and key sources of and losses reported in the Income Statement.
estimation uncertainty Retirement bene t costs When applying the Groups accounting policies, management Payments to fide ned contribution retirement bene t schemes must make assumptions and estimates concerning the future are charged as an expense as they fall due.
For fide ned bene t that affect the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities at the schemes, the cost of providing bene ts is determined using the Balance Sheet date and the amounts of revenue and expenses projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being recognised during the accounting period.
Such assumptions and carried out at each Balance Sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses estimates are based upon factors such as historical experience, the are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They observance of trends in the industries in which the Group operates, are recognised outside of the pro t or loss and presented in the and information available from the Groups customers and other Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that The key assumptions concerning the future and other key the bene ts are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on sources of estimation uncertainty at the Balance Sheet date that a straight-line basis over the average period until the bene ts have a signi cant risk of causing a material adjustment to the become vested.
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year include: The retirement bene t obligation recognised in the Balance Sheet represents the present value of the fide ned bene t obligation Assessment of long term contractual arrangements as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced The Group has long term contracts that fall into different by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this accounting periods.
In assessing the allocation of revenues and calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value costs to individual accounting periods, and the consequential of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to assets and liabilities, the Group estimates the total revenues and the scheme.
costs forecast to arise in respect of the contract and the stage of completion based on an appropriate measure of performance Leased assets as described under revenue recognition on page 60.
The Group Where the Group enters into a lease which entails taking utilises assumptions and projections, principally relating to future substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset, material, labour and overhead costs.
As a consequence, there is a the lease is treated as a finance lease.
The asset is recorded in the risk that total contract costs will exceed those originally estimated Balance Sheet as property, plant and equipment and is depreciated and the margin will decrease.
Changes to initial assumptions, which over the shorter of the estimated useful economic life and the lease are reviewed on a regular basis, may result in revisions to estimated term.
Future instalments under such leases, net of finance charges, costs and anticipated margins.
These are recognised in the period are included in creditors.
The finance element of the instalments is in which the estimated costs are determined.
charged to the Income Statement at a constant rate of charge on the remaining balance of the obligation.
Goodwill impairment review Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of All other leases are operating leases and the rental charges are the value-in-use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill has taken to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the life been allocated.
The value-in-use calculation requires the entity to of the lease.
determine such assets, to estimate the future cash ows expected Share-based compensation to arise from the cash-generating unit and to determine a suitable The Group operates equity settled and cash settled share-based discount rate in order to calculate present value see Note 14.
reviewing the carrying value of goodwill of the various businesses the Board has considered the separate plans and cash ows of For grants made under the Groups share-based compensation these businesses consistent with the requirements of IAS 36 schemes, the fair value is calculated at the grant date and Impairment of Assets and is satis ed that these demonstrate that recognised in the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over no impairment has occurred in respect of continuing operations.
the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the shares that will eventually vest.
The valuation of the options utilises a methodology based on the Black-Scholes model.
For equity settled share-based grants, the total amount recognised is based on the fair value of the equity instrument measured at the date the award is made.
At each Balance Sheet date the impact of any revision to Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 64 Financial statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements When some or all of the economic bene ts required to settle 3.
Accounting policies continued a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, a receivable is recognised as an asset if it is virtually certain that Tax reimbursement will be received and the amount of the receivable The largest category of deferred tax asset which contains can be measured reliably.
signi cant estimation uncertainty and which requires management judgement in assessing its recoverability relates to tax losses Environmental provisions carried forward see Note 27 for further details.
Where the Group is liable for decontamination work or the restoration of sites to their original condition, the directors make Applicable accounting standards permit the recognition of deferred their best estimate of the costs needed to complete these works, tax assets only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable discounted back to present values where appropriate, relying upon pro ts will be available to utilise the tax losses carried forward.
The independent expert third party valuers where appropriate.
assessment of future taxable pro ts involves signi cant estimation uncertainty, principally relating to an assessment of managements Restructuring provisions projections of future taxable income based on business plans A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has and ongoing tax planning strategies.
These projections include developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has assumptions about the future strategy of the Group, the economic raised a valid expectation in those affected that it will carry out and regulatory environment in which the Group operates, future the restructuring by starting to implement the plan or announcing tax legislation and customer behaviour, amongst other variables its main features to those affected by it.
The measurement of see Note 27 for details of tax losses on which deferred tax assets a restructuring provision includes only the direct expenditures have not been recognised.
arising from the restructuring and not those associated with the ongoing activities of the entity.
Assets and liabilities acquired under business combinations Under IFRS 3 revised 2008 Business Combinations, it is necessary Warranties to separately identify and value any acquired intangible assets.
In Provisions for the expected cost of warranty obligations under order to ascertain the values of the separate assets it is necessary local sale of goods legislation are recognised at the date of sale for management to estimate the future cash ows attributable to of the relevant products, at the directors best estimate of the the assets and estimate their useful economic lives see Note 15. expenditure required to settle the Groups obligation.
Assets and liabilities are recognised on acquisition when relevant, which include deferred tax assets on losses see Note 27.
Pensions The liability recognised in relation to retirement bene t obligations is dependent on a number of assumptions, including discount rate, mortality rate, salary increases and in ation.
Any change in these assumptions would change the amount recognised see Note 34.
Legal The Group is subject to legal proceedings and other claims arising in the ordinary course of business.
The Group is required to assess the likelihood of any adverse judgements or outcomes, as well as potential ranges of probable losses.
A determination of the amount of reserves required for these matters is based on a careful analysis of each individual issue with the assistance of outside legal counsel.
However, actual claims incurred could differ from the original estimates.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the Balance Sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Where a provision is measured using the cash ows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash ows.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 65 4.
Revenue All of the Groups revenue is derived from the sale of goods, revenue from long term contracts and provision of services.
The following table provides an analysis of the Groups revenue by destination.
The directors consider the only countries that are considered signi cant in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments are the USA and the UK, as disclosed above, and Saudi Arabia, which is included within the Middle East category and which had revenue of 104.1 million 2010: 12.7 million.
5. Business segments IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires operating segments to be identi ed on the basis of internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the Chief Executive and the Board of Directors to allocate resources to the segments and to assess their performance.
For management purposes the Group has four operating divisions Counter-IED, Countermeasures, Pyrotechnics and Munitions.
These divisions are the basis on which it reports its segmental information and the principal activities are as follows: Counter-IED: IED improvised explosive device detection equipment: chemical and biological threat detection equipment: IED electronic countermeasures: explosive ordnance disposal equipment: demilitarisation services.
Countermeasures: Expendable active and passive countermeasures for naval and air platforms: land-based electronic warfare EW equipment.
Pyrotechnics: Signals and illumination devices and payloads: cartridge propellant actuated devices: pyrotechnic devices for satellite launch and deployment.
Munitions: Missile and ammunition components: propellants: warheads: fuzes: energetic materials: medium and large calibre ammunition.
A segmental analysis of revenue and operating pro t is set out below: 2011 2010 Business segments m m Revenue Counter-IED 167.6 114.9 Countermeasures 200.8 196.3 Pyrotechnics 139.9 170.0 Munitions 237.0 115.9 Total revenue from third parties 745.3 597.1 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 66 Financial statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements 5. Business segments continued 2011 2010 m m Operating pro t As restated Counter-IED 31.9 28.1 Countermeasures 46.7 58.8 Pyrotechnics 32.4 40.1 Munitions 40.8 20.9 Unallocated corporate costs 10.0 10.4 # Total underlying operating pro t 141.8 137.5 Acquisition related costs see Note 33 5.7 6.7 Restructuring and incident costs 7.2 4.3 Provision release - 2.4 Intangible amortisation arising from business combinations 24.3 17.0 Gain loss on fair value movements on derivatives 2.4 4.0 Non-underlying items 34.8 29.6 Total operating pro t see Note 6 107.0 107.9 Share of post-tax results of associate 0.1 0.1 Finance income 0.1 0.5 Finance expense 16.4 19.4 Pro t before tax 90.8 89.1 The 2010 gures have been restated by including certain items that were identi ed separately within unallocated corporate costs, and other costs being moved from within underlying operating pro t to non-underlying items in order to be consistent with the current year treatment of the equivalent costs # Before non-underlying items see Note 6 The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Groups accounting policies described in Note 3.
Unallocated corporate costs Unallocated corporate costs were 10.0 million, slightly down on 2010.
In 2010 two non-recurring cost items which netted out at 1.9 million 4.3m charge, 2.4m credit were included in unallocated corporate costs, but with the re-formatting of the Income Statement this year these items have now been reclassi ed as non-underlying items in order to be consistent year-on-year.
The impact of this reclassi cation is an increase in underlying operating pro t for 2010 to 137.5 million from 135.6 million.
Intra-group transactions There are no material intra-group transactions included within the above gures for revenue and pro t. Restructuring and incident costs In 2011, the restructuring and incident costs related to the closure of Plant 3 at Alloy Surfaces Company, Inc. 1.1 million and the start-up of production at Mecar S. A. following the incident that occurred in September 2010 2.3 million.
At the end of October 2011 the Board decided to exit some loss-making munitions product lines in the US and in addition to minor losses, a provision has also been made for excess inventory and xed assets 3.8 million.
There is a 0.5 million difference between the expense in the Income Statement and the amount appearing in the Cash Flow Statement which relates to timing differences and non-cash movements.
In 2010, the restructuring costs of 1.5 million included the restructuring of the Groups UK Counter-IED business.
As a result, one of the two sites out of which it operated was closed.
In 2010, there were also two separate incidents that stopped production at the Kilgore Flares facility in Tennessee and Mecar in Belgium.
As a result of these incidents, 2.8 million of non-recurring costs were incurred in respect of the write-off of damaged stock and destroyed assets.
There is a difference between the expense in the Income Statement and the amount appearing in the Cash Flow Statement for restructuring and incident costs in 2010.
This is due to only 0.4 million of the incident costs resulting in cash movements, along with the 1.5 million of restructuring costs.
Provision release During 2010 part of the provision held in respect of the environmental liabilities associated with the Chemring Energetic Devices site in Illinois was released following a third party assessment of the provision.
This resulted in a 2.4 million credit to the Income Statement.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 67 Information about major customers Included in revenues arising from the segments are revenues of approximately 246.6 million 2010: 236.7 million and 103.6 million 2010: 12.5 million which arose from sales to the Groups two largest customers respectively.
The largest customer had sales reported in all four of the Groups reporting segments, whilst sales to the second largest customer were primarily from the munitions segment.
These were the only individual customers where direct sales account for more than 10% of the total Group revenue for the year.
The Group does not disclose assets or liabilities by segment in the monthly management accounts provided to the Executive Committee or the Board of Directors.
The Improvements to IFRSs issued in April 2009 only requires information provided to the chief operating decision maker as a key decision making tool to be disclosed.
The Group has adopted this amendment in order to clarify that the chief operational decision makers do not use this as a key decision tool.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires a geographic analysis of non-current assets and so a disclosure of non-current assets by location is shown below.
Operating pro t The following table shows a reconciliation of cost by function: 2011 2010 m m As restated Total revenue 745.3 597.1 Cost of sales 523.8 386.8 Administrative expenses 79.7 72.8 Acquisition related costs see Note 33 5.7 6.7 Restructuring and incident costs 7.2 4.3 Provision release - 2.4 Intangible amortisation arising from business combinations 24.3 17.0 Gain loss on fair value movements on derivatives 2.4 4.0 Non-underlying items 34.8 29.6 Total operating pro t 107.0 107.9 The 2010 gures have been restated by including certain items that were identi ed separately within unallocated corporate costs, and other costs being moved from within underlying operating pro t to non-underlying items in order to be consistent with the current year treatment of the equivalent costs Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 68 Financial statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements 6.
Operating pro t continued Operating pro t is stated after charging crediting : 2011 2010 m m Research and development costs customer-funded 38.4 20.6 internally-funded 8.8 5.8 Amortisation arising from business combinations 24.3 17.0 development costs 2.4 2.1 patents and licences 0.2 0.3 Depreciation property, plant and equipment 16.9 11.5 leased assets 0.3 0.1 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.5 0.2 Operating lease rentals plant and machinery 1.5 1.2 other 1.0 0.7 Government grant 0.1 0.1 Foreign exchange losses 0.3 2.0 Staff costs see Note 7 179.3 133.0 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 341.7 254.7 Acquisition related costs 5.7 6.7 Restructuring and incident costs 0.9 million relates to write down of property, plant and equipment 7.2 4.3 Provision release - 2.4 Auditors remuneration see below 1.3 1.4 A more detailed analysis of auditors remuneration on a worldwide basis is provided below: 2011 2010 Auditors remuneration: m m Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for: The audit of the Companys annual accounts 0.4 0.4 The audit of the Companys subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 0.4 0.3 0.8 0.7 Other services: Tax services compliance 0.1 0.1 Tax services advisory 0.2 0.3 Corporate finance services 0.2 0.3 0.5 0.7 1.3 1.4 Included in the Group audit fees is 0.1 million 2010: 0.1 million paid in respect of the parent company.
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Statement on Corporate Governance on pages 49 and 50 and includes an explanation of how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditors.
No services were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
During the year the Group incurred professional fees with other accountancy rms for the provision of corporate finance services of 0.4 million 2010: 0.4 million.
Staff costs The average monthly number of employees within each category including executive directors was: 2011 2010 Number Number Production 3,445 2,842 Administration, sales and marketing 847 662 4,292 3,504 At the year end the number of employees was 4,679 2010: 4,283.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 69 The costs incurred in respect of these employees including share-based payments were: 2011 2010 m m Wages and salaries 150.9 113.0 Social security costs 20.6 15.3 Other pension costs 7.8 4.7 179.3 133.0 The increase in wages and salaries expense since 2010 exceeded the increase in average staff numbers due to the acquisition of Roke Manor Research Limited at the end of the prior year and Chemring Detection Systems, Inc. during the current year.
Both companies have higher than average staff costs compared to the Group as a whole, increasing average wages and salaries accordingly.
Finance expense 2011 2010 m m Bank overdraft and loan interest 2.2 0.3 Loan notes interest 15.5 15.5 Medium term loan interest 0.5 2.8 Finance lease interest 0.4 0.3 Amortisation of debt finance costs 1.5 1.2 Unwinding of discount on provisions see Note 26 0.3 0.3 Interest cost of retirement bene t obligations see Note 34 0.7 1.2 Amounts included in the cost of qualifying assets 4.7 2.2 16.4 19.4 Borrowing costs included in the cost of qualifying assets during the year are calculated by applying a capitalisation rate of 6% 2010: 7% to expenditure on such assets.
Tax 2011 2010 m m Current tax charge 14.0 19.5 Deferred tax charge see Note 27 2.9 2.9 Total current year tax charge 16.9 22.4 Income tax in the UK is calculated at 26.83% 2010: 28.00% of the estimated assessable pro t for the year.
Tax for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
The total charge for the year can be reconciled to the Income Statement as follows: 2011 2010 m m Pro t before tax for the year 90.8 89.1 Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 26.83% 2010: 28.00% 24.4 24.9 Income not chargeable for tax purposes 1.0 2.2 Changes in tax rates 2.1 1.3 Research and development tax relief 1.2 - Utilisation and recognition of tax losses 5.1 0.8 Overseas pro ts taxed at rates different to the standard rate 1.9 1.8 Total current year tax charge 16.9 22.4 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 70 Financial statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements 10.
Tax continued In addition to the income tax expense charged to the Income Statement, a tax credit of 1.4 million 2010: tax debit of 2.0 million has been recognised in equity in the year.
The effective rate of tax incurred by the Group is 18.6% 2010: 25.1%, and the underlying effective rate of tax incurred by the Group is # 22.9% 2010: 25.9%.
This reduction is principally due to additional research and development tax credits following the acquisition of Roke Manor Research Limited and utilisation of tax losses not previously recognised.
Before acquisition related costs, restructuring and incident costs, provision release, intangible amortisation arising from business combinations and gain loss on fair value movements on derivatives # The 2010 gure has been restated due to certain costs being moved from within underlying operating pro t to non-underlying items in order to be consistent with the current year treatment of the equivalent costs see Note 6 11.
Dividends 2011 2010 m m Dividends on ordinary shares of 1p each Final dividend for the year ended 31 October 2010 8.4p 2009: 7.2p 14.9 12.7 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 October 2011 4.0p 2010: 3.4p 7.8 6.0 Total dividends 22.7 18.7 Restated gures for prior year to re ect the subdivision of each 5p ordinary share into five 1p ordinary shares on 28 March 2011 The proposed final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 October 2011 of 10.8p per share will, if approved, absorb approximately 20.9 million of shareholders funds.
The dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and accordingly has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
Earnings per share On 28 March 2011, the 5p ordinary shares in the Company were subdivided into five 1p ordinary shares.
All gures relating to share numbers including shares in issue, dividends per share and earnings per share prior to 28 March 2011 have been restated as though the share split had already occurred.
This has been done to provide comparable information for the current financial year.
See Note 13 for further detail on the share split.
Earnings per share are based on the average number of shares in issue of 185,633,996 2010: 176,602,225 and pro t on ordinary activities after tax of 73.9 million 2010: 66.7 million.
Diluted earnings per share has been calculated using a diluted average number of shares in issue of 187,636,114 2010: 178,388,435 and pro t on ordinary activities after tax of 73.9 million 2010: 66.7 million.
The earnings and shares used in the calculations are as follows: From continuing operations 2011 2010 Ordinary shares Ordinary shares Earnings Number EPS Earnings Number EPS m 000s Pence m 000s Pence Basic 73.9 185,634 39.8 66.7 176,602 37.8 Additional shares issuable other than at fair value in respect of options outstanding - 2,002 0.4 - 1,786 0.4 Diluted 73.9 187,636 39.4 66.7 178,388 37.4 The number of shares in issue differs from the number held by third parties due to the fact that the Company holds its own shares in treasury.
Further information on the treasury shares holding is given in Note 30.
Reconciliation from basic earnings per share to underlying earnings per share: Underlying basic earnings are fide ned as earnings before acquisition related costs, restructuring and incident costs, provision release, intangible amortisation arising from business combinations and gain loss on fair value movements on derivatives.
The directors consider this measure of earnings allows a more meaningful comparison of earnings trends.
2011 2010 Ordinary shares Earnings Ordinary shares Earnings Number EPS m Number EPS m 000s Pence As restated 000s Pence Basic 73.9 185,634 39.8 66.7 176,602 37.8 # Non-underlying items 22.9 - 12.3 21.3 - 12.0 Underlying 96.8 185,634 52.1 88.0 176,602 49.8 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 71 Restated 2010 underlying earnings due to reclassi cation of certain items from underlying costs to non-underlying costs in order to conform with the current year treatment of the corresponding items # Acquisition related costs, restructuring and incident costs, provision release, intangible amortisation arising from business combinations and gain loss on fair value movements on derivatives after tax The reclassi cation of certain items from underlying to non-underlying in 2010 has resulted in a revised 2010 gure for underlying earnings per share.
A reconciliation of the movement from the reported gure in the 2010 financial statements to the gure above is shown below.
2010 Ordinary shares Earnings Number EPS m 000s Pence Underlying earnings per share as previously reported 86.9 176,602 49.2 Reclassi cation of items from underlying to non-underlying including tax 1.1 - 0.6 Revised underlying earnings per share 88.0 176,602 49.8 13.
Share split and placing At the Companys Annual General Meeting on 24 March 2011 a resolution was passed to split the Companys ordinary shares of 5p each the Existing Ordinary Shares in issue or held in treasury into ordinary shares of 1p each the Ordinary Shares, resulting in shareholders holding five Ordinary Shares for each Existing Ordinary Share they held prior to the share split.
This share split took effect on 28 March 2011.
On 20 April 2011, the Group placed 17,405,183 new ordinary shares at 645p per share, raising 112.4 million before costs.
This represented an increase of 0.2 million in the ordinary share capital and 110.2 million in the share premium reserve after costs.
The placing represented in the region of 9.8% of the Groups market capitalisation and it was anticipated that the proceeds would be used fund possible future acquisition opportunities.
Approximately 56 million of the placing proceeds were used to fund the acquisition of Chemring Detection Systems.
The Board did not pursue any further acquisition opportunities during the year and the funds remain within the Groups Balance Sheet.
Goodwill m Cost At 1 November 2009 149.5 Recognised on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings as restated see below 79.5 Foreign exchange adjustments 2.0 At 31 October 2010 231.0 At 1 November 2010 231.0 Recognised on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 13.5 Foreign exchange adjustments 1.1 At 31 October 2011 243.4 Accumulated impairment losses At 1 November 2009, 1 November 2010 and 31 October 2011 - Carrying amount At 31 October 2011 243.4 At 31 October 2010 231.0 Additions to goodwill since 1 November 2009 can be split as follows: m Hi-Shear Technology Corporation 47.3 Roke Manor Research Limited, as restated 28.3 Other acquisitions as restated 3.9 At 31 October 2010 79.5 Chemring Detection Systems, Inc. 13.5 At 31 October 2011 13.5 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 72 Financial statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements 14.
Goodwill continued Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated at acquisition to the cash generating units CGU that are expected to bene t from that business combination.
The carrying amount of the goodwill has been allocated to our principal CGUs.
An analysis of the pre-tax discount rates used and the goodwill after foreign exchange as at 31 October 2011 by principal CGU is shown below: 2011 2010 2011 2010 % % m m Hi-Shear Technology Corporation 11.6 7.4 48.9 49.2 Simmel Difesa S. p. A.
13.7 7.4 48.2 48.5 Chemring Energetic Devices, Inc. 11.6 7.4 28.6 28.7 Roke Manor Research Limited, as restated 2.9 7.4 28.3 28.3 Chemring Energetics UK Limited 11.7 7.4 18.1 18.1 Non-Intrusive Inspection Technology, Inc. 11.6 7.4 15.4 15.5 Chemring Detection Systems, Inc. 11.6 - 13.4 - Other 42.5 42.7 Total goodwill 243.4 231.0 See Note 33 Includes 2.9 million goodwill from the acquisition of Chemring Fuze Technology S. r. l. in 2010 The pre-tax discount rate for Roke Manor Research Limited is signi cantly lower compared to the other CGUs due to the research and development tax credits it receives, which result in post-tax cash ows exceeding pre-tax cash ows.
The Group tests goodwill at least annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The recoverable amounts of the CGU are determined from value-in-use calculations.
The key assumptions for the value-in-use calculations are those regarding the discount rates, the growth rates and expected changes to selling prices and direct costs during the period for which management have detailed plans.
Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that re ect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks speci c to the CGU.
Pre-tax discount rates, derived from the Groups weighted average cost of capital of 9.4% 2010 7.0%, and adjusted for a premium speci c to each CGU to account for differences in currency risk, country risk and other factors affecting speci c CGUs, have been used to discount projected cash ows.
The calculation has used the Groups forecast gures for the next five years.
At the end of five years, it assumes the performance of the Group companies will grow at a nominal annual rate of 0.5% in perpetuity thereafter.
The growth rates are based on managements view of industry growth forecasts.
Having considered the budget cuts in the US and UK, management are still forecasting growth similar to historic rates.
Changes in selling prices and direct costs are based on past practices and expectations of future changes in the market.
The Group prepares cash ow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budgets approved by management for the next five years and extrapolates cash ows after that period based on growth as described above.
Following a detailed review, no impairment losses for continuing operations have been recognised in the year and no prior impairment losses reversed.
There was signi cant headroom within all the value-in-use calculations.
Additionally, stress testing has indicated that no reasonably possible change in the key assumptions used would result in a signi cant impairment charge being recorded in the financial statements.
A 20% fall in the forecast cash ows of all the CGUs was modelled and no impairment was required for any CGU in this scenario.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 73 15.
Fair values for acquired intangible assets are assessed by reference to future estimated cash ows discounted at an appropriate rate to present value, or by reference to the amount that would have been paid in an arms length transaction between two knowledgeable and willing parties.
Other intangible assets are recognised at cost and are amortised over their estimated useful lives see Note 3.
See Note 33 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 74 Financial statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements 16.
Property, plant and equipment Land and Plant and buildings equipment Total m m m Cost or valuation At 1 November 2009 69.1 124.3 193.4 Additions 14.4 26.5 40.9 Acquired on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 22.3 8.5 30.8 Disposals - 6.2 6.2 Foreign exchange adjustments 1.0 3.4 4.4 At 1 November 2010 106.8 156.5 263.3 Additions 11.1 37.5 48.6 Acquired on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 0.6 2.9 3.5 Disposals 0.6 10.1 10.7 Foreign exchange adjustments 0.5 0.4 0.1 At 31 October 2011 118.4 186.4 304.8 Accumulated depreciation At 1 November 2009 10.6 47.8 58.4 Charge for the year 0.5 11.1 11.6 Disposals - 6.1 6.1 Foreign exchange adjustments 0.6 2.5 1.9 At 1 November 2010 10.5 55.3 65.8 Charge for the year 3.2 14.0 17.2 Disposals 0.4 8.5 8.9 Foreign exchange adjustments - 0.4 0.4 At 31 October 2011 13.3 60.4 73.7 Carrying amount At 31 October 2011 105.1 126.0 231.1 At 31 October 2010 96.3 101.2 197.5 The carrying amount of the Groups plant and equipment includes an amount of 6.1 million 2010: 5.4 million in respect of assets held under finance leases.
4.7 million 2010: 2.2 million of interest has been capitalised see Note 9 in the year, bringing the cumulative cost to 7.3 million 2010: 2.6 million since 1 November 2008.
In the year 0.5 million 2010: 0.3 million has been charged as depreciation on completion of the relevant projects.
This results in a net book value for capitalised interest of 6.5 million 2010: 2.3 million.
Land and buildings were revalued at 30 September 1997 by Chestertons Chartered Surveyors, independent valuers not connected with the Group, on the basis of depreciated replacement cost for two pyrotechnic sites, and on open market for the remainder.
2011 2010 m m As restated 30 September 1997 depreciated replacement cost 5.8 5.8 Freehold at cost 112.6 101.0 118.4 106.8 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 75 If stated under historical cost principles the comparable amounts for the total of land and buildings would be: 2011 2010 m m As restated Cost 116.4 104.8 Accumulated depreciation 12.7 9.9 Historical cost value 103.7 94.9 See Note 33 All other tangible xed assets are stated at historical cost.
The total amount of additions during 2011, shown above, is different to the gure shown in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement due to timing of payments.
At 31 October 2011 the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounting to 14.6 million 2010: 18.8 million.
Included within this gure were commitments totalling 10.5 million to be spent on conducting two major investment programmes for new countermeasures facilities at Salisbury, UK and Lara, Australia.
Subsidiary undertakings All subsidiary undertakings have been included in the consolidation.
The undertakings held at 31 October 2011 which, in the opinion of the directors, principally affected the results for the year or the net assets of the Group are shown below.
Country of incorporation % of issued ordinary or registration share capital controlled Subsidiary undertaking and operation by Chemring Group PLC Activity Chemring Countermeasures Ltd England 100 Countermeasures Chemring Defence UK Ltd England 100 Counter-IED Pyrotechnics Chemring Marine Ltd England 100 Pyrotechnics Chemring EOD Ltd England 100 Counter-IED Chemring Prime Contracts Ltd England 100 Munitions Roke Manor Research Ltd England 100 Counter-IED Countermeasures Chemring Energetics UK Ltd Scotland 100 Counter-IED Pyrotechnics Munitions Chemring Defence Germany GmbH Germany 100 Counter-IED Pyrotechnics Alloy Surfaces Company, Inc. USA 100 Countermeasures Kilgore Flares Company LLC USA 100 Countermeasures Technical Ordnance, Inc. USA 100 Pyrotechnics Munitions Chemring Energetic Devices, Inc. USA 100 Pyrotechnics Munitions Chemring Ordnance, Inc. USA 100 Pyrotechnics Munitions Chemring Military Products, Inc. USA 100 Munitions Non-Intrusive Inspection Technology, Inc. USA 100 Counter-IED Hi-Shear Technology Corporation USA 100 Pyrotechnics Chemring Detection Systems, Inc. USA 100 Counter-IED Chemring Australia Pty Ltd Australia 100 Counter-IED Countermeasures Pyrotechnics Munitions Chemring Defence Spain S. L. Spain 100 Pyrotechnics Simmel Difesa S. p. A. Italy 100 Counter-IED Pyrotechnics Munitions Chemring Nobel AS Norway 100 Munitions Mecar S. A. Belgium 100 Munitions Associated undertaking CIRRA S. A. France 49 Countermeasures Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 76 Financial statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements 18.
Interest in associate 2011 2010 m m Interest in associate including goodwill of 0.5 million 2010: 0.5 million 1.5 1.1 Amounts relating to associate: 2011 2010 m m Total assets 2.7 1.6 Total liabilities 0.7 0.4 Net assets 2.0 1.2 Groups share of net assets excluding goodwill 1.0 0.6 The results of the associated undertaking for the year ended 30 September 2011 relate to the Groups share of CIRRA S. A. CIRRA S. A. s financial year ended on 30 September 2011 and there is no material difference between the results as reported and those that would be obtained were CIRRA S. A. to have a year ending on 31 October 2011.
2011 2010 m m Total revenue 1.9 1.9 Pro t after tax 0.2 0.2 Groups share of pro t of associate 0.1 0.1 19.
Inventories 2011 2010 m m Raw materials 49.1 53.1 Work in progress 2010 gure restated see Note 33 70.8 67.4 Finished goods 26.9 20.8 146.8 141.3 There are no signi cant differences between the replacement costs and the fair values shown above.
Trade and other receivables 2011 2010 m m Current Trade receivables 165.5 141.1 Allowance for doubtful debts 1.4 2.0 164.1 139.1 Other debtors 2010 gure restated see Note 33 13.4 14.1 Prepayments and accrued income 13.3 12.4 190.8 165.6 All amounts shown above are due within one year.
The average credit period taken on sales of goods, based on a countback basis, is 45 days 2010: 47 days.
No interest is charged on the receivables from the date of invoice to payment.
The Groups policy is to provide in full for debtors greater than 120 days beyond agreed terms, unless extenuating circumstances exist.
Due to the nature of the customer base the Group does not experience signi cant bad debt write-offs and hence no movement schedule for the allowance for doubtful debts has been provided due to its immaterial level in 2011 and 2010.
The increase in the year of trade receivables is in part due to the acquisition of Chemring Detection Systems, Inc. during the year, adding 3.0 million to the trade receivables balance.
It was also partly due to the timing of invoicing and cash receipts at the end of the current financial year.
An ageing analysis has not been shown as all signi cant overdue receivables are covered by the allowance for doubtful debts provision above.
The vast majority of the trade debtor balance is not yet due based on the average credit terms provided to customers.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair values.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 77 21.
Cash and cash equivalents Bank balances and cash comprise cash held by the Group and short term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying amount of these assets approximates to their fair value.
Included within cash is 0.4 million of restricted cash 2010: 31.2 million, of which nil 2010: 15.0 million is held in escrow in relation to the Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme see Note 34 and nil 2010: 13.1 million is held as security against performance related bonds at Mecar S. A.. 22.
Borrowings 2011 2010 m m Bank loans and overdrafts sterling denominated 35.6 59.2 euro denominated 45.9 2.9 Other loans due in less than one year euro denominated 4.5 3.5 Borrowings due within one year 86.0 65.6 UK medium term bank loans sterling denominated 1.0 1.1 euro denominated - 28.0 other denominated - 2.2 Overseas medium term bank loans US dollar denominated 0.2 0.3 Other loans euro denominated 0.7 1.8 Loan notes sterling denominated 12.5 12.5 US dollar denominated 247.7 248.7 Borrowings due after more than one year 262.1 294.6 Finance leases 6.4 5.6 Preference shares 0.1 0.1 354.6 365.9 Analysis of total borrowings by currency: 2011 2010 m m Sterling 54.7 48.6 US dollar 248.8 255.6 Euro 51.1 58.0 Other - 3.7 Total 354.6 365.9 The weighted average interest rates paid were as follows: 2011 2010 % % Bank overdrafts 4.6 4.9 UK medium term bank loans sterling denominated 4.6 4.9 euro denominated 5.0 5.0 other denominated 5.5 5.5 Overseas medium term bank loans US dollar denominated 4.2 4.2 Other loans euro denominated 5.0 5.0 Loan notes sterling denominated 6.8 6.8 US dollar denominated 5.3 6.3 5.3 6.3 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 78 Financial statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements 22.
Borrowings continued 2011 2010 Bank Bank loans and Loan Other loans and Loan Other overdrafts notes loans Total overdrafts notes loans Total m m m m m m m m Borrowings falling due within: One year 81.5 - 6.5 88.0 62.1 - 6.1 68.2 Borrowings falling due within: One to two years 0.5 - 2.6 3.1 30.5 - 4.8 35.3 Two to five years 0.7 - 2.5 3.2 1.1 - - 1.1 After five years - 260.2 0.1 260.3 - 261.2 0.1 261.3 1.2 260.2 5.2 266.6 31.6 261.2 4.9 297.7 Total borrowings 82.7 260.2 11.7 354.6 93.7 261.2 11.0 365.9 Includes finance leases and preference shares In January 2011, the Group completed a re nancing of its bank facilities with a syndicate of five banks.
The new Group facilities, which are unsecured, total 230 million.
In addition, the term of the facilities was extended from April 2012 to April 2015.
This revolving credit facility provides access to committed lending and bonding line support.
Other loans represent loans held by certain Group companies to fund working capital.
The directors do not believe the fair value of the Groups borrowings to be materially different to the book values.
There have been no breaches of the terms of the loan agreements or defaults during the current or previous year.
The Group has the following undrawn borrowing facilities in various currencies available in respect of which all conditions precedent have been met.
These facilities are at oating interest rates.
2011 2010 m m Undrawn borrowings Cash and gross facilities 292.1 219.3 Drawn facilities 142.0 114.7 Total undrawn borrowings 150.1 104.6 The Group is subject to two key financial covenants which are tested quarterly, relating to the ratio between earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA and net debt debt ratio, as well as the ratio between EBITDA and finance costs interest cover.
The Group comfortably complied with these covenants throughout the year and the position at the year end is detailed below: 2011 2010 m m Debt ratio Maximum allowed ratio of net debt to EBITDA 3.0 3.0 Actual ratio of net debt to EBITDA 1.6 2.3 Interest cover Minimum allowed ratio of EBITDA to finance costs 4.0 4.0 Actual ratio of EBITDA to finance costs 10.0 8.7 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 79 23.
Obligations under finance leases Minimum lease Present value of minimum payments lease payments 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m Amounts payable under finance leases: Within one year 2.3 2.8 2.0 2.6 In the second to fifth years 4.7 3.3 4.4 3.0 Less future finance charges 0.6 0.5 - - Present value of lease obligations 6.4 5.6 6.4 5.6 Less amounts due within twelve months shown under current liabilities 2.0 2.6 Amount due for settlement after twelve months 4.4 3.0 Finance lease obligations attract interest rates of between 2% and 3% above base rate.
Lease obligations are denominated in sterling and US dollars.
The fair value of the Groups leases approximates to their carrying amounts.
The Groups obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors title to the underlying leased assets see Note 16.
Trade and other payables 2011 2010 m m Current Trade payables 105.3 100.1 Other payables 33.5 40.5 Other tax and Social Security 4.0 4.6 Advance payments 48.7 52.8 Accruals and deferred income 2010 gure restated see Note 33 20.9 24.3 212.4 222.3 Non-current Other creditors 1.2 1.0 Trade creditors and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
Advance payments are amounts received from customers on larger contracts to fund working capital.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of payables approximates to their fair value.
The average credit period taken on purchases of goods is 49 days 2010: 61 days.
At the end of 2010 trade payables were high, in terms of days, due to excess trade payables acquired with the Mecar acquisition impact of 9 days.
During the first half of 2011 these trade payables were settled.
It is anticipated that working capital will reduce in 2012.
No interest is charged on the payables from the date of invoice to payment.
Financial instruments and risk management The Group uses financial instruments to manage financial risk wherever it is appropriate to do so.
The main risks addressed by the financial instruments of the Group are interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups policies in respect of the management of these risks, which remained unchanged throughout the year, were as follows.
The Groups multi-national activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The Group enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, including: Forward foreign exchange contracts and foreign exchange structures to manage the exchange risk arising from transactional foreign exchange exposures within the Group.
Interest rate swaps to mitigate the risk of the movement in interest rates.
Foreign currency risk management The Group undertakes certain transactions denominated in foreign currencies.
Hence, exposures to exchange rate uctuations arise.
Foreign currency exchange risk can be subdivided into two components, transactional risk and translation risk: Transactional risk: T he Group policy is to hedge signi cant transactional currency exposures via the use of forward foreign exchange contracts and structures.
The measurement and control of this risk is closely monitored on a Group-wide basis.
Translation risk: T he Group translates overseas results and net assets in accordance with the accounting policy in Note 3.
The translation risk on net assets is mitigated by the transfer of currencies between Group companies and the appropriate use of foreign currency borrowings.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 80 Financial statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements 25.
Financial instruments and risk management continued The carrying amounts of the Groups foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities at the year end were as follows: 2011 2010 US$ Euro NOK AUS$ US$ Euro NOK AUS$ Monetary assets million 143.9 108.3 44.6 8.4 154.6 69.2 48.7 10.5 Monetary liabilities million 314.4 99.6 11.1 3.7 312.5 105.1 17.5 6.9 Foreign currency denominated net assets are partially hedged by currency borrowings.
The borrowings detailed below were designated as hedging instruments in net investment hedges.
2011 2010 US$ Euro NOK AUS$ US$ Euro NOK AUS$ Borrowings million 405.0 53.1 - - 405.0 53.1 35.0 - The Group uses foreign exchange contracts to hedge its currency risk, most with a maturity of less than one year from the year end.
The most signi cant exchange rates to manage, as far as the Group is concerned, are the US dollar and Euro exchange rates.
The following table details the forward foreign currency contracts for sales of foreign currencies outstanding as at 31 October: Average exchange rate Expiring within one year 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m US dollar 1.56 1.65 48.5 84.2 At the year end, there were two US dollar structures in place which were set up to protect the Income Statement from currency uctuations during 2012 and so provide an economic hedge.
The structure involves a cap and a collar, which lock in the exchange rates to give the Group the appropriate protection against transactional ows.
Hedge accounting was not adopted for this structure.
The principal amounts of the Groups Euro and US dollar bank loans and loan notes have been accounted for as net investment hedges on the European and US businesses.
These hedges are effective throughout the year and the losses arising on translation have been offset against the gains on re-translation of the subsidiaries in reserves.
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis The following table details the Groups sensitivity to a 10 cents movement in the relevant foreign currencies against sterling with regards to its monetary assets and liabilities.
10 cents represents managements assessment of the reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates.
The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and adjusts their translation at the year end for a 10 cents change in foreign currency rates.
10 cents - 10 cents US dollar impact Euro impact US dollar impact Euro impact 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m m m m m Gain loss 10.1 13.4 0.6 2.5 11.4 15.2 0.7 3.0 Other equity 10.1 13.4 0.6 2.5 11.4 15.2 0.7 3.0 The potential gains or losses arising from these movements in exchange rates would partly result in foreign exchange movements in the Income Statement and partly through movements directly through reserves.
The Groups sensitivity to foreign currency decreased during the year, mainly due to the movements in working capital at the US and European subsidiaries.
Interest rate risk The Group nances its operations through a mixture of retained pro ts, bank and private placement borrowings and leasing lines of credit.
The UK borrowings are denominated in sterling, Euro and US dollar, and at the shorter end are subject to oating rates of interest.
The Group has entered into a oating to xed interest rate swap for the Euro borrowings at a weighted average rate of 3.84%.
The Group has outstanding xed interest loan notes in the US, repayable in full in November 2016 $80 million, November 2017 12.5 million and $125 million and in November 2019 $200 million.
This arrangement provides a natural hedge against the Groups investment structure in its US businesses.
As the Group has predominantly xed interest rate loans, a change in interest rates would not have an immediate signi cant impact on the Income Statement.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 81 Liquidity risk The table below details the maturity pro les of the Groups derivative financial instruments and loans excluding finance leases, preference shares and capitalised facility fees as at 31 October: 2011 2010 Derivative Derivative Loans and Derivative Derivative Loans and payables receivables overdrafts Total payables receivables overdrafts Total m m m m m m m m Falling due within: One year 48.5 49.9 90.1 88.7 84.2 86.0 65.6 63.8 One to two years 18.7 19.5 1.3 0.5 44.9 45.8 32.3 31.4 Two to five years - - 0.7 0.7 - - 1.1 1.1 After five years - - 263.4 263.4 - - 264.9 264.9 67.2 69.4 355.5 353.3 129.1 131.8 363.9 361.2 The pro le of the Groups financial assets and liabilities is as follows: 2011 2010 Financial assets Total Total m m Sterling 81.3 38.6 US dollar 69.7 101.2 Australian dollar 6.2 7.1 Euro 98.3 69.8 Other currencies 5.0 4.5 260.5 221.2 Overdraft offset in the UK 2.6 21.8 Financial assets 257.9 199.4 Cash at bank and in hand 91.9 58.4 Trade receivables 164.1 139.1 Financial instruments 1.9 1.9 257.9 199.4 Cash balances held in the UK enjoy a right of interest offset against overdraft balances.
Overseas cash balances have a weighted average interest rate of 0.1% 2010: 0.5% and are at a oating rate.
The foreign currency balances mostly sit within overseas business units and so do not result in signi cant exposure to transactional risks for the Group.
Included within cash is 0.4 million of restricted cash 2010: 31.2 million see Note 21.
During 2011, a standby letter of credit was put in place, substituting the need for funds held in escrow in relation to the Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 82 Financial statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements 25.
Financial instruments and risk management continued Financial liabilities 2011 2010 Floating rate Fixed rate Total Floating rate Fixed rate Total m m m m m m Sterling 40.1 43.3 83.4 25.8 76.9 102.7 US dollar 3.7 287.8 291.5 1.3 287.4 288.7 Euro 5.2 87.2 92.4 0.3 98.1 98.4 Other currencies - 2.3 2.3 - 7.9 7.9 49.0 420.6 469.6 27.4 470.3 497.7 Overdraft offset in the UK 2.6 21.8 Financial liabilities 467.0 475.9 Bank loans and overdrafts 81.5 62.1 UK medium term loans 1.0 31.3 Loan notes 260.2 261.2 Overseas medium term loans 0.2 0.3 Other loans 5.2 5.3 348.1 360.2 Preference shares see Note 28 0.1 0.1 Obligations under finance leases 6.4 5.6 354.6 365.9 Trade payables due within one year 105.3 100.1 Financial instruments due within one year 1.5 1.6 Trade payables due after more than one year 1.2 1.0 Financial instruments due after more than one year 4.4 7.3 467.0 475.9 A right of offset exists for currency amounts held within the UK by Barclays Bank PLC.
These are used to offset the interest charged on any UK overdraft.
Cash at bank and in hand consists primarily of overseas funds, which are used as short term intra-group nancing as well as an internal exchange rate hedge.
The weighted average interest rate of xed rate financial liabilities at 31 October 2011 was 5.1% 2010: 5.6% and the weighted average period of funding was five years 2010: six years.
Derivative financial instruments The Group has one interest rate swap, from oating to xed rate, that expires in April 2015 at a rate of 3.84%.
The fair value of interest rate swaps recognised on the Balance Sheet at 31 October 2011 was a 4.2 million liability 2010: 5.7 million liability.
The Group also has two forward exchange structures with a fair value of 1.7 million liability 2010: 3.2 million liability and 1.9 million asset 2010: 1.9 million asset.
The total of these financial instruments is a 4.0 million liability 2010: 7.0 million liability.
The following table details the fair value of derivative financial instruments recognised in the Balance Sheet at 31 October: 2011 2010 Total Total m m Interest rate swaps 4.2 5.7 Forward exchange contracts 0.2 1.3 4.0 7.0 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 83 Analysed as: 2011 2010 Total Total m m Included in current assets 1.9 1.9 Included in current liabilities 1.5 1.6 Included in non-current liabilities 4.4 7.3 4.0 7.0 The following table details the gain loss on fair value movements on derivatives recognised in the Income Statement: 2011 2010 Total Total m m Change in fair value of currency structures 2.4 3.0 Amortisation - 1.0 2.4 4.0 Fair value hierarchy IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures requires companies that carry financial instruments at fair value in the Balance Sheet to disclose their level of visibility, determining into which category those financial instruments fall under the fair value hierarchy.
The fair value measurement hierarchy is as follows: Level 1 Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and Level 3 Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data i. e. as unobservable inputs.
The following table presents the Groups assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value: 2011 2010 Level 1 Level 2 Total Level 1 Level 2 Total m m m m m m Assets Forward exchange contracts - 1.9 1.9 - 1.9 1.9 Total assets - 1.9 1.9 - 1.9 1.9 2011 2010 Level 1 Level 2 Total Level 1 Level 2 Total m m m m m m Liabilities Borrowings 80.8 273.8 354.6 79.9 286.0 365.9 Interest rate swaps - 4.2 4.2 - 5.7 5.7 Forward exchange contracts - 1.7 1.7 - 3.2 3.2 Total liabilities 80.8 279.7 360.5 79.9 294.9 374.8 There were no assets or liabilities that were classed under Level 3 on the fair value hierarchy.
Credit risk The Groups principal financial assets are bank balances and cash, and trade and other receivables, which represent the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to financial assets.
Whilst the Group does not have any signi cant credit risk exposure to any single counterparty, the credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is monitored on an ongoing basis using credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies, the credit default swap market and market capitalisation.
The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables.
The amounts presented in the Balance Sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables, based on prior experience and an assessment of the current economic environment.
Trade receivables consist of a small number of customers spread across diverse geographical areas.
Customers are mainly multi-national organisations or government agencies with whom the Group has long term business relationships.
The Group principally does business with government defence departments, such as the US Department of Defense and the UK Ministry of Defence, as well as US and UK defence prime contractors such as Lockheed Martin, BAE Systems and General Dynamics.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 84 Financial statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements 25.
Financial instruments and risk management continued The counterparties are monitored on an ongoing basis for credit risk and as at the Balance Sheet date the risk was deemed to be low.
Ongoing credit evaluation is performed on the financial condition of accounts receivable and, when appropriate, action is taken to minimise the credit risk to the Group.
Group accounting policy requires letters of credit to be put in place for the majority of contracts with overseas customers.
Any departures from this policy require approval by the Group finance function.
The Groups price risk is primarily in relation to the cost of raw materials and is not considered signi cant.
Price risk is managed through negotiations with suppliers and, where appropriate, the agreement of xed price supply contracts.
Capital management The Boards policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market con dence and to sustain future development of the business.
The Board monitors both the demographic spread of shareholders, as well as the return on capital.
From time to time the Group purchases its own shares on the market: the timing of these purchases depends on the market prices.
Primarily, the shares are intended to be used for satisfying awards under the Groups share-based incentive schemes.
Buy and sell decisions are made on a speci c transaction basis by the Board.
Following the share placing in April 2011 and the subsequent decision not to pursue further acquisition opportunities in the immediate future for which the funds had been partly intended, the Board has concluded that the Group should consider returning surplus capital to shareholders whilst maintaining the strength of the Balance Sheet, if deemed appropriate over the course of the next year.
Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries are subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
Provisions Environmental Warranty Restructuring provisions provisions provisions Total m m m m At 1 November 2010 2.2 0.9 1.9 5.0 Unwinding of discount charged to interest 0.3 - - 0.3 Provided for in the year 0.7 0.6 - 1.3 Effect of foreign exchange movements 0.2 0.2 - 0.4 Paid in the year 0.3 0.3 0.5 1.1 Released in the year - - 0.2 0.2 At 31 October 2011 2.7 1.0 1.2 4.9 Analysed as: 2011 2010 m m Included in current liabilities 2.5 1.9 Included in non-current liabilities 2.4 3.1 4.9 5.0 At the year end, a third party assessment was carried out of the provision held in respect of the environmental liabilities associated with the Chemring Energetic Devices site in Illinois, USA.
The majority of the provision is expected to be utilised within the next year, with the balance due in future years.
The warranty provisions at 31 October 2011 are held by Simmel Difesa S. p. A. and represent managements best estimate of the Groups liability under six year warranties, based on past experience for defective products.
The restructuring provisions at 31 October 2011 relate to Chemring Countermeasures Limited and Chemring EOD Limited.
The provisions represent managements best estimates of the costs to be incurred on the restructuring programmes during 2012.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 85 27.
Deferred tax The following are the major deferred tax liabilities assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the year.
Accelerated tax Retirement bene t Acquired depreciation obligations Tax losses intangibles Other Total m m m m m m At 1 November 2009 10.9 7.9 2.1 8.4 4.4 4.9 Charge credit to income 2.9 0.1 0.1 5.9 5.7 2.9 Charge credit to equity - 1.4 - 0.9 0.1 2.2 Amounts arising on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 0.2 - 0.5 28.6 2.8 25.1 At 1 November 2010 as restated see Note 33 13.6 6.4 2.5 32.0 1.6 35.1 Charge credit to income 5.3 0.4 6.1 8.2 11.5 2.9 Credit to equity - 0.4 - 0.3 - 0.7 At 31 October 2011 18.9 6.4 8.6 23.5 9.9 37.3 The Finance Act 2011, which provides for a reduction in the main rate of corporation tax from 26% to 25%, effective from 1 April 2012, was substantively enacted on 5 July 2011.
The impact of the rate reduction has been re ected in the calculation of the UK deferred tax liability provided at 31 October 2011.
Therefore, a credit of 2.1 million has been included within the deferred tax charge for the year.
The Government has also indicated that it intends to enact a future reduction in the main tax rate of 1% down to 24% on 1 April 2013.
The future 1% main tax rate reduction is expected to have a similar impact on our financial statements as outlined above, subject to the impact of other developments in our tax position which may reduce the bene cial effect of this in our tax rate.
As this reduction in the UK corporate tax rate has not been substantially enacted at the Balance Sheet date, this is considered a non-adjusting event in accordance with IAS 10 Events After the Reporting Period and no adjustments have been made.
The impact of this and any further reduction will be taken into account at subsequent reporting dates, once the change has been substantively enacted.
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
Deferred tax balances after offset, for balance sheet purposes, are analysed as follows: 2011 2010 m m Deferred tax liabilities 59.0 52.4 Deferred tax assets 2010 gure restated see Note 33 21.7 17.3 37.3 35.1 At the Balance Sheet date the Group had unrecognised tax losses of 53.0 million 2010: 72.6 million potentially available for offset against future pro ts in certain circumstances, with the majority arising from recent acquisitions.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of this amount because of the unpredictability of short term future qualifying pro t streams.
Share capital 2011 2010 m m Issued and fully paid 195,476,434 2010: 177,943,255 ordinary shares of 1p each 2.0 1.8 At the Companys Annual General Meeting on 24 March 2011 a resolution was passed to split the Companys ordinary shares of 5p each the Existing Ordinary Shares in issue or held in treasury into ordinary shares of 1p each the Ordinary Shares, resulting in shareholders holding five Ordinary Shares for each Existing Ordinary Share they held prior to the share split.
On 20 April 2011, the Company placed 17,405,183 new ordinary shares at an issue price of 645p per share, giving rise to 0.2 million of ordinary share capital and 110.2 million to the share premium reserve after costs see Note 13.
127,996 ordinary shares 2010: 14,095 were issued under the Groups savings-related share schemes during the year.
The Companys share capital also includes 62,500 7% cumulative preference shares of 1 each, which are all issued and fully paid-up, and are classi ed for accounting purposes within non-current liabilities.
The cumulative preference shares carry an entitlement to a dividend at the rate of 7p per share per annum, payable in equal instalments on 30 April and 31 October each year.
Holders of the preference shares have the right on winding-up to receive, in priority to any other classes of shares, the sum of 1 per share together with any arrears of dividends.
Restated gures for prior year to re ect the subdivision of each 5p ordinary share into five 1p ordinary shares on 28 March 2011 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 86 Financial statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements 29.
Reserves The share premium account, the special capital reserve and the revaluation reserve are not distributable.
Included within retained earnings are 1.2 million of retained pro ts 2010: 1.1 million relating to the associated undertaking and 0.1 million 2010: 0.1 million of the Companys own shares held by the Groups ESOP trustee.
Own shares 2011 2010 m m Balance at 1 November 2010 7.2 5.2 Acquired in the year 1.5 3.9 Issued in the year to satisfy employee share awards 2.1 1.9 Balance at 31 October 2011 6.6 7.2 The own shares reserve represents the cost of shares in Chemring Group PLC purchased in the market and held by the Group to satisfy awards under the Groups share-based incentive schemes see Note 32.
During the year 300,000 2010: 634,400 ordinary shares were acquired, and 456,855 2010: 500,055 ordinary shares were distributed following the vesting of awards under the Chemring Group Performance Share Plan.
The total number of ordinary shares held in treasury at 31 October 2011 was 1,343,145 2010: 1,500,000 with an average cost of 4.89 2010: 4.83 per share.
This represents 0.7% of the total issued and fully-paid ordinary share capital.
Since the year end, the Company has acquired an additional 1,000,000 ordinary shares, bringing the number of shares held in treasury at 23 January 2012 to 2,343,145, with an average cost of 4.50 per share.
Restated gures for prior year to re ect the subdivision of each 5p ordinary share into five 1p ordinary shares on 28 March 2011 31.
Obligations under non-cancellable operating leases 2011 2010 m m Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in the Income Statement in the year 2.5 1.9 At the Balance Sheet date the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 2011 2010 m m Within one year 4.0 2.7 Two to five years 10.8 7.7 14.8 10.4 Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group.
Leases are negotiated for an average term of three years and rentals are xed for the lease period with an option to extend for a further period at the then prevailing market rate.
The increase in operating lease commitments since 2010 is primarily due to the acquisition of Chemring Detection Systems, Inc.. 32.
Share-based payments The Group operates share-based compensation arrangements to provide incentives to the Groups senior management and other eligible employees.
Details of the three schemes which operated during the year are as follows: The Chemring Group Performance Share Plan the PSP Under the PSP, conditional awards of ordinary shares are made at nil cost.
Awards ordinarily vest on the third anniversary of the award date.
The scheme commenced in March 2006.
Number of conditional shares awarded 2011 2010 Outstanding at the beginning of the year 1,741,095 1,793,150 Awarded during the year 711,212 554,040 Vested during the year 456,855 500,055 Lapsed during the year 202,475 106,040 Outstanding at the end of the year 1,792,977 1,741,095 Subject to vesting at the end of the year - - Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 87 The following awards were outstanding at 31 October 2011: Date of award Number of ordinary shares Vesting price Date when awards under award per share will ordinarily vest 21 Jan 2009 614,920 Nil 21 Jan 2012 24 Jun 2009 30,530 Nil 24 Jun 2012 20 Jan 2010 447,365 Nil 20 Jan 2013 18 Mar 2010 25,575 Nil 18 Mar 2013 19 Jan 2011 657,095 Nil 19 Jan 2014 24 Oct 2011 17,492 Nil 24 Oct 2014 Restated gures for prior year to re ect the subdivision of each 5p ordinary share into five 1p ordinary shares on 28 March 2011 The Group has applied a discount to the share-based payment, to re ect the anticipated achievement of the stipulated targets for each PSP award, based on the predicted gures within the Groups five year plan as well as the expected number of leavers over the life of the PSP awards.
As there is no option element the share price is discounted based on the following assumptions: dividend growth at 2p per annum 2010: growth at 1p per annum : weighted average cost of capital 9.4% 2010: 7.5%.
The weighted average fair value of awards made during the year was 607p 2010: 584p.
The closing share price on the date of vesting of awards in the year was 666.6p 2010: 612p.
The compensation expense recognised in respect of share options is based on their fair value at the grant date calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The Group recognised a net charge of 0.2 million 2010: 2.3 million in respect of share-based payment transactions during the year.
The Chemring Group 2008 UK Sharesave Plan the UK Sharesave Plan Options were granted during the year on 29 July 2011.
2011 2010 Number of Weighted average Number of Weighted average share options exercise price share options exercise price Pence Pence Outstanding at the beginning of the year 449,100 385 390,180 361 Granted during the year 182,629 508 89,605 478 Exercised during the year 85,885 373 2,160 360 Lapsed during the year 40,680 400 28,525 356 Outstanding at the end of the year 505,164 430 449,100 385 Subject to exercise at the end of the year 116,805 374 -- The following awards were outstanding at 31 October 2011: Date of grant Number of ordinary shares Exercise price Dates between which under option per share options may be exercised 1 Aug 2008 11,395 3.736 1 Oct 2011 1 Apr 2012 1 Aug 2008 105,410 3.736 1 Oct 2013 1 Apr 2014 31 Jul 2009 80,905 3.444 1 Oct 2012 1 Apr 2013 31 Jul 2009 49,855 3.444 1 Oct 2014 1 Apr 2015 30 Jul 2010 40,485 4.784 1 Oct 2013 1 Apr 2014 30 Jul 2010 34,485 4.784 1 Oct 2015 1 Apr 2016 29 Jul 2011 120,104 5.080 1 Oct 2014 1 Apr 2015 29 Jul 2011 62,525 5.080 1 Oct 2016 1 Apr 2017 Restated gures for prior year to re ect the subdivision of each 5p ordinary share into five 1p ordinary shares on 28 March 2011 The weighted average fair value of options granted in the year was 42p 2010: 99p.
The weighted average fair value of options exercised in the year was 85p 2010: 74p.
The weighted average share price on exercise of the options during the year was 610p 2010: 616p.
The fair values of the share options in the UK Sharesave Plan are based on the difference between the exercise price and the share price on the grant date of the option.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 88 Financial statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements 32.
Share-based payments continued The Chemring Group 2008 US Stock Purchase Plan the US Stock Purchase Plan Options were granted during the year on 29 July 2011.
This plan provides US employees with the opportunity to share in the future success of the Group and mirrors the UK Sharesave Plan subject to certain legal and tax differences due to the differing jurisdictions.
2011 2010 Number of Weighted average Number of Weighted average share options exercise price share options exercise price Pence Pence Outstanding at the beginning of the year 114,355 423 84,230 353 Granted during the year 40,635 481 56,135 499 Exercised during the year 42,111 348 11,935 370 Lapsed during the year 20,089 385 14,075 348 Outstanding at the end of the year 92,790 491 114,355 423 Subject to exercise at the end of the year -- 9,625 370 The following options were outstanding at 31 October 2011: Date of grant Number of ordinary shares Exercise price Dates between which under option per share options may be exercised 30 Jul 2010 52,155 4.988 30 Jul 2012 29 Oct 2012 29 Jul 2011 40,635 4.810 29 Jul 2013 28 Oct 2013 Restated gures for prior year to re ect the subdivision of each 5p ordinary share into five 1p ordinary shares on 28 March 2011 The weighted average fair value of options granted in the year was 69p 2010: 79p.
The weighted average fair value of options exercised in the year was 80p 2010: 40p.
The fair values of the share options in the US Stock Purchase Plan are based on the difference between the exercise price and the share price on the date of grant of the option.
Acquisitions The following acquisition was completed during the year ended 31 October 2011: Proportion of Acquisition Activity Date of acquisition shares acquired consideration Name of business acquired % m Chemring Detection Systems, Inc. business and assets Counter-IED 1 July 2011 N A 56.1 Cash paid for acquisitions in the year 56.1 Net overdraft assumed with acquisitions 1.9 Cash out ow from investing activities 58.0 Acquisition related costs included within cash generated from operations 2.5 Net cash out ow relating to Chemring Detection Systems, Inc. 60.5 Acquisition related costs for acquisitions made in previous years 4.1 Net cash out ow relating to acquisitions 64.6 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 89 The net assets acquired are shown below: Provisional fair value Provisional Book value adjustments fair value m m m Intangible assets 4.8 30.3 35.1 Property, plant and equipment 4.2 0.7 3.5 Overdraft assumed 1.9 - 1.9 Working capital 8.0 2.1 5.9 Net assets acquired 15.1 27.5 42.6 Goodwill 13.5 Total 56.1 Total cash consideration 56.1 The acquisition was originally estimated to cost approximately 55 million, based on the exchange rate prevailing at the date of announcement of the acquisition in April 2011.
The final cost of 56.1 million was due to the US dollar strengthening between the date on which the deal was announced and the completion date.
The acquisition during the year was completed in order to enhance the Groups existing Counter-IED detection capabilities and the prospect of substantial opportunities for growth within Chemring Detection Systems chemical and biological detection programmes.
Further information can be found in the Review by the Chief Executive.
The acquisition price was based on a cash-free debt-free basis, however, at completion an overdraft was assumed.
In compensation, trade receivables of the same amount were transferred with the business.
For the above acquisition the initial measurement period was incomplete as at the Balance Sheet date and so the fair values stated are all provisional.
If there are changes to the provisional value next year the 2011 Balance Sheet will be restated.
In the current year there were measurement adjustments to the acquired balance sheets of Roke Manor Research Limited, Mecar and Chemring Fuze Technology S. r. l.. Roke Manor Chemring Fuze Research Limited Mecar Technology S. r. l. Total m m m m Intangible non-current assets 0.1 - - 0.1 Property, plant and equipment - 8.8 - 8.8 Deferred tax - 0.7 - 0.7 Working capital 0.7 3.2 0.1 4.0 Decrease increase to net assets 0.8 6.3 0.1 5.4 Goodwill as at 31 October 2010 27.5 7.4 2.8 37.7 Increase decrease to goodwill 0.8 6.3 0.1 5.4 Goodwill as at 31 October 2011 28.3 1.1 2.9 32.3 There was a decrease in the fair value of acquired inventory at Roke Manor Research Limited of 1.0 million, and a decrease in the fair value of acquired current tax liabilities of 0.3 million, resulting in a net reduction to the fair value of working capital of 0.7 million.
There was also a decrease in development costs of 0.1 million, resulting in a revised goodwill gure of 28.3 million.
At Mecar the fair value of other receivables decreased by 0.7 million and accruals increased by 2.5 million, resulting in a 3.2 million reduction in the fair value of working capital.
There was an increase in the deferred tax asset of 0.7 million and a revaluation of property, plant and equipment that increased the fair value by 8.8 million.
This revaluation of the property, plant and equipment was undertaken by an independent valuer.
The net effect reduced goodwill by 6.3 million down to 1.1 million.
An additional 0.1 million of accruals were identi ed in relation to Chemring Fuze Technology S. r. l. resulting in revised goodwill of 2.9 million.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 90 Financial statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements 33.
Acquisitions continued The Balance Sheet as at 31 October 2010 has been restated to re ect the above changes.
Original 2010 Fair value Restated 2010 balance adjustment balance m m m Goodwill 236.4 5.4 231.0 Development costs 13.4 0.1 13.3 Land and buildings 87.5 8.8 96.3 Deferred tax asset 16.6 0.7 17.3 Work in progress 68.4 1.0 67.4 Other debtors 14.8 0.7 14.1 Current tax liabilities 8.0 0.3 7.7 Accruals and deferred income 21.7 2.6 24.3 Adjustments from book value to provisional fair value arise principally from the application of Group accounting policies on working capital and the recognition of intangible assets under IFRS 3 Business Combinations and Fair Value Adjustments to Inventories, Receivables, Property, Plant and Equipment.
Intangible assets relate principally to customer relationships and technology.
All intangible assets were recognised at their respective fair values.
The residual excess of total cost over the fair value of net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill in the financial statements.
Goodwill represents the value of synergies and assembled workforces acquired and future pro ts from new markets.
The acquisition during the year contributed 14.6 million of revenue and 0.9 million to the Groups pro t before interest and tax for the period between the date of acquisition and the Balance Sheet date.
If the acquisition had been completed on the first day of the financial year, Group revenue for the year would have been approximately 775.6 million, underlying pro ts before tax for the year would have been approximately 130.3 million, and statutory pro ts before tax for the year would have been approximately 92.8 million.
This information is not necessarily indicative of the results of operations that would have occurred had the operations been acquired at the start of the year, nor of the future results of the combined operations.
Acquisition related costs A total of 5.7 million 2010: 6.7 million of costs relating to the acquisition above, as well as acquisitions completed in previous years, have been recognised in the Income Statement as non-underlying items.
2011 2010 m m Hi-Shear Technology Corporation - 2.0 Mecar S. A.
0.2 3.4 Roke Manor Research Limited 0.2 0.9 Chemring Detection Systems, Inc. 2.5 - Aborted acquisition 0.9 - Joint ventures and other acquisition related costs 1.9 0.4 Total acquisition related costs 5.7 6.7 This gure differs from the cash ow gure arising from acquisition related costs of 6.6 million due to 0.9 million of final payments associated with the acquisition of Non-Intrusive Inspection Technology, Inc. as required under the original purchase agreement.
Pensions Within the UK, the Group operates a fide ned bene t scheme the Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme.
In Germany, Chemring Defence Germany GmbH operates a fide ned bene t scheme the Chemring Defence Germany Scheme and in Norway, Chemring Nobel AS operates a fide ned bene t scheme the Chemring Nobel Scheme.
The other UK and overseas arrangements are all fide ned contribution schemes with a combined cost of 6.6 million 2010: 5.3 million.
The Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme is a funded scheme and the assets of the scheme are held in a separate trustee administered fund.
A full actuarial valuation for the Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme as at 6 April 2009 has been prepared and updated to 31 October 2011 by a quali ed actuary, using the projected unit credit method.
The main assumptions for the scheme are detailed below.
Under the funding plan agreed with the trustees following the 2009 actuarial valuation, the Company agreed to eliminate the fide cit calculated at that time over a period of 9.75 years.
The Company and the trustees monitor funding levels annually, and a new funding plan is agreed with the trustees every three years, based on actuarial valuations.
The next triennial valuation is due to be completed as at 6 April 2012.
The Group considers that the current contribution rates agreed with the trustees are suf cient to eliminate the calculated fide cit over the agreed period.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 91 The Group has provided letters of credit and bank guarantees to the Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme totalling 27.2 million 2010: 7.2 million.
The letters of credit and guarantees may be drawn upon in certain events of default by the Company.
The letters of credit totalling 20 million were provided in order to facilitate the release of 15 million of restricted cash pledged by the Company to the scheme, and the additional 5 million was in line with the agreed funding plan.
The Group is currently consulting with active members of the Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme on the proposed closure of the scheme to future accrual.
The Chemring Defence Germany Scheme is an unfunded scheme.
The actuarial liability has been calculated at 31 October 2011 by a quali ed actuary using the projected unit credit method.
The main assumptions used were a discount rate of 5.3%, in ation rate of 1.8% and rate of increase in deferred pensions of nil%.
The net fide cit of the Chemring Defence Germany Scheme was 1.3 million at 31 October 2011 2010: 1.3 million.
The Chemring Nobel Scheme is an unfunded scheme.
The main assumptions used were a discount rate of 3.3%, in ation rate of 2.5% and rate of increase in deferred pensions of 0.7%.
The net fide cit of the Chemring Nobel Scheme was 0.2 million at 31 October 2011 2010: 0.8 million.
The amount recognised in the Balance Sheet in respect of the Groups fide ned bene t schemes is as follows: 2011 2010 2009 m m m Present value of funded and unfunded obligations 65.2 61.9 63.0 Fair value of scheme assets 40.0 38.9 34.9 Net liability recognised in the Balance Sheet 25.2 23.0 28.1 An analysis of the net liabilities recognised is as follows: 2011 2010 Change m m m Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme 23.7 20.9 2.8 Chemring Defence Germany Pension Scheme 1.3 1.3 - Chemring Nobel AS Pension Scheme 0.2 0.8 0.6 Net liability recognised in the Balance Sheet 25.2 23.0 2.2 Amounts recognised in the Income Statement in respect of the Groups fide ned bene t schemes are as follows: 2011 2010 m m Amounts included within operating pro t: Current service cost credit 1.2 0.6 Amounts included as other finance costs: Expected return on scheme assets 2.5 2.3 Discount on scheme liabilities 3.2 3.5 0.7 1.2 Net charge 1.9 0.6 Amounts recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income are as follows: 2011 2010 m m i Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 1.3 1.4 ii Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the scheme liabilities 0.5 2.6 Actuarial loss gain recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income 1.8 4.0 i scheme assets at the Balance Sheet date: ii present value of the scheme liabilities at the Balance Sheet date.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 92 Financial statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements 34.
Pensions continued Changes in the present value of the fide ned bene t obligations are as follows: 2011 2010 m m Opening fide ned bene t obligations 61.9 63.0 Service credit 1.2 0.6 Interest cost 3.2 3.5 Contributions from scheme members 0.6 0.6 Actuarial losses gains 0.5 2.6 Bene ts paid 2.2 2.0 Closing fide ned bene t obligations 65.2 61.9 Movements in the fair value of the schemes assets were as follows: 2011 2010 m m Opening fair value of schemes assets 38.9 34.9 Expected return on scheme assets 2.5 2.3 Actuarial losses gains 1.3 1.4 Contributions from scheme members 0.6 0.6 Contributions from sponsoring companies 1.5 1.7 Bene ts paid 2.2 2.0 40.0 38.9 The total scheme assets updated to 31 October along with the expected rates of return on assets were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Long term rate of Long term rate of Long term rate of return expected return expected return expected m m m Equities 6.8% 27.7 7.65% 27.7 8.4% 24.7 Bonds 3.4% 12.3 4.2% 11.2 4.9% 10.2 Total fair value of assets 40.0 38.9 34.9 The expected rates of return are determined by reference to relevant published indices.
The overall expected rate of return is calculated by weighting the individual rates in accordance with the anticipated balance in the schemes investment portfolio.
History of experience gains and losses: 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 m m m m m Present value of funded and unfunded obligations 65.2 61.9 63.0 42.0 48.3 Fair value of scheme assets 40.0 38.9 34.9 28.4 35.0 fide cit in the schemes 25.2 23.0 28.1 13.6 13.3 Experience gains on scheme liabilities - 3.8 - - - Percentage of scheme liabilities - 6.1% - - - Experience losses gains on scheme assets 1.3 1.4 4.2 9.9 0.3 Percentage of scheme assets 3.3 % 3.6% 12.0% 34.9 % 0.9% Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 93 Analysis of movement in the fide cit in the schemes during the year: 2011 2010 m m Opening fide cit in schemes 23.0 28.1 Current service cost credit 1.2 0.6 Contributions 1.5 1.7 Other finance costs 0.7 1.2 Actuarial loss gain 1.8 4.0 Closing fide cit in the schemes 25.2 23.0 The principal assumptions used in the actuarial valuation of the Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme were as follows: 2011 2010 Discount rate 5.0% 5.35% Rate of increase in salaries 4.05% 4.45% Rate of increase in deferred pensions 3.0% 3.4% Rate of increase in pensions in payment where applicable 3.0% 3.4% In ation assumption RPI 3.05% 3.45% CPI 2.35% 2.75% Expected return on scheme assets 5.72% 6.6% In determining the pension liabilities the Group uses mortality assumptions which are based on published mortality tables.
For the Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme, the actuarial table currently used is SAPS Year of Birth Tables with a medium cohort and 1% underpin.
Life expectancy at 65: 2011 2010 Future pensioners male 88.2 88.5 female 91.0 91.9 Current pensioners male 86.3 86.6 female 89.1 89.8 The assumption considered to be the most signi cant is the discount rate adopted.
If the discount rate in the scheme were to change by 0.1% then it is predicted that the fide cit in the scheme would change by approximately 1.2 million.
A change in the rate of in ation by 0.1% is predicted to change the fide cit by approximately 0.8 million and a one year change to the longevity assumption would change the fide cit by approximately 1.6 million.
The Group anticipates contributions to the fide ned bene t schemes for the year ending 31 October 2012 will be 2.2 million 2011: 2.0 million.
Contingent liabilities The Group enters into contracts which sometimes have offset commitments.
These requirements are valued at the time of the contract being awarded.
The cost of the offsets are reviewed throughout the contract life and provided for to the extent of the potential liability.
At 31 October 2011, the Group had contingent liabilities in respect of bank and contractual performance guarantees and other matters arising in the ordinary course of business.
Where it is expected that a material liability will arise in respect of these matters, appropriate provision is made within the Group financial statements.
As the conditions of these guarantees are currently being met, no obligating event is foreseeable and therefore no provision has been made at the year end.
The Group is, from time to time, party to legal proceedings and claims which arise in the ordinary course of business.
The directors do not anticipate that the outcome of these proceedings, actions and claims, either individually or in aggregate, will have a material adverse effect upon the Groups financial position.
During the year the Group wound up its captive insurance company, CHG Insurance Limited.
CHG Insurance Limited ceased to provide insurance cover for the Group on 31 October 2010, and the Group has instead carried a self-insured deductible of 2.5 million on its material damage and business interruption insurance cover since that date.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 94 Financial statements Notes to the Group Financial Statements 36.
Related party transactions Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Trading transactions There are no trading activities between the Group and its associate.
Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of the directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories speci ed in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
Further information on the remuneration of individual directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 39 to 47.
The directors of the Company had no material transactions with the Company during the year other than as a result of service agreements.
The remuneration of the executive directors is determined by the Remuneration Committee having regard to the performance of the individuals and market trends.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by the Board having regard to the practice of other companies and the particular demands of the Group.
2011 2010 m m Remuneration of the executive and non-executive directors 1.5 1.6 Share-based payments - 0.5 Total 1.5 2.1 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
