Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information Pages 71105 Pages 107131 Pages 133180 Pages 181184 8231 3 Accounts 2011 133 to 184 8231 Accounts 2011 13 06 2011 11:52 Page 139 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 1 BASIS OF PREPARATION Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates including funds The consolidated accounts include the accounts of The British Land Company The financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 have been prepared PLC and all subsidiaries entities controlled by British Land.
Control is assumed on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of properties, investments where British Land has the power to govern the financial and operating policies and derivatives.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance of an investee entity so as to gain benefits from its activities.
with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The results of subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates acquired or disposed of during the year are included from the effective date of acquisition or to the effective The accounting policies used are consistent with those contained in the Groups date of disposal.
Accounting practices of subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates last annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 March 2010, with the which differ from Group accounting policies are adjusted on consolidation.
exception of the following which have had no effect on the financial statements: Business combinations are accounted for under the acquisition method.
This standard includes Any excess of the purchase price of business combinations over the fair comprehensive revisions on applying the acquisition method: value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired and resulting IAS 27 Revised Consolidated and separate financial statements deferred tax thereon is recognised as goodwill.
Any discount received is consequential amendment arising from amendments to IFRS 3: credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
IAS 28 Revised Investments in  amendment All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated arising from amendments to IFRS 3. on consolidation.
Standards and interpretations not effective for the current accounting period Joint ventures and associates, including funds, are accounted for under were: IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment Amendments relating to group cashthe equity method, whereby the consolidated balance sheet incorporates the settlement share-based payment transactions: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Groups share of the net assets of its joint ventures and associates.
The Classification Amendments to IFRS 7 Transfers of financial assets.
consolidated income statement incorporates the Groups share of joint venture and associate profits after tax upon elimination of upstream transactions.
The Directors do not expect that the adoption of these Standards and Their profits include revaluation movements on investment properties.
Interpretations will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods.
Properties Properties are externally valued on an open market basis at the balance sheet Critical accounting judgements are disclosed in the relevant section of the date.
Investment and owner-occupied properties are recorded at valuation.
The key source of estimation and uncertainty relates to the valuation of the property portfolio and investments, where an external Any surplus or deficit arising on revaluing investment properties is recognised valuation is obtained.
In accounting for net rental income, the Group is required in the income statement.
to judge the recoverability of any income accrued and provides against the credit risk on these amounts.
Other less significant assumptions include the actuarial Any surplus arising on revaluing owner-occupied properties above cost is assumptions used in calculating the Groups retirement benefit obligations, the recognised in equity, whereby any deficit arising in revaluation below cost is valuation of fixed rate debt and interest rate derivatives, and the share-based recognised in the income statement.
The potential for management to make judgements or estimates relating to these that would have a significant impact on the financial The cost of properties in the course of development includes attributable statements is considered, by the nature of Group business, to be limited.
interest and other associated outgoings.
Interest is calculated on the development expenditure by reference to specific borrowings where relevant Going concern and otherwise on the average rate applicable to short-term loans.
Interest The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis as explained is not capitalised where no development activity is taking place.
A property in the Corporate Governance section on page 117. ceases to be treated as a development property on practical completion.
Disposals are recognised on completion: profits and losses arising are recognised through the income statement, the profit on disposal is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset at the commencement of the accounting period plus additions in the period.
In determining whether leases and related properties represent operating or finance leases, consideration is given to whether the tenant or landlord bears the risks and rewards of ownership.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 139
