Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information Pages 71105 Pages 107131 Pages 133180 Pages 181184 8231 3 Accounts 2011 133 to 184 8231 Accounts 2011 13 06 2011 11:52 Page 139 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 1 BASIS OF PREPARATION Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates including funds The consolidated accounts include the accounts of The British Land Company The financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 have been prepared PLC and all subsidiaries entities controlled by British Land.
Control is assumed on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of properties, investments where British Land has the power to govern the financial and operating policies and derivatives.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance of an investee entity so as to gain benefits from its activities.
with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The results of subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates acquired or disposed of during the year are included from the effective date of acquisition or to the effective The accounting policies used are consistent with those contained in the Groups date of disposal.
Accounting practices of subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates last annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 March 2010, with the which differ from Group accounting policies are adjusted on consolidation.
exception of the following which have had no effect on the financial statements: Business combinations are accounted for under the acquisition method.
This standard includes Any excess of the purchase price of business combinations over the fair comprehensive revisions on applying the acquisition method: value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired and resulting IAS 27 Revised Consolidated and separate financial statements deferred tax thereon is recognised as goodwill.
Any discount received is consequential amendment arising from amendments to IFRS 3: credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
IAS 28 Revised Investments in  amendment All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated arising from amendments to IFRS 3. on consolidation.
Standards and interpretations not effective for the current accounting period Joint ventures and associates, including funds, are accounted for under were: IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment Amendments relating to group cashthe equity method, whereby the consolidated balance sheet incorporates the settlement share-based payment transactions: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Groups share of the net assets of its joint ventures and associates.
The Classification Amendments to IFRS 7 Transfers of financial assets.
consolidated income statement incorporates the Groups share of joint venture and associate profits after tax upon elimination of upstream transactions.
The Directors do not expect that the adoption of these Standards and Their profits include revaluation movements on investment properties.
Interpretations will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods.
Properties Properties are externally valued on an open market basis at the balance sheet Critical accounting judgements are disclosed in the relevant section of the date.
Investment and owner-occupied properties are recorded at valuation.
The key source of estimation and uncertainty relates to the valuation of the property portfolio and investments, where an external Any surplus or deficit arising on revaluing investment properties is recognised valuation is obtained.
In accounting for net rental income, the Group is required in the income statement.
to judge the recoverability of any income accrued and provides against the credit risk on these amounts.
Other less significant assumptions include the actuarial Any surplus arising on revaluing owner-occupied properties above cost is assumptions used in calculating the Groups retirement benefit obligations, the recognised in equity, whereby any deficit arising in revaluation below cost is valuation of fixed rate debt and interest rate derivatives, and the share-based recognised in the income statement.
The potential for management to make judgements or estimates relating to these that would have a significant impact on the financial The cost of properties in the course of development includes attributable statements is considered, by the nature of Group business, to be limited.
interest and other associated outgoings.
Interest is calculated on the development expenditure by reference to specific borrowings where relevant Going concern and otherwise on the average rate applicable to short-term loans.
Interest The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis as explained is not capitalised where no development activity is taking place.
A property in the Corporate Governance section on page 117. ceases to be treated as a development property on practical completion.
Disposals are recognised on completion: profits and losses arising are recognised through the income statement, the profit on disposal is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset at the commencement of the accounting period plus additions in the period.
In determining whether leases and related properties represent operating or finance leases, consideration is given to whether the tenant or landlord bears the risks and rewards of ownership.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 139 8231 3 Accounts 2011 133 to 184 8231 Accounts 2011 13 06 2011 11:52 Page 140 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 1 BASIS OF PREPARATION continued Rental income from fixed and minimum guaranteed rent reviews is recognised on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the entire lease term Intangible assets or the period to the first break option.
Where such rental income is recognised Intangible assets, such as fund management contracts acquired through ahead of the related cash flow, an adjustment is made to ensure the carrying business combinations, are measured initially at fair value and are amortised value of the related property including the accrued rent does not exceed the on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, and are subject to external valuation.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging a regular reviews for impairment.
new lease are amortised on a straight-line basis over the period from the date of lease commencement to the earliest termination date.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of Where a lease incentive payment, including surrender premiums paid, acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets does not enhance the value of a property, it is amortised on a straight-line and liabilities of the subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity at the basis over the period from the date of lease commencement to the earliest time of acquisition.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment on an annual basis.
Upon receipt of a surrender premium for the early determination of a lease, the profit, net of dilapidations and non-recoverable Financial assets and liabilities outgoings relating to the lease concerned, is immediately reflected in income.
Trade receivables and payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost and discounted as appropriate.
Management and performance fees Management and performance fees receivable are recognised in the Other investments are shown at amortised cost and held as loans and period to which they relate, except for performance fee retentions subject receivables.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the to clawback, which are recognised over the clawback performance period.
effective interest method, less any impairment.
Interest income is recognised In assessing the risk of clawback, account is taken of the unpredictability by applying the effective interest rate.
of future relative performance against the benchmark.
Liquid investments are shown at fair value and treated as held for trading Taxation financial assets.
Gains and losses from the changes in fair value are recorded Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year and is calculated using tax in the income statement.
rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items Where an investment property is held under a head lease it is initially recognised of income or expense that are not taxable or tax deductible.
as an asset as the sum of the premium paid on acquisition and the present value of minimum ground rent payments.
The corresponding rent liability to the Deferred tax is provided on items that may become taxable at a later date, head leaseholder is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
on the difference between the balance sheet value and tax base value, on an undiscounted basis.
On business combinations, the deferred tax effect Debt instruments are stated at their net proceeds on issue.
Finance charges of fair value adjustments is incorporated in the consolidated balance sheet.
including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs are spread over the period to redemption, using the effective interest method.
Employee costs The fair value of equity-settled share-based payments to employees is As defined by IAS 39, cash flow and fair value hedges are carried at fair value determined at the date of grant and is expensed on a straight-line basis over in the balance sheet.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated the vesting period based on the Groups estimate of shares or options that and qualify as effective cash flow hedges are recognised directly in the hedging will eventually vest.
In the case of options granted, fair value is measured reserve.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as by a Black-Scholes pricing model.
Compensation linked to performance fees effective fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, along with any accrued by the Group is amortised over the vesting period.
changes in the fair value of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
Any ineffective portion of all derivatives is recognised in the income statement.
Defined benefit pension scheme assets are measured using fair values: pension scheme liabilities are measured using the projected unit credit method and Cash equivalents are limited to instruments with a maturity of less than three discounted at the rate of return of a high-quality corporate bond of equivalent months.
term to the scheme liabilities.
The net surplus where recoverable by the Group or deficit is recognised in full in the consolidated balance sheet.
Any asset Net rental income resulting from the calculation is limited to past service costs plus the present Rental income is recognised on an accruals basis.
A rent adjustment based value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
on open market estimated rental value is recognised from the rent review date in relation to unsettled rent reviews.
Where a rent-free period is included The current service cost and gains and losses on settlement and curtailments in a lease, the rental income foregone is allocated evenly over the period are charged to operating profit.
Past service costs are recognised in the income from the date of lease commencement to the earliest termination date.
statement if the benefits have vested or, if they have not vested, are amortised on a straight-line basis over the period until vesting occurs.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur and are presented in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Contributions to the Groups defined contribution schemes are expensed on the basis of the contracted annual contribution.
140 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011
