Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information Pages 71105 Pages 107131 Pages 133180 Pages 181184 8231 3 Accounts 2011 133 to 184 8231 Accounts 2011 13 06 2011 11:53 Page 183 GLOSSARY OF TERMS ABOUT REITS Lettings and Lease Renewals are divided between shortPROPERTY YIELDS term less than two years lease length and long-term The Government established the REIT status in the UK EPRA Net Initial Yield is the annualised rents generated over two years lease length.
Lettings and renewals are in 2007 to remove tax inequalities between different real by the portfolio, after the deduction of an estimate of annual compared both to the previous passing rent as at the start estate investors and with the aim of improving overall recurring irrecoverable property outgoings, expressed of the financial year: and the ERV immediately prior to investor access to real estate.
Real Estate Investment as a percentage of the portfolio valuation after notional letting.
Both comparisons are made on a net effective basis.
Trusts REIT are companies which are exempt from purchasers costs, excluding development properties.
corporate taxation on profits from property rental income Rent reviews are compared to the previous passing rent.
EPRA topped-up Net Initial Yield is the annualised rents and capital gains on the sale of investment properties.
Rents with fixed and minimum uplifts are either where generated by the portfolio, after the deduction of an estimate REITs must distribute 90% of UK rental income in the form rents are subject to contracted uplifts at a level agreed of annual recurring irrecoverable property outgoings, plus of property income dividends PIDs.
The consequence at the time of letting: or where the rent is subject to an rent contracted from expiry of rent-free periods and uplifts of this is to make the tax implications of investing in REITs agreed minimum level of uplift at the specified rent review.
agreed at the balance sheet date which are not intended to equivalent to that of investing directly in property.
REITs compensate for future inflation, expressed as a percentage Tenant or lease incentives are any incentives offered are also required to meet certain conditions including of the portfolio valuation after notional purchasers costs, to occupiers to enter into a lease.
Typically the incentive the proportion of total profits and assets accounted for excluding development properties.
will be an initial rent-free period, or a cash contribution by their property rental businesses.
They remain liable to fit-out.
Under accounting rules the value of lease Net Equivalent Yield is the weighted average income return to corporation tax on non-property investment businesses incentives given to tenants is amortised through after deducting notional purchasers costs a property e. g. management fees and interest receivable.
the income statement on a straight-line basis to the will produce based upon the timing of the income received.
The UK has had a tax exempt real estate regime since earliest lease termination date.
In accordance with usual practice, the equivalent yields as 1 January 2007.
A number of other countries, notably determined by the external valuers assume rent is received Turnover rents is where all or a portion of the rent the US, Australia and France also have tax exempt REIT annually in arrears.
The British Land definition excludes is linked to the sales or turnover of the occupier.
British Land has been a REIT since 1 January 2007.
Europe, where leases are linked to annual indexation.
The Government is looking to encourage the growth RENTAL INCOME Net reversionary yield is the anticipated yield, which the of the REIT sector.
The 2011 budget proposals are looking initial yield will rise to once the rent reaches the estimated Annualised rent is the gross rent receivable on a cash to relax qualifying conditions to encourage new entrants.
basis as at the reporting date.
Additionally where rent Property Income Distributions PIDs reviews are outstanding, any increases to applicable Overall topped-up Net Initial Yield is the EPRA Net Profits distributed as PIDs are subject to tax in the hands estimated rental value as determined by the Groups topped-up Initial Yield, adding guaranteed fixed uplifts of the shareholders as property income.
PIDs are normally external valuers, less any ground rents payable under to the annualised rents.
paid net of withholding tax currently at 20% which the REIT head leases.
Yield shift is a movement usually expressed in bps in the pays to the tax authorities on behalf of the shareholder.
Estimated rental value ERV is the external valuers yield of a property asset, or like-for-like portfolio, over a Certain types of shareholder i. e. pension funds are tax opinion as to the open market rent which, on the date given period.
Yield compression is a commonly used term exempt and receive PIDs without withholding tax.
of valuation, could reasonably be expected to be obtained for a reduction in yields.
Property companies also pay out normal dividends, called on a new letting or rent review of a property.
non-PIDs, which are treated as normal dividends and not LEASE LENGTH AND OCCUPANCY Gross rental income is the gross accounting rent subject to withholding tax.
receivable quoted either for the period or on an annualised Occupancy rate is the estimated rental value of let units basis prepared under IFRS which requires that rental expressed as a percentage of the total estimated rental RENTS income from fixed minimum guaranteed rent reviews and value of the portfolio, excluding development properties.
Headline rent is the contracted gross rent receivable tenant incentives is spread on a straight-line basis over the It includes accommodation under offer or subject to which becomes payable after all the tenant incentives entire lease to first break.
This can result in income being asset management where they have been taken back in the letting have expired.
recognised ahead of cash flow.
for refurbishment and are not available to let as at the balance sheet date.
Net effective rent is the contracted gross rent receivable Like-for-like ERV growth is the change in ERV over a taking into account any rent-free period or other tenant period on the standing investment properties expressed Total occupancy rate is the occupancy rate excluding incentive.
The incentives are treated as a cost to rent as a percentage of the ERV at the start of the period.
accommodation under offer or subject to asset and spread over the lease to the earliest termination date.
Like-for-like ERV growth is calculated monthly and management.
compounded to the period subject to measurement.
Rack rented is the term used to describe when the Virtual freehold represents a long leasehold tenure contracted rent is in line with the estimated rental value Like-for-like rental income growth is the growth in for a period up to 999 years.
A peppercorn, or nominal, ERV, implying a nil reversion.
gross rental income on properties owned throughout the rental is paid annually.
current and previous periods under review.
This growth Reversion is the increase in rent estimated by the external Weighted average lease term is the average lease term rate includes revenue recognition and lease accounting valuers, where the passing rent is below the estimated remaining to first break, or expiry, across the portfolio adjustments but excludes properties held for development rental value.
The increases to rent arise on rent reviews weighted by contracted rental income including rent-frees.
in either period, properties with guaranteed rent reviews, and lettings.
The calculation excludes short-term lettings, residential asset management determinations and surrender leases and properties allocated as developments.
Under rented is the term used to describe when the premiums.
contracted rent is below the estimated rental value ERV, Net rental income is the rental income receivable in the PLANNING implying a positive reversion see below.
Over rented period after payment of direct property outgoings which is the inverse of this.
The 1947 Town and Country Planning Act requires typically comprise ground rents payable under head all proposals, with a few exclusions, to secure planning leases, void costs, net service charge expenses, and other LEASES AND LETTINGS permission from the local authority.
The requirement direct irrecoverable property expenses.
Net rental income to obtain planning permission extends not only to new Capped rents are subject to a maximum level of uplift at is quoted on an accounting basis.
Net rental income construction, but also to substantive changes of use of a the specified rent reviews as agreed at the time of letting.
will differ from annualised net cash rents and passing property.
There are various use classes.
Change of use to rent due to the effects of income from rent reviews, net Collar rents are subject to a minimum level of uplift at a different use class generally requires Planning consent.
property outgoings and accounting adjustments for fixed the specified rent reviews as agreed at the time of letting.
and minimum contracted rent reviews and lease incentives.
Planning consent gives consent for a development, and covers matters such as use and design.
Full details of the Passing rent is the gross rent, less any ground rent development scheme must be provided in an application payable under head leases.
for full planning consent, including detailed design, external appearance and landscaping before a project can proceed.
Outline planning consent establishes the broad outline of the scheme and is subject to the later approval of the details of the design.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 183 8231 3 Accounts 2011 133 to 184 8231 Accounts 2011 13 06 2011 11:53 Page 184 GLOSSARY OF TERMS continued Retail planning consents are separated between A1, A2 DEVELOPMENT REIT total return total accounting return is the growth and A3 as set out in The Town and Country Planning in EPRA NAV plus dividends paid, and this can be expressed Developers profit is the profit on cost assumed by the Use Classes Order 2005.
Within the A1 consent category, as a percentage of EPRA NAV per share at the beginning valuers to be required to start a project.
The developers an Open A1 consent grants planning for any type of retail, of the period.
profit is typically calculated by the valuers to be a while Restricted A1 consent places limits on the types percentage of the estimated total development costs.
Total shareholder return is the growth in value of of retail that can operate from the site this is typically a shareholding over a specified period, assuming that a restriction that only bulky goods operators are allowed Development construction cost is the total cost of dividends are reinvested to purchase additional units to trade at that site.
construction of a project to completion, excluding site of stock.
values and finance costs finance costs are assumed Class Description Use for all any of the following by the valuers at a notional rate of 6% per annum.
Underlying earnings per share EPS consists of purposes underlying profit after tax divided by the diluted weighted Estimated Net Development Value is the estimated average number of shares in issue during the period.
A1 Shops Retail sale of goods other than end value of a development project as determined by the hot food: post office: sale of external valuers for when the building is completed and fully Underlying profit before tax is the pre-tax EPRA earnings tickets or as a travel agency: let taking into account tenant incentives.
It is based on the measure with additional company adjustments, including sale of sandwiches or other valuers view on ERVs, yields, letting voids and rent-frees.
realisation of cash flow hedges and non-recurring items.
cold food off the premises: The residual site value of a development is calculated as Weighted average debt maturity each tranche of Group hairdressing: direction of the estimated net development value, less a developers debt is multiplied by the remaining period to its maturity funerals: display of goods for profit margin, all development construction costs, finance and the result is divided by total Group debt in issue sale: hiring out of domestic costs assumed at a notional rate of a project to completion at the period end.
or personal goods articles: and notional site acquisition costs.
The residual is then the reception of goods to be Weighted average interest rate is the Group loan interest determined to be the current site value.
washed, cleaned or repaired: and derivative costs per annum at the period end, divided a retail warehouse club being by total Group debt in issue at the period end.
EPRA DEFINITIONS a retail club where goods are sold, or displayed for sale, only EPRA is the European Public Real Estate Association, OTHER to persons who are members the industry body for European REITs.
CACI Ltd is a wholly owned subsidiary of Consolidated of that club: or as a night club.
EPRA earnings is the profit after taxation excluding Analysis Center Incorporated CACI providing marketing A2 Financial and Financial services: professional investment property revaluations and gains losses solutions and informational systems to local and central professional services other than health on disposals, intangible asset movements and their Government and to business from most industry sectors services or medical : or other services related taxation.
including betting appropriate for a shopping area.
EPRA NAV per share is EPRA NAV divided by the diluted Group is The British Land Company PLC and its number of shares at the period end.
subsidiaries and excludes its share of joint ventures and A3 Restaurants Sale of food drink funds on a line-by-line basis i. e. not proportionally EPRA net assets EPRA NAV are the balance sheet net and cafs i. e. restaurants.
assets excluding the mark-to-market on effective cash flow A4 Drinking Pub, wine bar or other drinking hedges and related debt adjustments, deferred taxation IPD is Investment Property Databank Ltd which produced establishments establishment.
on revaluations and diluting for the effect of those shares an independent benchmark of property returns.
potentially issuable under employee share schemes.
A5 Hot food Sale of hot food for consumption take-aways off premises.
EPRA NNNAV is the EPRA NAV adjusted to reflect the fair value of debt and derivatives and to include deferred PROPERTY VALUATION taxation on revaluations.
EPRA vacancy rate is the estimated market rent of value Capital return is calculated as the change in capital ERV of vacant space divided by ERV of the whole portfolio, value of the UK portfolio, less any capital expenditure excluding developments.
This is the inverse of the total incurred, expressed as a percentage of capital employed occupancy rate.
over the period, as calculated by IPD.
Capital returns are calculated monthly and indexed to provide a return over FINANCIAL the relevant period.
Market value in relation to property assets is the estimated IFRS are the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
amount for which a property should exchange on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in Interest cover is the number of times net interest payable an arms-length transaction after proper marketing wherein is covered by underlying profit before net interest payable the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and and taxation.
without compulsion as determined by the Groups external valuers.
In accordance with usual practice, the Groups Loan to Value LTV is the ratio of gross debt less cash, short-term deposits and liquid investments to the external valuers report valuations net, after the deduction of the prospective purchasers costs, including stamp duty aggregate value of properties and investments.
land tax, agent and legal fees.
Mark-to-market is the difference between the book value of an asset or liability and its market value.
Portfolio valuation uplift is the increase in value of the portfolio after taking account of capital expenditure Net operating costs are property operating expenses and capitalised interest of properties held at the balance and administrative expenses net of fees and other income.
sheet date and sales during the period.
REIT capital return is REIT total return less REIT income Property valuation In accordance with usual practice, the return as defined above.
Groups external valuers report valuations net, after the REIT income return is underlying profit before tax as deduction of the prospective purchasers costs, including stamp duty land tax, agent and legal fees.
defined above after deduction of attributable underlying tax.
184 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 8231 3 Accounts 2011 133 to 184 8231 Accounts 2011 13 06 2011 11:53 Page 185 Design Bostock and Pollitt Limited, London Photography Lee Mawdsley and Barry Willis Print Pureprint Group UK This report is printed on Hello Silk and think4 bright paper.
Both papers contain material sourced from well-managed forests, certified in accordance with the FSC Forest Stewardship Council.
The papers are produced at mills that are certified to the ISO 14001 environmental management standard.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 8231 2 Report 2011 01 to 70 Amedned URLs Report 2011 13 06 2011 11:45 Page BC1 BU RE TR Annu Head Office and Registered Office York House 45 Seymour Street London W1H 7LX Telephone 44 0 20 7486 4466 Fax 44 0 20 7935 5552 www.
