Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information Pages 71105 Pages 107131 Pages 133180 Pages 181184 8231 2 Report 2011 71 to 106 Report 2011 13 06 2011 11:48 Page 99 FINANCIAL REVIEW FINANCIAL POLICIES INCOME STATEMENT AND BALANCE SHEET INTEREST RATE MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT The Board sets an appropriate maximum level of sensitivity 45% The Group monitors its current and projected financial of underlying earnings and cash flows to movements PROPORTIONALLY position using several key internally-generated reports: in market rates of interest over a rolling five-year period.
cash flow: borrowing: debt maturity: and interest rate The proportion of fixed rate debt required to remain within CONSOLIDATED exposure.
The Group also undertakes sensitivity analysis the target sensitivity varies with the levels of gearing and LOAN TO VALUE to assess the impact of proposed transactions, movements interest cover.
With financing raised at both fixed and in interest rates and changes in property values on the key variable rates, derivatives primarily interest rate swaps RATIO balance sheet, liquidity and profitability ratios.
are used to achieve the desired interest rate profile across proportionally consolidated net debt.
Currently 70% Debt finance gearing is used to enhance returns.
The of projected debt is at fixed rate over the policy time Loan to Value ratio on a proportionally consolidated basis period.
The use of derivatives is managed by a derivatives including our share of joint ventures and funds is the committee.
The Groups exposure to derivative primary measure of gearing monitored by the Board.
The counterparties is monitored on a regular basis, as are level of gearing is adjusted over time to reflect judgements their external credit ratings.
about the position of the property market and our portfolio in the cycle, the relative vulnerability to market corrections LIQUIDITY AND CASH MANAGEMENT of our assets, particularly regarding the level of speculative The Group maintains undrawn committed revolving bank development, and relevant general economic indicators.
facilities to provide financial liquidity.
These can be drawn The Board considers that the preferred range of gearing is or repaid at short notice, reducing the need to hold liquid a Loan to Value ratio on a proportionally consolidated basis resources in cash and deposits.
This minimises costs of between 40% and 50%, with a short term maximum of arising from the difference between borrowing and deposit 55%.
At 31 March 2011, the proportionally consolidated rates, while reducing credit exposure.
Deposits are placed Loan to Value ratio was 45%.
as necessary to optimise the rate of return, subject to the credit standing of the counterparty.
Liability management is not a profit centre no speculative transactions are undertaken.
The Groups debt and FOREIGN CURRENCY MANAGEMENT derivative positions are continually reviewed to meet The Groups policy is to have no material unhedged net current and expected debt requirements.
assets or liabilities denominated in foreign currencies.
The currency risk on overseas investments is hedged via The Group maintains a balance between longer-term foreign currency denominated borrowings and derivatives.
Short-term financing is principally raised through bilateral and syndicated When attractive terms are available to do so, the Group revolving bank facilities.
Mediumto longer-term financing borrows in freely available currencies other than Sterling.
comprises public and private bond issues, including The Group fully hedges its foreign currency risk on such private placements and securitisations.
is spread by using a variety of types of debt.
The maturity profile is managed by spreading the repayment dates and extending facilities.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 99
