8231 2 Report 2011 01 to 70 Amedned URLs Report 2011 13 06 2011 11:45 Page 22 STRATEGY IN ACTION CONTROLLING OUR 4.
COSTS TO MAXIMISE PROFIT GENERATION Controlling our operating costs so that we maximise the amount of profit we generate will continue to be a key focus of our business.
Based on the percentage of net operating costs relative to our gross property rental income currently 13.5% we are one of the most efficient listed property companies in the UK.
We are able to keep operating costs low through a combination of having a small and efficient Head Office, maintaining high levels of occupancy across our portfolio and owning efficient modern properties.
CASE STUDY MANAGING COSTS FOR OCCUPIERS Controlling costs is a discipline we pass on to our excellent with satisfaction with value for money at nearly 60% versus a national average of 3%.
Over 80% of office occupiers partners.
We actively manage occupancy costs, rate us good or excellent with satisfaction for value for money while ensuring we deliver the right environment at 65% versus a national average of 14%.
for the occupier, by effective management, smart Following a pilot at our York House Head Office building where we procurement and creative thinking.
installed a new energy metering system and optimisation process helping to cut British Land influenced energy use by nearly 40%, Not only does our scale mean we are able to negotiate competitive we are now rolling out this system across our office and retail rates on behalf of 1,000 occupiers in 2010 we achieved property portfolios so that more businesses can recoup the benefits and insurance rates more than 10% lower on average than in 2008 savings.
This collaborative approach, sharing information, providing it also means that many small initiatives add up to big savings.
support and funding energy reviews to highlight how savings can be made, has been recognised by prestigious industry awards.
We focus on modern high-quality buildings with efficiency built in but also believe there is always more you can do.
It is Elsewhere we have switched to local suppliers, reduced waste our approach to getting the best efficiencies from our existing to landfill and subsequent taxes, increased recycling, and portfolio that really marks us out from the crowd.
a long-term approach to planned preventative maintenance, easing out peaks and troughs in cost cycles all contribute to Last year we carried out our fourth independent customer cutting and controlling costs.
80% of our retail occupiers rated us good or 3 Platinum awards AND SIX GOLD AWARDS AT PROPERTIES INDEPENDENTLY AUDITED AGAINST THE SERVICE CHARGE CODE IN 2010 11 22 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011
