8231 2 Report 2011 107 to 132 Report 2011 13 06 2011 11:50 Page 122 REMUNERATION REPORT continued Part shall be increased by an amount equal to 21.67% of that participants The Committee reviews these performance conditions on a regular basis to number of Notional Annual Incentive Shares, subject to a maximum amount ensure they are both sufficiently stretching and remain relevant to the Companys under the LFL Part equal to 100% of that participants number of Notional strategic objectives.
Aon Hewitt undertakes the performance measurement and Annual Incentive Shares.
submits a report to the Company advising the results for each specific award.
v Fund Managers Performance Plan FMPP The TSR and LFL conditions have been selected to complement the net asset The FMPP is designed to incentivise executives who operate the Company based LTIP vesting criteria and ensure a balanced alignment of interest with the advised Unit Trusts and the British Land owned portfolios.
The FMPP is intended key financial measures most used by shareholders.
The vesting scales have to incentivise and retain the fund managers by rewarding outperformance and been designed to reward outperformance in the case of TSR, by reference to to align the interests of those executives with investors in the Unit Trusts and competitors in the case of LFL, by reference to our comparative outperformance the Company.
The Company is one of the largest investors in those Unit Trusts.
They are fully supportive of the strategy of the Company.
Executive Directors do not participate in this plan.
Aon Hewitt undertakes the TSR performance measurement and submits Following the end of each financial measurement period, up to a maximum a report to the Company advising the results for each specific award.
of 30% of the performance fees earned by the Unit Trusts is set aside to provide The Committee requests external adviser sign-off for performance measures incentives under the FMPP the Incentive Pool.
An annual comparative as part of its oversight procedures.
notional pool is also calculated for the purposes of incentivising executives managing internal portfolios.
At present, the Committee only expects awards iv Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP to be made up to or less than 25% of the performance fees notional pool.
The LTIP permits the award of market value options and or performance The Committee may in its absolute discretion grant, and recommend that shares, as may suit the Company from time to time.
The option section of the the Trustees grant, awards under the FMPP.
Plan comprises an Inland Revenue approved part and an unapproved part.
Under the Plan, the Company may award a maximum notional value of 250% Some 20% of the value of any award under the FMPP is paid as a cash bonus.
of base salary in performance shares each year or the equivalent value of base The remaining 80% of the value of any award is delivered in the form of free salary in options each year the latter under current estimations being valued shares in the Company over a three-year period and subject to clawback for at 25% of their exercise price.
The annual limit is set with both the options and subsequent underperformance.
performance shares components of the Plan taken together.
The split of the awards made each year between performance shares and options may be In November 2009, the performance fee calculation basis for Hercules Unit Trust varied between 0% and 100% at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
was changed from an annual to a three-year rolling average.
A percentage of the The Remuneration Committees current policy is to make awards of up to a performance fee earned by British Land as HUTs Property Adviser provides the maximum of 200% of salary for Executive Directors and 250% of salary for the funding for the external FMPP awards pool.
The first calculation will be carried out Chief Executive.
as at 31 December 2012 on the basis of the Trusts performances in 2010, 2011 and 2012.
This change has not amended the reference IPD benchmark or the fee cap.
Grants made under the Plan are subject to a prescribed performance condition upon which the exercise of options and the vesting of performance shares The FMPP rules currently only provide for an award based on annual will be contingent except that grants may be made without any performance performance with clawback over the following three years for subsequent condition if required to facilitate the recruitment of a new executive.
underperformance for awards based on the performance of the Company advised unit trusts.
The rules will, therefore, need amendment to enable awards The performance condition attaching to options and share awards measures based on triennial performance and a resolution will be put to the 2011 AGM.
the growth in the Companys net asset value per share against the capital growth component of the Investment Property Databank Annual Index, over MINIMUM SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINE a performance period of three years commencing the year in which the options The Directors Minimum Shareholding Guideline requires approximately 200% and share awards are granted.
Growth in the Companys net asset value per of base salary to be held in vested shares by the Chief Executive and 125% share must exceed that of the Index for a minimum proportion of the options for other Executive Directors.
There is no set timescale required to reach the to be exercised and or performance shares to vest.
Stretching outperformance target but this should be achieved through the regular additions anticipated by is required for the entire award to vest.
Growth in the Companys net asset Annual Incentive Matching Share Plan and Long-Term Incentive Plan awards.
value per share is a key measure of performance over the longer term and No purchases are required either to reach the level or to respond to share price highly relevant for LTIP performance measurement.
falls but Directors are expected to increase their holding of shares each year until the target is attained.
The number value of shares required as the target The performance hurdles for Directors LTIP awards are: is fixed once a year.
Shares included are those beneficially owned, Chris Griggs Co Investment Plan holding, Charles Maudsleys Restricted Share Plan holding, Percentage by which the average annual growth of British Lands Net Asset Value per Share exceeds the Matching Shares purchased with bonus and Share Incentive Plan holdings.
average annual increase in the capital growth component Shown below is the guideline fixed for the year to 31 March 2012: of the Investment Property Databank Annual Index Percentage vesting Holding at 4.5% or more 100% Guideline holding 31 March 2011 3.5% or more but less than 4.5% 80% 2.5% or more but less than 3.5% 60% Chris Grigg 289,593 555,413 1.5% or more but less than 2.5% 40% Lucinda Bell 96,154 46,002 0.5% or more but less than 1.5% 20% Charles Maudsley 96,154 165,922 More than 0% but less than 0.5% 10% Tim Roberts 96,154 127,342 0% or less 0% Stephen Smith 96,154 138,543 122 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011
