Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC 138 Annual Report 2011 Glossary ABC1 Customers Initial yield to the Group Proportion of customers within UK social groups A, B and C1, fide ned Annualised net rent as per net initial yield EPRA on investment as members of households whose chief earners occupation is property expressed as a percentage of the net market value, professional, higher or intermediate management or supervisory.
representing the yield that would be foregone by the Group were theasset to be sold.
Annual property income The Groups share of passing rent plus the external valuers estimate of Interest cover annual excess turnover rent, additional rent in respect of unsettled rent Underlying operating pro t excluding trading property related items reviews and sundry income such as that from car parks and mall divided by the net finance cost plus interest on convertible bonds commercialisation.
recognised in equity excluding the change in fair value of derivatives, exceptional finance costs and amortisation of compound financial Debt to assets ratio instruments.
Net external debt divided by the market value of investment and development property.
Interest rate swap A derivative financial instrument enabling parties to exchange interest Diluted gures rate obligations for a predetermined period.
These are used by the Reported amounts adjusted to include the eff ects of dilutive potential Group to convert oating rate debt to xed rates.
shares issuable under convertible bonds and employee incentive arrangements.
IPD Investment Property Databank Ltd, producer of an independent Earnings per share benchmark of property returns.
Pro t for the period attributable to equity shareholders of CSC divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue during Like-for-like property theperiod.
Investment property which has been owned throughout both periodswithout signi cant capital expenditure in either period, so that EPRA income can be compared on a like-for-like basis.
For the purposes of European Public Real Estate Association, the publisher of Best Practice comparison of capital values, this will also include assets owned at the Recommendations intended to make financial statements of public real previous reporting period end but not throughout the prior period.
estate companies in Europe clearer, more transparent and comparable.
Loan-to-value LTV ERV estimated rental value LTV is the ratio of attributable debt to the market value of an The external valuers estimate of the Groups share of the current investment property.
annual market rent of all lettable space net of any non-recoverable charges, before bad debt provision and adjustments required under NAV per share diluted, adjusted IFRS regarding tenant lease incentives.
NAV per share calculated on a diluted basis and adjusted to re ect any unrecognised surplus on trading properties net of tax, to remove the Exceptional items fair value of derivatives net of tax and to remove deferred tax on Exceptional items are those items that in the Directors view are investment and development property and other investments.
required to be separately disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence to enable a full understanding of the Groups financial performance.
Net asset value NAV per share Net assets attributable to equity shareholders of CSC Group PLC Headline rent ITZA divided by the number of ordinary shares in issue at the period end.
Annual contracted rent per square foot after expiry of concessionary periods in terms of zone A.
Net external debt Net debt after removing the Metrocentre compound financial instrument.
Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Overview Business model Business Financial Corporate Governance Accounts Other Annual Report 2011 139 and strategy review review responsibility information Net initial yield EPRA Real Estate Investment Trust REIT Annualised net rent on investment property after deduction of A tax regime which exempts from corporation tax the rental pro ts revenue costs such as head rent, running void, service charge after and capital gains of the REITs qualifying investment property activities.
shortfalls, empty rates and merchant association contribution In the UK, the regime must be elected into and the REIT must meet expressed as a percentage of the gross market value before deduction certain ongoing quali cations including the requirement to distribute at of theoretical acquisition costs, consistent with EPRAs net initial yield.
least 90 per cent of qualifying rental pro ts to shareholders.
The Group elected for REIT status with eff ect from 1 January 2007.
Net rental income The Groups share of net rents receivable as shown in the income Tenant or lease incentives statement, having taken due account of non-recoverable costs, bad Any incentives off ered to occupiers to enter into a lease.
Typically debt provisions and adjustments to comply with IFRS including those incentives are in the form of an initial rent free period and or a cash regarding tenant lease incentives.
contribution to t-out the premises.
Under IFRS the value of incentives granted to tenants is amortised through the income statement on a Nominal equivalent yield straight-line basis over the lease term.
Eff ective annual yield to a purchaser from the assets individually at market value after taking account of notional acquisition costs assuming Topped-up NIY EPRA rent is receivable annually in arrears, re ecting estimated rental values Net initial yield adjusted for the expiration of rent free periods and ERV but disregarding potential changes in market rents.
Occupancy Total financial return The passing rent of let and under off er units expressed as a percentage The change in NAV per share diluted, adjusted plus dividends per of the passing rent of let and under off er units plus ERV of un-let units, share paid in the period expressed as a percentage of opening NAV excluding development and recently completed properties and treating per share diluted, adjusted.
units let to tenants in administration as un-let.
Trading property Passing rent Property held for trading purposes rather than to earn rentals or for The Groups share of contracted annual rents receivable at the balance capital appreciation and shown as current assets in the balance sheet.
This takes no account of accounting adjustments made in Underlying earnings per share EPS respect of rent free periods or tenant incentives, the reclassi cation of Earnings per share adjusted to exclude valuation movements, certain lease payments as finance charges or any irrecoverable costs exceptional items and related tax.
and expenses, and does not include excess turnover rent, additional rent in respect of unsettled rent reviews or sundry income such as Underlying gures from car parks etc.
Contracted annual rents in respect of tenants in Amounts described as underlying exclude valuation movements, administration are excluded.
exceptional items and related tax.
Property Income Distribution PID Vacancy rate EPRA A dividend, generally subject to UK withholding tax at the basic rate of The ERV of vacant space divided by total ERV.
income tax, that a UK REIT is required to pay to its shareholders from Yield shift its qualifying rental pro ts.
Certain classes of shareholder may qualify A movement usually expressed in basis points in the yield of a toreceive a PID gross, shareholders should refer to www.
co. uk for further information.
The Group can also pay non-PID dividends which are not subject to UK withholding tax.
