Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Overview Business model Business Financial Corporate Governance Accounts Other Annual Report 2011 141 and strategy review review responsibility information Shareholder information Registrars Web-based enquiry service for shareholders All enquiries concerning shares or shareholdings, including noti cation Shareholders registered in the UK can go to www.
of change of address, queries regarding loss of a share certi cate and com to obtain details of their shareholdings and dividends.
dividend payments should be addressed to: Theshareholders surname, Investor Code found on any correspondence from registrars and postcode are required to use For shareholders registered in the UK thisservice.
Shareholders may also use this service to amend or change Capita Registrars their address and dividend mandate details.
The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU Shareholders registered in South Africa can go to www.
Telephone within UK 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10p per minute plus com investor to obtain details of their shareholdings.
Shareholders will network extras: lines are open 8.30 am 5.30 pm Monday Friday need to follow a registering process in order to access such information.
Telephone outside UK 44 20 8639 3399 Unfortunately, due to South African legal requirements, shareholders Facsimile 44 20 8639 2342 may not update records, but will be able toview their entire holding of Email: ssd@capitaregistrars.
Please note that the Computershare company code for www.
com Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC is CSOZ.
For shareholders registered in South Africa Share dealing Computershare Investor Services Pty Ltd Existing UK shareholders may trade Capital Shopping Centres Group 70 Marshall Street, Johannesburg 2001 PLC shares through Capita Share Dealing Services who provide an South Africa easyto use, real-time online, telephone and postal dealing service.
Postal address: Contact details are: PO Box 61051 Marshalltown 2107, South Africa www.
com Telephone 27 11 370 5000 Telephone within UK 0871 664 0364 calls cost 10p per minute plus Facsimile 27 11 688 5221 network extras: lines are open 8.00 am 4.30 pm Monday Friday Email: web.
com outside UK 44 20 3367 2686 Existing South African shareholders whose shares are held in electronic Payment of dividends format through Computershare CSDP may trade Capital Shopping Shareholders who wish to have their dividends paid directly into a bank Centres Group PLC shares through Computershares low cost or building society account should complete a mandate form available telephone share dealing service on 0861 100 950 SA calls only.
Electronic communication Share price information The company supplies information such as the Annual and Interim The latest information on the Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC share Report via its website to shareholders who have consented to such price is available on the website www.
Shareholders will be noti ed by email or post when newinformation is available on the website.
Shareholders can at any time revoke a previous instruction in order to receive hard copies of shareholder information.
UK shareholders may register to receive email alerts by logging on tothewebsite of the UK Registrars www.
com andfollowing the instructions given to register an email address.
SAshareholders may register to receive email alerts by written instruction to the SA register, Computershare, sent either by email ecomms@computershare.
Once registered, shareholders are sent a Notice of Availability emailhighlighting that the Annual Report, Interim Report or other information is available for viewing on the website.
This report contains forward-looking statements regarding the belief or current expectations of Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC, its Directors and other members of its senior management about Capital Shopping Centres Group PLCs businesses, financial performance and results of operations.
These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance.
Rather, they are based on current views and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside the control of Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC and are diffi cult to predict, that may cause actual results, performance or developments to diff er materially from any future results, performance or developments expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements speak only as at the date of this report.
Except as required by applicable law, Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC makes no representation or warranty in relation to them and expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements contained herein to re ect any change in Capital Shopping Centres Group PLCs expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
Any information contained in this report on the price at which shares or other securities in Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC have been bought or sold in the past, or on the yield on such shares or other securities, should not be relied upon as a guide to future performance.
co. uk Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC 40 Broadway, London SW1H 0BT
