Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2011 List of definitions Net assets per share or net asset value NAV Ground rent Equity shareholders funds divided by the number of ordinary shares The rent payable by the Group for its leasehold properties.
in issue at the balance sheet date.
Under IFRS, these leases are treated as finance leases and the cost allocated between interest payable and property outgoings.
Earnings earnings per share EPS Earnings represent the profit or loss for the year attributable to equity Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment shareholders and are divided by the weighted average number of Method BREEAM ordinary shares in issue during the financial year to arrive at earnings The BREEAM rating assesses the operational and the embodied per share.
environmental impacts of individual buildings.
The ratings are Pass, Good, Very Good, Excellent and Outstanding.
Diluted earnings per share Earnings per share adjusted to include the dilutive effects of potential Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences shares issuable under the Groups share option schemes and the Regulations RIDDOR convertible bond.
The regulations place a legal duty on employers to report workrelated deaths, major injuries or over-three-day injuries, work-related European Public Real Estate Association EPRA diseases and dangerous occurrences near miss accidents to the A not-for-profit association with a membership of Europes leading Health and Safety Executive.
property companies, investors and consultants who strive to establish best practices in accounting, reporting and corporate IPD Central London Offices Index governance and to provide high-quality information to investors.
An index, compiled by Investment Property Databank Limited, of the In October 2010, EPRA published its Best Practices central and inner London offices in their quarterly valued universe.
This includes guidelines for the calculation of the following Capital return performance measures: The annual valuation movement arising on the Groups portfolio expressed as a percentage return on the valuation at the beginning Adjusted net asset value per share: of the year adjusted for acquisitions and capital expenditure.
Adjusted earnings per share: Total return Net initial yield: The movement in EPRA adjusted net asset value per share between the beginning and the end of each financial year plus the dividend Topped up net initial yield: and per share paid during the year expressed as a percentage of the EPRA adjusted net asset value per share at the beginning of the year.
Vacancy rate Derwent London has adopted the EPRA methodology for all of these Total property return measures.
In addition, in accordance with EPRA guidelines, we have The annual capital appreciation, net of capital expenditure, plus the made company-specific adjustments to adjusted profit and adjusted net annual rental income received, expressed as a percentage of earnings per share to arrive at the underlying positions see below.
capital employed property value at the beginning of the year plus capital expenditure.
Underlying earnings per share EPRA earnings per share adjusted for items which are excluded to Total shareholder return show the underlying trend.
The growth in the ordinary share price as quoted on the London Stock Exchange plus dividends per share received for the year, expressed as Property income distribution PID a percentage of the share price at the beginning of the year.
Dividends from profits of the Groups tax-exempt property rental business under the REIT regulations.
Rent roll The annualised contracted rental income, net of ground rents.
Non PID Dividends from profits of the Groups taxable residual business.
True equivalent yield The constant capitalisation rate which, if applied to all cash flows Net debt from the portfolio, including current rent, reversions to valuers Borrowings plus bank overdraft less cash and cash equivalents.
estimated rental value and such items as voids and expenditures, equates to the valuation having taken into account notional Balance sheet gearing purchasers costs.
Assumes rent is received quarterly in advance.
Net debt divided by net assets.
Reversion Interest cover ratio The reversion is the amount by which the rental value as estimated by Gross property income, excluding surrender premiums, less ground the Groups external valuers is higher than the rent roll of a property or rent divided by interest payable on borrowings less interest portfolio.
The reversion is derived from contractual rental increases, receivable and capitalised interest.
rent reviews, lease renewals and the letting of vacant space.
Loan to value ratio LTV Underlying portfolio The nominal value of borrowed funds divided by the fair value of Properties that have been held for the whole of the financial year.
143 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2011 Financial calendar Issue of first quarter 2012 interim management statement 9 May 2012 Annual General Meeting 16 May 2012 Payment of 2011 final dividend 15 June 2012 Announcement of 2012 interim results August 2012 Issue of third quarter 2012 interim management statement November 2012 Payment of 2012 interim dividend November 2012 Announcement of 2012 results March 2013 Advisors Auditor Principal clearing bank BDO LLP HSBC Bank plc Principal solicitors Registrar Slaughter and May Equiniti Brokers UBS JP Morgan Cazenove 144 Contents Who we are 1 Overview 2 At a glance 4 Financial highlights 8 Chairmans statement 10 Our portfolio 13 Our market 14 Strategy 16 Business model 18 Business strategy 19 Property lifecycle 20 Key performance indicators and metrics 22 Risk management 25 Performance 28 Property review 30 Valuation 30 Portfolio management 32 Investment activity 36 Projects 37 Planning the future 40 Development pipeline 44 Finance review 48 Sustainability 56 Governance 70 Board of Directors 72 Statement of Directors responsibilities 74 Directors report 75 Report of the Remuneration Committee 86 Report of the Nominations Committee 96 Report of the Audit Committee 97 Independent Auditors report 98 Financial statements 100 Group income statement 102 Statements of comprehensive income 103 Balance sheets 104 Statements of changes in equity 105 Cash flow statements 106 Notes to the financial statements 107 Designed and produced by MerchantCantos and CDT Design Principal properties 140 www.
com Printed by Pureprint Group Five-year summary 142 This report is printed utilising vegetable based inks on Hello Matt, which has been sourced List of definitions 143 from well managed forests independently certified according to the rules of the Forest Financial calendar and advisors 144.
Stewardship Council Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2011 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2011 Derwent London plc Registered office: 25 Savile Row London W1S 2ER T 44 0 20 7659 3000 F 44 0 20 7659 3100 www.
