Governance Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2011 John C. Ivey, 70 Robert A. Farnes, 66 Non-executive Deputy Chairman Senior independent Director A chartered accountant, John was a nonRobert is a chartered surveyor.
He was previously executive Director of RWS Holdings plc until the Chairman of CB Hillier Parker and joined the January 2010 and was formerly Chief Executive of Board in 2003.
He chairs the Remuneration The Davis Service Group plc.
He has served on Committee and is a member of the Audit and the Board since 1984 and is a member of the Nominations Committees.
Stuart A. Corbyn, 66 June fide Moller, 64 Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Senior Independent Director June joined the Board in February 2007.
She is a from 1 April 2012 non-executive Director of Temple Bar Investment Trust plc.
Previously, she was Managing Director Stuart is a chartered surveyor.
He was appointed to of Carlton Communications Plc and a nonthe Board in 2006.
Until December 2008, he was executive Director of Cookson Group plc, BT plc, Chief Executive of Cadogan Estates, one of the AWG plc, J Sainsbury plc, Archant Limited and principal private estates in London, and is a former London Merchant Securities plc.
She is a president of the British Property Federation.
He member of the Audit, Risk, Remuneration and chairs the Nominations Committee and is a member Nominations Committees.
of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Simon J. Neathercoat, 63 Stephen G. Young, 56 Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Simon is a chartered accountant.
He joined Stephen is a chartered management accountant.
the Board in 1999 and is a member of the He joined the Board in August 2010.
He is Group Nominations Committee.
He is senior Finance Director at Meggitt plc.
Previously, he independent Director of Lombard Medical held the position of Group Finance Director at Technologies plc and a non-executive Director of Thistle Hotels plc and the Automobile Fairfield Energy PLC.
Previously, he was Managing Association.
He chairs the Audit and Risk Director of Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein.
He is Committees whilst serving on the Remuneration a member of the Nominations Committee.
