116 Great Portland Estates | Annual Report 2011 Notice of meeting Notice is hereby given that the fifty-fourth Annual General Meeting of Great Portland Estates plc will be held at 50 Stratton Street, London W1, on Thursday 7 July 2011 at 11.30am, for the purposes set out below, with the Board available from 11.00am to meet shareholders and answer questions: 1.
To receive and adopt the audited financial statements together with the directors and auditors reports for the year ended 31 March 2011.
To authorise the payment of a final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2011.
To approve the Directors remuneration report.
To re-elect Toby Courtauld as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Neil Thompson as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Martin Scicluna as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Charles Irby as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Jonathan Nicholls as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Phillip Rose as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Jonathan Short as a director of the Company.
To reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditors.
To authorise the directors to agree the remuneration of the auditors.
As special business, to consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution 13 as an ordinary resolution, and those numbered 14 to 16 inclusive as special resolutions.
The items of special business are explained in more detail in the Report of the directors on pages 88 to 91.
That: a the directors be authorised to allot shares in the Company or grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares in the Company: i in accordance with Article 9 of the Companys Articles of Association the Articles, up to a maximum nominal amount of 13,028,172 such amount to be reduced by the nominal amount of any equity securities as defined in Article 10 of the Articles allotted under paragraph ii below in excess of 13,028,172 : and ii comprising equity securities as defined in Article 10 of the Articles, up to a maximum nominal amount of 26,056,344 such amount to be reduced by any shares allotted or rights granted under paragraph i above in connection with an offer by way of a Rights Issue as defined in Article 10 of the Articles : b this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution, or, if earlier, at the close of business on 1 October 2012: and c all previous unutilised authorities under section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 shall cease to have effect save to the extent that the same are exercisable pursuant to section 551 7 of the Companies Act 2006 by reason of any offer or agreement made prior to the date of this resolution which would or might require shares to be allotted or rights to be granted on or after that date.
That: a in accordance with Article 10 of the Companys Articles of Association the Articles, the directors be given power to allot equity securities for cash: b the power under paragraph a above other than in connection with a Rights Issue, as defined in Article 10 of the Articles shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities having a nominal amount not exceeding in aggregate 1,954,225: c these authorities shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at the close of business on 1 October 2012: and d all previous unutilised authorities under sections 570 and 573 of the Companies Act 2006 shall cease to have effect.
That, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Company be and it is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 of the Companies Act 2006 of its shares on such terms and in such manner as the directors may determine, provided that: a the maximum number of shares which may be purchased is 46,870,154: b the maximum price at which shares may be purchased shall not be more than the higher of an amount equal to 5% above the average of the middle market quotations for the shares as taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days preceding the date of purchase and the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003 and the minimum price shall be 12.5 pence, being the nominal value of the shares, in each case exclusive of expenses: and 117 Annual review Financials Governance c the authority conferred by this resolution shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this Resolution or 1 October 2012 whichever is the earlier, save that the Company may before such expiry enter into a contract of purchase under which such purchase may be completed or executed wholly or partly after the expiration of this authority.
d all existing authorities for the Company to make market purchases of its shares are revoked, except in relation to the purchase of shares under a contract or contracts concluded before the date of this resolution and which has not yet been executed.
That, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
Registered office: 33 Cavendish Square London W1G 0PW By order of the Board Desna Martin Company Secretary 24 May 2011 Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message Notes to notice of meeting by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their rights to attend c The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances and to speak and vote on their behalf at the meeting.
A shareholder may appoint set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. more than one proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that each d CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
In order to available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
be valid an appointment of proxy must be returned by one of the following methods: Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the in hard copy form by post, by courier or by hand to the Companys Registrar input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member at the address shown on the form of proxy: or concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member in the case of CREST members, by utilising the CREST electronic proxy or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure appointment service in accordance with the procedures set out below, that their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of and in each case must be received by the Companys Registrar not less the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are 2.
The return of a completed proxy form, other such instrument or any CREST Proxy referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning Instruction as described in paragraph 8 below will not prevent a shareholder practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
attending the Annual General Meeting and voting in person if he she wishes to do 9.
The Company specifies that only those shareholders registered in the Register so.
A shareholder must inform the Companys Registrar in writing of any termination of Members of the Company as at 6.00pm on 5 July 2011 or in the event of any of the authority of a proxy.
adjournment, at 6.00pm on the date which is two days before the date of the 3.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 adjourned meeting shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, of the number of shares registered in their name at that time and changes under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was to the Register after that time shall be disregarded in determining the rights nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment 10.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
The statement of rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies 11.
Under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 members meeting the threshold in paragraph 1 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to publish in this paragraph can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the 5.
Nominated persons are reminded that they should contact the registered holder of their Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that shares and not the Company on matters relating to their investments in the Company.
are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting 6.
As at 23 May 2011 being the last business day prior to the publication of this at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 Notice the Companys issued share capital consists of 312,676,149 ordinary shares, of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company may not require the members requesting carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 23 May 2011 are 312,676,149. of the Companies Act 2006, and it must forward the statement to the Companys 7.
Copies of all directors contracts will be available for inspection at 33 Cavendish Square, auditors not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
London W1G 0PW during normal business hours on any weekday English public The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any holidays excepted from the date of this Notice and at the place of the Annual General statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the Companies Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the Annual General Meeting.
Act 2006 to publish on its website.
8. a CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST 12.
A member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must electronic proxy appointment service may do so by utilising the procedures cause to be answered any such question relating to the business being dealt with described in the CREST Manual on the Euroclear website www.
com at the meeting but no such answer need be given if a to do so would interfere CREST.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should information, b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able an answer to a question, or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
b In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the 13.
A copy of this notice, and other information required by section 311A of the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly Companies Act 2006 can be found at www.
co. uk investors agm authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited specifications 14.
You may not use any electronic address provided either in this Notice of Meeting and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described or any related documents including the form of proxy to communicate with the in the CREST Manual.
Company for any other purposes other than those expressly stated.
The message regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy 15.
Voting on all resolutions will be conducted by way of a poll rather than on a show or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, of hands.
This will result in a more accurate reflection of the views of shareholders in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent by ensuring that every vote is recognised, including the votes of all shareholders ID: RA10 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in who are unable to attend the meeting but who appoint a proxy for the meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be On a poll, each shareholder has one vote for every share held.
the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST
