120 Great Portland Estates | Annual Report 2011 Shareholders information Shareholder enquiries Payment of dividends All enquiries relating to holdings of shares, bonds or debentures If you would like your dividends interest paid directly into your in Great Portland Estates, including notification of change of bank or building society account you should write to Capita address, queries regarding dividend interest payments or the loss Registrars including details of your nominated account.
of a certificate, should be addressed to the Companys registrars: Although this will enable your dividend interest to be paid directly into your account, your tax voucher will still be sent to your The Registry registered address.
34 Beckenham Road Beckenham Low cost dealing service Kent This service provides both existing and prospective shareholders BR3 4TU with a simple, postal, low-cost method of buying and selling Tel: 0871 664 0300 Great Portland Estates shares.
com For further information, or a dealing form, contact: JP Morgan Cazenove Calls cost 10 pence per minute plus network extras: 20 Moorgate lines are open 8.305.30pm Monday to Friday.
London EC2R 6DA If you are calling from overseas please dial 44 20 8639 3399 Tel: 020 7155 5155 Unsolicited telephone calls Boiler room scams Website Over the last year, some of our shareholders have received The Company has a corporate website, which holds, amongst unsolicited telephone calls or correspondence concerning other information, a copy of our latest annual report and investment matters from organisations or persons claiming or accounts, a list of properties held by the Group and copies implying that they have some connection with the Company.
of all press announcements released over the last 12 months.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target The site can be found at www.
co. uk UK shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in UK or overseas investments.
Tax consequences of REIT status These operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
As a REIT, dividend payments must be split between PIDs Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited and non-PIDs.
Information in respect of the tax consequences advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free for shareholders of receiving dividends can be found on the reports into the Company.
If you receive any unsolicited Companys website at www.
co. uk investors reits investment advice: ensure you get the correct name of the person Company Secretary and organisation: Desna Martin, BCom CA Aust ACIS check that the organisation is on the Financial Services Registered office Authority FSA Register and is authorised to give financial 33 Cavendish Square advice before getting involved by visiting London W1G 0PW www.
uk pages register Tel: 020 7647 3000 report the matter to the FSA Consumer Helpline Fax: 020 7016 5500 0300 500 5000 with details, or complete the Registered number: 596137 Unauthorised Firms Reporting Form at www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts form.
shtml and if the calls persist, hang up.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
More detailed information on this or similar activities can be found on the FSA website at www.
uk Welcome to our 2011 annual report.
Great Portland Estates is a central London property investment and development company owning over 1.6billion of real estate.
Our strategy is simple to generate superior portfolio andshareholder returns from a combination of our activeasset management, development and investment management skills.
We aim to maximise equity returns through the effective reading of the property cycle inafocused market that we know well.
Since our May 2009 rights issue, we have capitalised onmarket conditions, investing the proceeds more thantwice over, and wehave embarked on a development programme designed to deliver high quality space intoamarket where supply is forecast to be scarce.
The financial results demonstrate the quality of the portfolioand the dedication of our team adjusted net assetsper shareup 27.2%, underlying capital return of15.5%and, withgearing low at 31.4%, we are wellplacedtodeliver our development plans and totakeadvantage of opportunities asthey arise.
Martin Scicluna Chairman Design and production: FSC Forest Stewardship Council.
com This ensures there is an audited The CO2 emissions associated with chain of custody from the tree in Print: the production and distribution of our the well-managed forest through to the The Midas Press Ltd Annual Report and Accounts 2011 finished document in the printing factory.
have been measured and reduced This report is printed on Amadeus 50% to net zero through the Aydin Silk, which is FSC certified and contains Geothermal Energy project in Turkey.
50% recycled waste and 50% virgin fibre.
Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 www.
co. uk Unlocking Great Portland Estates plc 33 Cavendish Square London W1G 0PW potential Tel: 020 7647 3000 Fax: 020 7016 5500 Look inside: Well timed acquisitions offering future growth Working with existing tenants to support their expansion Delivering a significant pipeline ofquality development projects
