115 Annual review Financials Governance Glossary Earnings Per Share EPS Property Income Distributions PIDs Profit after tax divided by the weighted average number Dividends from profits of the Groups tax-exempt property of ordinary shares in issue.
EPRA adjustments Portfolio Internal Rate of Return IRR Standard calculation methods for adjusted EPS and NAV as The rate of return that if used as a discount rate and applied set out by the European Public Real Estate Association EPRA to the projected cash flows from the portfolio would result in their Best Practice and Policy Recommendations.
in a net present value of zero.
EPRA vacancy rate REIT The element of a property which is unoccupied but available UK Real Estate Investment Trust.
for letting, expressed as the ERV of the vacant space divided Rent roll by the ERV of the total portfolio.
The annual contracted rental income.
Estimated Rental Value ERV Return on shareholders equity The market rental value of lettable space as estimated The growth in the adjusted diluted net assets per share plus by the Companys valuers at each balance sheet date.
dividends per share for the period expressed as a percentage of F&BS the adjusted net assets per share at the beginning of the period.
Finance and Business Services sector.
Reversionary or under-rented IPD The percentage by which ERV exceeds rents passing, The Investment Property Databank Limited IPD is a company together with the estimated rental value of vacant space.
that produces an independent benchmark of property returns.
Reversionary yield IPD central London The anticipated yield, which the initial yield will rise to once An index, compiled by IPD, of the central and inner London the rent reaches the ERV.
properties in their monthly and quarterly valued universes.
Total Property Return TPR Loan To Value LTV Capital growth in the portfolio plus net rental income derived Total bank loans and debenture stock including our share of from holding these properties plus profit on sale of disposals joint ventures expressed as a percentage of the market value expressed as a percentage return on the periods opening value.
of the property portfolio including our share of joint ventures.
Total Shareholder Return TSR Like-for-like portfolio The growth in the ordinary share price as quoted on the London Properties that have been held for the whole of the period Stock Exchange plus dividends per share received for the period of account.
expressed as a percentage of the share price at the beginning of the period.
Market value The amount as estimated by the Companys valuers for which Triple net asset value NNNAV a property should exchange on the date of valuation between NAV adjusted to include the fair value of the Groups financial a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms length transaction liabilities on a diluted basis.
after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted True equivalent yield knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
In line with The constant capitalisation rate which, if applied to all cash flows market practice, values are stated net of purchasers costs.
from an investment property, including current rent, reversions Net assets per share or Net Asset Value NAV to current market rent and such items as voids and expenditures, Equity shareholders funds divided by the number of ordinary equates to the market value having taken into account notional shares at the balance sheet date.
Assumes rent is received quarterly in advance.
Net gearing Weighted Average Cost of Capital WACC Total borrowings less short-term deposits and cash as The weighted average pre-tax cost of the Groups debt and a percentage of adjusted equity shareholders funds.
the notional cost of the Groups equity used as a benchmark to assess investment returns.
Net initial yield Annual net rents on investment properties as a percentage Weighted Average Unexpired Lease Term WAULT of the investment property valuation having added notional The Weighted Average Unexpired Lease Term expressed in years.
Non-PIDs Dividends from profits of the Groups taxable residual business.
