Overview Business & financial review Governance Financial statements Property portfolio Other information Other information | Glossary of terms Glossary of terms Reported amounts adjusted to exclude certain items as set out in note 10 to the accounts.
Adjusted figures per share A major store, usually a department, variety or DIY store or supermarket, occupying a large unit within a shopping centre or Anchor store retail park, which serves as a draw to other retailers and consumers.
The cost of finance expressed as a percentage of the weighted average of borrowings during the period.
Average cost of borrowing The change in property value during the period after taking account of capital expenditure and exchange translation Capital return movements, calculated on a monthly time-weighted basis.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules, issued by the United Kingdom Listing Authority.
DTR Adjusted earnings per share divided by dividend per share.
Dividend cover Profit for the period attributable to equity shareholders divided by the average number of shares in issue during the period.
Earnings per share EPS Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
EBITDA European Public Real Estate Association.
This organisation has issued recommended bases for the calculation of earnings per EPRA share and net asset value per share.
The capitalisation rate applied to future cash flows to calculate the gross property value.
The cash flows reflect the timing of Equivalent yield true and future rents resulting from lettings, lease renewals and rent reviews based on current ERVs.
The true equivalent yield nominal assumes rents are received quarterly in advance.
The nominal equivalent yield assumes rents are received annually in arrears.
The property true and nominal equivalent yields are determined by the Groups external valuers.
The estimated market rental value of the total lettable space in a property, after deducting head and equity rents, calculated ERV by the Groups external valuers.
Net debt expressed as a percentage of equity shareholders funds.
Gearing Property value before deduction of purchasers costs, as provided by the Groups external valuers.
Gross property value Income from rents, car parks and commercial income, after accounting for the net effect of the amortisation of lease Gross rental income incentives.
IAS International Accounting Standards Board.
IASB International Financial Reporting Standard.
IFRS Annual cash rents receivable net of head and equity rents and the cost of vacancy, and in the case of France, net of an Initial yield allowance for costs of approximately 5.2% primarily for management fees, as a percentage of gross property value, as provided by the Groups external valuers.
Rents receivable following the expiry of rent-free periods are not included.
Rent reviews are assumed to have been settled at the contractual review date at ERV.
Net rental income divided by net cost of finance before capitalised interest and change in fair value of derivatives.
Interest cover An agreement with another party to exchange an interest or currency rate obligation for a pre-determined period of time.
Interest rate or currency swap or derivatives Investment Property Databank.
An organisation supplying independent market indices and portfolio benchmarks to the IPD property industry.
The percentage change in net rental income for completed investment properties owned throughout both current and prior Like-for-like underlying net periods, after taking account of exchange translation movements.
rental income Borrowings and foreign currency swaps expressed as a percentage of the total value of investment and development Loan to value ratio properties.
Equity shareholders funds divided by the number of shares in issue at the balance sheet date.
Net asset value per share NAV Income from rents, car parks and commercial income, after deducting head and equity rents payable, and other property Net rental income related costs.
The ERV of the area in a property, or portfolio, excluding developments, which is let, expressed as a percentage of the total Occupancy rate ERV of that property or portfolio.
Hammerson plc | Annual Report 2011 123 Other information | Glossary of terms Glossary of terms continued The amount by which ERV falls short of rents passing, together with the estimated rental value of vacant space.
Over-rented A lease signed with a tenant prior to completion of a development.
Pre-let A dividend, generally subject to withholding tax, that a UK REIT is required to pay from its tax-exempt property rental Property Income Distribution business and which is taxable for UK-resident shareholders at their marginal tax rate.
PID Real Estate Investment Trust.
A tax regime which in the UK exempts participants from corporation tax both on UK rental REIT income and gains arising on UK investment property sales, subject to certain requirements.
The annual rental income receivable from an investment property, after any rent-free periods and after deducting head and Rents passing or passing rents equity rents.
This may be more or less than the ERV see over-rented and reversionary or under-rented.
Capital growth and profit for the year expressed as a percentage of equity shareholders funds at the beginning of the year, all Return on shareholders equity excluding deferred tax and certain non-recurring items.
ROE The amount by which the ERV exceeds the rents passing, together with the estimated rental value of vacant space.
Reversionary or under-rented A dividend received in the form of shares.
Scrip dividend Socits dInvestissements Immobiliers Ctes.
A French tax-exempt regime available to property companies SIIC listed in France.
All capital expenditure on a development project, including capitalised interest.
Total development cost Net rental income and capital return expressed as a percentage of the opening book value of property adjusted for capital Total return expenditure and exchange translation movements, calculated on a monthly time-weighted basis.
Dividends and capital growth in the share price, expressed as a percentage of the share price at the beginning of the year.
Total shareholder return Rental income which is related to an occupiers turnover.
Turnover rent United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
UK GAAP The ERV of the area in a property, or portfolio, excluding developments, which is currently available for letting, expressed Vacancy rate as a percentage of the ERV of that property or portfolio.
Rents passing expressed as a percentage of the total development cost of a property.
Yield on cost Disclaimer This document contains certain statements that are neither reported financial results nor other historical information.
These statements are forward-looking in nature and are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual future results may differ materially from those expressed in or implied by these statements.
Many of these risks and uncertainties relate to factors that are beyond Hammersons ability to control or estimate precisely, such as future market conditions, currency fluctuations, the behaviour of other market participants, the actions of governmental regulators and other risk factors such as the Companys ability to continue to obtain financing to meet its liquidity needs, changes in the political, social and regulatory framework in which the Company operates or in economic or technological trends or conditions, including inflation and consumer confidence, on a global, regional or national basis.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this document.
Hammerson does not undertake any obligation to publicly release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document.
Information contained in this document relating to the Company should not be relied upon as a guide to future performance.
