Overview Business & financial review Governance Financial statements Property portfolio Other information Financial Statements | Directors responsibilities Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records Directors responsibilities in respect of the that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position preparation of the financial statements of the Company and enable them to ensure that the parent company The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence accordance with applicable law and regulations.
for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for and other irregularities.
The Directors are required by the IAS regulation to The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the prepare the Group financial statements under International Financial corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and Group financial statements are also required by law to be properly dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of other jurisdictions.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements Responsibility Statement present fairly for each financial year the Groups financial position, We confirm to the best of our knowledge: financial performance and cash flows.
The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable representation of the effects of transactions, other events and set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, conditions in accordance with the definition and recognition criteria for liabilities, financial position and profit and loss of the Company and the assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair 2.
The Business and financial review, which is incorporated into the presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
Directors Report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and However, Directors are also required to: the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, properly select and apply accounting policies: together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable Signed on behalf of the Board on information: and 23 February 2012 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand David Atkins Timon Drakesmith the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on Director Director the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The Directors have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
