ACCOUNTING POLICIES General information circumstances of the entity acquired.
This includes trading data, such as the These financial statements are the consolidated financial statements of value and duration of contracts acquired, the strength, duration and degree Cobham plc the Company, a public company limited by shares, registered and of exclusivity of relationships with customers, as well as valuation estimates, domiciled in the United Kingdom and its subsidiaries the Group.
Theaddress such as the estimation of likely external royalty rates that could be associated of the registered office is Brook Road, Wimborne, Dorset, England BH21 2BJ.
with technology and branding assets and attributable future cash flows.
Basis of preparation Impairment of goodwill These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least once a year.
This with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by requires estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units CGUs to theEU, International Financial Reporting Interpretation Council IFRIC which the goodwill is allocated.
Estimating the value in use requires the Group interpretations and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the CGUs and tocompanies reporting under IFRS.
also to choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
Further details are given in note 10.
These financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of Taxation derivative financial instruments which are held at fair value.
The Group is subject to taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Significant judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision for tax.
There are many The following standards, amendments to standards and interpretations transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is havebeen adopted with effect from 1 January 2011.
No changes to uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
The Group recognises previously published accounting policies or other adjustments were liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether requiredon their adoption.
additional taxes will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters isdifferent from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences Revised IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
will impact the current tax provision, deferred tax provisions and income Amendment to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement.
statement in the period in which such determination is made.
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments.
Amendment to IFRS 1 Limited Exemption from Comparative IFRS 7 Retirement benefits Disclosurefor First-time Adopters.
The Group financial statements include costs and liabilities in relation to Annual Improvements 2010. retirement benefit obligations.
A number of assumptions are made in Amendment to IAS 32 Classification of Rights Issues.
assessing the costs and present value of the pension assets and liabilities which include the long-term rate of increase of salary costs, discount rate, Management judgement and estimation uncertainty inflation, the expected return on plan assets and mortality rates.
The Group The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the uses published indices and independent actuarial advice to select the values use of estimates and judgements that affect the application of accounting of critical assumptions, which are disclosed in note 24. policies and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses.
Provisions These estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on The consolidated financial statements include appropriate provisions for the historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events estimated outcome of commercial disputes.
No such provision is included for that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The current economic contingent liabilities.
Due to the significant uncertainty associated with the conditions have been considered when evaluating accounting estimates and future level of such claims and contingencies and of the costs arising out of judgements, including the application of the goingconcern basis of preparation.
any related litigation, there can be no guarantee that the assumptions used to Although estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, estimate the provision will result in an accurate prediction of the actual costs event or actions, actual resultsultimately may differ from those estimates.
that may be incurred and, as a result, the provision may be subject to revisions from time to time if new information becomes available as a result of future The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of events.
The Directors take account of the advice of experts in quantifying the estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant expected costs of future adverse judgements.
riskof causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets andliabilities in the next financial year, are as follows: Principal accounting policies The principal accounting policies, which have been consistently applied, Intangible assets recognised on acquisition areasset out below.
On completion of a business combination, the cost is allocated by recognising the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired at fair value.
Underlying measures Intangible assets are recognised where they are separable or arise from In addition to the information required by IFRS and to assist with the contractual or legal rights, and have a fair value that can be measured understanding of earnings trends, the Group has included within its reliably.
For the Group these intangible assets usually comprise contractual publishedfinancial statements non-GAAP measures including trading arrangements, customer relationships and technology based assets, profitand underlying earnings results.
butcanalso include acquired patents, software rights and licences and development costs.
Trading profit has been defined as operating profit from continuing operations excluding the impacts of certain M&A related costs and business restructuring In establishing the fair value for intangible assets recognised on acquisition costs as detailed below.
Also excluded are the marking to market of non-hedge and their estimated useful lives, the Group takes account of the individual accounted derivative financial instruments not realised in the period, Group financial statements 60 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 impairments of intangible assets and items deemed by the Directors tobe of on these translations are accounted for in other comprehensive income OCI an exceptional nature such as the settlement of a long-standing commercial and the translation reserve.
Underlying earnings are defined as trading profit less net underlying finance expense, which excludes the unwinding of acquisition related Business combinations discounting, and after deducting taxation and non-controlling interests.
Businesses acquired are accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting with effect from the date control passes.
The cost of an acquisition M&A related costs excluded from trading profit and underlying earnings include is measured as the fair value of the consideration transferred.
Thisis the fair the amortisation of intangible assets recognised on acquisition, the writing off values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests of the pre-acquisition profit element of inventory written up on acquisition and issued by the Group.
Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
costs charged post acquisition related to acquired share options.
M&A related Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a costs also include other direct costs associated with business combinations and business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition direct costs arising from any terminated acquisitions or divestments.
The excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded asgoodwill.
Business restructuring costs comprise exceptional profits or losses associated with the restructuring of the Groups business and site integrations including Contingent consideration not in the form of equity instruments is costs associated with the Excellence in Delivery programme.
accounted for as a financial liability and adjustments to contingent consideration are accounted for as gains or losses recognised through All underlying measures include the revenue and operational results of both profitorloss and excluded from trading profit and underlying earnings.
continuing and those operations being sold until the point of sale.
Operating segments Net debt is defined as the net of cash and cash equivalents less borrowings The chief operating decision making body for the Group has been identified atthe balance sheet date.
It reviews the Groups internal reporting in order to assess performance and allocate resources.
The internal reporting structure has Basis of consolidation been updated for the revised Group structure applicable from January 2011 The Group financial statements include the financial statements of the parent and forms the basis of the Groups segmental reporting.
Comparatives have company, Cobham plc, and of all its subsidiaries made up to the end of the been restated to reflect the revised segmental structure and the segments financial period.
are described further in note 1.
All operating segments meet the definition of reportable segments.
Details of the composition and purpose ofthe Board Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Company has control, which is can be found on pages 34 to 37. defined as the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Subsidiaries are fully The Board assesses the performance of operating segments based on consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Company revenue, trading profit as defined above and operating cash generation.
until the date that control ceases.
On derecognition, any amounts previously Interest income and expenditure, and taxation, are not segmented and recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity are arereviewed by the Board on a Group basis.
accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets orliabilities.
This may mean that amounts previously recognised in other The Board does not review any information on segment assets and liabilities.
comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss.
Segment assets as disclosed in note 1 have been defined to include intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, investment properties, inventory and Joint ventures are entities where control is shared with one or more third trade and other receivables.
They do not include tax receivables, cash and parties.
They are not consolidated but are accounted for using the equity bank balances and derivative financial assets.
The Group financial statements include the Groups share of the post acquisition change in net assets and the profit or loss of the jointly controlled The Group accounting policies are applied consistently across all segments entity from the date that joint control commences until the date this ceases.
Trading between segments is contracted and priced at arms length commercial terms.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated onconsolidation.
Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the right to consideration, Foreign currencies netofreturns, rebates and other similar allowances.
The presentation currency of the Group is sterling.
Most Group companies, including the parent company, use their local currency as their functional Revenue from the sale of goods not under a long term contract is recognised currency.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency when the significant risks and rewards of ownership and effective control of aretranslated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
the goods have been passed to the customer, recovery of the consideration Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies is probable, and the amount of revenue and costs can be measured reliably.
areretranslated at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date and In the case of contracts with a long duration, including contracts with a anyexchange differences arising are taken to the income statement.
funded development phase, revenue is recognised based upon the fair value of work performed to date assessed with reference to completed contract For consolidation purposes the assets and liabilities of foreign operations milestones which have been accepted by the customer.
aretranslated at the closing exchange rates.
Income statements of such undertakings are consolidated at the average rates of exchange as an Long term contract accounting as described in IAS 11 Construction Contracts approximation for actual rates during the year.
Exchange differences arising is not generally applicable to the longer term contracts for sales of goods Group financial statements Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 61 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED entered into by Group companies.
Where long term contract accounting atthe date of acquisition.
Goodwill acquired is allocated at acquisition to isapplicable, revenue is recognised on a percentage of completion basis theCGUs that are expected to benefit from that business combination.
whereby a portion of the contract revenue is recognised based on contract CGUs represent the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill costs incurred to date compared with total estimated costs at completion.
is monitored for internal management purposes.
Revenue for services is recognised as the services are rendered with reference Goodwill arising on business combinations is capitalised and reviewed for to the proportion of the service delivered to date.
For cost-plus contracts impairment at least annually.
Any impairment isrecognised immediately typically with government departments and agencies, revenue is recognised inthe income statement and cannot be subsequently reversed.
to the extent of reimbursable costs incurred, plus a proportionate amount ofthe estimated fee earned.
For contracts where revenue is determined on On divestment of a business the attributable amount of goodwill is included aunit activity basis, revenue is recognised on the basis of activity undertaken in the determination of the profit or loss on divestment.
exchange differences reclassified to the income statementfrom the translation reserve.
Revenue excludes inter-company sales, value added tax and other salestaxes.
Research and development Taxation including deferred taxation Research expenditure not chargeable to customers is written off as incurred.
The tax expense relates to the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Development costs not chargeable to customers are written off as incurred until it can be demonstrated that the conditions for capitalisation as Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year, which differs from profit described in IAS 38 Intangible Assets are met.
At that point further costs are before taxation as reported in the income statement.
Taxable profit excludes capitalised as an intangible asset until the intangible asset is readily available items of income and expense that are taxable or deductible in other years for use and it is then amortised on a straight-line basis over the assets and also excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups estimated useful life.
liability for current tax is calculated using rates that have been enacted orsubstantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Other intangible assets Intangible assets other than goodwill which are acquired by the Group are Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method in stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
respect of temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and Theseinclude customer relationships, technology and software, trademarks, liabilities and their carrying values in the consolidated financial statements.
The only internally generated intangible assets are development costs which are capitalised as described above and internally Deferred tax is calculated using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted developed software where asset recognition criteria are met.
orsubstantively enacted by the balance sheet date and that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled.
Tax is All other intangible assets are amortised over the assets estimated useful life charged or credited to the income statement except when it relates to items on a straight-line basis as follows: recognised in OCI or directly in equity, in which case the deferred tax is also Customer relationships 2 to 15 years dealt with in OCI or in equity respectively.
Technology and software 2 to 10 years Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that Development costs 2 to 10 years taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary Other intangible assets 6 months to 10 years differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets isreviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that Useful lives are assessed for each asset on an individual basis taking into itisnolonger probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to account the specific characteristics of the asset.
allowallor part of the assets to be recovered.
Property, plant and equipment Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments Freehold land is not depreciated, but is reviewed for impairment at insubsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary leastannually.
difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Freehold and leasehold buildings, plant and equipment are held at historic cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment losses.
Tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to Cost comprises the purchase price and any costs directly attributable to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred theasset.
taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
All property, plant and equipment other than land is depreciated on a Dividends straight-line basis to the estimated residual values over the estimated useful Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are lives.
These lives are as follows: fullyauthorised.
Freehold buildings 50 years Intangible assets Leasehold properties The period of the lease Goodwill Plant and equipment 3 to 15 years Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a business Group financial statements 62 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Estimated residual values and the estimated useful lives are reviewed annually the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease and adjusted where necessary.
payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly to the lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, the term of the incomestatement.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Aircraft overhaul expenditure Major overhaul expenditure on owned aircraft is capitalised when incurred Inventories and the resultant property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Major overhaul costs that are contractually required on aircraft comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and held under operating leases are provided for over the period between the those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their scheduled maintenance events.
Cost is calculated using the first-in, first-out method.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all Investment properties estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling Investment properties, which are properties held to earn rentals or for capital and distribution.
Provision is made where necessary for obsolete, slow moving appreciation, are stated at cost in the balance sheet.
They are depreciated on and defective items.
a straight-line basis to their estimated residual value over their estimated useful lives of up to 50 years.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are stated at Rental income is recognised as revenue on a straight-line basis.
the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
No depreciation is charged in respect of non-current assets classified as held for sale.
Impairment losses The carrying amounts of the Groups non-financial assets are reviewed at Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their least annually to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than Inaddition, intangible assets with an indefinite useful life, such as goodwill, through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale are tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that is highly probable and expected to be completed within a year of the balance the asset may be impaired.
The asset or disposal group is also available for immediate sale in its present condition and is being actively marketed at a price that is Where there is an indication of impairment, the assets recoverable amount reasonable in relation to its current fair value.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs toselland value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash Financial instruments flowsare discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not instrument.
Financial assets are recognised at trade date.
recognised, financial assets and liabilities are measured at fair value.
An impairment loss is recognised where the recoverable amount of an asset Financial assets islower than its carrying amount.
All impairment losses are recognised in the The classification of financial assets depends on the purpose for which the income statement.
Management determines the classification of an asset at initial recognition and re-evaluates the designation at each reporting date.
An impairment loss other than arising on goodwill is reversed only after a change in the estimates used to assess recoverable amount and only to the Financial assets are categorised and subsequently valued as follows: extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if Assets held at fair value through profit or loss are those categorised as held noimpairment loss had been recognised.
Any reversal is recognised in the for trading under IAS 39 and are classified as current assets or non-current income statement.
Such financial assets are subsequently carried at fair value.
Leasing Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease determinable payments which are not quoted in an active market, including transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
These are classified as current or non-current Allother leases are classified as operating leases.
assets dependent upon maturity and included within trade and other receivables.
The fair value of these financial assets is adjusted for transaction Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the asset.
fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and receivables are carried at each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Group financial statements Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 63 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED None of the Groups material financial assets fall into the held to maturity Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting oravailable for sale categories which are defined as follows: As explained in note 25, the Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest Held to maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed rates.
The Group uses foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swap maturity dates which the Group intends to hold to maturity.
contracts to reduce these exposures and does not use derivative financial Available for sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets instruments for speculative purposes.
Other derivative financial instruments either designated by management as available for sale or not falling into may be used from time to time to hedge other exposures such as anyof the above categories.
Financial liabilities The Group has documented its risk management objectives and strategy Financial liabilities are categorised on initial recognition as liabilities held at fair forundertaking various hedge transactions, and utilises hedge accounting value through profit or loss, or other liabilities held at cost.
Liabilities held at principles in relation to interest rate swaps.
These are designated as cash fair value through profit or loss are those categorised as held for trading under flowhedges which mitigate the Groups exposure to changes in interest IAS 39 and are classified as current or non-current liabilities dependent upon ratesarising on floating rate debt.
From time to time, the Group may also the maturity date of the instruments.
useinterest rate swaps to manage its exposure to changes in the fair value offixed rate borrowings, however there are no such contracts outstanding Derivative financial instruments are categorised as held for trading unless they atthe present time.
Foreign exchange contracts entered into to mitigate are designated as hedges.
foreign exchange impacts of trading in non-functional currencies, and inflation swaps entered into to mitigate inflation risks, are not accounted The fair value of financial liabilities held at cost not at fair value through profit for using hedgeaccounting.
or loss is adjusted for transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the liability.
Financial liabilities at fair value through Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the profit or loss are subsequently carried at fair value: financial liabilities not date the contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their atfair value through profit or loss are stated at amortised cost using the fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on effective interest method.
whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are stated at their amortised cost, reduced by Where hedge accounting is applied, the relationship between hedging appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Allowances for instruments and hedged items is documented at the inception of the irrecoverable amounts are made when there is evidence that the Group may transaction.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge not be able to collect the amount due.
All trade receivables which are more inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives used in than six months overdue are provided for based on estimated irrecoverable hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash amounts determined by reference to past default experience.
Amounts flows or fair values if appropriate of hedged items.
which are less than six months overdue are provided where recovery of the balance due is considered to be doubtful.
The impairment recorded is the Where interest rate swaps are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, difference between the carrying value of the receivables and the present theeffective portion of changes in fair value is recognised in OCI through value of the estimated future cash flows.
Any impairment required is recorded thehedging reserve.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is in the income statement in administrative expenses.
The balance may be recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated written off in full generally where receivables are in excess of 12 months old.
inequity are reclassified to finance income and expense in the income At that time any amounts previously provided for impairment are released.
statement in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
Cash and cash equivalents When a cash flow hedging derivative expires or is sold, or when a hedge no Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and bank deposits longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss withanoriginal maturity of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that existing in the hedging reserve in equity at that time remains in equity and arerepayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups isrecognised in the income statement when the forecast transaction is cashmanagement are included as a component of cash and cash ultimately recognised in the income statement.
If a hedged transaction is no equivalentsforthe purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement.
longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in the hedging reserve in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement Bank borrowings in thatperiod.
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the amount of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Borrowing costs, net of amounts The fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a current asset or capitalised, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and liabilityexcept when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more direct issue costs, are charged to the income statement and are added to the than12months.
carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Borrowing costs that are directly attributable Where hedge accounting is not applied, the movements in fair value to relevant property, plant and equipment are capitalised as part of the cost ofthederivative instruments are included in the income statement as part of thatasset.
The fair value of such derivatives is classified as a current or non-current asset or liability dependent upon the expected realisation Trade payables ofthe assets or settlement of the liabilities.
Trade payables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominalvalue.
Group financial statements 64 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Provisions Share capital A provision is required when the Group has a present legal or constructive Ordinary share capital is classified as equity.
Financial liabilities and equity obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that settlement will instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual berequired at an amount that can be reliably estimated.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting Provisions for warranty costs are recognised at the date of sale of the relevant allofitsliabilities.
products, at managements best estimates of the expenditure required to settle the Groups liabilities.
Preference share capital is classified as a liability if it is redeemable on a specific date or at the option of the preference shareholders or if dividend Contract loss provisions are recognised for onerous contracts when the payments are not discretionary.
Dividends on preference share capital expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower classified as liabilities are recognised in the income statement as thanthe unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
Aircraft maintenance provisions are established in respect of significant Treasury shares periodic maintenance costs, where maintenance activity is required on leased When ordinary share capital recognised as equity is acquired by the Company, operational aircraft or engines on a cycle greater than 12 months.
Costs are the shares are held as treasury shares.
The consideration paid, including charged to the income statement on the basis of utilisation of the aircraft.
commissions and taxes, is deducted from retained earnings and total Maintenance carried out on a cycle of 12 months or less is charged to the shareholders equity.
The proceeds of any treasury shares subsequently sold income statement as incurred.
or re-issued, net of commission and taxes, are recognised as an increase in retained earnings and total shareholders equity.
When aircraft are leased, it is customary for the contract to contain specific conditions regarding the configuration of the aircraft on its return to the Share-based payments lessor at the end of the lease.
The estimated cost associated with fulfilling For grants made under the Groups equity settled share-based payment these requirements is charged to the income statement on an aircraft schemes, amounts which reflect the fair value of options awarded as at utilisation basis.
thetime of grant are charged to the income statement over the relevant vestingperiods.
Provisions for claims made against the Group and commitments made under performance guarantees are recognised at managements best estimates of The valuation methodology for all schemes is based on the Black-Scholes the expenditure required to settle the Groups liabilities.
model, modified where required to allow for the impact of market related performance criteria and taking into account all non-vesting conditions.
Provisions are discounted at an appropriate risk-free rate when the impactismaterial.
Accounting standards not yet effective A number of amendments to existing standards have been published that Pensions aremandatory for future accounting periods, subject to EU endorsement.
The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined Those which are applicable from 1 January 2012 are as follows: contributionschemes.
Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
For defined benefit schemes the amounts charged to operating profit are Amendment to IAS 12 Deferred tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets.
Gains and losses on settlements and curtailments Amendments to IFRS 1 First time adoption of IFRS: Severe Hyperinflation arising on a business divestment are included in profit on divestment.
Past andRemoval of Fixed Dates for First-Time Adopters.
service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement if the benefits have vested.
If the benefits have not vested, the costs are recognised None of these have been adopted early by the Group or are expected over the period until vesting occurs.
The expected return on assets and to have an impact on the Groups financial reporting.
interest cost are shown within finance income and expense.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in OCI.
There are also a number of new standards and amendments to existing standards which, once endorsed by the EU, will be effective from 1 January Defined benefit schemes are funded, with the assets of the scheme held 2013 and 2015.
Management are separately from those of the Group, in separate trustee administered funds.
currently assessing the impact of these changes on the future reporting Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value and liabilities are measured ofthe Groups operations.
on an actuarial basis using the projected unit method and discounted at a rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond ofequivalent currency and term to the scheme liabilities.
The actuarial valuations are obtained at least triennially and are updated at each balance sheet date.
The resulting net defined benefit asset or liability is presented separately on the face of the balance sheet.
For defined contribution schemes the amounts charged to the income statement in respect of pension costs and other post-retirement benefits arethe contributions payable in the year.
Differences between contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are recorded as either accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
Group financial statements Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 65
