GLOSSARY Acronym Full Name Description A330 MRTT Airbus A330 Multi-Role Tanker Transport A multi-role aircraft with air-to-air refuelling and passenger or cargo transport capabilities.
AARGM Advanced Anti-Radiation Guided Missile A supersonic, medium-range, air-launched tactical missile compatible with US and allied strike aircraft and designed to home in on electronic transmissions from radar installations.
AESA radar Active Electronically Scanned Array radar An advanced radar system with air, ground and marine applications that provides significant capability and reliability improvements over existing radar technologies.
AMRAAM Advanced Medium-Range Air-to-Air Missile A new generation of air-to-air missile with an all-weather, beyond-visual-range capability.
Apache Boeing AH-64 Apache An advanced multi-role combat attack helicopter with over 1,800 delivered to 12 armed forces around the world, including the US Army.
CH-53K Sikorsky CH-53K A heavy-lift helicopter, currently being developed for the US Marine Corps to replace thecurrentCH-53E.
COGS Ceramic Oxygen Generation System A system that produces medical grade oxygen for use in remote locations with applications including military field hospitals and the industrial gas market.
EC175 Eurocopter EC175 A commercial helicopter with applications for the oil & gas industry, search and rescue operations, executive transport, emergency medical and law enforcement.
The first EC175 deliveries are expected in2012.
ERP Enterprise Resource Planning A software system which integrates all business processes including, manufacturing, finance and accounting, human resources, sales and marketing, purchasing and distribution, and inventory and warehouse into one central cohesive repository.
It allows businesses to run more efficiently, with real time access to data across many business functions.
F-16 Lockheed Martin F-16 A single engine, multi-role fighter aircraft.
With over 4,500 produced, the F-16 has been selected by 26 nations around the world, including the US Air Force.
F-18 Boeing F-18 A carrier-based, twin engine, multi-role fighter aircraft.
The F-18 is currently serving the armed services of eight nations, including the US Navy.
F-35 JSF Lockheed Martin F-35 Joint Strike Fighter A next generation strike aircraft for the US Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps and US allies.
F-35development is being principally funded by the United States, with the United Kingdom and other partner governments providing additional funding.
FSTA Future Strategic Tanker Aircraft A UK Private Finance Initiative funded project to replace the UKs air-to-air refuelling Fleets, andelements of the Air Transport work currently undertaken by RAF VC-10 and TriStar fleets.
GA General Aviation A category of aviation that encompasses all operations not performed by airlines, charter operators or the military.
It consists of business, sightseeing, search and rescue, training, recreational, survey and aerial ambulance, ranging in size from a small two-seat trainer to large airline-size aircraft.
Global Xpress Inmarsat Global Xpress A satellite service, scheduled to begin in 2013, which will be the world's first to offer global mobile broadband coverage.
Global Xpress will provide increased data speeds and bandwidth to customers in the government, maritime and aeronautical sectors.
HGA 7001 High Gain Antenna 7001 An antenna that enables the use of Inmarsat SwiftBroadband aboard an aircraft.
The HGA 7001 is currently selected by 40 airline and other customers.
Ka-band Ka-band Frequency A frequency band that enables faster download speeds, with greater bandwidth than those currently available.
KC-390 Embraer KC-390 Refuelling Tanker A medium-lift military transport and tanker aircraft currently being developed by Embraer.
Production is scheduled to commence in2015.
Other information Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 123 GLOSSARY CONTINUED Acronym Full Name Description KC-46A Boeing KC-46A Refuelling Tanker A refuelling tanker, currently being developed for the US Air Force to replace its ageing fleet of KC-135 Stratotankers.
The KC-46A, with initial flights scheduled for 2014, offers improved cargo and passenger capability.
MCU Microclimate Cooling Unit A system consisting primarily of a cooled vest, which prevents a soldier's body temperature from rising in extreme heat environments, increasing safe mission duration by more than350%.
NH90 NHI Industries NH90 A multi-mission helicopter manufactured by NHI Industries, which is wholly owned by Eurocopter, AgustaWestland, and Fokker Aerostructures.
Predator Reaper unmanned General Atomics MQ-1 Predator Unmanned aerial systems equipped with advanced radars, avionics, sensors and data links.
aerial systems MQ-9Reaper Basedon the same platform, both aircraft serve as intelligence gathering, reconnaissance aircraft with strike capability against groundtargets.
RAIMS Radio Audio Integration Enables control of all aircraft communications and cabin audio systems through a single system, ManagementSystem bringing considerable benefits in weight, space andreliability.
SATCOM Satellite Communication Enables voice and data communications such as telephone calls, TV pictures or internet connections, using an orbiting satellite to transfer data around theearth.
SwiftBroadband Inmarsat SwiftBroadband A service that provides voice and high-speed data simultaneously on-board an aircraft for key cockpit and cabin applications.
These include in-flight telephony, Voice over IP, text messaging, email andinternet.
UAV UAS Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Unmanned aircraft that generally carry cameras, sensors, communications equipment or other UnmannedAerialSystem payloads.
They are currently used in a reconnaissance and intelligence gathering roles with more challenging roles envisioned, including combatmissions.
V-22 Bell Boeing V-22 A multi-mission tiltrotor, vertical takeoff and landing aircraft manufactured by Bell Boeing, a team of Bell Helicopter and Boeing, that is currently in service with the US Marines and the US Air Force Special OperationsCommand.
WGS Wideband Global Satellite A constellation of satellites providing worldwide communication coverage.
The WGS system is expected to consist of ten satellites, eight US funded, and two funded via .
Other information 124 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 DEFINITIONS The following notes apply throughout the Annual Report and Accounts: A reconciliation of operating profit, profit before taxation and profit after taxation attributable to equity shareholders to the respective underlying All numbers referring to core businesses exclude Analytic Solutions, which numbers is shown on page 24. was divested in November 2011 and Commercial Systems, which the Group plans to divest.
Operating cash flow is defined as cash generated from operations, after cash flows from the purchase or disposal of property, plant, equipment and To assist with the understanding of earnings trends, the Group has included intangible assets.
Operating cash conversion is defined as operating cash within its published statements trading profit and underlying earnings flow as a percentage of trading profit, excluding profit from joint ventures.
Trading profit has been defined as operating profit from continuing Free cash flow is operating cash flow after net interest, taxation and operations excluding the impacts of certain transaction related costs and dividends received from joint ventures.
business restructuring costs as detailed below.
Also excluded are the markingto market of non-hedge accounted derivative financial Net debt is defined as the net of cash and cash equivalents less borrowings instruments not realised in the period and items deemed by the Directors atthe balance sheet date.
to be of an exceptional nature.
Underlying earnings are defined as trading profit less netunderlying finance expense, which excludes the unwinding Organic revenue growth is defined as revenue growth stated at constant of acquisition related discounting, and after deducting taxation and translation exchange rates, excluding the incremental effect of acquisitions non-controlling interests.
Transaction related costs excluded from trading profit and underlying Private Venture PV or company funded R&D Research and Development earnings include the amortisation of intangible assets recognised on and R&D measures exclude Aviation Services, where there is no acquisition, thewriting off of the pre-acquisition profit element of technologyinvestment.
inventory written up on acquisition and other direct costs associated withbusiness combinations anddivestments.
Business restructuring costs comprise exceptional costs or profits associated with the restructuring of the Groups businesses including costsassociated with the Excellence in Delivery programme.
Designed and produced by Addison www.
co. uk Printed by Park Communications on FSC certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified CarbonNeutral Company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with thisproduction will be recycled.
This document is printed on Amadeus coated 50 silk, a paper containing 50% recycled fibre 25% post consumer and 25% pre consumer and 50% virgin fibre sourced from well managed, sustainable, FSC certified forests.
The pulp used in this product is bleached using an elemental chlorine free ECF process.
When you have finished with this report, please pass it on to other interestedparties or remove the cover and dispose of it in your recycled paperwaste.
We are technically diverse, innovative and agile by design Cobham plc Brook Road, Wimborne, Dorset, BH21 2BJ, England www.
