PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTING POLICIES Accounting convention Tangible fixed assets These financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost Fixed assets are initially recognised at cost and depreciated on a straight-line convention, as modified by the revaluation of derivative contracts which are basis to their estimated residual values over their estimated useful lives which held at fair value, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable range from three to six years.
accounting standards in the United Kingdom UK GAAP.
Investments in Group and other undertakings The principal accounting policies, which have been consistently applied, Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less any provision areasset out below.
for impairment in value and include the fair value at the date of grant of share options awarded to employees of subsidiary undertakings, net of amounts Dividends recovered as management charges.
Dividends payable are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are fully authorised.
Dividend income is recognised when the shareholders right Other investments are stated at cost less any provision for impairment to receive payment has been established.
Pensions Provisions The Company operates and contributes to a multi-employer defined benefit A provision is recognised when the Company has a present legal or pension scheme.
Contributions and pension costs are apportioned across constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that thescheme as a whole and assessed in accordance with the advice of settlement will be required of an amount that can be reliably estimated.
The scheme is closed to new members and has a high proportion of deferred and pensioner members from businesses that no Share capital longer participate in the scheme.
The Company is therefore not able to Ordinary share capital is classified as equity.
Financial liabilities and equity identify its share of underlying assets and liabilities of the scheme on a instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual reasonable and consistent basis and in accordance with the multi-employer agreements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that exemption contained in FRS 17 Retirement Benefits, the scheme has been evidencesa residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting accounted foras if it was a defined contribution scheme.
The charge to the allof its liabilities.
profit and loss account therefore reflects payments for the year.
Preference share capital is classified as a liability if it is redeemable on a Contributions to defined contribution schemes are charged to the profit specific date or at the option of the preference shareholders or if dividend andloss account in the period the contributions are payable.
Dividends on preference share capital classified as liabilities are recognised in the profit and loss account as The Company also makes contributions for certain employees to individual interestexpense.
personal pension and stakeholder schemes.
Contributions are charged to the profit and loss account in the year to which they relate.
Treasury shares When ordinary share capital recognised as equity is acquired by the Company, Deferred taxation the shares are held as treasury shares.
The consideration paid, including Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have commissions and taxes, is deducted from retained earnings and total originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, where transactions shareholders equity.
orevents that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right topay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
Foreign currencies The functional currency of the Company is sterling.
Transactions in currencies A net deferred tax asset is recognised as recoverable when, on the basis of other than the local currency are translated at the exchange rate ruling at allavailable evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there thedate of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in willbe suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of underlying non-functional currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate ruling at timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the All exchange differences arising are taken to the profit and loss account.
periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on taxrates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the In order to manage the Groups exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, balance sheet date.
Deferred tax has not been discounted.
the Company enters into forward contracts and options which are accounted for as derivative financial instruments.
Intangible assets Intangible assets, comprising software, are stated at cost less accumulated Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting amortisation and impairment losses.
They are amortised on a straight-line The Companys activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes basis over their estimated useful lives which range from three to five years.
in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The Company uses foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swap contracts to reduce these exposures and does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Other derivative financial instruments may be used from time to time to hedge other exposures such as inflation risks.
Parent company financial statements 110 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 The Group has documented its risk management objectives and strategy Share-based payments forundertaking various hedge transactions and utilises hedge accounting For grants made to employees of Cobham plc under the Groups share-based principles in relation to interest rate swaps.
These are designated as cash payment schemes, amounts which reflect the fair value of options awarded flowhedges which mitigate the Groups exposure to changes in interest as at the time of grant are charged to the profit and loss account over the ratesarising on floating rate debt.
Foreign exchange contracts entered into vesting period.
The fair value of options awarded to employees of subsidiary tomitigate foreign exchange impacts of trading in non-functional currencies undertakings, net of amounts recovered as management charges, is and inflation swaps entered into to mitigate inflation risks are not accounted recognised as a capital contribution and recorded in investments.
The valuation of the options utilises a methodology based on the Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the Black-Scholes model, modified where required to allow for the impact date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured ofmarketrelated performance criteria and taking into account all at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss .
depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument andif so the nature of the item being hedged.
Where hedge accounting is applied, the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items is documented at the inception of the transaction.
The Company also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows or fair values if appropriate of hedged items.
Where interest rate swaps are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, theeffective portion of changes in fair values of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in reserves.
Thegain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Amounts accumulated in reserves are recycled to the profit and loss account in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
When a cash flow hedging derivative expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in reserves at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the profit and loss account.
Ifa hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in reserves is immediately transferred to the profit andloss account in that period.
The fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a current asset or liabilityexcept when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than12months.
Where hedge accounting is not applied, the movements in fair value of thederivative instruments are included in the profit and loss account.
Thefairvalue of such derivatives is classified as a current or non-current assetor liability dependent upon the maturity of the contracts.
Other financial instruments Amounts receivable from and owed to subsidiaries are recognised at their nominal value.
Receivables are reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges are accounted for on an accruals basis in the profit and loss account using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Parent company financial statements Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 111
