Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 continued 2. significant accounting policies continued Revenue on long-term development contracts is recognised according to the c Investment properties continued stage reached in the contract by reference to the value of work completed using Investment properties are measured initially at cost, including related transaction the percentage of completion method.
An appropriate estimate of the profit costs.
After initial recognition at cost, investment properties are carried at their attributable to work completed is recognised once the outcome of the contract fair values based on market value determined by professional independent valuers can be estimated reliably.
The gross amount due from customers for contract at each reporting date.
Properties are treated as acquired at the point when the work is shown as a receivable.
The gross amount due comprises costs incurred Group assumes the significant risks and returns of ownership and as disposed plus recognised profits less the sum of recognised losses and progress billings.
when these are transferred to the buyer.
Additions to investment properties Where the sum of recognised losses and progress billings exceeds costs incurred consist of costs of a capital nature and, in the case of investment properties plus recognised profits, the amount is shown as a liability.
Certain internal staff and associated costs directly attributable to the management of major schemes during the g Trade and finance lease receivables construction phase are also capitalised.
Trade and finance lease receivables are recognised initially at fair value, The difference between the fair value of an investment property at subsequently at amortised cost and, where material, adjusted for the time value the reporting date and its carrying amount prior to re-measurement is included of money.
A provision for impairment is established where there is objective in the income statement as a valuation surplus or deficit.
evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to When the Group begins to redevelop an existing investment property the original terms of the receivables concerned.
If collection is expected in more for continued future use as an investment property, the property remains an than one year, they are classied as non-current assets.
investment property and is accounted for as such.
When the Group begins to redevelop an existing investment property with a view to sell, the property is h Cash and cash equivalents transferred to trading properties and held as a current asset.
The property is Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash balances, deposits held at call with re-measured to fair value as at the date of the transfer with any gain or loss being banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities taken to the income statement.
The re-measured amount becomes the deemed of three months or fewer.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and cost at which the property is then carried in trading properties.
form an integral part of the Groups cash management are deducted from cash Borrowing costs associated with direct expenditure on properties under and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash ows.
development or undergoing major refurbishment are capitalised.
The interest capitalised is calculated using the Groups weighted average cost of borrowings i Loan investments after adjusting for borrowings associated with specic developments.
Where Loan investments are non-derivative financial assets which are initially borrowings are associated with specic developments, the amount capitalised recognised at fair value plus acquisition costs.
They are subsequently carried is the gross interest incurred on those borrowings less any investment income at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
arising on their temporary investment.
Interest is capitalised as from the commencement of the development work until the date of practical completion.
j Trade and other payables The capitalisation of finance costs is suspended if there are prolonged periods Trade and other payables are initially stated at cost as cost equates to fair value when development activity is interrupted.
Interest is also capitalised on the and subsequently at amortised cost.
purchase cost of land or property acquired specically for redevelopment in the short term but only where activities necessary to prepare the asset for k Provisions redevelopment are in progress.
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a constructive On sale of an asset, the asset is derecognised when the significant or legal obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outow of risks and returns associated with the asset have been transferred to the buyer.
economic benets will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, This generally occurs on unconditional exchange, except where payment or provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash ows at a completion is expected to occur signicantly after exchange.
For conditional pre-tax rate that reects current market assessments of the time value of money exchanges, the asset is derecognised when the conditions of the exchange and, where appropriate, the risks specic to the liability.
l Borrowings d Property, plant and equipment Borrowings other than bank overdrafts are recognised initially at fair value less This category comprises computers, motor vehicles, furniture, xtures and attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, borrowings are ttings and improvements to Group ofces.
These assets are stated at cost stated at amortised cost with any difference between the amount initially less accumulated depreciation and are depreciated to their residual value on a recognised and redemption value being recognised in the income statement straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives of between two and five years.
over the period of the borrowings, using the effective interest method.
The residual values and useful lives of all property, plant and equipment Where existing borrowings are exchanged for new borrowings and are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at least at each financial year end.
the terms of the existing and new borrowings are not substantially different as dened by IAS 39, the new borrowings are recognised initially at the carrying e Investments in subsidiary undertakings amount of the existing borrowings.
The difference between the amount initially Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost in the Companys recognised and the redemption value of the new borrowings is recognised in the balance sheet, less any provision for impairment in value.
income statement over the period of the new borrowings, using the effective interest method.
f Trading properties and long-term development contracts Trading properties are those properties held for sale and are shown at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
