Glossary Adjusted earnings per share EPS Joint venture Rental income Earnings per share based on revenue profit plus profits losses on An entity in which the Group holds an interest and is jointly controlled by Rental income is as reported in the income statement, on an accruals trading properties and long-term development contracts all after tax.
the Group and one or more venturers under a contractual arrangement.
basis, and adjusted for the spreading of lease incentives over the term Decisions on financial and operating policies essential to the operation, certain of the lease in accordance with SIC 15.
It is stated gross, prior to Adjusted net asset value NAV per share performance and financial position of the venture require each the deduction of ground rents and without deduction for operational NAV per share adjusted to add back the adjustment arising from the partners consent.
outgoings on car park and commercialisation activities.
fide-recognition of the bond exchange, together with cumulative fair value movements on interest-rate swaps and similar instruments.
Lease incentives Retail Portfolio Any incentive offered to occupiers to enter into a lease.
Typically the This business segment includes our shopping centres, shops, retail Adjusted net debt incentive will be an initial rent-free period, or a cash contribution to warehouse properties and assets held in retail joint ventures but not Net debt excluding cumulative fair value movements on interest-rate fit-out or similar costs.
For accounting purposes, under IFRS, the value central London shops.
swaps and the adjustment arising from the fide-recognition of the of the incentive is spread over the non-cancellable life of the lease.
Return on average capital employed LIBOR Group profit before interest, plus joint venture profit before tax, divided Average unexpired lease term The London Interbank Offered Rate, the interest rate charged by one by the average capital employed defined as shareholders funds plus Excludes short-term lettings such as car parks and advertising bank to another for lending money.
hoardings, residential leases and long ground leases.
Like-for-like portfolio Return on average equity Book value The like-for-like portfolio includes all properties which have been in the Group profit before tax plus joint venture tax divided by the average The amount at which assets and liabilities are reported in the portfolio since 1 April 2009, but excluding those which are acquired, sold equity shareholders funds.
or included in the development pipeline at any time during the period.
Revenue profit BREEAM Loan-to-value LTV Profit before tax, excluding profits on the sale of non-current assets Building Research Establishments Environmental Assessment Method.
Group LTV is the ratio of adjusted net debt, including joint ventures, to and trading properties, profits on long-term development contracts, Combined portfolio the sum of investment properties, net investment in finance leases and valuation surpluses, fair value movements on interest-rate swaps and The combined portfolio is our wholly-owned investment property trading properties of both the Group and joint ventures, expressed as similar instruments used for hedging purposes, the adjustment to portfolio combined with our share of the properties held in joint a percentage.
For the Security Group, LTV is the ratio of net debt lent interest payable resulting from the amortisation of the bond exchange ventures.
Unless stated these are the pro-forma numbers we use to the Security Group divided by the value of secured assets.
fide-recognition, debt restructuring charges and any items of an when discussing the investment property business.
London Portfolio Completed developments This business segment includes all London offices and central Reversionary or under-rented Completed developments consist of those properties previously London shops and assets held in London joint ventures.
Space where the passing rent is below the ERV.
included in the development programme, which have been transferred Market value Reversionary yield from the development programme since 1 April 2009.
Market value is determined by the Groups valuers, in accordance with The anticipated yield to which the initial yield will rise or fall once Development pipeline the RICS Valuation Standards, as an opinion of the estimated amount the rent reaches the ERV.
The Groups development programme together with proposed for which a property should exchange on the date of valuation between Scrip dividend developments.
a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms-length transaction after Land Securities offers its shareholders the opportunity to receive proper marketing.
Development programme dividends in the form of shares instead of cash.
This is known as a The development programme consists of committed developments Mark-to-market adjustment Scrip dividend.
being projects which are approved and the building contract let, An accounting adjustment to change the book value of an asset or Security Group authorised developments those projects approved by the Board for liability to its market value.
Security Group is the principal funding vehicle for Land Securities and which the building contract has not yet been let, projects under Net asset value NAV per share properties held in the Group are mortgaged for the benefit of lenders.
construction and developments which have reached practical Equity attributable to owners of the Parent divided by the number It has the flexibility to raise a variety of different forms of finance.
completion within the last two years but are not yet 95% let.
of ordinary shares in issue at the period end.
Temporary lettings Development surplus Net initial yield Lettings for a period of one year or less.
These are included within voids.
Excess of latest valuation over the total development cost TDC.
Net initial yield is a calculation by the Groups external valuers as the Topped-up net initial yield Diluted figures yield that would be received by a purchaser, based on the estimated net Topped-up net initial yield is a calculation by the Groups external Reported amount adjusted to include the effects of potential dilutive rental income expressed as a percentage of the acquisition cost, being valuers.
It is calculated by making an adjustment to net initial yield in shares issuable under employee share schemes.
the market value plus assumed usual purchasers costs at the reporting respect of the annualised cash rent foregone through unexpired rent date.
The calculation is in line with EPRA guidance.
Earnings per share EPS free periods and other lease incentives.
The calculation is consistent Estimated net rental income is the passing cash rent less ground Profit after taxation attributable to owners of the Parent divided by the with EPRA guidance.
rent at the balance sheet date, estimated non-recoverable outgoings weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period.
and void costs including service charges, insurance costs and void rates.
Total business return EPRA Dividend paid per share, plus the increase in adjusted diluted net asset Outline planning consent European Public Real Estate Association.
value per share, divided by the adjusted diluted net asset value per share This gives consent in principle for a development, and covers matters at the beginning of the year.
EPRA net initial yield such as use and building mass.
Full details of the development scheme EPRA net initial yield is defined within EPRAs Best Practice must be provided in an application for full planning consent, including Total development cost TDC Recommendations as the annualised rental income based on the cash detailed design, external appearance and landscaping before a project Total development cost refers to the book value of the land at the rents passing at the balance sheet date, less non-recoverable property can proceed.
An outline planning permission will lapse if full planning commencement of the project, the estimated capital expenditure operating expenses, divided by the gross market value of the property.
permission is not granted within three years.
required to develop the scheme from the start of the financial year in It is consistent with the net initial yield calculated by the Groups which the property is added to our development programme, together Over-rented external valuers.
Space where the passing rent is above the ERV.
Equivalent yield Total property return Passing cash rent Calculated by the Groups external valuers, equivalent yield is the internal Valuation surplus, profit loss on property sales and net rental income The estimated annual rent receivable as at the reporting date which rate of return from an investment property, based on the gross outlays for in respect of investment properties expressed as a percentage of includes estimates of turnover rent and estimates of rent to be agreed the purchase of a property including purchase costs, reflecting reversions opening book value, together with the time weighted value for capital in respect of outstanding rent review or lease renewal negotiations.
to current market rent, and such items as voids and non-recoverable expenditure incurred during the current year, on the combined Passing cash rent may be more or less than the ERV see over-rented, expenditure but disregarding potential changes in market rents.
Passing cash rent excludes annual rent calculation assumes rent is received annually in arrears.
receivable from units in administration save to the extent that rents Total Shareholder Return TSR Gross estimated rental value ERV are expected to be received.
Void units and units that are in a rent-free The growth in value of a shareholding over a specified period, assuming The estimated market rental value of lettable space as determined period at the reporting date are deemed to have no passing cash rent.
that dividends are reinvested to purchase additional units of the stock.
biannually by the Groups valuers.
Pre-let Trading properties Exceptional item A lease signed with an occupier prior to completion of a development.
Properties held for trading purposes and shown as current assets in the An item of income or expense that is deemed to be sufficiently balance sheet.
Property income distribution PID material, either by its size or nature, to require separate disclosure.
A PID is a distribution by a REIT to its shareholders paid out of qualifying Turnover rent Fair value movement profits.
A REIT is required to distribute at least 90% of its qualifying Rental income which is related to an occupiers turnover.
An accounting adjustment to change the book value of an asset or profits as a PID to its shareholders.
Underlying operating profit liability to its market value.
Proposed developments Operating profit before profit on disposal of non-current properties, Finance lease Proposed developments are properties which have not yet received revaluation of investment properties, and exceptional items stated A lease that transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of final Board approval or are still subject to main planning conditions within operating profit.
ownership from the lessor to the lessee.
being satisfied, but which are more likely to proceed than not.
Voids Gearing Qualifying activities Qualifying assets Voids are expressed as a percentage of ERV and represent all unlet Total borrowings, including bank overdrafts, less short-term deposits, The ownership activity of property assets which is held to earn space, including voids where refurbishment work is being carried out corporate bonds and cash, at book value, plus cumulative fair value rental income and qualifies for tax-exempt treatment income and and voids in respect of pre-development properties.
Temporary lettings movements on financial derivatives as a percentage of total equity.
capital gains under UK REIT legislation.
for a period of one year or less are also treated as voids.
For adjusted gearing, see note 28 in the financial statements.
Real Estate Investment Trust REIT Weighted average cost of capital WACC Head lease A REIT must be a publicly quoted company with at least three-quarters Weighted average cost of debt and notional cost of equity, used as A lease under which the Group holds an investment property.
of its profits and assets derived from a qualifying property rental a benchmark to assess investment returns.
Income and capital gains from the property rental business Interest Cover Ratio ICR Yield shift are exempt from tax but the REIT is required to distribute at least A calculation of a Companys ability to meet its interest payments A movement negative or positive in the equivalent yield of 90% of those profits to shareholders.
Corporation tax is payable on on outstanding debt.
non-qualifying activities in the normal way.
Interest-rate swap Zone A Rental value growth A financial instrument where two parties agree to exchange an interest A means of analysing and comparing the rental value of retail space by Increase in the current rental value, as determined by the Companys rate obligation for a predetermined amount of time.
These are used by dividing it into zones parallel with the main frontage.
The most valuable valuers, over the 12 month period on a like-for-like basis.
the Group to convert floating-rate debt or investments to fixed rates.
zone, Zone A, is at the front of the unit.
Each successive zone is valued Retail warehouse park at half the rate of the zone in front of it.
Investment portfolio A scheme of three or more retail warehouse units aggregating over The investment portfolio comprises the Groups wholly-owned 2 4,650m with shared parking.
investment properties together with the properties held for development.
