Financial statements Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 1.
Basis of preparation a Basis of consolidation These financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by incorporate the financial statements of Land Securities Group PLC the Company the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU, IFRIC Interpretations and the and all its subsidiary undertakings the Group.
Subsidiary undertakings are those Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists when the Company has the financial statements have been prepared in Sterling rounded to the nearest power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an hundred thousand, which is the presentation currency of the Group, and under entity so as to obtain benets from its activities.
The financial statements of the historical cost convention as modied by the revaluation of land and subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date buildings, available-for-sale investments, derivative financial instruments and that control commences and until the date control ceases.
financial assets and liabilities held for trading.
A summary of the more important Joint ventures are those entities over whose activities the Group has Group accounting policies, which have been applied consistently across the joint control, established by contractual agreement.
Interests in joint ventures Group, is set out in note 2 below.
are accounted for using the equity method of accounting as permitted by IAS 31 The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally Interests in joint ventures.
The equity method requires the Groups share of the accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions joint ventures post-tax profit or loss for the period to be presented separately in that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the the income statement and the Groups share of the joint ventures net assets to financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during be presented separately in the balance sheet.
Joint ventures with net liabilities are the reporting period.
Although these estimates, disclosed in note 3, are based on carried at zero value in the balance sheet where there is no commitment to fund managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results the deficit and any distributions are included in the consolidated income ultimately may differ from those estimates.
Land Securities Group PLC has not presented its own statement of The Groups share of jointly controlled assets, related liabilities, income and comprehensive income and separate income statement, as permitted by expenses are combined with the equivalent items in the consolidated financial Section 408 of Companies Act 2006.
The profit for the year of the Company, statements on a line-by-line basis.
dealt with in its financial statements, was 223.1m 2010: 1,084.1m.
Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains and losses arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial 2. significant accounting policies statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with joint ventures are The accounting policies are consistent with those applied in the year ended eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the joint venture or associate 31 March 2010, as amended to reect the adoption of the new Standards, concerned.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way, but only to the Amendments to Standards and Interpretations which are mandatory for the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
The majority of subsidiaries and joint ventures have the same year end There are no new accounting standards or interpretations that are as the Company, however, a small number of subsidiaries and joint ventures have effective for the financial year beginning 1 April 2010 that have a material non-coterminous year ends.
In these circumstances, management accounts impact on the Groups financial statements.
prepared to 31 March are used for the purpose of the Group consolidation.
The following accounting standards or interpretations were effective for the financial year beginning 1 April 2010 but have not had a material impact b Segment reporting on the Group: Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal IFRS 1 revised First time adoption reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker.
The chief operating IFRS 1 amendment First time adoption decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing IFRS 2 amendment Share-based Payment Group cash-settled share-based performance of the operating segments, has been identied as the Senior payment transactions Management Board, which consists of all the Executive Directors.
IFRS 3 revised Business combinations Unallocated expenses are costs incurred centrally which are neither IAS 27 revised Consolidated and separate financial statements directly attributable nor reasonably allocatable to individual segments.
IAS 32 amendment Financial instruments: Presentation Unallocated assets are cash and cash equivalents, the pension surplus and IAS 39 amendment Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement deferred tax assets.
Unallocated liabilities include short-term borrowings and IFRIC 17 Distributions of non-cash assets to owners overdrafts, and certain non-current liabilities borrowings and deferred tax IFRIC 18 Transfer of assets from customers liabilities.
The following accounting standards or interpretations are not yet effective c Investment properties and are not expected to have a material impact on the Group.
None of these Investment properties are those properties, either owned by the Group or where accounting standards or interpretations has been early adopted by the Group: the Group is a lessee under a finance lease, that are held either to earn rental IAS 24 revised Related party disclosures income or for capital appreciation, or both.
In addition, properties held under IFRIC 14 amendment Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement operating leases are accounted for as investment properties when the rest of the IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments denition of an investment property is met.
In such cases, the operating leases concerned are accounted for as if they were finance leases.
In addition, there are a number of changes to standards as a result of the IASBs 2009 and 2010 Annual Improvements programme.
None of these are expected to have a material impact on the Group.
