Forward-looking statements Design by saslondon.
com Land Securities Group PLC The Annual Report and the Land Securities website Words by Tim Rich Copyright and trade mark notices may contain certain forward looking statements Photography by Lee Mawdsley All rights reserved.
with respect to Land Securities Group PLC and the Board portrait by Philip Gatward Copyright 2011 Land Securities Group PLC.
Graphic Illustrations by Group s financial condition, results of operations Jeremy Christopher Land Securities, LandSecurities stylised, and business, and certain of Land Securities Group Hand lettering by Charles Stewart the Cornerstones logo and Making Property Work, are trade marks of Land Securities PLC and the Group s plans, objectives, goals and Group PLC.
expectations with respect to these items.
All other trade marks and registered trade marks are the property of their Forward-looking statements are sometimes, but respective owners.
not always, identied by their use of a date in the This Report is printed on Hello Silk future or such words as anticipates, aims, due, and Munken Polar paper and has been could, may, should, expects, believes, independently certied on behalf of the Forest Stewardship Council FSC.
intends, plans, targets, goal or estimates.
The inks used are all vegetable oil based.
By their very nature forward looking statements Printed at St Ives Westerham Press Ltd, are inherently unpredictable, speculative and ISO9001, ISO14001, FSC certied and involve risk and uncertainty because they relate CarbonNeutral to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future.
There are a number of factors that could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
These factors include, but are not limited to, changes in the economies and markets in which the Group operates: changes in the regulatory and competition frameworks in which the Group operates: changes in the markets from which the Group raises finance: the impact of legal or other proceedings against or which affect the Group: and changes in interest and exchange rates.
Any written or verbal forward-looking statements, made in this Annual Report or made subsequently, which are attributable to Land Securities Group PLC or any other member of the Group or persons acting on their behalf are expressly qualied in their entirety by the factors referred to above.
Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this Annual Report or on the date the forward-looking statement is made.
Land Securities Group PLC does not intend to update any forward-looking statements.
Land Securities Group PLC 5 Strand, London WC2N 5AF T 44 0 20 7413 9000 E investor.
com One New Change Some people questioned whether the One New Change site next to St Pauls Cathedral was right for an innovative mixed-use scheme.
Our thoughtful approach has created a new landmark for London a groundbreaking development with unique views of Wrens masterpiece.
