Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 continued 2. significant accounting policies continued v Dividends s Derivative financial instruments derivatives and hedge Final dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a accounting continued liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends Cash ow hedges: Where a derivative is designated as a hedge of the variability are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised of a highly probable forecast transaction i. e. an interest payment the element when paid.
of the gain or loss on the derivative that is an effective hedge is recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
Where the forecast transaction subsequently 3. significant judgements, key assumptions and estimates results in the recognition of a financial asset or a financial liability, the associated The Groups significant accounting policies are stated in note 2 above.
Not all gains or losses that were recognised in the statement of other comprehensive of these significant accounting policies require management to make difficult, income are reclassied into the income statement in the same period or periods subjective or complex judgements or estimates.
The following is intended to during which the asset acquired or liability assumed affects the income statement provide an understanding of the policies that management consider critical i. e. when interest income or expense is recognised.
because of the level of complexity, judgement or estimation involved in their Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting: The gain or loss application and their impact on the consolidated financial statements.
These on derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, and the non-qualifying judgements involve assumptions or estimates in respect of future events.
element of derivatives that do qualify for hedge accounting, are recognised in the Actual results may differ from these estimates.
a Investment property valuation t Income tax The Group uses the valuation performed by its external valuers, Knight Frank LLP, as the fair value of its investment properties.
Income tax on the profit for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Current tax is the tax payable on the taxable income for the year and any adjustment in The valuation of the Groups property portfolio is inherently subjective due to, among other factors, the individual nature of each property, its location respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided in full using the balance sheet liability method on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of and the expected future rental revenues from that particular property.
As a result, the valuations the Group places on its property portfolio are subject to a degree assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that have been of uncertainty and are made on the basis of assumptions which may not prove to be accurate, particularly in periods of volatility or low transaction ow in the enacted or substantially enacted by the reporting date and are expected to apply when the asset is realised or the liability is settled.
The investment property valuation contains a number of assumptions No provision is made for temporary differences i arising on the initial recognition of assets or liabilities, other than on a business combination, that upon which Knight Frank LLP has based its valuation of the Groups properties as at 31 March 2011.
The assumptions on which the Property Valuation Report has affect neither accounting nor taxable profit and ii relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
been based include, but are not limited to, matters such as the tenure and tenancy details for the properties, ground conditions at the properties, the structural u Leases condition of the properties, prevailing market yields and comparable market transactions.
These assumptions are market standard and accord with the RICS A Group company is the lessee: i Operating lease leases in which substantially all risks and rewards of Valuation Standards.
However, if any assumptions made by the property valuer prove to be false, this may mean that the value of the Groups properties ownership are retained by another party, the lessor, are classied as operating leases.
Payments, including prepayments, made under operating leases net of differs from their valuation, which could have a material effect on the Groups financial condition.
any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
b Finance lease calculations ii Finance lease leases of assets where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classied as finance leases.
Finance leases are In apportioning rentals on finance lease properties, the Group is required to estimate the split of the fair values of the properties concerned between land capitalised at the commencement of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the property and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The inception of many of the Groups leases took place many years ago and therefore reliable estimates are very difficult to obtain.
Accordingly, payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance outstanding.
The corresponding rental the Group has had to apply its judgement in estimating the split at inception of certain finance lease properties.
obligations, net of finance charges, are included in current and non-current borrowings.
The finance charges are charged to the income statement over the c Trading properties lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
The investment properties acquired under Trading properties are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The latter is assessed by the Group having regard to suitable valuations finance leases are subsequently carried at their fair value.
performed by its external valuer, Knight Frank LLP.
The estimation of the net realisable value of the Groups trading A Group company is the lessor: i Operating lease properties leased out to tenants under operating leases properties, especially the development land and infrastructure programmes, is inherently subjective due to a number of factors, including their complexity, are included in investment properties in the balance sheet.
ii Finance lease when assets are leased out under a finance lease, the unusually large size, the substantial expenditure required and long timescales to completion.
In addition, as a result of these timescales to completion, the present value of the minimum lease payments is recognised as a receivable.
The difference between the gross receivable and the present value of the plans associated with these programmes could be subject to significant variation.
As a result, and similar to the valuation of investment properties, the net realisable receivable is recognised as unearned finance income.
Lease income is recognised over the term of the lease using the net investment method before tax, which values of the Groups trading properties are subject to a degree of uncertainty and are made on the basis of assumptions which may not prove to be accurate.
reects a constant periodic rate of return.
Where only the buildings element of a property lease is classied as a finance lease, the land element is shown within operating leases.
