Financial statements Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 continued m Pension benets remaining net investment in the finance lease.
Contingent rents, being lease In respect of dened benefit pension schemes, obligations are measured payments that are not xed at the inception of a lease, for example turnover at discounted present value while scheme assets are measured at their fair rents, are recorded as income in the periods in which they are earned.
value except annuities, which are valued to match the liability or benefit value.
The operating and nancing costs of such plans are recognised separately in the q Expenses income statement.
Service costs are spread using the projected-unit method.
Property and contract expenditure is expensed as incurred with the exception Financing costs are recognised in the periods in which they arise and are included of expenditure on long-term development contracts see f above.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from either experience Rental payments made under an operating lease are recognised in the differing from previous actuarial assumptions, or changes to those assumptions, income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease are recognised immediately in other comprehensive income.
incentives received are recognised as an integral part of the net consideration Contributions to dened contribution schemes are charged to the for the use of the property and also recognised on a straight-line basis.
Minimum lease payments payable on finance leases and operating leases accounted for as finance leases under IAS 40 are apportioned between n Share capital finance expense and reduction of the outstanding liability.
Finance expense is Ordinary shares are classed as equity.
External costs directly attributable to allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds.
periodic rate of interest on the remaining liability.
Contingent rents as dened The consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental in p above are charged as an expense in the periods in which they are incurred.
costs, by any Group entity to acquire the Companys equity share capital, is deducted from equity until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
r Impairment Where own shares are sold or reissued, the net consideration received is included The carrying amounts of the Groups non-financial assets, other than investment in equity.
Shares acquired by the Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP are properties see c above, are reviewed at each reporting date to determine presented on the Group balance sheet as own shares.
Purchases of treasury whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the shares are deducted from retained earnings.
assets recoverable amount is estimated see below.
An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement whenever the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
o Share-based payments The cost of granting share options and other share-based remuneration to The recoverable amount of an asset is the greater of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
The value in use is determined as the net present employees and Directors is recognised through the income statement.
These are equity settled and therefore the fair value is measured at the grant date.
Where value of the future cash ows expected to be derived from the asset, discounted using a pre-tax discount rate that reects current market assessments of the time the share awards have non-market related performance criteria the Group has used the Black-Scholes option valuation model to establish the relevant fair value of money and the risks specic to the asset.
An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the values.
Where the share awards have a TSR market related performance criteria the Group has used the Monte Carlo simulation valuation model to establish estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount after the reversal the relevant fair values.
The resulting values are amortised through the income statement over the vesting period of the options and other grants.
For awards does not exceed the amount that would have been determined, net of applicable depreciation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
with non-market related criteria, the charge is reversed if it appears probable that the performance criteria will not be met.
s Derivative financial instruments derivatives and hedge accounting p Revenue The Group uses interest-rate swaps to help manage its interest-rate risk, and from time to time cross-currency swaps to manage its currency risk.
The Group recognises revenue on an accruals basis, when the amount of revenue can be reliably measured and it is probable that future economic benets will In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivatives for trading purposes.
Revenue comprises rental income, service charges and other recoveries from tenants of the Groups investment and trading properties, Where hedge accounting is applied the Group documents, at the inception of the transaction, the relationship between the hedging instruments proceeds of sales of its trading properties and income arising on long-term contracts.
Rental income includes the income from managed operations such and the hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
The Group also documents as car parks, food courts, serviced ofces and ats.
Service charges and other recoveries include income in relation to service charges and directly recoverable its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting expenditure together with any chargeable management fees.
Rental income from investment property leased out under an operating changes in cash ows of hedged items.
All derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date the lease is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives granted are recognised as an integral part of the derivative is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair value.
The fair value of interest-rate swaps is based on broker or counterparty quotes.
Those net consideration for the use of the property and are therefore recognised on the same straight-line basis.
quotes are tested for reasonableness by discounting estimated future cash ows based on the terms and maturity of each contract and using market interest rates When property is let out under a finance lease, the Group recognises a receivable at an amount equal to the net investment in the lease at inception for similar instruments at the measurement date.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as of the lease.
Rentals received are accounted for as repayments of principal and finance income as appropriate.
Finance income is allocated to each period during a hedging instrument.
the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the Land Securities Annual Report 2011 99
