London & Stamford Property Plc 56 Report and Accounts 2011 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of the members of London & Stamford Property Plc Registered number 7124797 will be held at the Cavendish London Hotel, 81 Jermyn Street, London SW1Y 6JF, on 6 July 2011 at 10 am.
Resolutions 1 to 14 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and resolutions 15 to 17 will be proposed as special resolutions.
To consider and receive the Annual Report and Audited Financial Statements for the year to 31 March 2011.
To approve the Directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2011.
To approve the final dividend for the year to 31 March 2011 of 3.3p per share.
T o appoint BDO LLP as auditors of the Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
To authorise the Board to determine the remuneration of the auditors.
To consider the re-election of Mr Raymond Mould as a Director of the Company.
To consider the re-election of Mr Patrick Vaughan as a Director of the Company.
To consider the re-election of Mr Martin McGann as a Director of the Company.
To consider the re-election of Mr Mark Burton as a Director of the Company.
To consider the re-election of Mr Charles Cayzer as a Director of the Company.
To consider the re-election of Mr Richard Crowder as a Director of the Company.
To consider the re-election of Mr James Dean as a Director of the Company.
To consider the re-election of Mr Humphrey Price as a Director of the Company.
T hat the Directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act in substitution for all existing authorities: a. t o exercise all the powers of the Company to allot shares and to make offers or agreements to allot shares in the Company orgrant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company together relevant securities uptoan aggregate nominal amount of 18,193,172: and b. to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 560 of the 2006 Act uptoan additional aggregate nominal amount of 18,193,172 provided that this authority may only be used in connection with arights issue in favour of holders of ordinary shares and other persons entitled to participate therein where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all those persons at such record dates as the Directors may determine are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of equity securities held or deemed to be held by them orare otherwise allotted in accordance with the rights attaching to such equity securities subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may consider necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements or legal difficulties under the laws of any territory or the requirements of a regulatory body or stock exchange or by virtue of shares being represented by depositary receipts or any other matter whatsoever, provided that the authorities in 14a and 14b shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or if earlier on the date which is 15 months after the date of the Annual General Meeting, exceptthat the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require Relevant Securities or equity securities as the case may be to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot Relevant Securities or equity securities in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if the authority in question had not expired.
T hat the Directors be and are empowered, in accordance with Section 570 of the 2006 Act, to allot equity securities as defined inSection 560 1 of the 2006 Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution number 14 or by way of a sale of treasury shares as if Section 561 1 of the 2006 Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limitedto: a. t he allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue or other pro rata offer but, in the case of the authority granted conferred by paragraph 14b, by way of a rights issue only in favour of holders of ordinary shares and other persons entitled to participate therein where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all those persons at such record dates as the Directors may determine are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of equity securities held or deemed to be held by them or are otherwise allotted in accordance with the rights attaching to such equitysecurities subject in each case to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may consider necessary orexpedient to deal with fractional entitlements or legal difficulties under the laws of any territory or the requirements ofaregulatory body or stock exchange or by virtue of shares being represented by depositary receipts or any other matterwhatsoever: b. and the allotment otherwise than pursuant to paragraph 15a above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,728,976. and shall expire upon the expiry of the general authority conferred by Resolution 14 above, except that the Company may make anoffer or agreement before this power expires which would or might require equity securities to be allotted and or shares heldby the Company in treasury to be sold or transferred after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities and or sell ortransfer shares held by the Company in treasury in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred by thisresolution had not expired.
London & Stamford Property Plc Report and Accounts 2011 57 16.
That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised, in accordance with Section 701 of the 2006 Act, tomake market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 4 of the 2006 Act of ordinary shares of 10p each inthe capital ofthe Company ordinary shares on such terms and in such manner as the Directors may from time to time determine providedthat: a. the maximum number of ordinary shares authorised to be purchased is 54,579,517: b. the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is 10p exclusive of expenses payable by the Company : c. the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share exclusive of expenses payable by the Company cannot be more than the higher of: i 1 05% of the average market value of an ordinary share for the five business days prior to the day on which the ordinary share is contracted to be purchased: and ii the value of an ordinary share calculated on the basis of the higher of: A the last independent trade of: or B the highest current independent bid for, any number of ordinary shares on the trading venue where the market purchase by the Company will be carried out: and t he authority conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company except that the Company may before such expiry make a contract to purchase its own shares which will or may be completed or executed wholly or partly after such expiry.
That the Company is authorised to call any general meeting of the Company other than the Annual General Meeting by notice ofatleast 14 clear days during the period beginning on the date of the passing of this resolution and ending on the conclusion ofthe next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
By order of the Board Jadzia Duzniak Company Secretary 26 May 2011 Financial statements Governance Operating and financial review Overview London & Stamford Property Plc 58 Report and Accounts 2011 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notes to Annual General Meeting Notice: i Shareholders entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint one or more proxies who need not be shareholders toattend and vote on their behalf, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attaching to different shares heldby him or her.
ii Your proxy could be the Chairman, another Director of the Company or another person who has agreed to attend to represent you.
Your proxy will vote as you instruct and must attend the meeting for your vote to be counted.
Details of how to appoint the Chairman or another person as your proxy using the proxy form areset out in the notes to the proxy form.
iii Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in paragraph i above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in that paragraph can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
iv To have the right to attend and vote at the meeting you must hold ordinary shares in the Company and your name must be entered on the share register of the Company in accordance with note vi below.
v To be valid, Forms of Proxy and the power of attorney or other authority, if any, under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy thereof must be received by Capita Registrars, PXS, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU assoon as possible but, in any event, so as to arrive no later than 10 am on4 July 2011.
A Form of Proxy accompanies this notice.
Completion and return of a Form of Proxy will not preclude members from attending and voting at the meeting should theywish to do so.
Where you have appointed a proxy using the hard copy proxy form and would like to change the instructions using another hardcopy proxy form, please contact Capita Registrars, PXS, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments see above also applies in relation to amended instructions.
Anyattempt to terminate or amend a proxy appointment received after the relevant deadline will be disregarded.
Where two ormore valid separate appointments of proxy are received in respect of the same share in respect of the same meeting, theonewhich is last sent shall be treated as replacing and revoking the other or others.
vi The time by which a person must be entered on the register of members in order to have the right to attend or vote at the meeting is 6 pm on 4 July 2011.
If the meeting is adjourned, the time by which a person must be entered on the register of members in order to have the right to attend or vote at the adjourned meeting is48 hours before the date fixed for the adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries on the register of members after such times shall be disregarded in determining therights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
vii CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do soby utilising the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
viii In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Irelands specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy, must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID number RA10 by 10 am on 4 July 2011.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
ix The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. x CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
Itisthe responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his or her CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
xi Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
xii You may not use any electronic address provided either in this notice of Annual General Meeting or any related documents including the form of proxy to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
xiii As at 24 May 2011 being the closest practical business day before the publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital consisted of 545,795,171 ordinary shares carrying one vote each.
xiv Members satisfying the thresholds in Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 can require the Company to publish a statement onits website setting out any matter relating to: a the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the meeting: or b any circumstances connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the last Annual General Meeting, that the members propose to raise at the meeting.
T he Company cannot require the members requesting the publication to pay its expenses.
Any statement placed on the website must also be sent to the Companys auditors no later than the time it makes its statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required to publish on its website.
xv Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if: a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information: b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
xvi A copy of this notice, and other information required by Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found at www.
com xvii The following documents are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours on each weekday public holidays excluded and at the place of the Annual General Meeting for 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting: a copies of the Executive Directors service contracts with the Company: and b copies of letters of appointment of Non-Executive Directors.
