London & Stamford Property Plc 22 Report and Accounts 2011 Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting andthe financial statements in accordance with applicable law records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys and regulations.
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 are required to prepare the Group financial statements in ofthe IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards safeguardingthe assets of the Company and hence for taking IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and have elected reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud toprepare the Company financial statements in accordance andother irregularities.
withUnited Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UnitedKingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Website publication Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial The Directors are responsible for ensuring the Annual Report statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair andthe financial statements are made available on a website.
view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of the Financial statements are published on the Companys website profit or loss for the Group for that period.
inaccordance with legislation in the United Kingdom governing In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are the preparation and dissemination of financial statements, which requiredto: mayvary from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The maintenance and integrity of the Companys website is the responsibility of select suitable accounting policies and then apply them theDirectors.
The Directors responsibility also extends to the consistently: ongoing integrity of the financial statements contained therein.
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Directors responsibilities pursuant to DTR4 state whether they have been prepared in accordance with The Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge: IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, subject to any The Group financial statements have been prepared in material departures disclosed and explained in the financial accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards statements: IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis theIAS Regulation and give a true and fair view of the assets, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will liabilities, financial position and profit and loss of the Group.
continue in business: The Annual Report includes a fair review of the development prepare a Directors report and Directors remuneration andperformance of the business and the financial position of reportwhich comply with the requirements of the Companies the Group and the Parent Company, together with a description Act 2006. or the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Approved by the Board on 26 May 2011 and signed on its behalfby Martin McGann Finance Director
