London & Stamford Property Plc Report and Accounts 2011 11 Income statement Distribution Profit for the year ended 31 March 2011 was 43.3 million compared to 106.1 million for the previous year to 31 March Acquisitions during the year have focused on the distribution 2010.
Direct comparisons are complicated by the accounting sector, which we consider offers premium returns with low implications of the Internalisation during the year and the high volatility when located in the best sites in the Golden Triangle, level of new investment, as set out in the analysis of underlying inand around Heathrow and on the M25 M1 junctions.
profit on page 9 of the Operating and financial review.
Following the acquisitions of the Radial, Lojix and AEW portfolios in the year, the distribution portfolio now comprises 26 units, Net income totalling 5,200,276 sq ft.
Gross rental income has increased by 21.5 million 125% over The debt refinancing of the Lojix and AEW portfolios acquired in the year due to the net effect of the increased rents from the November 2010 was completed with Metropolitan Life Insurance acquisitions of the three distribution portfolios in the year and the Company MetLife on 23 February 2011 and since the year end Battersea apartments, less the rent lost from the disposal of the 50% of the combined portfolios has been transferred into a joint Racecourse Retail Park at Aintree.
Corresponding property costs venture with Green Park.
have increased by 1.6 million in the year to 2.7 million, but remain less than 7% of gross rents.
As a consequence of We have made excellent progress in extending the unexpired theInternalisation, fee income, both management fee and lease terms on the distribution portfolio, from 6.7 years on performance fee, arising from the Green Park joint venture which acquisition to 8.7 years currently.
previously passed to LSI Management LLP is now income to Our team have met with all tenants and a comprehensive London & Stamford and amounts to 5.6 million for the six month programme of lease extensions and removal ofbreak options period since 1 October 2010. isongoing.
We have completed three lease renewals and one new letting on the Radial portfolio since acquisition.
We aim Operating profit todomore.
Under IFRS, the fair value of the consideration shares payable tothe former partners of LSI Management LLP of 39.5million Residential isaccounted for as a share-based payment prepayment and Following the successful acquisition of 146 apartments in the old heldwithin the balance sheet as an asset see note 16 to the North Stand at Highbury in 2009, we acquired a further portfolio financialstatements.
The management team are subject to of 58 apartments at Battersea Reach in June 2010.
There has athree year lock-in period from 1 October 2010 and therefore been significant asset management activity at Highbury during inaccordance with IFRS the prepayment is expensed to the the year.
Second lettings have been concluded on the majority income statement over that period.
The charge of 6.5million to offlats reflecting rental levels on average between 5% and 10% the income statement represents the amount for the period since higher than the original lettings.
1 October 2010 and reduces the prepayment to 33.0million.
The flats are held for investment, but we have completed five The acquisition of LSI Management LLP included the acquisition disposals in the year, the result of offers in excess of book value.
of the two property advisory agreements in respect of the assets 45 of the apartments at Battersea have been classified as of London & Stamford Property Limited and the Green Park investment assets during the year and 40 are now let.
apartments still held for sale continue to be accounted for as The fair value attributed to the property advisory agreement with trading stock.
London & Stamford Property Limited of 34.9million has been treated as a payment to avoid making future payments under Development portfolio thecontract and has therefore been fully written off in the income We continue to seek opportunities to add and extract value statement in the year.
The value attributed to the contract with fromthe development portfolio acquired on IPO in late theLSP Green Park Property Trust of 18.4million is being 2007.
InOctober 2010, we completed the sale of half the site amortised over the remaining period of the contract.
Amortisation atCopseRoad, Yeovil for c. 1 million.
2.5 acres remain of 2.0million has been charged to the income statement in forfuturedevelopment.
Financial statements Governance Operating and financial review Overview
