London & Stamford Property Plc 52 Report and Accounts 2011 Independent auditors report to the members of London & Stamford Property Plc We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of Opinion on other matters prescribed London & Stamford Property Plc for the period from 13 January bytheCompaniesAct 2006 2010 to 31 March 2011 which comprise the Parent Company In our opinion: Balance Sheet and the related notes.
The financial reporting the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited framework that has been applied in their preparation is has been properly prepared in accordance with the applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards Companies Act 2006: and United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the information given in the Directors report for the financial This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a period for which the financial statements are prepared is body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies consistent with the Parent Company financial statements.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required Matters on which we are required to report by exception to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and inour opinion: the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this adequate accounting records have not been kept by the report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors notbeen received from branches not visited by us: or As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors the Parent Company financial statements and the part of responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation theDirectors remuneration report to be audited are not in of the Parent Company financial statements and for being agreement with the accounting records and returns: or satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified toaudit and express an opinion on the Parent Company financial bylaware not made: or statements in accordance with applicable law and International we have not received all the information and explanations Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require werequire for our audit.
us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Other matter Scope of the audit of the financial statements We have reported separately on the Group financial statementsof London & Stamford Property Plc for the year A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements ended 31March2011.
isprovided on the APBs website at www.
Russell Field Opinion on financial statements Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of BDO LLP, statutory auditor In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: London United Kingdom give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs 26 May 2011 as at 31 March 2011: BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales withregistered number OC305127.
have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements ofthe Companies Act 2006.
