Governance Consolidated financial statements Parent Company financial statements Shareholder information Report Governance 44 Directors report 46 Corporate governance 53 Directors remuneration report Consolidated financial statements 61 Directors responsibilities 62 Independent auditors report 63 Consolidated income statement 63 Analysis of operating profit 64 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 65 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 67 Consolidated balance sheet 68 Consolidated cash flow statement 68 Reconciliation of free cash flow from continuing operations 69 Accounting policies 74 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Parent Company financial statements 118 Directors responsibilities 119 Independent auditors report 120 Parent Company balance sheet 121 Parent Company accounting policies 122 Notes to the Parent Company financial statements See this Report online at: www.
com Shareholder information annualreport11 126 General shareholder information 128 Notice of meeting Index to the financial statements 135 Index to the consolidated financial statements 135 Index to the Parent Company financial statements Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 43 Governance Directors report The Directors submit their Annual Report and the audited consolidated Share capital accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries for the year ended General 30September 2011.
The Corporate Governance Report set out on At the date of this Report, 1,897,640,073 ordinary shares of 10 pence pages 46 to 52 forms part of the Directors Report.
each have been issued, are fully paid up and are quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
In addition, the Company sponsors a Level I Principal activities and business review American Depositary Receipt programme with BNY Mellon, under which the Companys shares are traded on the over-the-counter Compass Group PLC is a holding company: its subsidiaries are market in the form of American Depositary shares.
organised into four geographic areas and these are set out on pages 4 to 5.
The principal activities of the Group are the provision of During the year ended 30 September 2011, options were exercised contract foodservice and support services to clients in around 50 and awards released pursuant to the Companys share option countries.
Details of the development and performance of the Groups schemes and LTIP, resulting in the allotment of 11,241,181 new businesses during the year and an indication of likely future key ordinary shares.
A further 55,880 new ordinary shares have been performance indicators and information regarding principal risks and allotted under these schemes since the end of the financial year to uncertainties are set outtogether with the information that fulfils the the date ofthis Report.
requirements of the Business Review on pages 24 to 27 and are incorporated into this Report by reference.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company other than certain restrictions which may from Results and dividends time to time be imposed by law, for example, insider trading law.
In The Groups consolidated income statement, set out on page 63, accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, shows an increase of 2.7% in Group operating profit from 989 million certain employees are required to seek the approval of the Company to 1,016 million.
An analysis of revenue and operating profit issetout to deal in its shares.
on pages 74 to 75 in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.
Acquisitions made subsequent to the year end are discussed in note The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders 34 to the consolidated financial statements on page 115.
There have that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or been no further significant post balance sheet events.
The 2011 interim dividend of 6.5 pence per share 2010: 5.0 pence The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by was paid to shareholders on 1 August 2011.
The Directors recommend special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
a final dividend of 12.8 pence per share 2010: 12.5 pence making a total dividend for the year of 19.3 pence per ordinary share, an The Company is not aware of any significant agreements to which increase of 10.3% on the 17.5 pence paid in respect of last year.
it isparty that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control Payment of the recommended final dividend, if approved at the of the Company following a takeover.
Annual General Meeting the AGM to be held on 2 February 2012, will be made on 27 February 2012 to shareholders registered at the More detailed information relating to the rights attaching to the close of business on 27 January 2012.
The shares will be quoted Companys ordinary shares is set out on pages 24 and 25 of ex-dividend from 25 January 2012. the Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2007.
The 2007 Annual Report is available on the Companys website During the year, the Trustees of each of the employee benefit trusts at www.
which operate in connection with the Companys share plans waived their rights to receive dividends on any shares held by them.
Details Repurchase of shares ofthe Trusts can be found on page 51 of this Report.
The amount of At the AGM, a special resolution will be proposed to renew the dividends waived during the year ended 30 September 2011 was Directors limited authority to repurchase ordinary shares in the 54,403 2010: 61,168. market, last granted in 2011.
The authority sets the minimum and maximum prices which may be paid and it will be limited to a A dividend reinvestment plan is available to eligible shareholders.
maximum of 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital Details can be found on page 126. at the date of this Report.
On 23 November 2011, the Company announced its intention to Future development commence a 500 million share repurchase programme, to be The Groups strategic focus continues to be on the organic executed over the 12-month period to the end of 2012. development of its existing core businesses together with appropriate infill acquisitions.
This authority will enable your Directors to continue to execute the 500 million share repurchase referred to above and to respond promptly, should circumstances arise in which they consider such a purchase would result in an increase in earnings per share and would be in the best interests of the Company.
This would also enable the Company to maintain an efficient capital structure whilst at the same time retaining the flexibility to fund further infill acquisitions.
44 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Governance Any purchases of ordinary shares will be by means of market Directors purchases through the London Stock Exchange and any shares Particulars of the Directors in office at the date of this Report purchased may be cancelled or placed into treasury in accordance are listed on page 42.
Tim Parker retired from the Board on with the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares 31December 2010 and, after seven years service, Steve Lucas Regulations 2003.
The Company currently has no shares in treasury.
stepped down as a Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee The Directors consider it desirable for these general authorisations on 21 June 2011.
John Bason was appointed as a Director and tobe available to provide flexibility in the management of the succeeded Mr Lucas as Chairman of the Audit Committee on the Companys capital resources.
No shares were purchased in the financial years ended 30 September In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, with the 2010 and 2011. exception of John Bason who will submit himself for election in line with the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association, each Issue of shares Director will retire and submit him or herself for re-election at the At the 2012 AGM, the Directors will seek to renew the authority last 2012 AGM and annually thereafter.
granted to them at the 2011 AGM to allot equity shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 63,254,650 representing approximately On 10 May 2011, the composition of each of the Audit, Corporate one third of the ordinary shares issued at the date of this Report Responsibility, Nomination and Remuneration Committees was the section 551 authority and, in accordance with the Association altered to comprise all of the Non-Executive Directors.
Details are of British Insurers ABI Allotment Guidelines, the Directors again disclosed in the Corporate Governance Report.
propose to extend this by a further 63,254,650 representing approximately a further one third of the Companys issued ordinary share capital provided that such amount shall only be used in Directors interests in shares connection with a rights issue.
If approved, the authority will expire The Directors in office on 30 September 2011 had the following no later than 15 months from the date on which the resolution is interests in the ordinary shares of the Company.
passed, or at the conclusion of the AGM to be held in 2013, whichever is the sooner.
30 September 2011 1 October 2010 John Bason 3,688 The limited power granted to the Directors at last years AGM to allot Richard Cousins 1,173,827 1,034,611 equity shares for cash other than pro rata to existing shareholders Sir James Crosby 34,000 34,000 expires no later than 2 May 2012.
Subject to the terms of the section Sir Roy Gardner 196,878 215,878 551 authority, the Directors recommend that this authority should be Gary Green 1,132,272 1,226,669 renewed.
If granted, this authority will give the Directors the ability Andrew Martin 777,500 620,531 untilthe AGM to be held in 2013 to issue ordinary shares for cash, Susan Murray 10,000 7,000 other than pro rata to existing shareholders, in connection with a Don Robert 30,000 30,000 rights issue or up to a limit of 5% of the ordinary share capital issued Sir Ian Robinson 15,000 15,000 at the date of this Report.
In line with best practice, the Company hasnot issued more than 7.5% of its issued share capital on a non Total number of shares held 3,373,165 3,183,689 prorated basis over the last three years.
The Directors have no Percentage of issued presentintention to issue ordinary shares, other than pursuant to the sharecapital 0.17% 0.17% Companys employee share schemes, and this authority will maintain the Companys flexibility in relation to future share issues, including There were no changes to the shareholdings of those Directors any issues to finance business opportunities should appropriate in office on 30 September 2011 between 1 October 2011 and circumstances arise.
Details of the issues of new shares made during the year, together with details of options granted over unissued capital, are set out in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 105 to 107.
Substantial shareholdings The following major shareholdings have been notified to the Company as at the date of this Report.
% of Compass % of issued Group PLCs 1 1 capital voting rights BlackRock, Inc. 11.75 11.75 1 At the date of disclosure.
Since the disclosure date, the shareholders interest in the Company may have changed.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 45 Governance Corporate governance The Board has established a procedure for Directors, if deemed UK Corporate Governance Code compliance necessary, to take independent professional advice at the Companys The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate expense in the furtherance of their duties.
This is in addition to the governance set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code access that every Director has to the General Counsel and Company the Code.
The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders Secretary, who is charged with ensuring that Board procedures are for good governance and this Report, together with the Directors followed and that good corporate governance and compliance is Remuneration Report set out on pages 53 to 60, describes how the implemented throughout the Group.
Together with the Group Chief Board has applied the main principles of good governance set out Executive and the General Counsel and Company Secretary, the inthe Code during the year under review.
It is the Boards view that Chairman ensures that the Board is kept properly informed and is the Company has been fully compliant with the provisions of the consulted on all issues reserved to it.
Board papers and other Codein force during the year to 30 September 2011. information are distributed at times to allow Directors to be properly briefed in advance of meetings.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Directors have been granted an indemnity The Board issued by the Company to the extent permitted by law in respect As at 30 September 2011 and as at the date of this Report, the of liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
The indemnity would Boardof Directors was made up of nine members, comprising notprovide any coverage where a Director is proved to have acted the Chairman, three Executive Directors and five Non-Executive fraudulently or dishonestly.
The Company has also arranged Directors.
John Bason was appointed as a Director of the Company appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against its on 21 June 2011.
Tim Parker and Steve Lucas retired from the Board Directors and Officers.
on 31 December 2010 and 21 June 2011 respectively.
The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate and Following the year end, it was announced that Dominic Blakemore clearly defined with the division of responsibilities set out in writing would be appointed as an Executive Director with effect from andagreed by the Board.
27 February 2012, and would succeed Andrew Martin as Group Finance Director on 2 April 2012.
It was also announced that In accordance with best practice, the Chairman addresses the Mr Martin would remain as an Executive Director in the new role developmental needs of the Board as a whole, with a view to further of Chief Operating Officer for Europe and Japan from 2 April 2012, developing its effectiveness as a team and ensures that each Director and that Gary Green would become Chief Operating Officer, North refreshes and updates his or her individual skills, knowledge and America on the same day.
The appointment of John Bason during the year further strengthens the existing international and strategic capability of All of the Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be the Board.
independent ofmanagement and free of any relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgment.
During 2011, the Board conducted an evaluation of its performance The Board considers that each of the Non-Executive Directors brings and that of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees to their own senior level of experience, gained in each of their own fields, ensure that they continue to be effective and that each of the Directors mainly ininternational operations.
demonstrates commitment to his or her respective role and has sufficient time to meet his or her commitment to the Company.
Biographical details of the Directors currently in office are shown on page 42.
The Companys policy relating to the terms of appointment The composition of the main Board Committees was reviewed and the remuneration of both Executive and Non-Executive Directors and membership extended to all of the Non-Executive Directors is detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 53 to 60. to encourage broader discussion and to assist in the decision makingprocess.
The Board meets regularly during the year as well as on an ad hoc basis, as required by business need.
Each Director also attends the It is the view of the Board that each of the Non-Executive Directors AGM to answer shareholder questions.
brings considerable management experience and an independent perspective to the Boards discussions and they are considered to The Board manages the business of the Company and may, subject be independent of management and free from any relationship or to the Articles of Association and applicable legislation, borrow money, circumstance that could affect, or appear to affect, the exercise of guarantee, indemnify, mortgage or charge the business, property their independent judgment.
andassets present and future and issue debentures and other securities and give security, whether outright or as a collateral security, In light of the changes made to the Board and to the composition of for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of any third party.
the main Board Committees during the year, an independent formal The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision, external evaluation of the Board has been deferred, but will be carried although its primary role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership and out in accordance with the provisions of the Code.
to review the overall strategic development of the Group as a whole.
Inaddition, the Board sets the Groups values and standards and Meetings between the Non-Executive Directors, both with and ensures that it acts ethically and that its obligations to its shareholders withoutthe presence of the Group Chief Executive, are scheduled are understood and met.
The Board may delegate any of its powers inthe Boards annual programme.
Board meetings are also regularly toany Committee consisting of one or more Directors.
The Company held at Group business locations to help all Board members to gain has delegated day-to-day operational decisions to the Executive adeeper understanding of the business.
This also provides senior Committee referred to on page 49.
The Board met nine times during managers from across the Group with the opportunity to present to the year and Director attendance for each meeting is shown in the the Board as well as to meet the Directors on more informal occasions.
46 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Governance As part of their ongoing development, the Executive Directors The formal Terms of Reference for the main Board Committees, mayseek one external non-executive role on a non-competitor approved by the Board and complying with the Code, to assist in board, for which they may retain the remuneration in respect of the discharge of its duties, are available from the General Counsel the appointment.
In order to avoid any conflict of interest, all and Company Secretary and can also be found on the Companys appointmentsare subject to the Boards approval and the Board website at www.
The Terms of Reference of monitors the extent of Directors other interests to ensure that its the main Board Committees are reviewed annually and updated effectiveness is not compromised.
The composition of the principal Board Committees was changed on 10May 2011 and membership of Each Director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 the CA the Audit, Corporate Responsibility, Nomination and Remuneration Committees now comprises all of the Non-Executive Directors.
2006 to avoid a situation in which he or she has or can have a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or possibly may conflict with Details of the various Committees are shown on pages 47 to 49.
The General Counsel and Company Secretary acts as Secretary the interests of the Company.
This duty is in addition to the duty that he or she owes to the Company to disclose to the Board any to all Board Committees.
transaction or arrangement under consideration by the Company.
The CA 2006 allows directors of public companies to authorise Audit Committee conflicts and potential conflicts where the Articles of Association The Audit Committee comprises all of the Non-Executive Directors contain a provision to that effect.
The Companys Articles of in office at the date of this Report.
Members of the Audit Committee Association include provisions giving the Directors authority to the Committee are appointed by the Board following recommendations approve such situations and to include other provisions to allow by the Nomination Committee and the Committees membership is conflicts of interest to be dealt with.
The Board has a procedure reviewed by the Nomination Committee and as part of the annual when deciding whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict Board performance evaluation.
Firstly, only independent Directors i. e. those who have no interest in the matter under consideration will be able to take Each member of the Committee brings relevant senior level financial the relevant decision.
Secondly, in taking the decision the Directors experience.
The expertise and experience of the members of the must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to Committee are summarised on page 42.
The Board considers that promote the Companys success.
In addition, the Directors will be each member of the Committee is independent within the definition able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they set out in the Code.
The Committees Chairman, John Bason, is think this is appropriate.
considered by the Board to have significant, recent and relevant financial experience as Finance Director of Associated British Any authorities given are reviewed at least every 15 months.
The Foods plc, as did his predecessor Steve Lucas, former Finance Board considered and authorised each Directors reported actual Director of National Grid plc.
and potential conflicts of interest at its July 2011 Board meeting.
All members of the Committee receive an appropriate induction, Succession planning is a matter for the whole Board rather than for which includes an overview of the business, its financial dynamics a Committee.
The Companys Articles of Association provide that and risks.
Audit Committee members are expected to have an one third of the Directors retire by rotation each year and that each understanding of the principles of, and developments in, financial Director will seek re-election at the AGM every three years.
However, reporting, including the applicable accounting standards and in accordance with the Code, all Directors submit themselves for statements of recommended practice, key aspects of the annual re-election by shareholders.
New Directors may be appointed Companys policies, financing, internal control mechanisms, and by the Board, but are subject to election by shareholders at the first matters that require the use of judgment in the presentation of opportunity after their appointment.
The Articles of Association limit accounts and key figures as well as the role of internal and external the number of Directors to not less than two and not more than 20 Auditors.
Members of the Committee undertake ongoing training save where shareholders decide otherwise.
are normally appointed for an initial term of three years which is reviewed and may be extended for a further three years.
It is Board The Committee meets regularly throughout the year and its agenda policy that Non-Executive Director appointments should last for no is linked to events in the Companys financial calendar.
Each more than nine years.
member of the Committee may require reports on matters of interest in addition to the regular items.
The Committee met four times Following their appointment, a formal, comprehensive and tailored during the year and Members attendance at the meetings is set induction is given to all Non-Executive Directors.
This includes visits out in the table on page 49. tokey locations within the Group and meetings with members of the Executive Committee and other key senior executives.
The induction The Committee invites the Group Chairman, the Group Chief also covers a review of the Groups governance policies, structures Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Group Financial and business, including details of the risks and operating issues facing Controller and the Director of Group Internal Audit, together with the Group.
senior representatives of the external Auditors, to attend each meeting although, from time to time, it reserves time for discussions The Chairman ensures that the Board maintains an appropriate without invitees being present.
Other senior management are invited dialogue with shareholders.
Sir James Crosby is the Companys to present such reports as are required for the Committee to Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Board believes discharge its duties.
that Sir James Crosby continues to have the appropriate experience, knowledge and independence to continue in this role.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee attends the AGM to respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised on its activities.
Although the Non-Executive Directors are not formally required The remuneration of the members of the Committee is set out on to meet the shareholders of the Company, their attendance at page 55 and the policy with regard to the remuneration of the Nonpresentations of the interim and annual results is encouraged.
Executive Directors is set out on page 59.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 47 Governance Corporate governance The Committee assists the Board to fulfil its responsibilities related Deloitte LLP were appointed as Auditors to the Company on to external financial reporting and associated announcements.
its incorporation, and are subject to annual reappointment by During the year, the Audit Committee evaluated, reviewed and shareholders.
To ensure objectivity, key members of the audit team monitored the following: rotate off the Companys audit.
During the year, the Committee reviewed Deloitte LLPs fees, effectiveness and whether the agreed audit plan had been fulfilled and the reasons for any variation from the the interim and annual financial statements: the interim and annual results announcements made to the plan.
The Committee also considered its robustness and the degree to which Deloitte LLP was able to assess key accounting and audit London StockExchange: significant accounting issues including the consideration of any judgments and the content of the management letter.
The Committee concluded that the audit was effective and that the relationship and goodwill impairment assessments: operation of the Groups Speak Up whistle-blowing policy: effectiveness of the external Auditors be kept under review.
Deloitte LLP also audits significant subsidiaries of the Group.
the Groups internal audit function and approval of the internal audit plan: the effectiveness of the external audit process: The total fees paid to Deloitte LLP in the year ended 30September objectivity, terms and fees of the external Auditors: 2011 were 6.9 million 2010: 5.4 million of which 3 million scope of audit and non-audit services provided by the 2010:1.8 million related to non-audit work.
Further disclosure of externalAuditors: thenon-audit fees paid during the year ended 30 September 2011 litigation and contingent liabilities: and can be found in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements tax matters, including compliance with statutory tax onpage 78. reportingobligations.
The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit The Committee is also responsible for the development, function and its relationship with the external Auditors, including implementation and monitoring of the Companys policy on internal audit resources, plans and performance as well as the degree external audit.
The Committee reserves oversight responsibility for to which the function is free of management restrictions.
Throughout monitoring the Auditors independence, objectivity and compliance the year, the Committee reviewed the internal audit functions plans with ethical, professional and regulatory requirements.
The Committee and its achievements against those plans.
The Committee considered recommends the appointment, reappointment and removal of the the results of the audits undertaken by the internal audit function and Companys external Auditors, and considers the risks associated with considered the adequacy of managements response to matters their withdrawal from the market in its risk evaluation and planning.
raised, including the time taken to resolve any such matters.
The Committee also reviews the terms, areas of responsibility and scope of the audit as set out in the external Auditors engagement The Committee also reviews the integrity of material financial letter: the overall work plan for the forthcoming year, together with the statements made by the Company.
The Committee monitors and associated fee proposal and cost-effectiveness of the audit: any major reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems, issues which arise during the course of the audit and their resolution: accounting policies and practices and compliance controls as well key accounting and audit judgments: the level of errors identified asthe Companys statements on internal control before they are during the audit: the recommendations made to management by the agreed by the Board for each years Annual Report.
The Board Auditors and managements response: and the Auditors overall retainsoverall responsibility for internal control and the identification performance.
The Committee also ensures that key partners within and management of business risk.
the external Auditors are rotated from time to time in accordance with applicable UK rules.
The Committee also monitors the extent of nonThe Company has reviewed and updated its policies in light of audit work which the external Auditors can perform, to ensure that the the enactment of the Bribery Act 2010 which came into force on provision of those non-audit services that can be undertaken by the 1July 2011.
The Company remains committed to the highest external Auditors falls within the agreed policy and does not impair standards of business conduct and expects all of its employees their objectivity or independence.
In this respect the Committee has to act accordingly.
agreed that, unless there is no other competent and available provider, the external Auditors should be excluded from providing the Company The Groups Speak Up policy an extension of the Code of Ethics with general consultancy and all other non-audit and non-tax-related now incorporated within the Groups Code of Business Conduct services.
Engagements for non-audit services that are not prohibited which was launched in 40 languages during the year and is available are subject to formal approval by the Committee based on the level on the Companys website at www.
Non-audit services that are pre-approved are either refreshed during the year and sets out arrangements for the receipt, routine in nature with a fee that is not significant in the context of the in confidence, of complaints on accounting, risk issues, internal audit or are audit related services.
controls, auditing issues and related matters which would, as appropriate, be reported to the Committee, and Speak Up is a Within the constraints of applicable UK rules, the external Auditors standard review item on all internal work programmes.
Copies of undertake some due diligence reviews and provide assistance on the Codes of Business Conduct and Ethics are available on the tax matters given their in-depth knowledge of the Groups business, Companys website at www.
The Committee although assistance on these matters is also obtained from other also receives regular updates on bribery and fraud trends and activity firms.
The provision of non-audit services within such constraints in the business, if any, at least twice each year with individual updates and the agreed policy is assessed on a case-by-case basis so being given to the Committee, as needed, in more serious cases of that the best-placed advisor is retained.
Principal non-audit alleged bribery, fraud or related activities.
The Groups anti-fraud services approved by the Audit Committee during the year ended policies are a subset of the Code of Business Conduct which does 30 September 2011 comprised the provision of due diligence not tolerate any activity involving fraud, dishonesty or deception.
advice in respect of acquisitions in Turkey, Denmark and Sweden These policies, for which the Committee retains overall responsibility, and assistance on tax matters.
set out how allegations of fraud or bribery are dealt with, such as by the local human resources or finance team, and the frequency of local reporting that feeds into the regular updates, which are presented to the Committee.
Reporting of these matters to the Committee is 48 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Governance managed and overseen by internal audit.
The Speak Up policy General Business Committee operates when the complaint is received through the whistle-blowing The General Business Committee comprises all of the Executive channel and that policy will redirect the alleged fraud or bribery for Directors and meets as required to conduct the Companys business investigation at the most appropriate level of the organisation which within clearly defined limits delegated by the Board and subject to may, for example, be by a member of the local human resources team those matters reserved to the Board.
or, on occasion, the Committee itself.
Each year the Committee reviews critically its own performance and Corporate Responsibility Committee considers where improvements can be made.
The Corporate Responsibility Committee comprises Susan Murray Chairman, Sir Roy Gardner, Richard Cousins, Andrew Martin, Nomination Committee Mark White General Counsel and Company Secretary, Jane Kingston Group Human Resources Director and all of the Non-Executive The Nomination Committee comprises Sir Roy Gardner Chairman, Directors in office at the date of this Report.
Richard Cousins and all of the Non-Executive Directors in office at thedate of this Report.
The Corporate Responsibility Committees primary responsibilities include: health, safety and environmental practices, business The Nomination Committee meets on an as needed basis.
The conduct, the promotion of employee engagement and diversity Committee met twice during the year and Members attendance is andcommunity investment.
setout in the table below.
The Committee met three times during the year and Members During the year the Nomination Committee reviewed the structure, attendance is shown in the table below.
size and composition of the Board and its committees and made recommendations with regard to any changes considered necessary, both in the identification and nomination of new Directors and Disclosure Committee appointment of members to the Boards committees.
It also assessed The Disclosure Committee comprises Andrew Martin, Mark White, the roles of the existing Directors in office to ensure that there the Group Financial Controller and the Director of Corporate Strategy, continues to be a balanced Board in terms of skills, knowledge, Media and Investor Relations, and meets as required to deal with all experience and diversity.
matters relating to public announcements of the Company and the Companys obligations under the Listing Rules and Disclosure and The Company adopts a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure Transparency Rules of the UK ListingAuthority.
for the appointment of new Directors and senior executives with due regard to diversity and gender.
Prior to making an appointment, the Executive Committee Committee will evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge, independence, experience and diversity on the Board and, in the light of this The Executive Committee is the key management committee and evaluation, will prepare a description of the role and capabilities comprises the Executive Directors of the Company, General Counsel required, with a view to appointing the best placed individual for the and Company Secretary, Group Human Resources Director and role.
In identifying suitable candidates, the Committee: Group Managing Directors.
The Committee meets regularly and is responsible for developing the Groups strategy and capital uses open advertising or the services of external advisors to expenditure and investment budgets and reporting on these areas facilitate the search: to the Board for approval, implementing Group policy, monitoring considers candidates from different genders and a wide range financial, operational and customer quality of service performance, of backgrounds: and health and safety, purchasing and supply chain issues, succession considers candidates on merit and against objective criteria planning, and day-to-day management of the Group.
ensuring that appointees have sufficient time to devote to the position, in light of other significant commitments.
Meetings attendance The Nomination Committee retained external search consultants in The following table shows the attendance of Directors in office at respect of the appointments of John Bason and Dominic Blakemore 30September 2011 at meetings of the Board, Audit, Corporate and will do so in the future, as appropriate.
The Nomination Responsibility CR, Nomination and Remuneration Committees Committee reviews the senior leadership needs of the Group to during the year to 30 September 2011: enable it to compete effectively in the marketplace.
The Nomination Audit CR Nomination Remuneration Committee also advises the Board on succession planning for Board Committee Committee Committee Committee executive Board appointments although the Board itself is responsible Name Attendance Attendance Attendance Attendance Attendance for succession generally.
1 John Bason 4 of 4 1 of 1 1 of 1 1 of 1 1 of 1 Richard Cousins 9 of 9 3 of 3 2 of 2 Remuneration Committee Sir James Crosby 9 of 9 1 of 1 1 of 1 2 of 2 4 of 4 Sir Roy Gardner 9 of 9 3 of 3 2 of 2 The Remuneration Committee comprises Sir James Crosby Chairman Gary Green 9 of 9 and all of the other Non-Executive Directors in office at the date of this Andrew Martin 9 of 9 3 of 3 Report.
The Committee met four times during the year and Directors Susan Murray 9 of 9 1 of 1 3 of 3 2 of 2 4 of 4 attendance can be found in the table opposite.
Don Robert 7 of 9 3 of 4 1 of 1 2 of 2 0 of 1 Sir Ian Robinson 9 of 9 4 of 4 1 of 1 2 of 2 1 of 1 The Remuneration Committee is responsible for making recommendations on remuneration to the Board.
The Directors O n 10 May 2011, the composition of each of the Audit, Corporate Responsibility, Remuneration Report is set out on pages 53 to 60.
The Chairman Nomination and Remuneration Committees was altered to include all of the of the Remuneration Committee attends the AGM to respond to any Non-Executive Directors.
The table shows the number of meetings attended out of the number of meetings which each Director was eligible toattend.
shareholder questions that might be raised on the Remuneration 1 John Bason was appointed to the Board on 21 June 2011.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 49 Governance Corporate governance management and internal control programme.
The internal and the Internal audit external Auditors have reviewed the overall approach adopted by the The internal audit function is involved in the assessment of the quality Group towards its risk management activities so as to reinforce these of risk management and internal control and helps to promote and internal control requirements.
further develop effective risk management within the business.
Certain internal audit assignments such as those requiring specialist Control procedures expertise continue to be outsourced by the Director of Internal Audit to KPMG LLP as appropriate.
The Audit Committee reviews internal The Board reviews its strategic plans and objectives on an annual audit reports and considers the effectiveness of the function.
basis and approves Group company budgets and strategies in light of these.
Control is exercised at Group and business level through the Groups Management and Performance MAP framework and Internal control monthly monitoring of performance by comparison with budgets, In a highly decentralised Group, where local management have forecasts and cash targets and by regular visits to Group businesses considerable autonomy to run and develop their businesses, a by the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director.
Group well designed system of internal control is necessary to safeguard businesses approve and submit risk reports for the Board on a shareholders investments and the Companys assets.
The Directors biannual basis, summarising the key risks facing their businesses acknowledge that they have overall responsibility for the Groups and the controls in place to manage those risks.
These reports, systems of internal control and for reviewing the effectiveness of together with reports on internal control and departures, if any, from those controls.
In accordance with the guidance set out in the established Group procedures prepared by the internal and external Turnbull Report, Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Auditors, are reviewed by the Group Finance Director and the Audit Combined Code, and in the Code itself, an ongoing process has Committee.
The Group companies also submit biannual risk and been established foridentifying, managing and evaluating the risks internal control assurance letters to the Group Finance Director faced by the Group.
This process has been in place for the full on internal control and risk management issues, with comments on financial year and up to the date on which the financial statements the control environment within their operations.
The Group Finance were approved.
Director summarises these submissions for the Audit Committee and the Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the Board on The systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk any matters that have arisen from the Committees review of the offailure to achieve the Groups strategic objectives, safeguard the way in which risk management and internal control processes have Groups assets against material loss, fairly report the Groups beenapplied.
performance and position and to ensure compliance with relevant legislation, regulation and best practice including that related to social, The Board has formal procedures in place for approval of investment environmental and ethical matters.
The systems provide reasonable, and acquisition projects, with designated levels of authority, supported not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Such by post investment review processes for selected acquisitions and systems are reviewed by the Board to deal with changing major capital expenditure.
The Board considers social, environmental circumstances.
and ethical matters in relation to the Groups business and assesses these when reviewing the risks faced by the Group.
The Board is A summary of the key financial risks inherent in the Groups business conscious of the effect such matters may have on the short and longis given on pages 30 to 31.
Risk assessment and evaluation is an term value of the Company.
The external Auditors of the Company integral part of the annual planning cycle.
Each business documents and the Director of Group Internal Audit attend Audit Committee the strategic objectives and the effectiveness of the Groups systems meetings and receive its papers.
The Report of the Audit Committee of internal control.
As part of the review, each significant business and is set out on pages 47 to 49 and the Audit Committee members meet function has been required to identify and document each substantial regularly with the Director of Group Internal Audit and the external risk, together with the mitigating actions implemented to manage, Auditors without the presence of executive management.
monitor and report to management on the effectiveness of these controls.
Senior managers are also required to sign biannual There were no changes to the Companys internal control over confirmations of compliance with key procedures and to report any financial reporting that occurred during the year ended 30 September breakdowns in, or exceptions to, these procedures.
Summarised 2011 that have affected materially, or are reasonably likely to affect results have been presented to senior management including to the materially, the Companys internal control over financial reporting.
Executive Committee and to the Board.
These processes have been in place throughout the financial year ended 30 September 2011 and Recruitment of former auditors have continued to the date of this Report.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control for the year To safeguard the independence of the Companys external under review and a summary of the principal control structures and auditorsand the integrity of the audit process, the recruitment of processes in place across the Group is set outbelow.
senior staff from the Companys auditors is not permitted for a period of two years after they cease to be involved in the provision of services to the Company.
Control environment Whilst the Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of Compliance statement internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, it has delegated responsibility for the operation of the internal control and risk The Company applied all of the principles set out in the Code for management programme to the Executive Committee.
The detailed the period under review and has, throughout the year, complied with review of internal control has been delegated to the Audit Committee.
the detailed provisions set out therein.
The management of each business is responsible for internal control and risk management within its own business and for ensuring The Companys Auditors, Deloitte LLP, are required to review whether compliance with the Groups policies and procedures.
Each business the above statement reflects the Companys compliance with the has appointed a risk champion whose primary role in such capacity provisions of the Code specified for its review by the Listing Rules is to ensure compliance by local management with the Groups risk of the UK Listing Authority and to report if it does not reflect such compliance.
No such report has been made.
50 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Governance total until the Companys next AGM, which they might otherwise be Communication with shareholders prohibited from making or incurring under the terms of the CA 2006 The Company places considerable importance on communication and which would not amount to donations in the ordinary sense of with its shareholders, including its private shareholders.
Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director are closely involved in investor relations and a senior executive has day-to-day responsibility Employee Share Trusts for such matters.
The views of the Companys major shareholders are reported to the Board by the Group Chief Executive and the Group The Compass Group Employee Share Trust ESOP and The Finance Director as well as by the Chairman who remains in contact Compass Group Employee Trust Number 2 CGET were with the 10 largest shareholders and are discussed at its meetings.
established on 13 January 1992 and 12 April 2001 respectively in connection with the Companys share option plans.
The Compass During the year, the Company introduced electronic communications Group Long Term Incentive Plan Trust LTIPT was established on as the default method of communicating with its shareholders, helping 5 April 2001 in connection with the Companys long-term incentive to make the Company more environmentally friendly by reducing plans.
Details of all incentive plans are set out in the Remuneration waste and pollution associated with the printing and posting of its Report on pages 56 to 57.
The Trustees of the ESOP, LTIPT and Annual Report.
The Annual Report and Accounts are available to all CGET hold 251,332 2010: 344,655, 17,209 2010: 17,209 and nil shareholders and can be accessed via the Companys website at 2010: nil ordinary shares respectively.
com or can be obtained in paper form.
The Compass Group Executive Option Share Trust and the There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and this Compass Group Executive Share Trust were established on has been extended to include private shareholders through the AGM 15 and 22February 2010 respectively in relation to the operation and meetings with the United Kingdom Shareholders Association.
of share incentive plans in Australia.
No ordinary shares are held Contact with institutional shareholders and with financial analysts, by these Trusts.
brokers and the media is controlled by written guidelines to ensure the protection of share price sensitive information that has not already Awards under employee share schemes been made generally available to the Companys shareholders.
In November 2010 and May 2011, options were granted under Contact is also maintained, when appropriate, with shareholders to discuss overall remuneration plans and policies.
The Groups annual the Compass Group Share Option Plan 2010 over 118,900 and 4,297,050 ordinary shares 2010: 4,102,900 to senior employees and interim results, as well as all announcements issued to the London Stock Exchange, are published on the Companys website of the Group at option prices of 566.00 pence and 575.00 pence per share respectively.
The Company issues regular trading updates and interim management statements to the market and these, together with copies of interviews and presentations by the The Company also operates an all employee share incentive plan Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, are posted on approved by HM Revenue & Customs under which UK employees the Companys website.
can purchase the Companys shares at market price.
No Director or Person Discharging Managerial Responsibility participates in either The Notice of AGM is circulated to all shareholders at least 20 working of these plans.
days before such meeting and it is Company policy not to combine resolutions to be proposed at general meetings.
All shareholders are Further details regarding the plans, including the total number invited to the Companys AGM at which they have the opportunity to of options outstanding, are set out in notes 24 and 25 to the put questions to the Board and it is standard practice to have the consolidated financial statements on pages 105 to 110.
Conditional Chairmen of the Audit, Corporate Responsibility, Nomination and awards over 1,360,106 shares were also made to Executive Remuneration Committees available to answer questions.
The results Directors and senior executives under the Compass Group Long of proxy voting for and against each resolution, as well as abstentions, Term Incentive Plan 2010 in November 2010 2010: awards over are announced to the London Stock Exchange and are published 264,912 shares were made under that plan, as well as awards over on the Companys website shortly after the meeting.
1,606,550 shares under the Compass Group Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Details of these, and the total number of extant LTIP awards held by Executive Directors as at 30 September 2011, are set out Donations on page 57 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Companys Corporate Responsibility Report is set out on pages 32 to 41.
The Groups charitable donations in 2011 totalled 5.9 million Employee policies and involvement 2010: 5.8 million.
The Group places particular importance on the involvement of its employees, keeping them regularly informed through informal Since 2004, shareholders have passed an annual resolution, on a precautionary basis, to approve donations to EU political bulletins and other in-house publications, meetings and the Companys internal websites, on matters affecting them as organisations and to incur EU political expenditure as such terms were defined under the then relevant legislation not exceeding employees and on the issues affecting their performance.
Those Group businesses in the European Economic Area which have 125,000 per annum.
The Board has consistently confirmed that it operates a policy of not giving any cash contribution to any political domestic information and consultation processes in place, such as works councils, are able to select representatives to party in the ordinary meaning of those words and that it has no intention of changing that policy.
The Directors, however, propose to participate in the Compass European Council, which has been in operation since 1996 and provides a forum for exchanging renew the authority granted in 2011 for the Group to make political donations and incur political expenditure as such terms are defined information and engaging in consultation on the Groups performance and plans, and relevant transnational issues.
in sections 362 to 365 of the CA 2006 of not more than 125,000 in At the date of this Report there are 22 employee representatives from 12 countries on the Compass European Council.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 51 Governance Corporate governance Permanent UK employees are usually invited to join the Companys The Companys ordinary shares can be traded through most defined contribution scheme Compass Retirement Income Savings banks, building societies, stockbrokers or share shops in the UK Plan CRISP or the Companys stakeholder pension arrangement.
and, in addition, Capita Registrars provides a share dealing service CRISP has a corporate Trustee.
The Chairman, Tony Allen, is independent.
maximum deal size 25,000 which is available to shareholders The other six Trustee Directors are UK-based employees of the Group, resident in the UK, EEA, Channel Islands and the Isle of Man.
This three of whom have been nominated by CRISP members.
is a simple and convenient way to buy and sell shares over the telephone and on the Internet without the need to pre-register and complete application forms.
Details of this service and other However, those UK employees who transfer from the public sector under the Transfer of Undertakings Protection of Employment shareholder services can be found in the General Shareholder Information section on page 126 of this Report or on the Companys Regulations 2006 are eligible to join the Compass Group Pension Plan the Plan, a defined benefit pension arrangement which is otherwise website at www.
The Plan also has a corporate Trustee.
The Chairman, Peter Morriss, is independent.
There are a further six CREST Trustee Directors who are either UK-based employees or former The Companys ordinary shares and Sterling Eurobonds are in employees of the Group, three of whom have been nominated by CREST, the settlement system for stocks and shares.
A closed defined benefit arrangement was also in place during the Auditors year under the Compass Pension Scheme the Scheme.
On 5 April Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue as Auditors 2011, following consultation, the Scheme was merged into the Plan of the Company.
Separate Resolutions proposing their reappointment and all members transferred to the Plan.
Further details of the merger and determination of their remuneration will be proposed at the 2012 are shown in note 23 to the consolidated financial statements on page AGM.
The Directors confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there 101 of this Report.
is no relevant audit information of which Deloitte LLP are unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that ought to have been taken Permanent employees outside of the UK are usually offered as a Director to be aware of any relevant audit information and to membership of local pension arrangements if and where they exist establish that Deloitte LLP are aware of that information.
or limited global arrangements where it is appropriate to have Company sponsored arrangements.
AGM Employees are offered a range of benefits depending on the local The Notice of Meeting setting out the Resolutions to be proposed at environment, such as private medical cover.
Priority is given to the the AGM to be held on 2 February 2012, together with explanatory training of employees and the development of their skills is of prime notes, is set out on pages 128 to 134 of this Annual Report and is also importance.
Employment of disabled people is considered on merit available on the Companys website at www.
with regard only to the ability of any applicant to carry out the role.
The Directors consider that each of the Resolutions is in the best Arrangements to enable disabled people to carry out the duties interests of the Company and the shareholders as a whole and required will be made if it is reasonable to do so.
An employee recommend that shareholders vote in favour of all of the Resolutions.
becoming disabled would, where appropriate, be offered retraining.
The Group continues to operate on a decentralised basis.
This On behalf of the Board provides the maximum encouragement for the development of entrepreneurial flair, balanced by a rigorous control framework exercised by a small head office team.
Local management teams are responsible for maintaining high standards of health and safety and for ensuring that there is appropriate employee involvement in decision making.
Mark J White General Counsel and Company Secretary 23 November 2011 Creditor payment policy All Group companies are responsible for establishing terms and Compass Group PLC conditions with their suppliers and it is Group policy that payments Registered in England and Wales No.
4083914 are made within such agreed terms and conditions.
The amount of trade creditors for the Group as at 30 September 2011 was equivalent to 69 days 2010: 63 days of trade purchases.
Shareholder services The Share Portal is a service offered by our Registrars, Capita Registrars, which allows shareholders online access to a range of shareholder information.
The Share Portal provides access to details of shareholdings in the Company and practical help on transferring shares and updating personal details.
It enables shareholders to register to receive shareholder communications electronically and it also enables shareholders to appoint proxies to attend and vote at general meetings of the Company.
To register, shareholders should go to www.
com and follow the instructions provided.
Shareholders will need their investor code when registering for the Share Portal.
This can be found on your share certificate.
52 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Governance Directors Remuneration Report The Board presents its Remuneration Report, which has been Biographical details of the current members of the Committee are prepared on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee set out on page 42.
The General Counsel and Company Secretary the Committee and in accordance with the requirements of the acts as the Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee met on four Companies Act 2006 the CA 2006.
Shareholders will be invited occasions during the year.
Attendance details are shown in the table to approve the Report at the Annual General Meeting the AGM on page 49. on 2 February 2012.
The Report covers the following matters: Advisors to the Committee Executive remuneration policy for the year ended 30 September The Committee has access to detailed external information and 2011 and the intended policy for the year ending 30 September research on market data and trends from independent consultants.
2012: and During the year,  LLP who also provide Directors remuneration, incentive plan participation and pension expatriate assignment advice was engaged by the Committee to provision.
advise on general human resources and compensation related matters including the design of incentive arrangements.
Alithos With the exception of the annual performance related award, service Limited provided information for the testing of the total shareholder agreement details, disclosure of remuneration of other senior executives return TSR performance conditions for the Companys long-term and external directorships, the information set out on pages 53 to 60 incentive plans.
of this Remuneration Report represents the auditable disclosures referred to in the Auditors Report on page 62 as specified by the UK The Chairman and the Group Chief Executive, together with Jane Listing Authority and under Regulation 11 of and Schedule 8 to the Kingston Group Human Resources Director, and the Director of Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Group Reward, are normally invited to attend each Committee Reports Regulations 2008. meeting and provide advice and guidance to the Committee other than in respect of their own remuneration.
Role of the Committee The Board sets the Companys remuneration policy and the Summary of activity during the year Committee is responsible, within the authority delegated by the During the year, the Committee conducted its annual review of Board, for determining specific remuneration packages and the terms remuneration philosophy and reviewed the Companys remuneration and conditions of employment for the members of the Executive practice to ensure that the overall remuneration structure continues Committee, which comprises the Executive Directors and other to promote the Companys business strategy.
The Chairmans pay senior executives.
The Committee ensures that the members of the and benefits and the Executive Directors reward packages were Executive Committee are provided with the appropriate incentives reviewed.
The performance targets of the Companys bonus and to enhance the Groups performance and to reward them for their share incentive plans were considered, and the vesting amounts personal contribution to the success of the business.
The Committee of maturing awards approved.
The Committee also considered the reviews the remuneration arrangements for Group employees whose headroom available in issued share capital before the making of salaries exceed a specified level and administers the Companys share share plan awards, considered developments in best practice and incentive plans.
The Committee also determines the Chairmans engaged with shareholder representatives and advisory bodies.
remuneration although the Board itself determines the level of fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors.
No Directors are involved in deciding their own remuneration.
Remuneration policy and components The Committee reviews the Companys remuneration philosophy The Committee also maintains an active dialogue with shareholder and structure each year to ensure that the remuneration framework representatives and its full Terms of Reference are set out on the remains effective in supporting the Companys business objectives, Companys website at www.
is in line with best practice, and fairly rewards individuals for the contribution that they make to the business, having regard to the Membership of the Committee size and complexity of the Groups operations and the need to motivate and attract employees of the highest calibre.
The Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors, as defined in the UK Corporate Governance Code The Committee intends that base salary and total remuneration of the Code.
During the year the Committee comprised the Executive Directors should be in line with the market.
Remuneration following Non-Executive Directors: is benchmarked against rewards available for equivalent roles in a suitable comparator group with the aim of paying neither significantly Sir James Crosby above nor below the median for each element of remuneration at Chairman, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director par performance levels.
The Committee also considers general John Bason appointed 21 June 2011 pay and employment conditions of all employees within the Group Steve Lucas retired 21 June 2011 and is sensitive to these, to prevailing market conditions, and to Susan Murray governance trends when assessing the level of salaries and Tim Parker retired 31 December 2010 remuneration packages of Executive Directors and other members Don Robert of the Executive Committee.
Save for promotional increases Sir Ian Robinson awarded to some Group Managing Directors, percentage increases to basic salary awards for Executive Directors and other members of Joined the Committee on 10 May 2011. the Executive Committee during the year ended 30 September 2011 were in line with those awarded to other employees in the Group working in the same country in that period.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 53 Governance Directors Remuneration Report The total remuneration package links corporate and individual Pensions performance with an appropriate balance between short and longThe Groups policy is not to offer defined benefit arrangements to new term elements, and fixed and variable components.
The policy is employees at any level save where required by applicable legislation.
designed to incentivise executives to meet the Companys key Incoming Executive Directors are invited either to join the Companys objectives, such that a significant portion of total remuneration is money purchase arrangement or to take a fixed salary supplement, performance related, based on a mixture of internal targets linked calculated as a percentage of base salary, which is excluded from to the Companys key business drivers which can be appropriately any bonus calculation.
measured, understood and accepted by both executives and shareholders and appropriate external comparator groups.
At 30 September 2011 there were no Executive Directors actively participating in any Compass Group defined benefit pension The Committee considers that the targets set for the different arrangements and none of the Executive Directors are accruing elements of performance related remuneration are both appropriate additional entitlement to benefit under any arrangements that existed and demanding in the context of the business environment and the prior to their appointment as Executive Directors.
challenges with which the Group is faced as well as complying with the provisions of the Code.
As reported in previous years, Richard Cousins and Gary Green receive a salary supplement equal to 35% of their basic salaries in lieu The following chart shows the average proportions of salary, target of pension: and, as reported in 2006, Andrew Martin has received a or par bonus, pension, benefits and the expected value of longsalary supplement from 6 April 2006, equal to 35% of basic salary term incentives granted to each of the Executive Directors during and has waived all rights to his final salary pension, money purchase the year ended 30 September 2011.
This is the same for each pension and unfunded unapproved pension relating to his Executive Director.
employment prior to that date.
Annual bonus Executive Directors remuneration The annual bonus is earned by the achievement of performance package elements targets set by the Committee at the start of each financial year and Year ended 30 September 2011 is delivered in cash.
The target or par award for the year ended Salary 32% 30 September 2011 was 75% of base salary, with a further maximum Annual bonus 24% of 75% of base salary available for superior performance.
Pension 11% Benefits 1% For the year ended 30 September 2011, the bonus measures for the LTIP 32% Executive Directors were as follows: Richard Gary Andrew Measure Cousins Green Martin Salary Base salaries are appropriately benchmarked and reflect the role, 1 2 1 Profit Before 55% 55% 55% job size and responsibility as well as individual performance and Interest and Tax effectiveness.
Consideration is also given to prevailing market and PBIT economic conditions and to governance trends, as well as to salary Group Free Cash 15% 15% levels throughout the organisation.
The Group Chief Executives salary Flow GFCF is reviewed annually by the Committee with any increase taking effect 3 12 Month Average 15% on 1 July of each year.
Other executives salaries are subject to annual Working Capital review with any increases taking effect on 1 January of each year.
It is Balance AWCB not envisaged that remuneration elements for Executive Directors for 4 5 4 Organic Revenue 15% 15% 15% the year ending 30 September 2012 will be substantially different to Growth ORG those in place in the financial year ended 30 September 2011.
Personal Targets 15% 15% 15% The annual base salaries of the Executive Directors are: Total 100% 100% 100% 1 PBIT on a Group-wide basis.
Richard Cousins 937,500 effective 1 July 2011, 2 PBIT split between Group PBIT 15% and Local PBIT USA and Canada 40%.
increased by 2.99% from 910,350 3 12 Month AWCB USA and Canada.
Gary Green US$1,136,000 effective 1 January 2011, 4 ORG on a Group-wide basis.
increased by 3.99% from $1,092,420 Andrew Martin 568,000 effective 1 January 2011, Bonus measures dependent on GFCF are subject to the caveat that increased by 3.99% from 546,210 GFCF should not be affected by Board approved capital expenditure or other unusual or irregular timing differences.
PBIT and ORG targets Benefits are adjusted to take account of acquisitions and disposals.
A These comprise healthcare insurance for Executive Directors and their supplementary financial underpin applies such that the amount dependents, limited financial advice, life assurance and car benefit.
payable pursuant to the achievement of the non-PBIT measures may Benefits for Executive Directors and their dependents for the year not exceed the on-target payment unless the threshold Group PBIT ending 30 September 2012 will not be substantially different to those measure has been achieved.
offered in the financial year ended 30 September 2011.
54 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Governance Following the Committees assessment of the extent to which the The Committee continues to be satisfied that the performance various performance measures in respect of the bonus for the year targets are challenging and promote the Companys business ended 30 September 2011 were achieved, the percentages of base strategy.
salary which were actually paid to the Directors, by way of annual bonus, for the year ended 30 September 2011, together with the The Committee has agreed that, for the year ending 30 September outcomes against each category of annual bonus measure, are 2012, to ensure that performance conditions continue to be aligned shown below: with current strategy, the ORG performance target should remain as an element of the annual bonus to the extent that Personal Targets Richard Gary Andrew and ORG targets each represent 15% of the bonus measures, the Cousins Green Martin PBIT measures represent 55% and the GFCF and AWCB measures Actual bonus Actual bonus Actual bonus 15% respectively.
Achievement of non-PBIT measures may not earned as % earned as % earned as % of annual of annual of annual exceed on-target par payment unless the threshold Group PBIT Measure base salary base salary base salary measure is achieved.
Financial Targets 93.75% 112.50% 93.75% Personal Targets 18.75% 22.50% 21.00% Total 112.50% 135.00% 114.75% Emoluments The aggregate remuneration of the Directors who served during the financial year ended 30 September 2011 was as follows: Directors remuneration Annual performanceSalary Salary related 2011 2010 1 6 and fees supplement bonus Benefits Total Total 000 000 Name of Director 000 000 000 000 Chairman Sir Roy Gardner 433 44 477 477 Executive Directors Richard Cousins 917 321 1,055 41 2,334 2,560 2 Gary Green 701 245 985 44 1,975 1,992 Andrew Martin 563 197 652 48 1,460 1,551 Non-Executive Directors Sir James Crosby 125 125 110 3 John Bason 29 29 4 Steve Lucas 75 75 90 Susan Murray 93 93 77 5 Tim Parker 21 21 70 Don Robert 81 81 70 Sir Ian Robinson 81 81 70 Total 3,119 763 2,692 177 6,751 7,067 1 A supplement of 35% of basic salary is paid in monthly instalments in lieu of pension participation.
2 Gary Greens salary of US$1.125 million and other emoluments are given in Sterling using an exchange rate of US$1.6059 1 2010: US$1.5596 1.
3 John Bason was appointed as a Director on 21 June 2011.
4 Steve Lucas resigned as a Director on 21 June 2011.
5 Tim Parker resigned as a Director on 31 December 2010.
6 Benefits comprise healthcare insurance, limited financial advice, life assurance and car benefit.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 55 Governance Directors Remuneration Report 100% of the portion of the award based on TSR will vest if Current share plans performance is in the top quartile and 25% of the award will vest The LTIP has been the primary form of equity-based incentive for the if performance is at the median.
Where performance is between year ended 30 September 2011, and this will continue to be the policy the median and top quartile, awards will vest on a straight-line basis for the year ending 30 September 2012. between the median and top quartile.
No shares will be released if the Companys TSR performance is below the median.
Long Term Incentive Plan 2010 All long-term incentive plan awards made to senior executives since The Committee must also be satisfied that the underlying financial February 2010 have been made under The Compass Group PLC performance of the Group justifies the vesting of an award.
Long Term Incentive Plan 2010 the 2010 LTIP.
Executive Directors Calculations of the achievement of the targets are independently received their first award under the 2010 LTIP during the year.
Under performed and are approved by the Committee.
the 2010 LTIP, executives may receive a conditional award of shares which may vest after a single three-year performance period, based The Committee considers TSR and GFCF as the performance on the achievement of stretching performance conditions.
Awards conditions which most closely align the interests of participants with will not exceed 200% of base salary and are made by reference to those of shareholders.
The 2010 LTIP rewards the achievement of the share price at the date of award.
Awards may be settled in GFCF targets which are key business targets for the Group as well shares or cash, if required for example, because of securities laws, as the Companys relative TSR outperformance against a defined list at any time up to the release of an award, subject to the discretion of comparator companies.
If a participant ceases to be an employee, unvested awards will 50% of any award is based on GFCF over the three-year performance normally lapse unless the Committee determines in its absolute period and 50% on the Companys TSR over the same period relative to discretion, in which case it shall permit awards to continue and be the companies comprising the TSR comparator group at the start of the satisfied, subject to the achievement of the performance condition.
The precise GFCF target for each award is linked Insuch circumstances, any shares vesting will be prorated based on to the Groups wider business targets and is set by the Committee at the the period of service unless otherwise determined by the Committee.
time of award based on Group projections and market expectations.
The In the event of a change of control, any unvested awards will vest GFCF measure is set by the Committee subject to the caveat that GFCF immediately, subject to satisfaction of performance conditions and should not be affected by Board approved capital expenditure or other reduction on a time-apportionment basis.
unusual or irregular timing differences.
In the case of intended fraud or misconduct by a participant which No shares vest unless the Group achieves threshold performance.
contributes to an error in financial information that materially affects 25% of the portion of the award based on GFCF vests on the the Companys share value, the Company will be entitled to recover achievement of threshold performance.
Awards vest on a straight-line the value of any shares released or the payment of cash equivalents basis between 25% and 100% where GFCF is between threshold and under the 2010 LTIP.
Benefits under the 2010 LTIP are not pensionable.
The table below sets out the percentage of each award made to TSR is the aggregate of share price growth and dividends paid Executive Directors within the last five years which has vested and the assuming reinvestment of those dividends in the Companys shares percentage of each extant award, had it vested on 30 September 2011: during the three-year performance period.
The averaging period for the determination of the TSR performance condition is three months.
Long-Term Incentive Plan performance Performance TSR percentage vested on maturity Year of award Maturity date conditions TSR position or indicative vesting percentage 1 20062007 1 October 2009 TSR GFCF 5 100% 20072008 1 October 2010 TSR GFCF 5 100% 20082009 1 October 2011 TSR GFCF 11 100% 20092010 1 October 2012 TSR GFCF 13 performance after 24 months 100% performance after 24 months 20102011 1 October 2013 TSR GFCF 46 performance after 12 months 0% performance after 12 months 1 As reported in 2008, following the sale of the Selecta vending business in July 2007, the GFCF target was adjusted in order to maintain those targets originally set in respect of the remaining business.
Aggregate gross gains realised by Messrs Cousins, Martin and Green were 6,759,604 in the year ended 30 September 2011.
The share price at the time of release of Mr Cousins award was 576.50p per share, and 566.00p per share at the time of release of Messrs Martins and Greens awards.
The market price on 17 November 2011, the provisional date of vesting of the award made on 28 November 2008, was 568.00 pence.
All awards were granted for nil consideration.
The highest mid-market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year was 612.00 pence and the lowest was 511.50 pence.
The year end price was 521.00 pence.
Compass Group Share Option Plan 2010 the CSOP 2010 Other discretionary share plans Eligible senior executives are able to participate in the CSOP 2010.
Awards prior to 2005 were made under the Compass Group Options granted under the plan are exercisable in full or part subject Bonus Matching Shares Plan the MSP and the Compass Group to the achievement of GFCF performance targets over a three-year Share Option Plan the CSOP 2000.
Further details of the plans period.
The CSOP 2010 was approved by shareholders in 2010 may be found in prior years Annual Reports.
No further awards can and further details are set out in the 2010 Annual Report, which is be made under the CSOP 2000 which expired on 27 July 2010. available on the Companys website at www.
Shareholder approval will be sought should the Company wish to No Executive Directors or Persons Discharging Managerial Responsibility make any further awards to Executive Directors under the MSP.
PDMRs are eligible to participate.
There are no outstanding awards under the MSP.
Existing rights All-employee share schemes under the CSOP 2000 remain and may result in the vesting of The Company operates an HM Revenue & Customs UK approved further shares in the capital of the Company.
Under the CSOP 2000, share purchase scheme, under which UK employees can invest up Executive Directors were eligible to receive awards equating to an to a maximum of 125 per month to buy shares in the Company at annual maximum of 200% of basic salary, at an exercise price not market value.
The scheme is not subject to performance conditions.
lower than the market value of the Companys shares on the day No Executive Directors or PDMRs will participate.
Options would normally be exercisable between the third and tenth anniversaries of the date of grant, on a sliding scale, subject to satisfaction of an earnings per share performance Superseded share plans condition, after which they would lapse.
Details of the number of Compass Group Long-Term Incentive Plan the 2000 LTIP options held by Directors in office during the year under the CSOP Long-term incentive plan awards prior to 2010 were made under the 2000 are shown in the table on page 58.
Under the 2000 LTIP, executives received a conditional award of shares of up to an annual maximum of 200% of base salary which would vest after a single three-year performance period, subject to the achievement of stretching performance conditions.
50% of any award made under the 2000 LTIP was based on GFCF and 50% on the Companys TSR.
Further details of the 2000 LTIP may be found in the 2010 Annual Report.
Details of the number of existing awards held by Directors under the 2000 LTIP are included in the table above.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 57 Governance Directors Remuneration Report Directors interests in share options As at Exercised Lapsed As at 30 Sep during the during 30 Sep 2010: year: the year: 2011: Exercise number of number of number of number of price: Name of Director shares shares shares shares pence Normal exercise period Gary Green 350,000 350,000 430.00 19 Sep 200418 Sep 2011 350,000 350,000 422.00 23 May 200522 May 2012 700,000 350,000 350,000 If average earnings per share growth is at least 6% over a three-year period between grant and exercise, one third of shares under option become exercisable.
Options are exercisable in full at 12% growth and on a straight-line basis in between.
The aggregate gross gain realised by Mr Green was 554,750 in the year ended 30 September 2011.
No options were granted during the year ended 30 September 2011.
Earnings per share measures were adjusted to achieve consistency between IFRS and UK GAAP reporting.
Dilution limits Total shareholder return All of the Companys equity-based incentive plans incorporate the The performance graph below shows the Companys TSR current Association of British Insurers ABI Guidelines on headroom performance against the performance of the FTSE 100 over the which provide that overall dilution under all plans should not exceed five-year period to 30 September 2011.
The FTSE 100 Index has 10% over a 10-year period in relation to the Companys issued share been chosen as a broad equity market index of which the Company capital or re-issue of treasury shares, with a further limitation of 5% has been a constituent member throughout the period.
in any 10-year period for executive plans.
Total return indices Compass Group vs FTSE 100 The Committee regularly monitors the position and prior to the making Compass FTSE 100 of any award considers the effect of potential vesting of options or share awards to ensure that the Company remains within these limits.
Any awards which are required to be satisfied by market purchased 200 shares are excluded from such calculations.
No treasury shares were utilised in the year ended 30 September 2011.
150 As at 30 September 2011, the Companys headroom position, which remains within current ABI Guidelines, was as shown in the chart below.
100 Scheme limits headroom 50 Sep Sep Sep Sep Sep Sep 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Executive Directors service agreements It is the Companys policy that service contracts for the Executive Directors have no fixed term but are capable of termination on 12 months notice from the Company and six months notice from the Director 12 months for Richard Cousins.
The Company also retains 10% in 10 years 5% in 10 years the right to terminate the contract immediately by making a payment Headroom 4.35% Headroom 1.37% in lieu of notice equal to 12 months pay, on-target bonus, pension Discretionary options 2.95% Discretionary options 2.95% supplement and an amount equal to 10% of basic pay in respect of LTIP 0.68% LTIP 0.68% benefits, to be paid in monthly instalments, subject to an obligation on All-Employee 2.02% the Director to mitigate his loss, such that payments may either reduce or cease completely in circumstances where the departing Executive Director gains new employment.
No special provisions apply in the event of a change of control.
58 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Governance Directors service agreements were reviewed by the Committee in Chairman 2007.
The Committee is sensitive to shareholders concerns regarding The fee for the Chairman is reviewed annually by the Committee bonus payments to Directors during their notice period.
It believes the each June with any increase taking effect on 1 July.
Following a obligation to mitigate adequately addresses the issue and has also detailed benchmarking exercise during the year, the Chairmans confirmed that future contracts for new Executive Directors should fee of 432,806 per annum was determined to be appropriate and not include an element of bonus in respect of the notice period.
The Chairman has a letter of engagement for a period of three years, which is renewable at three-year intervals Service contracts outline the components of remuneration paid by mutual consent and which is terminable without compensation to the individual but do not prescribe how remuneration levels are on six months notice from the Company or from the Chairman.
to be modified from year to year.
The Chairman is not eligible for pension scheme membership, bonus The Executive Directors hold service agreements as set out below: or incentive arrangements.
He is entitled to the provision of life and Date of contract medical insurance for himself and his spouse, financial planning assistance and car benefit.
Richard Cousins 22 November 2007 Gary Green 27 November 2007 Policy on remuneration of Non-Executive Andrew Martin 27 November 2007 Directors The fees for the Non-Executive Directors are reviewed and determined External appointments by the Board each year.
No increases had been made since 1 October Executive Directors may take up one non-executive directorship 2009.
Following a detailed benchmarking exercise and a review of outside of the Group, provided that such appointment is not likely Board Committee membership during the year, the Non-Executive to lead to a conflict of interest, subject to the Boards approval.
It is Directors fees for the year ended 30 September 2011 were increased recognised that non-executive duties can broaden experience and and are as shown in the table on page 55. knowledge which can benefit the Company.
Richard Cousins and Andrew Martin received fees of 85,000 and 4,583 during the year Each of the Non-Executive Directors was appointed to act on each in respect of their Directorships of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc and Board Committee with effect from 10 May 2011 and such additional easyJet plc respectively, which they were permitted to retain.
membership is included within the revised fees.
A fee of 22,000 per annum is payable where a Non-Executive Director acts as Chairman Share ownership guidelines of either the Audit or Remuneration Committee 2010: 20,000 and 15,000 respectively, and 12,000 is payable to the Chairman of the In order that their interests are aligned with those of shareholders, Corporate Responsibility Committee 2010: 7,500.
An additional fee Executive Directors are expected to build up and maintain a personal of 27,000 per annum is also payable for the Director nominated as shareholding in the Company.
NonExecutive Directors are not eligible for pension scheme membership, The share ownership guidelines were reviewed with effect from bonus or incentive arrangements.
Under the guidelines, the Chief Executive is required to hold a personal shareholding equal to twice his basic salary.
Other Non-Executive Directors have letters of engagement setting out Executive Directors are required to hold a personal shareholding their duties and the time commitment expected.
They are appointed equal to one and a half times their basic salary, and members of the for an initial period of three years, after which the appointment is Executive Committee one times their basic salary.
Non-Executive renewable at three-year intervals by mutual consent.
In accordance Directors are required to hold a personal shareholding equal to one with the Code, all Directors submit themselves for annual re-election times their basic fee.
Details of their appointments, which are terminable without compensation, are set out in the table below.
For Executive Directors and members of the Executive Committee, the guideline shareholding may be achieved by retaining shares Total length of service received as a result of participating in the Companys share plans.
Non-Executive Original date of Letter of at 30 Sep The programme specifically excludes the need to make a personal Director appointment engagement 2011 investment should awards not vest.
Non-Executive Directors are Sir Roy Gardner 1 Oct 2005 15 Sep 2005 6 years expected to purchase shares equating to a minimum value of one rev.
8 May 2009 third of their net of tax fee each year until the guideline is met.
The required level of shareholding is expected to be achieved within a Sir James Crosby 17 Feb 2007 16 Feb 2007 4 years, four-year period, commencing on 1 October 2010 or on the date of rev.
21 Sep 2009 7 months appointment to the Board or the Executive Committee.
John Bason 21 Jun 2011 10 May 2011 3 months Susan Murray 11 Oct 2007 11 Oct 2007 4 years The Committee reviewed and noted that the guidelines were satisfied rev.
16 Mar 2010 by all Directors during the year.
The Directors current shareholdings Don Robert 8 May 2009 8 May 2009 2 years, are set out on page 45.
5 months Sir Ian Robinson 1 Dec 2006 1 Dec 2006 4 years, rev.
21 Sep 2009 10 months Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 59 Governance Directors Remuneration Report Other senior executives and management A number of senior executives and the Executive Directors comprise the Executive Committee.
These key management roles influence the ability of the Group to meet its strategic targets.
The Committee has regard to the remuneration level and structure of this group whose total remuneration including salary and other short-term benefits, target or par bonus and the expected value of long-term incentives is summarised in the table below: Total remuneration for the year ended 30 September 2011 Number in band 000 2010 in brackets 5011,000 4 5 1,0011,500 5 3 1,5012,000 1 2,0012,500 1 On behalf of the Board Sir James Crosby Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 23 November 2011 60 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Consolidated financial statements Consolidated financial statements Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual The Annual Report and Accounts complies with the Disclosure Report and the consolidated financial statements.
The and Transparency Rules DTR of the United Kingdoms Financial Directors are required to prepare consolidated financial Services Authority in respect of the requirement to produce an annual statements for the Group in accordance with International financial report.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial statements The Annual Report and Accounts is the responsibility of, and has in accordance with IFRS, the Companies Act 2006 and been approved by, the Directors.
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards This requires the faithful representation of the effects of IFRS : transactions, other events and conditions in accordance the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the the Annual Report and Accounts includes a review of the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
development and performance of the business and the position Invirtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation achieved by compliance with all applicable International taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to: and uncertainties that they face.
properly select and apply accounting policies: On behalf of the Board present information, including accounting policies, inamanner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users Mark J White to understand the impact of particular transactions, other General Counsel and Company Secretary events and conditions on the entitys financial position and 23 November 2011 financial performance.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors Report and Directors Remuneration Report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors, having prepared the financial statements, have permitted the Auditors to take whatever steps and undertake whatever inspections they consider to be appropriate for the purpose of enabling them to give their audit opinion.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Compass Group PLC website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 61 Consolidated financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Compass Group PLC Introduction Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 We have audited the Group financial statements of Compass Group PLC for the year ended 30 September 2011 which comprise the In our opinion: consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has comprehensive income, the consolidated balance sheet, the been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of 2006: and changes in equity, the accounting policies and the related notes 1 to the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year 36.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting the Group financial statements.
Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
This Report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Matters on which we are required to in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. report by exception Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility our opinion: to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not as a body, for our audit work, for this Report, or for the opinions we in agreement with the accounting records and returns: have formed.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or Respective responsibilities of directors we have not received all the information and explanations we and auditor require for our audit.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial the directors statement contained within the Business Review in statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
relation to going concern: Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial Other matters statements We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and statements of Compass Group PLC for the year ended disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 30 September 2011. assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of Ian Waller Senior Statutory Auditor the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we London, United Kingdom consider the implications for our report.
23 November 2011 Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 30 September 2011 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
62 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Consolidated financial statements Consolidated income statement for the year ended 30 September 2011 Before UK reUK reorganisation organisation Total Total 2011 2011 2011 2010 Notes m m m m Continuing operations Revenue 1 15,833 15,833 14,468 Operating costs 2 14,768 55 14,823 13,485 Operating profit 1 1,065 55 1,010 983 Share of profit of associates 1, 13 6 6 6 Total operating profit 1 1,071 55 1,016 989 Finance income 4 4 4 5 Finance costs 4 75 75 86 Hedge accounting ineffectiveness 4 5 5 4 Change in the fair value of investments and non-controlling interest put options 4 2 2 1 Gain on remeasurement of joint venture interest on acquisition of control 5 16 16 Profit before tax 1,013 55 958 913 Income tax expense 6 273 9 264 246 Profit for the year from continuing operations 1 740 46 694 667 Discontinued operations Profit for the year from discontinued operations 7 40 40 13 Continuing and discontinued operations Profit for the year 780 46 734 680 Attributable to Equity shareholders of the Company 774 46 728 675 Non-controlling interests 6 6 5 Profit for the year 780 46 734 680 Basic earnings per share pence From continuing operations 8 36.4p 35.3p From discontinued operations 8 2.1p 0.7p From continuing and discontinued operations 8 38.5p 36.0p Diluted earnings per share pence From continuing operations 8 36.1p 35.1p From discontinued operations 8 2.1p 0.7p From continuing and discontinued operations 8 38.2p 35.8p Analysis of operating profit for the year ended 30 September 2011 Total Total 2011 2010 Notes m m Continuing operations Underlying operating profit before share of profit of associates 1,085 997 Share of profit of associates 6 6 1 Underlying operating profit 1,091 1,003 Amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition 12 7 Acquisition transaction costs 9 5 Adjustment to contingent consideration on acquisition 1 Share-based payments expense non-controlling interest call option 2 Operating profit after costs relating to acquisitions and disposals before UK re-organisation 1,071 989 UK re-organisation 2 55 Total operating profit 1,016 989 1 Underlying operating profit excludes UK re-organisation, amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition, acquisition transaction costs, adjustment to contingent consideration on acquisition and share-based payments expense non-controlling interest call option.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 63 C Co on ns so olliid da at ted ed f fiin na an nc ciia all s st ta at te em me en nt ts s Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 30 September 2011 2011 2010 Notes m m Profit for the year 734 680 Other comprehensive income Currency translation differences 6 34 Actuarial gains losses on post-retirement employee benefits 23 17 57 Tax on items relating to the components of other comprehensive income 6 8 12 Total other comprehensive income loss for the year 15 11 Total comprehensive income for the year 749 669 Attributable to Equity shareholders of the Company 743 664 Non-controlling interests 6 5 Total comprehensive income for the year 749 669 64 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Consolidated financial statements Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended 30 September 2011 Attributable to equity shareholders of the Company Share Capital NonShare premium redemption Own Other Retained controlling capital account reserve shares reserves earnings interests Total m m m m m m m m At 1 October 2010 189 317 44 1 4,521 2,002 5 3,073 Profit for the year 728 6 734 Other comprehensive income Currency translation differences 6 6 Actuarial gains losses on post-retirement employee benefits 17 17 Tax on items relating to the components of other comprehensive income 3 5 8 Total other comprehensive income 3 12 15 Total comprehensive income for the year 3 740 6 749 Issue of shares for cash 1 30 31 Fair value of share-based payments 10 10 Tax on items taken directly to equity note 6 3 3 Release of LTIP award settled by issue of new shares 6 6 Transfer on exercise of put options 1 1 Other changes 3 3 190 353 44 1 4,529 1,260 14 3,869 Dividends paid to Compass shareholders note 9 360 360 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 6 6 At 30 September 2011 190 353 44 1 4,529 1,620 8 3,503 Equity Share-based adjustment payment Merger Revaluation Translation for put Total other reserve reserve reserve reserve options reserves Other reserves m m m m m m At 1 October 2010 145 4,170 7 200 1 4,521 Other comprehensive income Currency translation differences 6 6 Tax on items relating to the components of other comprehensive income 3 3 Total other comprehensive income 3 3 Total comprehensive income for the year 3 3 Fair value of share-based payments 10 10 Release of LTIP award settled by issue of new shares 6 6 Transfer on exercise of put options 1 1 At 30 September 2011 149 4,170 7 203 4,529 Own shares held by the Group represent 268,541 shares in Compass Group PLC 2010: 361,864 shares.
251,332 shares are held by the Compass Group Employee Share Trust ESOP and 17,209 shares by the Compass Group Long Term Incentive Plan Trust LTIPT.
These shares are listed on a recognised stock exchange and their market value at 30 September 2011 was 1.4 million 2010: 1.9 million.
ESOP and LTIPT are discretionary trusts for the benefit of employees and the shares held are used to satisfy some of the Groups liabilities to employees for share options, share bonus and long-term incentive plans.
All of the shares held by the ESOP and LTIPT are required to be made available in this way.
The merger reserve arose in 2000 following the demerger from Granada Compass plc.
The equity adjustment for put options arose in 2005 on the accounting for the options held by the Groups non-controlling partners requiring the Group to purchase those non-controlling interests.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 65 C Co on ns so olliid da at ted ed f fiin na an nc ciia all s st ta at te em me en nt ts s Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended 30 September 2011 Attributable to equity shareholders of the Company Share Capital NonShare premium redemption Own Other Retained controlling capital account reserve shares reserves earnings interests Total m m m m m m m m At 1 October 2009 185 215 44 2 4,489 2,395 9 2,545 Profit for the year 675 5 680 Other comprehensive income Currency translation differences 34 34 Actuarial gains losses on post-retirement employee benefits 57 57 Tax on items relating to the components of other comprehensive income 6 18 12 Total other comprehensive income 28 39 11 Total comprehensive income for the year 28 636 5 669 Issue of shares for cash 4 93 97 Fair value of share-based payments 9 9 Tax on items taken directly to equity note 6 17 17 Share-based payments expense non-controlling interest call option 2 2 Release of LTIP award settled by issue of new shares 9 9 Release of share bonus award settled in cash or existing shares purchased in the market 1 1 Transfer on exercise of put options 5 2 7 Buy-out of non-controlling interests 6 5 11 189 317 44 2 4,521 1,744 9 3,334 Dividends paid to Compass shareholders note 9 258 258 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 4 4 Increase decrease in own shares held for 1 staff compensation schemes 1 1 At 30 September 2010 189 317 44 1 4,521 2,002 5 3,073 1 These shares are held in trust and are used to satisfy some of the Groups liabilities to employees for share options, share bonus and long-term incentive plans.
Equity Share-based adjustment payment Merger Revaluation Translation for put Total other reserve reserve reserve reserve options reserves Other reserves m m m m m m At 1 October 2009 146 4,170 7 172 6 4,489 Other comprehensive income Currency translation differences 34 34 Tax on items relating to the components of other comprehensive income 6 6 Total other comprehensive income 28 28 Total comprehensive income for the year 28 28 Fair value of share-based payments 9 9 Release of LTIP award settled by issue of new shares 9 9 Release of share bonus award settled in cash or existing shares purchased in the market 1 1 Transfer on exercise of put options 5 5 At 30 September 2010 145 4,170 7 200 1 4,521 66 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Consolidated financial statements Consolidated balance sheet as at 30 September 2011 2011 2010 Notes m m Non-current assets Goodwill 10 4,060 3,833 Other intangible assets 11 719 570 Property, plant and equipment 12 655 581 Interests in associates 13 79 32 Other investments 14 41 37 Trade and other receivables 16 77 72 Deferred tax assets 6 240 296 Derivative financial instruments 20 64 81 Non-current assets 5,935 5,502 Current assets Inventories 17 270 238 Trade and other receivables 16 2,030 1,830 Tax recoverable 36 31 Cash and cash equivalents 18 1,110 643 Derivative financial instruments 20 29 10 Current assets 3,475 2,752 Total assets 9,410 8,254 Current liabilities Short-term borrowings 19 711 148 Derivative financial instruments 20 3 5 Provisions 22 138 130 Current tax liabilities 238 273 Trade and other payables 21 2,900 2,683 Current liabilities 3,990 3,239 Non-current liabilities Long-term borrowings 19 1,247 1,200 Derivative financial instruments 20 3 2 Post-employment benefit obligations 23 292 389 Provisions 22 301 302 Deferred tax liabilities 6 35 15 Trade and other payables 21 39 34 Non-current liabilities 1,917 1,942 Total liabilities 5,907 5,181 Net assets 3,503 3,073 Equity Share capital 24 190 189 Share premium account 353 317 Capital redemption reserve 44 44 Less: Own shares 1 1 Other reserves 4,529 4,521 Retained earnings 1,620 2,002 Total equity shareholders funds 3,495 3,068 Non-controlling interests 8 5 Total equity 3,503 3,073 Component of current and deferred taxes.
Approved by the Board of Directors on 23 November 2011 and signed on their behalf by Richard J Cousins, Director Andrew D Martin, Director Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 67 C Co on ns so olliid da at ted ed f fiin na an nc ciia all s st ta at te em me en nt ts s Consolidated cash flow statement for the year ended 30 September 2011 2011 2010 Notes m m Cash flow from operating activities Cash generated from operations 27 1,298 1,330 One-off employer contributions to post-employment benefit obligations 60 Interest paid 56 75 Premium paid on options 1 Interest element of finance lease rentals 2 2 Tax received 24 24 Tax paid 233 227 Net cash from used in operating activities of continuing operations 970 1,050 Net cash from used in operating activities of discontinued operations 28 6 3 Net cash from used in operating activities 964 1,053 Cash flow from investing activities 1 Purchase of subsidiary companies and investments in associated undertakings 26 426 205 1 Proceeds from sale of subsidiary companies and associated undertakings discontinued activities 7 9 Tax on profits from sale of subsidiary companies and associated undertakings 3 Purchase of intangible assets 11 126 122 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 244 207 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment intangible assets 30 19 Purchase of other investments 14 2 3 Dividends received from associated undertakings 13 7 6 Interest received 4 5 Net cash from used in investing activities by continuing operations 760 516 Net cash from used in investing activities by discontinued operations 28 Net cash from used in investing activities 760 516 Cash flow from financing activities Proceeds from issue of ordinary share capital 31 97 Net increase decrease in borrowings 29 610 306 Repayment of obligations under finance leases 29 12 15 Equity dividends paid 9 360 258 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 6 4 Net cash from used in financing activities by continuing operations 263 486 Net cash from used in financing activities by discontinued operations 28 Net cash from used in financing activities 263 486 Cash and cash equivalents Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 29 467 51 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 29 643 588 Currency translation gains losses on cash and cash equivalents 29 4 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 29 1,110 643 1 Net of cash acquired or disposed and payments received or made under warranties and indemnities.
Reconciliation of free cash flow from continuing operations for the year ended 30 September 2011 2011 2010 m m Net cash from operating activities of continuing operations 970 1,050 One-off employer contributions to post-employment benefit obligations 60 Purchase of intangible assets 126 122 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 244 207 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment intangible assets 30 19 Purchase of other investments 2 3 Dividends received from associated undertakings 7 6 Interest received 4 5 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 6 4 Free cash flow from continuing operations 693 744 68 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Consolidated financial statements Accounting policies for the year ended 30 September 2011 risks and financial effects associated with the Groups interests in Introduction subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
The significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the Groups financial statements are set out below.
IFRS 13 Fair value measurement not yet adopted by the European Union explains how to measure fair value and aims to enhance fair A Accounting convention and basis value disclosures.
The standard does not change the measurement of fair value but codifies it in one place.
ofpreparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Amendments to IAS 19 Employee benefits not yet adopted by International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International the European Union change a number of disclosure requirements Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations for post-employment arrangements and restricts the options currently as adopted by the European Union that are effective for the year available on how to account for defined benefit pension plans.
They have been prepared under the The most significant change that will impact the Group is that the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain amendment requires expected returns on pension plan assets, financial instruments.
currently calculated based on managements expectation of expected returns to be replaced by a credit on the pension plan The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern assets calculated at the liability discount rate.
This is discussed in the Business Review on page 27. expect that this change will have a material impact on either finance costs or the Groups net assets.
There have been only minor improvements to existing International Financial Reporting Standards and interpretations that are effective Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements effective for the first time in the current financial year which have been for the Group in the year ending 30 September 2013. adopted by the Group with no impact on its consolidated results or financial position.
IAS 24 revised Related party disclosures Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations of existing IAS 27 revised Separate financial statements standards have been published that, once they have been endorsed by the European Union, will be mandatory for the Groups accounting IAS 28 revised Associates and joint ventures period beginning on 1 October 2011 or for later periods.
The Group does not currently believe that the adoption of these standards or Amendment to IAS 34 Interim financial reporting interpretations would have a material effect on the consolidated results or financial position of the Group unless stated otherwise.
Amendment to IFRS 7 Disclosure of the financial effect of the extent to which collateral and other credit enhancements mitigate IFRS 9 Financial instruments not yet endorsed by the European credit risk Union removes the multiple classification and measurement models for financial assets required by IAS 39 and introduces a model that Amendment to IFRS 7 Disclosures transfers of financial assets has only two classification categories: amortised cost and fair value.
Classification is driven by the business model for managing the Amendment to IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty programmes financial assets and the contractual cash flow characteristics of those assets.
The accounting and presentation for financial liabilities Amendment to IFRIC 14 IAS 19: The limit on defined benefit assets, and for derecognising financial instruments is relocated from IAS 39 minimum funding requirements and their interaction without any significant changes.
The Group is currently assessing the impact this standard would have on its consolidated results B Use of assumptions and estimates and financial position.
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements not yet endorsed management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that by the European Union replaces the guidance of control and affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and consolidation in IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial liabilities, income and expenses.
These estimates and assumptions statements and SIC 12 Consolidation special purpose entities.
are based on historical experience and other factors that are The core principle that a consolidated entity presents a parent and believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Actual results its subsidiaries as if they were a single entity remains unchanged, may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and assumptions as do the mechanics of consolidation.
that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities in the next financial year are IFRS 11 Joint arrangements not yet endorsed by the European discussed below.
Union requires joint arrangements to be accounted for as a joint operation or as a joint venture depending upon the rights and Income taxes obligations of each party to the arrangement.
Proportionate The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
consolidation for joint ventures will be eliminated and equity Significant judgment is required in determining the worldwide accounting will be compulsory.
It is anticipated that the application provision for income taxes as there are many transactions and of the standard which will be effective for the Group in the year calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain ending 30 September 2014 will result in a decrease to Group during the ordinary course of business.
The Group recognises revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities but will have no impact liabilities based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
on the Groups net profit or net assets.
Details of the Groups joint Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the venture arrangements are set out in note 15. amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the results for the year and the respective income tax and deferred tax IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities not yet adopted by provisions in the year in which such determination is made.
the European Union requires enhanced disclosures of the nature, Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 69 C Co on ns so olliid da at ted ed f fiin na an nc ciia all s st ta at te em me en nt ts s Accounting policies for the year ended 30 September 2011 Goodwill Intra-group transactions The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are impairment in accordance with the accounting policy set out in eliminated on consolidation.
Where a Group subsidiary transacts section M. The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units with a joint venture of the Group, profits or losses are eliminated to have been determined based on value in use calculations.
These the extent of the Groups interest in the relevant joint venture.
calculations require the use of estimates and assumptions consistent with the most up-to-date budgets and plans that have been formally E Acquisitions approved by management.
The key assumptions used for the value The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase in use calculations are set out in note 10 to the financial statements.
The cost of acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred Post-employment benefits or assumed, and equity instruments issued.
Defined benefit schemes are reappraised annually by independent actuaries based on actuarial assumptions.
Significant judgment Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities is required in determining these actuarial assumptions.
The assumed are recognised at the fair values at the acquisition date, principal assumptions used are described in note 23 to the except for non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified financial statements.
as held for sale which are recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
C Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements consist of the financial The cost of the acquisition in excess of the Groups interest in the statements of the Company, entities controlled by the Company net fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as its subsidiaries and the Groups share of interests in joint ventures goodwill.
If the cost of the acquisition is less than the fair value of the and associates made up to 30 September each year.
net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
D Subsidiaries, associates and joint F Foreign currency ventures The consolidated financial statements are prepared in pounds Subsidiaries Sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company.
Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies.
The existence and effect In preparing the financial statements of individual companies within of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible the Group, transactions in currencies other than pounds Sterling are are considered when assessing control.
recorded at the rates of exchange on the dates of the transaction.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are Joint ventures denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates on the Joint ventures are entities in which the Group holds an interest on balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are a long-term basis and which are jointly controlled by the Group and included in the income statement for the period, except for where they other venturers under a contractual agreement.
The Groups share arise on items taken directly to other comprehensive income, in which is accounted for using the proportionate consolidation method.
case they are also recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The consolidated income statement and balance sheet include the Groups share of the income, expenses, assets and liabilities.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks the Group enters into forward currency contracts and cross currency Associates swaps see section Q for the Groups accounting policies in respect Associates are undertakings that are not subsidiaries or joint ventures of derivative financial instruments.
over which the Group has significant influence and can participate in financial and operating policy decisions.
Investments in associated On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas undertakings are accounted for using the equity method.
The operations expressed in their functional currencies, being the consolidated income statement includes the Groups share of the currency of the primary economic environment in which each entity profit after tax of the associated undertakings.
Investments in operates are translated at the exchange rates on the balance sheet associates include goodwill identified on acquisition and are carried date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average in the Group balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising, if any, the Groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any are classified as equity and transferred to the Groups translation impairment in value.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or expense in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Adjustments Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures to bring the accounting foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity policies used in line with those used by the Group.
and translated at the closing rate.
Acquisitions and disposals The results of subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures acquired or G Revenue disposed of during the period are included in the consolidated income Revenue is recognised in the period in which services are provided statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective in accordance with the terms of the contractual relationships with date of disposal, as appropriate.
Revenue represents the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, excluding trade discounts, value added tax and similar sales taxes.
70 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Consolidated financial statements Management fee contracts used for tax purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally Revenue from management fee contracts comprises the total of sales recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred made to consumers, the subsidy charged to clients, together with the tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that management fee charged to clients.
taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from Fixed price contracts Revenue from fixed price contracts is recognised in proportion to the the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable volume of services that the Group is contracted to supply in each period.
profit nor the accounting profit.
Inter-segment transactions Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary There is little or no intra-group trading between the reported business segments.
Where such trading does take place it is on similar terms differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interest in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to and conditions to those available to third parties.
control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
H Rebates and other amounts received from suppliers The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer Rebates and other amounts received from suppliers include agreed probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all discounts from suppliers list prices, value and volume-related rebates.
or part of the asset to be recovered.
Income from value and volume-related rebates is recognised based Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply on actual purchases in the period as a proportion of total purchases in the period when the liability is settled or the asset realised.
made or forecast to be made over the rebate period.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when Agreed discounts relating to inventories are credited to the income they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax jurisdiction and statement as the goods are consumed.
the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Rebates relating to items purchased but still held at the balance sheet date are deducted from the carrying value of these items so that the cost of inventories is recorded net of applicable rebates.
M Intangible assets Goodwill Rebates received in respect of plant and equipment are deducted Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the from the costs capitalised.
cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquired subsidiary, associate I Borrowing costs or joint venture at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and is carried at cost less any accumulated Borrowing costs which are directly attributable to the acquisition, impairment losses.
construction or production of a qualifying asset are capitalised as part of the cost of that asset.
Goodwill is allocated to each cash-generating unit CGU for the purpose of impairment testing.
A CGU is identified at the lowest J Operating profit aggregation of assets that generate largely independent cash inflows, and that which is looked at by management for monitoring Operating profit is stated before the share of results of associates, and managing the business.
This is generally the total business for investment revenue and finance costs.
However, in some instances, where there are distinct separately managed business activities within a country, the CGU K Exceptional items is identified at a lower level.
Exceptional items are disclosed and described separately in the financial statements where it is necessary to do so to provide further If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than the carrying understanding of the financial performance of the Group.
They are amount, an impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying material items of income or expense that have been shown separately amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other due to the significance of their nature or amount.
assets of the unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Any impairment is immediately recognised in the income statement and an impairment loss recognised for L Tax goodwill is not subsequently reversed.
Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except where it relates to items On disposal, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the taken directly to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income determination of the gain or loss on disposal.
or equity, in which case it is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income or equity as appropriate.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off the period, using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated enacted by the balance sheet date.
and is not included in determining any subsequent gain or loss on disposal.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 71 Consolidated financial statements Accounting policies for the year ended 30 September 2011 Other intangible assets derivative financial instruments, denominated in foreign currencies Intangible assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost or, if are translated into pounds Sterling at period-end exchange rates.
acquired as part of a business combination, are capitalised at fair Gains and losses are dealt with through the income statement, unless value as at the date of the acquisition.
Internally generated intangible hedge accounting treatment is available.
Amortisation is charged on a straight-line basis over the expected useful lives of the assets.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and The following rates applied for the Group: short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Contract-related intangible assets: the life of the contract: and Borrowings Computer software: 6% to 33% per annum.
Borrowings are recognised initially at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised The typical life of contract-related intangibles is 2 to 20 years.
cost: any difference between the proceeds net of direct issue costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over Contract-related intangible assets arising on acquisition of a business the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method, unless included in a fair value hedge.
are recognised at fair value and amortised over the life of the contract.
Underlying operating profit and underlying earnings per share exclude the amortisation of contract-related intangible assets arising on Equity instruments acquisition of a business as it is not considered to be relevant to the Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the underlying trading performance of the Group.
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Liabilities in respect of option agreements N Property, plant and equipment Option agreements that allow minority shareholders to require the All tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment when there are Group to purchase the minority interest are treated as derivatives over indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
These are recorded in the balance sheet at fair land is not depreciated.
All other property, plant and equipment assets value which is re-evaluated at each period end.
Fair value is based on are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised the present value of expected cash outflows.
The movement in fair impairment in value.
value is recognised as income or expense within the income statement.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis over the anticipated Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting useful lives of the assets.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as forward currency contracts, cross currency swaps and interest rate swaps The following rates applied for the Group: to hedge the risks associated with changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially Freehold buildings and long-term leasehold property: 2% per measured at fair value on the contract date, and are remeasured to annum: fair value at subsequent reporting dates.
Short-term leasehold property: the life of the lease: Plant and machinery: 8% to 33% per annum: and The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies Fixtures and fittings: 8% to 33% per annum.
approved by the Board of Directors that provide written principles on the use of financial derivatives consistent with the Groups risk When assets are sold, the difference between sales proceeds and the management strategy.
The Group does not use derivative financial carrying amount of the assets is dealt with in the income statement.
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by O Assets held for sale reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale similar maturity profiles.
The fair value of interest rate swaps and if the carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction cross currency swaps is determined by reference to market rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met values for similar instruments.
only when the sale is highly probable, management is committed to a sale plan, the asset is available for immediate sale in its present For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as either condition and the sale is expected to be completed within one year fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the from the date of classification.
These assets are measured at the fair value of a recognised asset or liability: or cash flow hedges where lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
they hedge the exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset P Inventories or liability or a forecasted transaction.
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
In relation to fair value hedges interest rate swaps which meet the Cost is calculated using either the weighted average price or the first conditions for hedge accounting, any gain or loss from remeasuring in, first out method as appropriate to the circumstances.
Net realisable the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised immediately in the value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, income statement.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable less applicable variable selling expenses.
to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and recognised in the income statement.
Where the Q Financial instruments adjustment is to the carrying amount of a hedged interest-bearing financial instrument, the adjustment is amortised to the net profit and Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups loss such that it is fully amortised by maturity.
balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets and liabilities, including 72 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Consolidated financial statements When fair value hedge accounting is discontinued, any adjustment T Employee benefits to the carrying amount of the hedged item for the designated risk for Pension obligations interest-bearing financial instruments is amortised to profit or loss, Payments made to defined contribution pension schemes are with amortisation commencing no later than when the hedged item charged as an expense when they fall due.
Payments made to ceases to be adjusted.
state-managed schemes are dealt with as payments to defined contribution schemes where the Groups obligations under the The Groups policy is to convert a proportion of its floating rate debt schemes are equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution to fixed rates, using floating to fixed interest rate swaps.
designates these as cash flow hedges of interest rate risk.
For defined benefit pension schemes, the cost of providing benefits In relation to cash flow hedges forward currency contracts to hedge is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial firm commitments which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is gains and losses are recognised immediately in the consolidated determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity statement of comprehensive income.
and the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that When the hedged firm commitment results in the recognition of an the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on asset or liability, then at the time the asset or liability is recognised, a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits the associated gains or losses that had previously been recognised become vested.
in equity are included in the initial measurement of the acquisition cost and carrying amount of the asset or liability.
For all other cash The pension obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity are the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for transferred to the income statement in the same period in which the unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of hedged firm commitment affects the net profit and loss, for example scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to when the future sale actually occurs.
past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
For derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value Other post-employment obligations are taken directly to the income statement in the period.
Some Group companies provide other post-employment benefits.
The expected costs of these benefits are accrued over the period Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument of employment using a similar basis to that used for defined benefit expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for pension schemes.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised hedge accounting.
At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss immediately in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is kept in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer Share-based payments expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in The Group issues equity-settled and cash-settled share-based equity is transferred to the income statement in the period.
In accordance with the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments, the Group has R Leases applied IFRS 2 to all equity-settled share options granted after 7 November 2002 that had vested before 1 January 2005.
EquityLeases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the settled share-based payments are measured at fair value excluding lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the effect of non market-based vesting conditions at the date of the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equitysettled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the shares Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non marketminimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the based vesting conditions.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned Fair value is measured using either the binomial distribution or Blackbetween finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as Scholes pricing models as is most appropriate for each scheme.
to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the The expected life used in the models has been adjusted, based on liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
managements best estimate, for the effects of exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Payments made under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Any incentives to enter For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability equal to the into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over portion of the goods or services received is recognised at the the lease term.
current fair value determined at each balance sheet date.
S Provisions Holiday pay Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation Paid holidays and similar entitlements are regarded as an employee as a result of a past event and it is probable that the Group will be benefit and are charged to the income statement as the benefits are required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the earned.
An accrual is made at the balance sheet date to reflect the Directors best estimate of the cost of settling these liabilities and fair value of holidays earned but not taken.
are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 73 C Co on ns so olliid da at ted ed f fiin na an nc ciia all s st ta at te em me en nt ts s Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2011 1 Segmental reporting Geographical segments North Continental UK & Rest of IntraAmerica Europe Ireland the World Group Total Revenues m m m m m m Year ended 30 September 2011 External revenue 6,849 3,717 1,951 3,316 15,833 Less: Discontinued operations External revenue continuing 6,849 3,717 1,951 3,316 15,833 Year ended 30 September 2010 External revenue 6,369 3,506 1,782 2,811 14,468 Less: Discontinued operations External revenue continuing 6,369 3,506 1,782 2,811 14,468 Products and services: Sectors Defence, Business Healthcare Sports Offshore & Industry Education & Seniors & Leisure & Remote Total Revenues m m m m m m Year ended 30 September 2011 External revenue 6,751 2,477 2,905 1,688 2,012 15,833 Less: Discontinued operations External revenue continuing 6,751 2,477 2,905 1,688 2,012 15,833 Year ended 30 September 2010 External revenue 5,949 2,308 2,739 1,639 1,833 14,468 Less: Discontinued operations External revenue continuing 5,949 2,308 2,739 1,639 1,833 14,468 1 There is no inter-segmental trading.
2 Continuing revenues from external customers arising in the UK, the Groups country of domicile, were 1,873 million 2010: 1,709 million.
Continuing revenues from external customers arising in all foreign countries from which the Group derives revenues were 13,960 million 2010: 12,759 million.
74 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Consolidated financial statements 1 Segmental reporting continued Geographical segments North Continental UK & Rest of Central America Europe Ireland the World activities Total Result m m m m m m Year ended 30 September 2011 Operating profit before associates, UK re-organisation and costs relating to acquisitions 538 259 114 234 60 1,085 UK re-organisation 55 55 Total operating profit before associates and costs relating to acquisitions 538 259 59 234 60 1,030 Less: Discontinued operations Operating profit before associates and costs relating to acquisitions 538 259 59 234 60 1,030 Less: Amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition 3 2 2 4 1 12 Less: Acquisition transaction costs 1 3 2 2 1 9 Less: Share-based payments expense non-controlling interest call option Add: Adjustment to contingent consideration on acquisition 1 1 Operating profit before associates continuing 535 254 55 228 62 1,010 Add: Share of profit of associates 3 3 6 Total operating profit continuing 538 254 58 228 62 1,016 Finance income 4 Finance costs 75 Hedge accounting ineffectiveness 5 Change in the fair value of investments and non-controlling interest put options 2 Gain on remeasurement of joint venture interest on acquisition of control 16 Profit before tax 958 Income tax expense 264 Profit for the year from continuing operations 694 Year ended 30 September 2010 Operating profit before associates, UK re-organisation and costs relating to acquisitions 491 248 114 204 60 997 UK re-organisation Total operating profit before associates and costs relating to acquisitions 491 248 114 204 60 997 Less: Discontinued operations Operating profit before associates and costs relating to acquisitions 491 248 114 204 60 997 Less: Amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition 1 1 4 1 7 Less: Acquisition transaction costs 1 2 1 1 5 Less: Share-based payments expense non-controlling interest call option 2 2 Add: Adjustment to contingent consideration on acquisition Operating profit before associates continuing 489 246 112 198 62 983 Add: Share of profit of associates 4 2 6 Total operating profit continuing 493 246 114 198 62 989 Finance income 5 Finance costs 86 Hedge accounting ineffectiveness 4 Change in the fair value of investments and non-controlling interest put options 1 Gain on remeasurement of joint venture interest on acquisition of control Profit before tax 913 Income tax expense 246 Profit for the year from continuing operations 667 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 75 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2011 1 Segmental reporting continued Geographical segments Unallocated North Continental UK & Rest of Central Current and Net America Europe Ireland the World activities deferred tax debt Total Balance sheet m m m m m m m m As at 30 September 2011 Total assets 2,986 1,416 2,236 1,286 7 276 1,203 9,410 Total liabilities 1,352 964 395 708 251 273 1,964 5,907 Net assets liabilities 1,634 452 1,841 578 244 3 761 3,503 Total assets include: Interests in associates 45 34 79 Non-current assets 2,210 712 1,986 717 6 240 64 5,935 As at 30 September 2010 Total assets 2,663 1,136 2,239 1,148 7 327 734 8,254 Total liabilities 1,186 943 510 638 261 288 1,355 5,181 Net assets liabilities 1,477 193 1,729 510 254 39 621 3,073 Total assets include: Interests in associates 6 26 32 Non-current assets 1,964 504 1,993 656 8 297 80 5,502 1 Non-current assets in the UK, the Groups country of domicile, were 1,981 million 2010: 1,989 million.
Non-current assets in all foreign countries in which the Group holds assets were 3,650 million 2010: 3,136 million.
76 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Consolidated financial statements 1 Segmental reporting continued Geographical segments North Continental UK & Rest of Central America Europe Ireland the World activities Total Additions to other intangible assets m m m m m m Year ended 30 September 2011 Total additions to other intangible assets 98 16 8 4 126 Year ended 30 September 2010 Total additions to other intangible assets 85 10 23 4 122 Geographical segments Central North Continental UK & Rest of America Europe Ireland the World activities Total m m m Additions to property, plant and equipment m m m Year ended 30 September 2011 1 Total additions to property, plant and equipment 86 66 41 52 1 246 Year ended 30 September 2010 1 Total additions to property, plant and equipment 69 53 36 54 212 Geographical segments North Continental UK & Rest of Central America Europe Ireland the World activities Total Amortisation of other intangible assets m m m m m m Year ended 30 September 2011 2 Total amortisation of other intangible assets 79 11 21 9 1 121 Year ended 30 September 2010 2 Total amortisation of other intangible assets 68 10 10 8 1 97 Geographical segments North Continental UK & Rest of Central America Europe Ireland the World activities Total Depreciation of property, plant and equipment m m m m m m Year ended 30 September 2011 Total depreciation of property, plant and equipment 58 44 34 31 167 Year ended 30 September 2010 Total depreciation of property, plant and equipment 54 40 26 27 1 148 Geographical segments North Continental UK & Rest of Central America Europe Ireland the World activities Total Other non-cash expenses m m m m m m Year ended 30 September 2011 3 Total other non-cash expenses 3 1 1 2 3 10 Year ended 30 September 2010 3 Total other non-cash expenses 2 1 1 2 3 9 1 Includes leased assets of 2 million 2010: 3 million and creditor for capital creditors of 2 million 2010: 2 million.
2 Including the amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition.
3 Other non-cash expenses are mainly comprised of share-based payments.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 77 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2011 2 Operating costs Before UK reUK reorganisation organisation Total Total 2011 2011 2011 2010 Operating costs m m m m Cost of food and materials: Cost of inventories consumed 5,013 5,013 4,654 Labour costs: Employee remuneration note 3 7,146 6 7,152 6,444 Overheads: Depreciation owned property, plant and equipment 152 7 159 138 Depreciation leased property, plant and equipment 8 8 10 Amortisation owned intangible assets 94 15 109 90 Property lease rentals 82 3 85 74 Other occupancy rentals minimum guaranteed rent 65 65 57 Other occupancy rentals rent in excess of minimum guaranteed rent 15 15 16 Other asset rentals 72 72 81 Audit and non-audit services see below 7 7 5 Other expenses 2,094 24 2,118 1,902 Operating costs before costs relating to acquisitions 14,748 55 14,803 13,471 Amortisation intangible assets arising on acquisition 12 12 7 Acquisition transaction costs 9 9 5 Adjustment to contingent consideration on acquisition 1 1 Share-based payments expense non-controlling interest call option 2 Total continuing operations 14,768 55 14,823 13,485 1 Impairment of goodwill recorded in income statement included in UK re-organisation 5 million 2010: nil.
2 With our ongoing desire to focus on our core activities we have decided to exit or run down a small number of non-core activities in the UK, including providing catering in hotels and mobile food units at sporting events.
The overall loss of revenue will be around 70 million.
We have taken a 55 million exceptional cost, which is almost all non-cash.
This includes goodwill of 20 million shown as impairment of 5 million and disposal of 15 million included within other expenses.
2011 2010 Audit and non-audit services m m Audit services Fees payable to the Companys Auditors for the audit of the Companys annual financial statements 0.4 0.4 Fees payable to the Companys Auditors and their associates for other services to the Group: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries and joint ventures pursuant to legislation 3.5 3.2 Total audit fees 3.9 3.6 Non-audit services Audit related assurance 0.2 0.2 Taxation compliance 0.3 0.3 Other tax advisory 1.5 1.1 Corporate finance services 0.9 0.1 Other services 0.1 0.1 Total non-audit fees 3.0 1.8 Total audit and non-audit services Total audit and non-audit services 6.9 5.4 78 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Consolidated financial statements 3 Employees 2011 2010 Average number of employees, including Directors and part-time employees Number Number North America 189,302 174,734 Continental Europe 98,505 86,633 UK & Ireland 62,967 59,380 Rest of the World 120,334 107,455 Total continuing operations 471,108 428,202 Discontinued operations Total continuing and discontinued operations 471,108 428,202 2011 2010 Aggregate remuneration of all employees including Directors m m Wages and salaries 5,920 5,345 Social security costs 1,143 1,014 Share-based payments 10 9 Pension costs defined contribution plans 58 54 Pension costs defined benefit plans 21 22 Total continuing operations 7,152 6,444 Discontinued operations Total continuing and discontinued operations 7,152 6,444 In addition to the pension cost shown in operating costs above, there is a pensions-related net charge within finance costs of 14 million 2010: net charge of 15 million.
1 The remuneration of Directors and key management personnel is set out below.
Additional information on Directors and key management remuneration, share options, long-term incentive plans, pension contributions and entitlements can be found in the audited section of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 53 to 60 and forms part of these accounts.
2011 2010 Remuneration of key management personnel m m Salaries 6.9 7.1 Other short-term employee remuneration 6.3 7.3 Share-based payments 4.4 5.3 Termination benefits 3.1 Pension 2.1 1.8 Total 19.7 24.6 1 Key management personnel is defined as the Board of Directors and the members of the Executive Committee.
Since 2010, one new member has been appointed to the Executive Committee.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 79 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2011 4 Financing income, costs and related gains losses Finance income and costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are earned or incurred.
2011 2010 Finance income and costs m m Finance income Bank interest 4 5 Total finance income 4 5 Finance costs Interest on bank loans and overdrafts 7 4 Interest on other loans 51 64 Finance lease interest 2 2 Interest on bank loans, overdrafts, other loans and finance leases 60 70 Unwinding of discount on provisions 1 1 Amount charged to pension scheme liabilities net of expected return on scheme assets note 23 14 15 Total finance costs 75 86 1 Analysis of finance costs by defined IAS 39 category Fair value through profit or loss unhedged derivatives 1 10 Derivatives in a fair value hedge relationship 31 36 Derivatives in a net investment hedge relationship 5 4 Other financial liabilities 85 92 Interest on bank loans, overdrafts, other loans and finance leases 60 70 Fair value through profit or loss unwinding of discount on provisions 1 1 Outside of the scope of IAS 39 net pension scheme charge 14 15 Total finance costs 75 86 1 IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as forward currency contracts, cross currency swaps and interest rate swaps to hedge the risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
As explained in section Q of the Groups accounting policies, such derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value on the contract date, and are remeasured to fair value at subsequent reporting dates.
For derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the income statement in the period.
The Group had a small number of outstanding put options which have now matured.
This enabled certain non-controlling shareholders to require the Group to purchase the non-controlling interest shareholding at an agreed multiple of earnings.
These options are treated as derivatives over equity instruments and are recorded in the balance sheet at fair value which is re-evaluated at each period end.
Fair value is based on the present value of expected cash outflows.
The movement in fair value is included in the profit for the year.
2011 2010 Financing related gains losses m m Hedge accounting ineffectiveness 1 Unrealised net gains losses on unhedged derivative financial instruments 2 2 2 Unrealised net gains losses on derivative financial instruments in a designated fair value hedge 4 10 Unrealised net gains losses on the hedged item in a designated fair value hedge 1 8 Total hedge accounting ineffectiveness gains losses 5 4 Change in the fair value of investments and non-controlling interest put options 1, 3 Change in the fair value of investments 1 1 Change in the fair value of non-controlling interest put options credit charge 2 Total 2 1 1 Categorised as fair value through profit or loss IAS 39.
2 Categorised as derivatives that are designated and effective as hedging instruments carried at fair value IAS 39.
3 Life insurance policies used by overseas companies to meet the cost of unfunded post-employment benefit obligations included in note 23.
80 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Consolidated financial statements 5 Gain on remeasurement of joint venture interest on acquisition of control The Group acquired the remaining 50% equity interest in Sofra Yemek retim five Hizmet A. S. SOFRA in Turkey from our joint venture partner during the year.
Under International Financial Reporting Standard 3, Business Combinations revised 2008 IFRS 3 2008, the interest previously held by the Group has been remeasured to its fair value at the acquisition date.
This has resulted in a gain of 16 million arising on the revaluation of our existing interest which has been recorded on a separate line in the income statement.
IFRS 3 2008 requires that the interest should be treated on the same basis as would be required if the acquirer had disposed directly of the previously held interest and then reacquired it at fair value.
Prior to the acquisition, the interest in SOFRA was proportionally consolidated as explained in section D of the Groups accounting policies.
The Group has shown the disposal of previously held interest and re-acquisition within note 26 to the financial statements.
6 Tax Before UK reUK reorganisation organisation Total Total Recognised in the income statement: 2011 2011 2011 2010 Income tax expense on continuing operations m m m m Current tax Current year 272 3 269 229 Adjustment in respect of prior years 47 47 14 Current tax expense credit 225 3 222 215 Deferred tax Current year 28 6 22 37 Impact of changes in statutory tax rates 4 4 3 Adjustment in respect of prior years 16 16 9 Deferred tax expense credit 48 6 42 31 Total income tax Income tax expense credit on continuing operations 273 9 264 246 The income tax expense for the year is based on the effective United Kingdom statutory rate of corporation tax for the period of 27% 2010: 28%.
Overseas tax is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
The impact of the changes in statutory rates relates principally to the reduction of the UK corporation tax rate from 28% to 26% from 1 April 2011 and 25% from 1 April 2012.
These changes have resulted in a deferred tax charge arising from the reduction in the balance sheet carrying value of deferred tax assets to reflect the anticipated rate of tax at which those assets are expected to reverse.
Before UK reUK reorganisation organisation Total Total 2010 2011 2011 2011 Reconciliation of the income tax expense on continuing operations m m m m Profit before tax from continuing operations 1,013 55 958 913 Notional income tax expense at the effective UK statutory rate of 27% 2010: 28% on profit before tax 274 15 259 256 Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions 58 58 50 Impact of changes in statutory tax rates 4 4 3 Permanent differences 28 6 22 17 Impact of share-based payments 3 3 Tax on profit of associates 1 1 1 Losses and other temporary differences not previously recognised 11 11 24 Unrelieved current year tax losses 5 5 2 Prior year items 31 31 23 Income tax expense on continuing operations 273 9 264 246 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 81 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2011 6 Tax continued 2011 2010 Tax charged credited to other comprehensive income m m Current and deferred tax charges credits on actuarial and other movements on post-employment benefits 5 18 Current and deferred tax charges on foreign exchange movements 3 6 Tax charge credit on items recognised in other comprehensive income 8 12 2011 2010 Tax credited to equity m m Current and deferred tax credits in respect of share-based payments 3 17 Tax credit on items recognised in equity 3 17 Pensions Net and postSelf-funded short-term Tax employment insurance temporary depreciation Intangibles benefits Tax losses provisions differences Total Movement in net deferred tax asset liability m m m m m m m At 1 October 2009 35 91 125 5 51 164 289 Charge credit to income 7 16 5 8 3 24 31 Charge credit to equity other comprehensive income 2 18 1 7 22 Transfer from to current tax Business acquisitions 1 5 3 3 Business disposals Other movements 1 3 1 1 Exchange adjustment 2 1 1 4 4 At 30 September 2010 28 119 150 12 55 155 281 At 1 October 2010 28 119 150 12 55 155 281 Charge credit to income 18 20 4 5 1 14 44 Charge credit to equity other comprehensive income 1 1 15 3 20 Transfer from to current tax Business acquisitions 17 1 16 Business disposals Other movements 4 3 1 1 1 Exchange adjustment 2 1 3 At 30 September 2011 9 161 145 18 55 139 205 Net short-term temporary differences relate principally to provisions and other liabilities of overseas subsidiaries.
After netting off balances within countries, the following are the deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised in the consolidated balance sheet: 2011 2010 Net deferred tax balance m m Deferred tax assets 240 296 Deferred tax liabilities 35 15 Net deferred tax asset liability 205 281 Unrecognised deferred tax assets in respect of tax losses and other temporary differences amount to 37 million 2010: 94 million.
Of the total, tax losses of 16 million will expire at various dates between 2011 and 2021.
These deferred tax assets have not been recognised as the timing of recovery is uncertain.
As a result of changes to tax legislation, overseas dividends received on or after 1 July 2009 are largely exempt from UK tax but may be subject to foreign withholding taxes.
The unremitted earnings of those overseas subsidiaries affected by such taxes is 289 million 2010: 128 million.
No deferred tax liability is recognised on these temporary differences as the Group is able to control the timing of reversal and it is probable that this will not take place in the foreseeable future.
82 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Consolidated financial statements 7 Discontinued operations Year ended 30 September 2011 The profit for the year from discontinued operations of 40 million arose on the release of provisions now deemed surplus including income tax provisions and a 2 million VAT refund relating to prior period disposals.
Year ended 30 September 2010 The profit for the year from discontinued operations of 13 million arose on the release of provisions now deemed surplus relating to prior period disposals and a 1 million loss from trading activities of discontinued operations.
2011 2010 Financial performance of discontinued operations m m Trading activities of discontinued operations External revenue Operating refund costs 2 1 Profit loss before tax 2 1 Income tax expense credit Profit loss after tax 2 1 Disposal of net assets and other adjustments relating to discontinued operations Profit on disposal of net assets of discontinued operations 2 Release of surplus provisions and accruals related to discontinued operations 5 16 Profit before tax 5 16 Income tax credit expense see below 33 2 Total profit after tax 38 14 Profit for the year from discontinued operations Profit loss for the year from discontinued operations 40 13 1 The trading activity in the years ended 30 September 2010 and 30 September 2011 relates to the final run-off activity in businesses earmarked for closure.
2 Released surplus provisions of 5 million in the year ended 30 September 2011 2010: 16 million.
2011 2010 Income tax from discontinued operations m m Income tax on disposal of net assets and other adjustments relating to discontinued operations Current tax 35 Deferred tax 2 2 Income tax credit expense on disposal of net assets of discontinued operations 33 2 2011 2010 Net assets disposed and disposal proceeds m m 1, 2 Increase decrease in retained liabilities 23 Profit loss on disposal before tax 16 Consideration, net of costs 7 Consideration deferred to future periods 2 Cash disposed of Cash inflow outflow from current year disposals 9 Deferred consideration and other payments relating to previous disposals Cash inflow outflow from disposals 9 1 The trading activity in the years ended 30 September 2010 and 30 September 2011 relates to the final run-off activity in businesses earmarked for closure.
2 Includes the utilisation of disposal provisions of nil in the year ended 30 September 2011 2010: 23 million.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 83 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2011 8 Earnings per share The calculation of earnings per share is based on earnings after tax and the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
The adjusted earnings per share figures have been calculated based on earnings excluding the effect of discontinued operations, the UK re-organisation, the amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisition, acquisition transaction costs, adjustment to contingent consideration on acquisition, share-based payments expense non-controlling interest call option, hedge accounting ineffectiveness, and the change in the fair value of investments and non-controlling interest put options, gain on remeasurement of joint venture interest on acquisition of control and the tax attributable to these amounts.
These items are excluded in order to show the underlying trading performance of theGroup.
2011 2010 Attributable Attributable profit profit Attributable profit m m Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company 728 675 Less: Profit for the year from discontinued operations 40 13 Attributable profit for the year from continuing operations 688 662 Add back: Amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisition net of tax 8 5 Add back: Acquisition transaction costs net of tax 8 4 Less: Adjustment to contingent consideration on acquisition net of tax 1 Add back: Share-based payments expense non-controlling interest call option net of tax 2 Add back: Loss profit from hedge accounting ineffectiveness net of tax 4 3 Less: Change in the fair value of investments and non-controlling interest put options net of tax 2 1 Add back: UK re-organisation net of tax 46 Less: Gain on remeasurement of joint venture interest on acquisition of control net of tax 13 Underlying attributable profit for the year from continuing operations 738 669 2011 2010 Ordinary Ordinary shares of shares of 10p each 10p each Average number of shares millions of ordinary shares of 10p each millions millions Average number of shares for basic earnings per share 1,892 1,873 Dilutive share options 13 15 Average number of shares for diluted earnings per share 1,905 1,888 2011 2010 Earnings Earnings per share per share pence pence Basic earnings per share pence From continuing and discontinued operations 38.5 36.0 From discontinued operations 2.1 0.7 From continuing operations 36.4 35.3 Amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisition net of tax 0.4 0.3 Acquisition transaction costs net of tax 0.4 0.2 Adjustment to contingent consideration on acquisition net of tax Share-based payments expense non-controlling interest call option net of tax 0.1 Hedge accounting ineffectiveness net of tax 0.2 0.2 Change in the fair value of investments and non-controlling interest put options net of tax 0.1 UK re-organisation net of tax 2.4 Gain on remeasurement of joint venture interest on acquisition of control net of tax 0.7 From underlying continuing operations 39.0 35.7 Diluted earnings per share pence From continuing and discontinued operations 38.2 35.8 From discontinued operations 2.1 0.7 From continuing operations 36.1 35.1 Amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisition net of tax 0.4 0.3 Acquisition transaction costs net of tax 0.4 0.2 Adjustment to contingent consideration on acquisition net of tax Share-based payments expense non-controlling interest call option net of tax 0.1 Hedge accounting ineffectiveness net of tax 0.2 0.2 Change in the fair value of investments and non-controlling interest put options net of tax 0.1 0.1 UK re-organisation net of tax 2.4 Gain on remeasurement of joint venture interest on acquisition of control net of tax 0.7 From underlying continuing operations 38.7 35.4 84 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Consolidated financial statements 9 Dividends 1 A final dividend in respect of 2011 of 12.8 pence per share, 243 million in aggregate, has been proposed, giving a total dividend in respect of 2011 of 19.3 pence per share 2010: 17.5 pence per share.
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 2 February 2012 and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
2011 2010 Dividends Dividends per share per share Dividends on ordinary shares of 10p each pence m pence m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity shareholders during the year: Final dividend for the prior year 12.5p 236 8.8p 164 Interim dividend for the current year 6.5p 124 5.0p 94 Total dividends 19.0p 360 13.8p 258 1 Based on the number of shares in issue at 30 September 2011 1,898 million shares.
10 Goodwill During the year the Group made a number of acquisitions.
See note 26 for more details.
Goodwill m Cost At 1 October 2009 3,687 Additions 217 Business disposals other activities Currency adjustment 36 At 30 September 2010 3,940 At 1 October 2010 3,940 Additions 234 Business disposals other activities 17 Currency adjustment 15 At 30 September 2011 4,172 Impairment At 1 October 2009 107 Impairment charge recognised in the year At 30 September 2010 107 At 1 October 2010 107 Impairment charge recognised in the year 5 At 30 September 2011 112 Net book value At 30 September 2010 3,833 At 30 September 2011 4,060 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 85 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2011 10 Goodwill continued Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated at acquisition to each cash-generating unit CGU that is expected to benefit from that business combination.
A summary of goodwill allocation by business segment is shown below.
2011 2010 Goodwill by business segment m m USA 1,248 1,191 Rest of North America 152 131 Total North America 1,400 1,322 Continental Europe 395 272 UK & Ireland 1,783 1,792 Rest of the World 482 447 Total 4,060 3,833 The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The recoverable amount of a CGU is determined from value in use calculations.
The key assumptions for these calculations are long-term growth rates and pre-tax discount rates and use cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budgets and forecasts approved by management covering a five-year period.
Cash flows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated using estimated growth rates based on local expected economic conditions and do not exceed the long-term average growth rate for that country.
The pre-tax discount rates are based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital adjusted for specific risks relating to the country in which the CGU operates.
2011 2010 Residual Pre-tax Residual Pre-tax growth discount growth discount Growth and discount rates rates rates rates rates USA 2.5% 9.3% 2.5% 10.2% Rest of North America 2.5% 8.5% 2.5% 9.4% Continental Europe 2.5-5.3% 6.6-13.4% 2.5-6.0% 7.7-15.9% UK & Ireland 3.4% 9.4% 3.0% 10.3% Rest of the World 0.8-5.9% 8.0-14.5% 2.5-6.5% 8.1-16.4% Given the current economic climate, a sensitivity analysis has been performed in assessing recoverable amounts of goodwill.
This has been based on changes in key assumptions considered to be reasonably possible by management.
For the UK, to which goodwill of 1,778 million is allocated, an increase in the discount rate of 0.7% or a decrease in the long-term growth rate of 0.8% would eliminate the headroom of approximately 280 million under each scenario.
There are no other CGUs that are sensitive to reasonably possible changes in key assumptions.
86 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Consolidated financial statements 11 Other intangible assets Contract and other intangibles Computer Arising on software acquisition Other Total Other intangible assets m m m m Cost At 1 October 2009 215 102 544 861 Additions 19 103 122 Disposals 3 33 36 Business acquisitions 1 21 4 26 Reclassified 7 26 33 Currency adjustment 1 4 6 11 At 30 September 2010 240 127 650 1,017 At 1 October 2010 240 127 650 1,017 Additions 19 107 126 Disposals 24 19 57 100 Business acquisitions 4 168 172 Reclassified 4 4 Currency adjustment 1 5 4 At 30 September 2011 244 271 700 1,215 Amortisation At 1 October 2009 126 9 233 368 Charge for the year 25 7 65 97 Disposals 2 31 33 Business acquisitions Reclassified 3 8 11 Currency adjustment 4 4 At 30 September 2010 152 16 279 447 At 1 October 2010 152 16 279 447 Charge for the year 31 12 78 121 Disposals 19 49 68 Business acquisitions Reclassified 5 5 Currency adjustment 1 1 1 1 At 30 September 2011 165 27 304 496 Net book value At 30 September 2010 88 111 371 570 At 30 September 2011 79 244 396 719 Contract-related intangible assets, other than those arising on acquisition, result from payments made by the Group in respect of client contracts and generally arise where it is economically more efficient for a client to purchase assets used in the performance of the contract and the Group fund these purchases.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 87 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2011 12 Property, plant and equipment Fixtures Land and Plant and and buildings machinery fittings Total Property, plant and equipment m m m m Cost At 1 October 2009 274 743 486 1,503 1 Additions 25 124 63 212 Disposals 10 58 31 99 Business acquisitions 6 13 2 21 Reclassified 40 47 46 39 Currency adjustment 6 2 2 10 At 30 September 2010 261 871 476 1,608 At 1 October 2010 261 871 476 1,608 1 Additions 26 143 77 246 Disposals 8 64 56 128 Business acquisitions 6 15 6 27 Reclassified 12 9 3 Currency adjustment 5 3 2 At 30 September 2011 290 950 510 1,750 Depreciation At 1 October 2009 162 487 324 973 Charge for the year 13 84 51 148 Disposals 9 48 26 83 Reclassified 27 37 27 17 Currency adjustment 4 1 1 6 At 30 September 2010 143 561 323 1,027 At 1 October 2010 143 561 323 1,027 Charge for the year 17 96 54 167 Disposals 6 53 46 105 Reclassified 1 4 3 Currency adjustment 4 1 3 At 30 September 2011 158 602 335 1,095 Net book value At 30 September 2010 118 310 153 581 At 30 September 2011 132 348 175 655 1 Includes leased assets of 2 million 2010: 3 million.
The net book amount of the Groups property, plant and equipment includes assets held under finance leases as follows: Fixtures Land and Plant and and buildings machinery fittings Total Property, plant and equipment held under finance leases m m m m At 30 September 2010 9 20 2 31 At 30 September 2011 8 15 2 25 88 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Consolidated financial statements 13 Interests in associates 2011 2010 Country of incorporation % ownership % ownership Twickenham Experience Ltd England & Wales 40% 40% Oval Events Limited England & Wales 25% 25% AEG Facilities, LLC USA 49% Thompson Hospitality Services LLC USA 49% 49% 2011 2010 Interests in associates m m Net book value At 1 October 32 32 Additions 47 Share of profits less losses net of tax 6 6 Dividends received 7 6 Currency and other adjustments 1 At 30 September 79 32 The Groups share of revenues and profits is included below: 2011 2010 Associates m m Share of revenue and profits Revenue 40 28 1 Expenses taxation 34 22 Profit after tax for the year 6 6 Share of net assets Goodwill 24 23 Other 55 9 Net assets 79 32 Share of contingent liabilities Contingent liabilities 6 1 Expenses include the relevant portion of income tax recorded by associates.
14 Other investments 2011 2010 m m Net book value At 1 October 37 32 Additions 2 3 Disposals Business acquisitions 1 1 Currency and other adjustments 1 1 At 30 September 41 37 Comprised of 1, 3 Investment in Au Bon Pain 8 7 1, 3 Other investments 9 9 1, 2, 3 Life insurance policies 24 21 Total 41 37 1 Categorised as available for sale financial assets IAS 39.
2 Life insurance policies used by overseas companies to meet the cost of unfunded post-employment benefit obligations as set out in note 23.
3 As per the fair value hierarchies explained in note 20, the investment in Au Bon Pain is Level 3, other investments are Level 1 and the life insurance policies are Level 2.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 89 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2011 15 Joint ventures 2011 2010 Principal joint ventures Country of incorporation % ownership % ownership Quadrant Catering Ltd England & Wales 49% 49% 1 Sofra Yemek retim five Hizmet A. S. Turkey 50% ADNH-Compass Middle East LLC United Arab Emirates 50% 50% Express Support Services Limitada Angola 50% 50% 1 During the year the Group acquired the remaining 50.01% of Sofra Yemek retim five Hizmet A. S. None of these investments is held directly by the Ultimate Parent Company.
All joint ventures provide foodservice and or support services in their respective countries of incorporation and make their accounts up to 30 September.
The share of the revenue, profits, assets and liabilities of the joint ventures included in the consolidated financial statements is as follows: 2011 2010 Joint ventures m m Share of revenue and profits Revenue 292 291 Expenses 266 264 Profit after tax for the year 26 27 Share of net assets Non-current assets 6 18 Current assets 87 103 Non-current liabilities 6 15 Current liabilities 53 72 Net assets 34 34 Share of contingent liabilities Contingent liabilities 23 22 1 The remaining share of Sofra Yemek retim five Hizmet A. S. was acquired during the year.
Last years comparatives have not been restated.
16 Trade and other receivables 2011 2010 NonNonCurrent current Total Current current Total Trade and other receivables m m m m m m Net book value At 1 October 1,830 72 1,902 1,680 64 1,744 Net movement 212 6 218 141 6 147 Currency adjustment 12 1 13 9 2 11 At 30 September 2,030 77 2,107 1,830 72 1,902 Comprised of Trade receivables 1,807 5 1,812 1,643 5 1,648 Less: Provision for impairment of trade receivables 74 1 75 78 1 79 1 Net trade receivables 1,733 4 1,737 1,565 4 1,569 Other receivables 75 61 136 70 41 111 Less: Provision for impairment of other receivables 8 8 8 8 Net other receivables 67 61 128 62 41 103 Accrued income 132 132 109 109 Prepayments 98 12 110 90 27 117 1 Amounts owed by associates 4 4 Trade and other receivables 2,030 77 2,107 1,830 72 1,902 1 Categorised as loans and receivables financial assets IAS 39.
90 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Consolidated financial statements 16 Trade and other receivables continued Trade receivables The book value of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value due to the short-term nature of the majority of the receivables.
Credit sales are only made after credit approval procedures have been completed satisfactorily.
The policy for making provisions for bad and doubtful debts varies from country to country as different countries and markets have different payment practices, but various factors are considered, including how overdue the debt is, the type of receivable and its past history, and current market and trading conditions.
Full provision is made for debts that are not considered to be recoverable.
There is limited concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables due to the diverse and unrelated nature of the Groups client base.
Accordingly, the Directors believe that there is no further credit provision required in excess of the provision for the impairment of receivables.
The book value of trade and other receivables represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk.
Trade receivable days for the continuing business at 30 September 2011 were 48 days 2010: 48 days.
The ageing of gross trade receivables and of the provision for impairment is as follows: 2011 0-3 3-6 6-12 Over 12 Not yet months months months months due overdue overdue overdue overdue Total Trade receivables m m m m m m Gross trade receivables 1,387 312 52 23 38 1,812 Less: Provision for impairment of trade receivables 2 7 34 12 20 75 Net trade receivables 1,385 305 18 11 18 1,737 2010 0-3 3-6 6-12 Over 12 Not yet months months months months due overdue overdue overdue overdue Total Trade receivables m m m m m m Gross trade receivables 1,291 282 35 18 22 1,648 Less: Provision for impairment of trade receivables 8 15 26 13 17 79 Net trade receivables 1,283 267 9 5 5 1,569 1 The ageing of the provision for impairment of trade receivables for 2010 has been restated following an analysis of all government aged debt.
Movements in the provision for impairment of trade and other receivables are as follows: 2011 2010 Trade Other Total Trade Other Total Provision for impairment of trade and other receivables m m m m m m At 1 October 79 8 87 66 8 74 Charged to income statement 18 1 19 27 27 Credited to income statement 7 7 3 3 Utilised 14 14 11 11 Reclassified 1 1 2 Currency adjustment At 30 September 75 8 83 79 8 87 At 30 September 2011, trade receivables of 352 million 2010: 286 million were past due but not impaired.
The Group has made a provision based on a number of factors, including past history of the debtor, and all amounts not provided for are considered to be recoverable.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 91 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2011 17 Inventories 2011 2010 Inventories m m Net book value At 1 October 238 230 Net movement 32 5 Currency adjustment 3 At 30 September 270 238 18 Cash and cash equivalents 2011 2010 Cash and cash equivalents m m Cash at bank and in hand 224 193 Short-term bank deposits 886 450 1 Cash and cash equivalents 1,110 643 1 Categorised as loans and receivables financial assets IAS 39.
2011 2010 Cash and cash equivalents by currency m m Sterling 846 462 US Dollar 64 25 Euro 54 43 Japanese Yen 10 6 Other 136 107 Cash and cash equivalents 1,110 643 The Groups policy to manage the credit risk associated with cash and cash equivalents is set out in note 20.
The book value of cash and cash equivalents represents the maximum credit exposure.
19 Short-term and long-term borrowings 2011 2010 Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total Short-term and long-term borrowings m m m m m m Bank overdrafts 45 45 39 39 Bank loans 29 54 83 21 11 32 Loan notes 294 889 1,183 77 521 598 Bonds 334 280 614 637 637 Borrowings excluding finance leases 702 1,223 1,925 137 1,169 1,306 Finance leases 9 24 33 11 31 42 1 Borrowings including finance leases 711 1,247 1,958 148 1,200 1,348 1 Categorised as other financial liabilities IAS 39.
Bank overdrafts principally arise as a result of uncleared transactions.
Interest on bank overdrafts is at the relevant money market rates.
All amounts due under bonds, loan notes and bank facilities are shown net of unamortised issue costs.
92 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Consolidated financial statements 19 Short-term and long-term borrowings continued The Group has fixed term, fixed interest private placements totalling US$1,732 million 1,112 million at interest rates between 3.31% and 6.81%.
The carrying value of these loan notes is 1,146 million.
It also has a Sterling denominated private placement of 35 million with a carrying value of 37 million at an interest rate of 7.55%.
Loan notes Nominal value Redeemable Interest US$ private placement $450m May 2012 6.81% US$ private placement $15m Nov 2013 5.67% US$ private placement $105m Oct 2013 6.45% US$ private placement $162m Oct 2015 6.72% Sterling private placement 35m Oct 2016 7.55% US$ private placement $250m Oct 2018 3.31% US$ private placement $398m Oct 2021 3.98% US$ private placement $352m Oct 2023 4.12% The Group also has Sterling denominated Eurobonds totalling 575 million at interest rates of 6.375% and 7.0%.
The carrying value of these bonds is 614 million.
The bond redeemable in December 2014 is recorded at its fair value to the Group on acquisition.
Bonds Nominal value Redeemable Interest Sterling Eurobond 325m May 2012 6.375% Sterling Eurobond 250m Dec 2014 7.0% The maturity profile of borrowings excluding finance leases is as follows: 2011 2010 Maturity profile of borrowings excluding finance leases m m Within 1 year, or on demand 702 137 Between 1 and 2 years 4 650 Between 2 and 3 years 81 2 Between 3 and 4 years 281 81 Between 4 and 5 years 157 289 In more than 5 years 700 147 Borrowings excluding finance leases 1,925 1,306 The fair value of the Groups borrowings is calculated by discounting future cash flows to net present values at current market rates for similar financial instruments.
The table below shows the fair value of borrowings excluding accrued interest: 2011 2010 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair value value value value Carrying value and fair value of borrowings excluding finance leases m m m m Bank overdrafts 45 45 39 39 Bank loans 83 83 32 32 Loan notes 1,183 1,182 598 641 325m Eurobond May 2012 334 337 350 347 250m Eurobond Dec 2014 280 284 287 290 Bonds 614 621 637 637 Borrowings excluding finance leases 1,925 1,931 1,306 1,349 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 93 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2011 19 Short-term and long-term borrowings continued 2011 2010 Present Present Gross value Gross value Gross and present value of finance lease liabilities m m m m Finance lease payments falling due: Within 1 year 10 9 12 11 In 2 to 5 years 15 15 23 22 In more than 5 years 10 9 9 9 35 33 44 42 Less: Future finance charges 2 2 Gross and present value of finance lease liabilities 33 33 42 42 2011 2010 Finance Finance Borrowings leases Total Borrowings leases Total Borrowings by currency m m m m m m Sterling 696 696 687 687 US Dollar 1,184 9 1,193 568 14 582 Euro 14 18 32 17 21 38 Japanese Yen 1 1 7 7 Other 30 6 36 27 7 34 Total 1,925 33 1,958 1,306 42 1,348 The Group had the following undrawn committed facilities available at 30 September, in respect of which all conditions precedent had then been met: 2011 2010 Undrawn committed facilities m m Expiring between 1 and 5 years 700 696 20 Derivative financial instruments Capital risk management The Group manages its capital structure to ensure that it will be able to continue as a going concern.
The capital structure of the Group consists of cash and cash equivalents as disclosed in note 18: debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in note 19: and equity attributable to equity shareholders of the Parent, comprising issued share capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
Financial management The Group continues to manage its interest rate and foreign currency exposure in accordance with the policies set out below.
The Groups financial instruments comprise of cash, borrowings, receivables and payables that are used to finance the Groups operations.
The Group also uses derivatives, principally interest rate swaps, forward currency contracts and cross currency swaps, to manage interest rate and currency risks arising from the Groups operations.
The Group does not trade in financial instruments.
The Groups treasury policies are designed to mitigate the impact of fluctuations in interest rates and exchange rates and to manage the Groups financial risks.
The Board approves any changes to the policies.
Liquidity risk The Group finances its borrowings from a number of sources including the bank, the public and the private placement markets.
The Group has developed long-term relationships with a number of financial counterparties with the balance sheet strength and credit quality to provide credit facilities as required.
The Group seeks to avoid a concentration of debt maturities in any one period to spread its refinancing risk.
94 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Consolidated financial statements 20 Derivative financial instruments continued Foreign currency risk The Groups policy is to match as far as possible its principal projected cash flows by currency to actual or effective borrowings in the same currency.
As currency cash flows are generated, they are used to service and repay debt in the same currency.
Where necessary, to implement this policy, forward currency contracts and cross currency swaps are taken out which, when applied to the actual currency liabilities, convert these to the required currency.
The borrowings in each currency can give rise to foreign exchange differences on translation into Sterling.
Where the borrowings are either less than, or equate to, the net investment in overseas operations, these exchange rate movements are treated as movements on reserves and recorded in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income rather than in the income statement.
Non-Sterling earnings streams are translated at the average rate of exchange for the year.
Fluctuations in exchange rates have given and will continue to give rise to translation differences.
The Group is only partially protected from the impact of such differences through the matching of cash flows to currency borrowings.
The Group has minimal exposure to the foreign currency risk of trade receivables and payables as operations within individual countries have little cross-border activity which might give rise to translation risks on trade-related balances.
The main currencies to which the Groups reported Sterling financial position is exposed are the US Dollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen.
As set out above, the Group seeks to hedge its exposure to currencies by matching debt in currency against the cash flows generated by the Groups foreign operations in such currencies.
The effect on profit after tax and equity of a 10% strengthening of Sterling against these currencies on the Groups financial statements is shown below.
A 10% weakening would result in an equal and opposite impact on the profit or loss and equity of the Group.
This table shows the impact on the financial instruments in place on 30 September and has been prepared on the basis that the 10% change in exchange rates occurred on the first day of the financial year and applied consistently throughout the year.
2011 2010 Against Against Against Against Japanese Against Against Japanese Financial instruments: US Dollar Euro Yen US Dollar Euro Yen Impact of Sterling strengthening by 10% m m m m m m Increase decrease in profit for the year after tax 1 1 Increase decrease in total equity 55 18 6 40 12 5 Interest rate risk As set out above, the Group has effective borrowings in a number of currencies and its policy is to ensure that, in the short-term, it is not materially exposed to fluctuations in interest rates in its principal currencies.
The Group implements this policy either by borrowing fixed rate debt or by using interest rate swaps so that the interest rates on at least 80% of the Groups projected debt are fixed for one year, reducing to 60% fixed for the second year and 40% fixed for the third year.
The sensitivity analysis shown on page 96 has been determined based on the derivative and non-derivative financial instruments the Group had in place at the year end date only.
The effect of a 1% increase in interest rates prevailing at the balance sheet date on the Groups cash and cash equivalents and debt subject to variable rates of interest at the balance sheet date would be a loss of 1 million 2010: loss of 1 million over the course of a year.
A similar 1% decrease in interest rates would result in an equal and opposite effect over the course of a year.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 95 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2011 20 Derivative financial instruments continued 2011 Japanese Sterling US Dollar Euro Yen Other Total Interest rate sensitivity analysis m m m m m m Increase in interest rate 1% 1% 1% 1% 1% n a Floating rate exposure cash debt 115 108 71 53 44 73 Increase decrease in profit for the year after tax 1 1 1 1 2010 Japanese Sterling US Dollar Euro Yen Other Total Interest rate sensitivity analysis m m m m m m Increase in interest rate 1% 1% 1% 1% 1% n a Floating rate exposure cash debt 7 69 104 13 2 181 Increase decrease in profit for the year after tax 1 1 These changes are the result of the exposure to interest rates from the Groups floating rate cash and cash equivalents and debt.
The sensitivity gains and losses given above may vary because cash flows vary throughout the year and interest rate and currency hedging may be implemented after the year end date in order to comply with the treasury policies outlined above.
Credit risk The Groups policy is to minimise its exposure to credit risk from the failure of any single financial counterparty by spreading its risk across a portfolio of financial counterparties and managing the aggregate exposure to each against certain pre-agreed limits.
Exposure to counterparty credit risk arising from deposits, derivative and forward currency contracts and cross currency swaps is concentrated at the Group centre where possible.
Financial counterparty limits are derived from the long and short-term credit ratings, and the balance sheet strength of the financial counterparty.
All financial counterparties are required to have a minimum short-term credit rating from Moodys of P-1 or equivalent from another recognisedagency.
The Groups policy to manage the credit risk associated with trade and other receivables is set out in note 16.
Hedging activities The following section describes the derivative financial instruments the Group uses to apply the interest rate and foreign currency hedging strategies described above.
Fair value hedges The Group uses interest rate swaps to hedge the fair value of fixed rate borrowings.
These instruments swap the fixed interest payable on the borrowings into floating interest rates and hedge the fair value of the borrowings against changes in interest rates.
These interest rate swaps all qualify for fair value hedge accounting as defined by IAS 39.
Cash flow hedges The Group uses interest rate swaps to hedge the cash flows from floating rate borrowings.
These instruments swap floating interest payable on these borrowings into fixed interest rates and hedge against cash flow changes caused by changing interest rates.
The cash flows and income statement impact hedged in this manner will occur between one and three years of the balance sheet date.
These interest rate swaps do not qualify for cash flow hedge accounting as defined by IAS 39 because the Group creates synthetic floating rate foreign currency borrowings see net investment hedges below through the use of forward currency contracts and cross currency swaps which IAS 39 prohibits from being designated as a hedged item.
These interest rate swaps are an effective economic hedge against the exposure of the Groups floating rate borrowings to interest rate risk.
Net investment hedges The Group uses foreign currency denominated debt, forward currency contracts and cross currency swaps to partially hedge against the change in the Sterling value of its foreign currency denominated net assets due to movements in foreign exchange rates.
The fair value of debt in a net investment hedge was 911 million 2010: 885 million.
96 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Consolidated financial statements 20 Derivative financial instruments continued Derivatives not in a hedging relationship The Group has a number of derivative financial instruments that do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting.
These include some interest rate swaps and some forward currency contracts.
Fair value measurement The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly: and Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
All derivative financial instruments are shown at fair value in the balance sheet.
The fair values have been determined by reference to Level 2 techniques in the hierarchy described above.
The fair values of derivative financial instruments represent the maximum credit exposure.
2011 2010 Current Non-current Current Non-current Current Non-current Current Non-current assets assets liabilities liabilities assets assets liabilities liabilities Derivative financial instruments m m m m m m m m Interest rate swaps: 1 Fair value hedges 19 62 9 80 2 Not in a hedging relationship 2 2 1 2 Other derivatives: Forward currency contracts and cross currency swaps 10 1 1 1 4 Others 2 1 Total 29 64 3 3 10 81 5 2 1 Derivatives that are designated and effective as hedging instruments carried at fair value IAS 39.
2 Derivatives carried at fair value through profit or loss IAS 39.
2011 2010 Fair value Cash flow Fair value Cash flow swaps swaps swaps swaps Notional amount of derivative financial instruments by currency m m m m Sterling 545 695 US Dollar 642 109 254 105 Euro 138 113 Japanese Yen 70 7 103 Other 77 68 Total 1,187 394 956 389 2011 2010 Forward Effective Forward Effective Gross currency currency of Gross currency currency of Effective currency denomination of borrowings 1 1 borrowings contracts borrowings borrowings contracts borrowings after the effect of derivatives m m m m m m Sterling 696 139 835 687 156 531 US Dollar 1,193 506 687 582 103 479 Euro 32 193 225 38 130 168 Japanese Yen 1 65 66 7 50 57 Other 36 101 137 34 82 116 Total 1,958 8 1,950 1,348 3 1,351 1 Includes cross currency swaps.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 97 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2011 20 Derivative financial instruments continued 2011 Less than Between 1 Between 2 Between 3 Between 4 Over 1 year and 2 years and 3 years and 4 years and 5 years 5 years Total Gross debt maturity analysis m m m m m m m Fixed interest 325m Eurobond 2012 325 325 250m Eurobond 2014 250 250 US private placements 289 77 104 675 1,145 Bank loans Total fixed interest 614 77 250 104 675 1,720 Cash flow swaps fixed leg 201 193 394 Fair value swaps fixed leg 453 67 200 61 406 1,187 Fixed interest asset liability 362 193 10 50 43 269 927 Floating interest Bank loans 29 4 1 47 2 83 Overdrafts 45 45 Total floating interest 74 4 1 47 2 128 Cash flow swaps floating leg 201 193 394 Fair value swaps floating leg 453 67 200 61 406 1,187 Floating interest asset liability 326 189 67 201 108 408 921 Other Finance lease obligations 9 7 3 3 2 9 33 1 Fair value adjustments to borrowings 12 4 30 6 23 75 1 Swap monetisation 2 2 Other asset liability 23 7 7 33 8 32 110 Gross debt excluding derivatives 711 11 84 284 159 709 1,958 Derivative financial instruments 1 Derivative financial instruments 17 5 29 8 20 79 2 Forward currency contracts and cross currency swaps 9 1 8 Gross debt 685 11 79 255 152 689 1,871 1 Non-cash item changes in the value of this non-cash item are reported via the other non-cash movements caption in note 29.
2 Non-cash item changes in the value of this non-cash item are reported via the foreign exchange caption in note 29.
2011 Less than Between 1 Between 2 Between 3 Between 4 Over 1 year and 2 years and 3 years and 4 years and 5 years 5 years Total Principal and interest maturity analysis m m m m m m m Gross debt 685 11 79 255 152 689 1,871 Less: Overdrafts 45 45 Less: Fees and premiums capitalised on issue 1 3 2 6 Less: Other non-cash items 12 1 1 1 3 10 Repayment of principal 653 11 80 254 156 688 1,842 Interest cash flows on debt and derivatives settled net 110 61 57 54 29 124 435 Settlement of forward currency contracts and cross currency swaps payable leg 69 51 120 Settlement of forward currency contracts and cross currency swaps receivable leg 68 50 118 Repayment of principal and interest 764 72 137 308 186 812 2,279 98 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Consolidated financial statements 20 Derivative financial instruments continued 2010 Less than Between 1 Between 2 Between 3 Between 4 Over 1 year and 2 years and 3 years and 4 years and 5 years 5 years Total Gross debt maturity analysis m m m m m m m Fixed interest 325m Eurobond 2012 325 325 250m Eurobond 2014 250 250 US private placements 77 285 76 138 576 Bank loans 7 7 Total fixed interest 84 610 76 250 138 1,158 Cash flow swaps fixed leg 192 197 389 Fair value swaps fixed leg 157 452 67 200 80 956 Fixed interest asset liability 119 355 9 50 58 591 Floating interest Bank loans 14 5 2 2 2 25 Overdrafts 39 39 Total floating interest 53 5 2 2 2 64 Cash flow swaps floating leg 192 197 389 Fair value swaps floating leg 157 452 67 200 80 956 Floating interest asset liability 18 260 2 67 202 82 631 Other Finance lease obligations 11 8 6 4 4 9 42 1 Fair value adjustments to borrowings 30 5 37 7 79 1 Swap monetisation 5 5 Other asset liability 11 43 6 9 41 16 126 Gross debt excluding derivatives 148 658 8 85 293 156 1,348 Derivative financial instruments 1 Derivative financial instruments 7 36 7 27 10 87 2 Forward currency contracts and cross currency swaps 3 3 Gross debt 144 622 8 78 266 146 1,264 1 Non-cash item changes in the value of this non-cash item are reported via the other non-cash movements caption in note 29.
2010 Less than Between 1 Between 2 Between 3 Between 4 Over 1 year and 2 years and 3 years and 4 years and 5 years 5 years Total Principal and interest maturity analysis m m m m m m m Gross debt 144 622 8 78 266 146 1,264 Less: Overdrafts 39 39 Less: Fees and premiums capitalised on issue Less: Other non-cash items 4 1 2 10 3 Repayment of principal 109 623 8 80 256 149 1,225 Interest cash flows on debt and derivatives settled net 85 80 33 31 28 6 263 Settlement of forward currency contracts and cross currency swaps payable leg 454 454 Settlement of forward currency contracts and cross currency swaps receivable leg 450 450 Repayment of principal and interest 198 703 41 111 284 155 1,492 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 99 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2011 21 Trade and other payables 2011 2010 Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total Trade and other payables m m m m m m Net book value At 1 October 2,683 34 2,717 2,378 29 2,407 Net movement 216 5 221 288 4 292 Currency adjustment 1 1 17 1 18 At 30 September 2,900 39 2,939 2,683 34 2,717 Comprised of 1 Trade payables 1,292 3 1,295 1,107 5 1,112 Social security and other taxes 279 279 265 265 Other payables 158 19 177 156 17 173 1 Deferred consideration on acquisitions 23 10 33 17 10 27 2 Liability on put options held by non-controlling equity partners 1 1 3 Accruals 942 7 949 942 1 943 Deferred income 206 206 196 196 Trade and other payables 2,900 39 2,939 2,683 34 2,717 1 Categorised as other financial liabilities IAS 39.
2 Categorised as fair value through profit or loss IAS 39.
3 Of this balance 334 million 2010: 299 million is categorised as other financial liabilities IAS 39.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates to their fair value.
The current trade and other payables are payable on demand.
Trade payable days for the continuing business at 30 September 2011 were 69 days 2010: 63 days.
22 Provisions Provisions in respect of discontinued and disposed Onerous Legal and Environmental Insurance businesses contracts other claims and other Total m m Provisions m m m m At 1 October 2009 163 89 49 127 37 465 1 Reclassified 1 4 3 8 Expenditure in the year 6 6 7 19 30 68 Charged to income statement 17 11 21 12 61 Credited to income statement 17 12 10 5 44 Fair value adjustments arising on acquisitions 1 1 Business acquisitions 1 4 2 7 Unwinding of discount on provisions Currency adjustment 2 1 3 3 3 At 30 September 2010 177 66 44 129 16 432 At 1 October 2010 177 66 44 129 16 432 1 Reclassified 6 8 2 Expenditure in the year 4 7 7 6 13 37 Charged to income statement 27 11 20 14 72 Credited to income statement 5 3 17 3 28 Fair value adjustments arising on acquisitions note 26 1 1 Business acquisitions 1 1 2 Unwinding of discount on provisions 1 1 Currency adjustment 1 2 1 At 30 September 2011 201 54 41 130 13 439 1 Including items reclassified from accrued liabilities and other balance sheet captions.
100 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Consolidated financial statements 22 Provisions continued 2011 2010 Provisions m m Current 138 130 Non-current 301 302 Total provisions 439 432 The provision for insurance relates to the costs of self-funded insurance schemes and is essentially long-term in nature.
Provisions in respect of discontinued and disposed of businesses relate to estimated amounts payable in connection with onerous contracts and claims arising from disposals.
The final amount payable remains uncertain as, at the date of approval of these financial statements, there remains a further period during which claims may be received.
The timing of any settlement will depend upon the nature and extent of claims received.
Surplus provisions of 5 million 2010: 16 million were credited to the discontinued operations section of the income statement in the year.
Provisions for onerous contracts represent the liabilities in respect of short-term and long-term leases on unoccupied properties and other contracts lasting under five years.
Provisions for legal and other claims relate principally to provisions for the estimated cost of litigation and other sundry claims.
The timing of the settlement of these claims is uncertain.
Environmental provisions are in respect of potential liabilities relating to the Groups responsibility for maintaining its operating sites in accordance with statutory requirements and the Groups aim to have a low impact on the environment.
These provisions are expected to be utilised as operating sites are disposed of or as environmental matters are resolved.
The other provisions include provisions for restructuring.
Provisions are discounted to present value where the effect is material using the Groups weighted average cost of capital.
23 Post-employment benefit obligations Pension schemes operated The Group operates a number of pension arrangements throughout the world which have been developed in accordance with statutory requirements and local customs and practices.
The majority of schemes are self-administered and the schemes assets are held independently of the Groups assets.
Pension costs are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent, professionally qualified actuaries.
The Group makes employer contributions to the various schemes in existence within the range of 3% to 35% of pensionable salaries.
The contributions payable for defined contribution schemes of 58 million 2010: 54 million have been fully expensed against profits in the current year.
UK schemes Within the UK there are now two main arrangements following merger of the two defined benefits arrangements: the Compass Group Pension Plan the Plan and the Compass Pension Scheme the Scheme, which took effect from 5 April 2011.
The combined arrangement continues to be known as the Plan.
The other continuing main arrangement is the Compass Retirement Income Savings Plan CRISP.
CRISP was launched on 1 February 2003.
This has been the main vehicle for pension provision for new joiners in the UK since that date but existing members of the Plan and the Scheme had continued to accrue benefits under those arrangements up until 5 April 2010.
CRISP is a contracted-in money purchase arrangement whereby the Group will match employee contributions up to 6% of pay minimum 3%.
Within CRISP a new defined contribution section was established from April 2006 known as the Compass Higher Income Plan CHIP.
Senior employees who contribute to CRISP will receive an additional employer-only contribution into CHIP.
The amount of contribution and eligibility for CHIP are decided annually at the Companys discretion.
The payment towards CHIP may be taken in part, or in whole, as a cash supplement instead of a pension contribution.
The Plan is a defined benefit arrangement.
It has been closed to new entrants since 2003 other than for transfers under public sector contracts where the Group is obliged to provide final salary benefits to transferring employees.
Such transferees enter into the GAD sections of the Plan GAD members.
On 5 April 2010, the Plan and Scheme closed to future accrual for all existing members, other than those within the special sections of the Plan and Scheme for GAD members.
The affected members were offered membership of CRISP from 6 April 2010.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 101 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2011 23 Post-employment benefit obligations continued The Plan is operated on a pre-funded basis.
The funding policy is to contribute such variable amounts, on the advice of the actuary, as achieves a 100% funding level on a projected salary basis.
The actuarial assessments covering expense and contributions are carried out by independent qualified actuaries.
A formal actuarial valuation of the Plan is carried out every three years.
The most recent valuations of the Plan and the Scheme were as at 5 April 2010.
The final results revealed a worsening in the funding positions since the previous valuations, although the effects of poor investment returns during the intervening period were lessened by the cautious investment strategy that has been set for these schemes.
Under the funding schedule agreed with the Plan and Scheme Trustees, the Group aimed to eliminate the 5 April 2010 deficit over the eight year period to 30 September 2018.
On merger of the Plan and the Scheme an exceptional advance funding payment of 50 million was made by the Group to the Plan.
A revised funding schedule was agreed with the Plan Trustees whereby the previously agreed combined annual deficit recovery payments will remain unchanged until 30 September 2013.
The target remains to fully eliminate the 5 April 2010 deficit by 30 September 2018.
The next triennial valuation is due to be completed as at 5 April 2013.
The Plan is re-appraised annually by independent actuaries in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits requirements.
The other six Trustee Directors are UK-based employees of the Group, three of whom have been nominated by CRISP members.
The Plan has a Corporate Trustee.
There are a further six Trustee Directors who are UK-based employees or former employees of the Group, three of whom have been nominated by Plan members.
Overseas schemes In the USA, the main plan is a defined benefit plan.
The funding policy, in accordance with government guidelines, is to contribute such variable amounts, on the advice of the actuary, as achieves a 100% funding level on a projected salary basis.
The Group has made an exceptional advance funding payment of 10 million to this plan during the year.
In Canada, Norway and Switzerland the Group also participates in funded defined benefit arrangements.
In other countries, Group employees participate primarily in state arrangements to which the Group makes the appropriate contributions.
Other than where required by local regulation or statute, the defined benefit schemes are closed to new entrants.
For these schemes the current service cost will increase under the projected unit credit method as the members of the schemes approach retirement.
In addition, the Group contributes to a number of multi-employer union sponsored pension plans, primarily in the USA.
These plans are accounted for as defined contribution plans, as the information provided by the plan administrators is insufficient for them to be accounted for as defined benefit plans.
The Group made total contributions of 8 million in the year 2010: 7 million to these arrangements.
Disclosures showing the assets and liabilities of the schemes are set out below.
102 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Consolidated financial statements 23 Post-employment benefit obligations continued The mortality tables used in the actuarial valuation imply life expectancy at age 65 in years for typical members as follows: UK schemes USA schemes Male nonMale Female nonFemale pensioner pensioner pensioner pensioner Male Female Life expectancy at 65 years years years years years years As at 30 September 2011 22.3 20.7 25.1 23.5 19.0 20.9 As at 30 September 2010 22.1 20.6 24.9 23.4 18.4 20.6 The expected rates of return on individual categories of plan assets are determined after taking advice from external experts and using available market data, for example, by reference to relevant equity and bond indices published by stock exchanges.
The overall rate of return is calculated by weighting the individual rates in accordance with the anticipated balance in the respective investment portfolio of each plan.
2011 UK schemes USA schemes Other schemes Expected Expected Expected Total Fair value of plan assets return m return m return m m Equity instruments 7.0% 434 7.8% 84 6.9% 25 543 Debt instruments 3.4% 939 6.3% 108 3.0% 24 1,071 Other 6.0% 72 0.0% 3.9% 87 159 Total plan assets 4.6% 1,445 7.0% 192 4.3% 136 1,773 2010 UK schemes USA schemes Other schemes Expected Expected Expected Total Fair value of plan assets return m return m return m m Equity instruments 7.2% 398 7.6% 113 8.4% 21 532 Debt instruments 3.9% 881 4.3% 52 3.3% 29 962 Other 6.6% 69 3.0% 9 4.4% 67 145 Total plan assets 5.0% 1,348 6.4% 174 4.8% 117 1,639 2009 UK schemes USA schemes Other schemes Expected Expected Expected Total Fair value of plan assets return m return m return m m Equity instruments 7.6% 389 10.1% 101 8.7% 23 513 Debt instruments 4.3% 807 5.5% 47 4.4% 50 904 Other 7.0% 67 3.5% 8 4.5% 33 108 Total plan assets 5.5% 1,263 8.4% 156 5.4% 106 1,525 2011 2010 UK USA Other Total UK USA Other Total Fair value of plan assets m m m m m m m m At 1 October 1,348 174 117 1,639 1,263 156 106 1,525 Currency adjustment 3 3 6 2 5 7 Expected return on plan assets 68 11 6 85 68 13 6 87 Actuarial gain loss 10 11 3 24 47 2 1 46 Employee contributions 1 11 3 15 2 12 3 17 Employer contributions 86 20 17 123 19 8 16 43 Benefits paid 48 16 14 78 51 15 14 80 Disposals and plan settlements 3 3 6 6 Acquisitions 10 10 At 30 September 1,445 192 136 1,773 1,348 174 117 1,639 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 103 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2011 23 Post-employment benefit obligations continued 2011 2010 Present value of defined UK USA Other Total UK USA Other Total benefit obligations m m m m m m m m At 1 October 1,506 295 228 2,029 1,405 259 197 1,861 Currency adjustment 4 4 8 2 6 8 Current service cost 2 7 12 21 6 6 10 22 Past service cost Curtailment credit Amount charged to plan liabilities 74 16 9 99 75 17 10 102 Actuarial gain loss 36 2 7 41 69 14 21 104 Employee contributions 1 11 3 15 2 12 3 17 Benefits paid 48 16 14 78 51 15 14 80 Disposals and plan settlements 3 3 6 6 Acquisitions 16 16 1 1 At 30 September 1,499 319 248 2,066 1,506 295 228 2,029 2011 2010 Present value of defined UK USA Other Total UK USA Other Total benefit obligations m m m m m m m m Funded obligations 1,466 237 181 1,884 1,473 218 164 1,855 Unfunded obligations 33 82 67 182 33 77 64 174 Total obligations 1,499 319 248 2,066 1,506 295 228 2,029 Post-employment benefit obligations 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 recognised in the balance sheet m m m m m Present value of defined benefit obligations 2,066 2,029 1,861 1,552 1,512 Fair value of plan assets 1,773 1,639 1,525 1,419 1,442 Total deficit of defined benefit pension plans per above 293 390 336 133 70 Surplus not recognised 1 92 1 Past service cost not recognised 1 1 2 2 Post-employment benefit obligations per the balance sheet 292 389 335 131 162 1 To be recognised over the remaining service life in accordance with IAS 19.
Certain Group companies have taken out life insurance policies which will be used to meet unfunded pension obligations.
The current value of these policies, 24 million 2010: 21 million, may not be offset against pension obligations under IAS 19 and is reported within note 14.
2011 2010 Total pension costs credits UK USA Other Total UK USA Other Total recognised in the income statement m m m m m m m m Current service cost 2 7 12 21 6 6 10 22 Past service cost Charged credited to operating expenses 2 7 12 21 6 6 10 22 Amount charged to pension liability 74 16 9 99 75 17 10 102 Expected return on plan assets 68 11 6 85 68 13 6 87 Charged credited to finance costs 6 5 3 14 7 4 4 15 Total pension costs credits 8 12 15 35 13 10 14 37 104 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Consolidated financial statements 23 Post-employment benefit obligations continued The history of experience adjustments is as follows: 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Experience adjustments m m m m m Experience adjustments on plan liabilities gain loss 13 19 3 5 15 Experience adjustments on plan assets loss gain 24 49 7 189 22 The actuarial gains losses reported in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income can be reconciled as follows: 2011 2010 Actuarial adjustments m m Actuarial gains losses on fair value of plan assets 24 46 Actuarial gains losses on defined benefit obligations 41 104 Actuarial gains losses 17 58 Increase decrease in surplus not recognised 1 Actuarial gains losses per the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 17 57 The Group made total contributions to defined benefit schemes of 123 million in the year 2010: 43 million, including exceptional advance payments of 60 million 2010: nil and expects to make regular ongoing contributions to these schemes of 79 million in 2012.
The expected return on plan assets is based on market expectations at the beginning of the period.
The actual return on assets was a gain of 61 million 2010: gain of 133 million.
The cumulative actuarial loss recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income was 387 million 2010: 404 million.
An actuarial gain of 17 million 2010: actuarial loss of 57 million was recognised during the year.
Measurement of the Groups defined benefit retirement obligations is particularly sensitive to changes in certain key assumptions, including the discount rate and life expectancy.
An increase or decrease of 0.5% in the UK discount rate would result in a 138 million decrease or 146 million increase in the UK defined benefit obligations, respectively.
An increase or decrease of one year in the life expectancy of all UK members from age 65, would result in a 43 million increase or 42 million decrease in the UK defined benefit obligations, respectively.
24 Called up share capital During the year 4,415,950 options were granted under The Compass Group Share Option Plan 2010.
All options were granted over the Companys ordinary shares and the grant price was equivalent to the market value of the Companys shares at the date of grant.
No options were granted under any of the Companys other share option plans.
In addition, rights to acquire 127,500 ordinary shares were granted during the year which are subject to restrictions.
The range of exercisable dates reflects the options outstanding at the balance sheet date.
In addition, ordinary shares are also awarded under the Compass Group Long Term Incentive Plan 2010 2010 LTIP and the Compass Group Long-Term Incentive Plan 2000 LTIP : Performance Long-Term Incentive Plans Maturity date Number of shares conditions Date of award: 28 November 2008 1 October 2011 1,834,184 50% TSR 50% GFCF 1 December 2009 1 October 2012 1,606,550 50% TSR 50% GFCF 13 May 2010 1 October 2012 264,912 50% TSR 50% GFCF 25 November 2010 1 October 2013 1,360,106 50% TSR 50% GFCF 5,065,752 1 The performance and vesting conditions are described in more detail in note 25.
106 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Consolidated financial statements 24 Called up share capital continued In addition, ordinary shares have been awarded to employees which are subject to restrictions and will only vest should set performance targets be achieved.
Performance Restricted shares Vesting date Number of shares conditions Date of award: 28 March 2011 28 March 2012 20,000 Service 28 March 2011 28 March 2013 20,000 Service 28 March 2011 1 December 2014 67,500 Service and performance 107,500 25 Share-based payments Share options Full details of The Compass Group Share Option Plan 2010 CSOP 2010, the Compass Group Share Option Plan CSOP 2000, the Compass Group Management Share Option Plan Management Plan collectively the Executive and Management Share Option Plans and the UK Sharesave Plan are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 53 to 60.
The following tables illustrate the number and weighted average exercise prices of, and movements in, share options during the year: 2011 2010 Weighted Weighted average average Number of exercise Number of exercise share price share price Executive and Management Share Option Plans options pence options pence Outstanding at 1 October 32,250,313 356.02 59,669,846 325.03 Granted 4,415,950 574.76 4,102,900 557.50 Exercised 8,361,093 359.23 29,486,748 322.38 Expired 98,200 430.00 Lapsed 890,974 403.73 2,035,685 340.88 Outstanding at 30 September 27,315,996 388.58 32,250,313 356.02 Exercisable at 30 September 14,270,251 308.68 18,645,559 329.48 The balance in the prior year includes options over 2,588,750 shares that were granted on or before 7 November 2002 and had vested by 1October 2004.
These options had not been subsequently modified and therefore did not need to be accounted for in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standard 2 Share-based payment.
2011 2010 Weighted Weighted average average Number of exercise Number of exercise share price share price UK Sharesave Plan options pence options pence Outstanding at 1 October 356,375 188.14 1,348,873 191.22 Exercised 125,871 195.46 916,724 187.63 Lapsed 42,320 200.69 75,774 249.16 Outstanding at 30 September 188,184 180.43 356,375 188.14 Exercisable at 30 September 2,636 266.80 95,179 182.46 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 107 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2011 25 Share-based payments continued 2011 2010 Weighted Weighted average average Number of exercise Number of exercise share price share price International Sharesave Plan options pence options pence Outstanding at 1 October 290,590 179.20 603,048 217.82 Exercised 190,239 179.20 83,611 254.60 Lapsed 100,351 179.20 228,847 253.43 Outstanding at 30 September 290,590 179.20 Exercisable at 30 September 290,590 179.20 Options granted under the International Sharesave Plan represented appreciation rights over the number of shares shown.
When exercised, the holders received a number of shares calculated by reference to the increase in the market price at the time of exercise over the option price as shown in the table above.
Any remaining share appreciation rights are shown in the table above as lapsed.
Information relating to all option schemes The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was 573.44 pence 2010: 487.67 pence.
The options outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 5.9 years 2010: 5.5 years for executive and management options and 1.4 years 2010: 1.2 years for employee schemes.
In the year, options were granted on 25 November 2010 and 19 May 2011 under the terms of the CSOP 2010.
The estimated fair value of options granted on these dates was 134.75 pence and 151.88 pence respectively.
In 2010, options were granted on 13 May 2010.
The estimated fair value of these options was 159.60 pence.
Fair values for the executive and management schemes were calculated using a binomial distribution option pricing model so that proper allowance is made for the presence of performance conditions and the possibility of early exercise.
In addition, a Monte Carlo simulation model was used to estimate the probability of performance conditions being met.
Fair values for options granted under employee savingsrelated schemes are calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The inputs to the option pricing models are reassessed for each grant.
The expected volatility is calculated with reference to weekly movements in the Compass share price over the three years prior to the grant date.
The following assumptions were used in calculating the fair value of options granted under CSOP 2010: Assumptions options 2011 2010 Expected volatility 35.0% 37.0% Risk free interest rate 2.5% 2.8% Dividend yield 3.3% 2.5% Expected life 6.0 years 6.0 years Weighted average share price at date of grant 584.49p 559.00p Weighted average option exercise price 574.76p 557.50p Vesting of options awarded from October 2005 onwards depends on the achievement of the Group Free Cash Flow GFCF target.
For options granted after 30 September 2006, 25% of the awards will vest if the threshold GFCF target is met and 100% of the awards will vest if the maximum GFCF target is met.
Awards vest on a straight-line basis for GFCF between these two points.
Target Threshold Maximum Executive and Management GFCF GFCF Share Option Plans Performance period m % of award m % of award Granted on: 31 March 2009 and 30 September 2009 1 October 2008 30 September 2011 1,419 25% 1,490 100% 13 May 2010 1 October 2009 30 September 2012 1,822 25% 1,913 100% 25 November 2010 and 19 May 2011 1 October 2010 30 September 2013 2,181 25% 2,290 100% Performance targets applying to earlier grants under the Executive and Management Share Option Plans have been met in full.
No performance targets apply to the UK or International Sharesave Plans.
108 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Consolidated financial statements 25 Share-based payments continued Long-Term Incentive Plans Full details of the 2010 LTIP and the 2000 LTIP can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 53 to 60.
The following table shows the movement in share awards during the year: 2011 2010 Number Number Long-Term Incentive Plans of shares of shares Outstanding at 1 October 6,269,624 6,440,102 Awarded 1,360,106 1,871,462 Released 2,563,978 2,041,940 Lapsed Outstanding at 30 September 5,065,752 6,269,624 Exercisable at 30 September Vesting of 50% of LTIP awards made from 1 October 2005 onwards is dependent on the Groups total shareholder return TSR performance relative to a comparator group of companies included within the FTSE 100 Index.
The comparator group used for the award for the year commencing 1 October 2006 comprised all companies within the FTSE 100 Index, whereas, for subsequent years, only non-financial companies have been included.
This performance condition is treated as a market-based condition for valuation purposes and an assessment of the vesting probability is built into the grant date fair value calculations.
This assessment was calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation option pricing model.
The remaining 50% of LTIP awards made from 1 October 2005 onwards depends on the achievement of the GFCF target.
25% of that part of the award will vest if the threshold GFCF target is met and 100% of that part of the award will vest if the maximum GFCF target is met.
Awards vest on a straight-line basis between these two points.
Target Threshold Maximum GFCF GFCF Long-Term Incentive Plans Performance period m % of award m % of award Awarded year commencing: 1 October 2008 1 October 2008 30 September 2011 1,419 25% 1,490 100% 1 October 2009 1 October 2009 30 September 2012 1,822 25% 1,913 100% 1 October 2010 1 October 2010 30 September 2013 2,181 25% 2,290 100% The fair value of awards subject to GFCF performance targets was calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, the vesting probability being assessed based on a simulation model of the GFCF forecast.
The GFCF performance targets relating to LTIP awards made in the years commencing 1 October 2006 and 1 October 2007 were met in full and the maximum number of shares available were released to the participants.
The element of awards made in the years commencing 1 October 2006 and 1 October 2007 dependent upon TSR performance targets also vested in full and the maximum number of shares available were released to participants as the Companys TSR performance was within the top quartile of the comparator group.
The weighted average share price at the date of release for LTIP awards released during 2011 was 568.02 pence 2010: 433.79 pence.
The LTIP awards outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.1 years 2010: 1.1 years.
For year ended 30 September 2011, LTIP awards were made on 25 November 2010 for which the estimated fair value was 358.32 pence.
For year ended 30 September 2010, LTIP awards were made on 1 December 2009 and 13 May 2010 for which the estimated fair values were 278.68 pence and 358.63 pence respectively.
The awards made on 13 May 2010 and 25 November 2010 were under the terms of 2010 LTIP whereas the award made on 1 December 2009 was under the terms of the previous plan.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 109 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2011 25 Share-based payments continued The inputs to the option pricing model are reassessed for each award.
The following assumptions were used in calculating the fair value of LTIP awards made during the year: Assumptions Long-Term Incentive Plans 2011 2010 Expected volatility 35.9% 36.0% Risk free interest rate 1.0% 1.6% Dividend yield 3.2% 2.9% Expected life 2.8 years 2.8 years Weighted average share price at date of grant 548.00p 456.84p Restricted shares The following table shows the movement in restricted share awards during the year: 2011 2010 Number Number Restricted shares of shares of shares Outstanding at 1 October Awarded 127,500 Lapsed 20,000 Outstanding at 30 September 107,500 Exercisable at 30 September The fair value of restricted shares awarded in the year was calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, using the followingassumptions: Assumptions options 2011 2010 Expected volatility 35.1% Risk free interest rate 1.0% Dividend yield 3.2% Expected life 2.7 years Weighted average share price at date of grant 555.00p Long-Term Bonus Plan Certain executives participating in the Long-Term Bonus Plan in prior years received an award of deferred Compass Group PLC shares.
The award of bonus shares is subject to performance conditions and matching shares may be released by the Company following the completion of a further period of service.
The terms of the Plan require that these shares are purchased in the market, rather than being issued by the Company.
The shares are purchased and distributed by the ESOP and LTIPT.
The following table illustrates the movement in the number of awards during the year: 2011 2010 Number Number Long-Term Bonus Plan of shares of shares Outstanding at 1 October 543,451 871,486 Released 106,469 316,811 Forfeited 32,963 11,224 Outstanding at 30 September 404,019 543,451 The fair value of bonus shares awarded is calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model: however, no new awards were made in either 2011 or 2010.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share bonus awards released during 2011 was 569.20 pence 2010: 476.89 pence.
The share bonus awards have all vested, although certain executives have elected to defer taking their entitlements for a further period of up to 6.3 years 2010: 7.3 years, the weighted average deferral period being 3.3 years 2010: 3.8 years.
Income statement expense and carrying value The Group recognised an expense of 10 million 2010: 9 million for continuing operations in respect of equity-settled share-based paymenttransactions.
110 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Consolidated financial statements 26 Business combinations On 8 March 2011, the Group acquired Coffee Distributing Corp CDC through its subsidiary Canteen Vending Services, Inc and BW HLS Holdings, Inc HLS through its subsidiary Crothall Services Group, Inc for the aggregate consideration of 59 million.
Building on our existing presence in this sector and now providing us with wider geographic coverage, CDC is the largest office coffee and refreshment service company in the New York, New Jersey and Connecticut areas.
Based in Illinois, HLS provides support services to the Healthcare sector throughout the central United States.
On 1 April 2011, Compass Group acquired PPP-Infrastructure Management Limited PPP-IML from Semperian PPP Investment Partners for a cash consideration of 11 million.
The acquisition strengthens the Groups existing support services offer in the important sectors of Healthcare, Education and Defence.
On 29 April 2011, Compass Group acquired Elior Nederland BV Elior Nederland for a total consideration of 66 million 58 million.
Elior Nederland is an established foodservices business, based in Amsterdam, and operates in the Business & Industry, Education and Healthcare sectors.
On 13 July 2011, Compass Group acquired the remaining 50.01% additional shares of Sofra Yemek retim five Hizmet A. S. for a cash consideration of $145 million 91 million.
The treatment is explained in note 5.
100% of the acquired assets are shown in the table below, as is the disposal of the fair value of joint venture interest previously held.
In addition to the acquisitions set out above, the Group has also completed a number of smaller infill acquisitions in several countries for the total consideration of 207 million.
1 Acquisitions Adjustments Total Book Fair Fair Fair value value value value m m m m Net assets acquired Contract-related and other intangibles arising on acquisition 64 163 9 172 Property, plant and equipment 27 27 27 Inventories 18 18 18 Trade and other receivables 84 80 80 Cash and cash equivalents 18 18 18 Other assets 48 48 48 Trade and other payables 79 82 82 Deferred tax liabilities 1 15 4 19 Other liabilities 27 23 2 21 Fair value of net assets acquired 154 234 7 241 Goodwill arising on acquisition 241 7 234 Total consideration 475 475 Satisfied by Cash consideration 417 417 23 23 Deferred consideration Fair value of joint venture interest previously owned 35 35 475 475 Cash flow Cash consideration 417 417 Cash acquired 18 18 Acquisitions transaction costs 9 9 Net cash outflow arising on acquisition 408 408 Deferred consideration and other payments relating to previous acquisitions 18 Total cash outflow arising from the purchase of subsidiary companies and investments in associated undertakings 426 1 Adjustments to provisional amounts in respect of prior year acquisitions in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standard 3 Business Combinations 2003.
2 Deferred consideration is an estimate at the date of acquisition of the amount of additional consideration that will be payable in the future.
The actual amount paid can vary from the estimate depending on the terms of the transaction and, for example, the actual performance of the acquired business.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 111 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2011 26 Business combinations continued Adjustments made to the fair value of assets acquired include the value of intangible assets, provisions and other adjustments recognised on acquisition in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standard 3 Business Combinations revised 2008.
The adjustments made in respect of acquisitions in the year to 30 September 2011 are provisional and will be finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of the businesses represents the premium the Group paid to acquire companies which complement the existing business and create significant opportunities for cross-selling and other synergies.
Of the goodwill arising, an amount of 35million is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Acquisition transaction costs expensed in the year to 30 September 2011 were 9 million 2010: 5 million.
In the period from acquisition to 30 September 2011 the acquisitions contributed revenue of 186 million and operating profit of 2 million to the Groups results.
If the acquisitions had occurred on 1 October 2010, it is estimated that Group revenue for the period would have been 16,195 million and total Group operating profit including associates would have been 1,032 million.
27 Reconciliation of operating profit to cash generated by operations 2011 2010 Reconciliation of operating profit to cash generated by continuing operations m m Operating profit from continuing operations 1,010 983 Add back: UK re-organisation 55 Operating profit from continuing operations before UK re-organisation 1,065 983 Adjustments for: Acquisition transaction costs 9 5 Amortisation of intangible assets excluding UK re-organisation 94 90 Amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisition 12 7 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment excluding UK re-organisation 160 148 Gain loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment intangible assets 1 Impairment of other investments 1 Impairment of goodwill excluding UK re-organisation 2 Increase decrease in provisions 8 25 Increase decrease in post-employment benefit obligations 42 19 Share-based payments expense non-controlling interest call option 2 Share-based payments charged to profits 10 9 1 Share-based payments settled in cash or existing shares 1 Operating cash flows before movement in working capital 1,319 1,202 Increase decrease in inventories 16 Increase decrease in receivables 157 87 Increase decrease in payables 152 215 Cash generated by continuing operations 1,298 1,330 1 It was originally anticipated these payments would be satisfied by the issue of new shares.
112 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Consolidated financial statements 28 Cash flow from discontinued operations 2011 2010 Cash flow from discontinued operations m m Net cash from used in operating activities of discontinued operations Cash utilised from discontinued operations 6 3 Tax paid Net cash from used in operating activities of discontinued operations 6 3 Net cash from used in investing activities by discontinued operations Purchase of property, plant and equipment Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment Net cash from used in investing activities by discontinued operations Net cash from used in financing activities by discontinued operations Dividends paid to non-controlling interests Net cash from used in financing activities by discontinued operations 29 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt This table is presented as additional information to show movement in net debt, defined as overdrafts, bank and other borrowings, finance leases and derivative financial instruments, net of cash and cash equivalents.
Gross debt Total Cash and Bank and overdrafts Derivative Total cash Bank other and Finance financial gross Net equivalents overdrafts borrowings borrowings leases instruments debt debt Net debt m m m m m m m m At 1 October 2009 588 71 1,476 1,547 53 69 1,531 943 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 51 51 Cash outflow from repayment of bonds 200 200 200 200 Cash inflow outflow from other changes in gross debt 34 54 88 18 106 106 Cash inflow outflow from repayment of obligations under finance leases 15 15 15 Increase decrease in net debt as a result of new finance leases taken out 3 3 3 Currency translation gains losses 4 2 5 7 8 15 11 Acquisitions and disposals excludingcash 40 40 1 41 41 Other non-cash movements 5 5 5 At 30 September 2010 643 39 1,267 1,306 42 84 1,264 621 At 1 October 2010 643 39 1,267 1,306 42 84 1,264 621 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 467 467 Cash outflow from repayment of bonds 83 83 83 83 Cash inflow outflow from other changes in gross debt 6 683 689 4 693 693 Cash flow from repayment of obligations under finance leases 12 12 12 Increase decrease in net debt as a result of new finance leases taken out 2 2 2 Currency translation gains losses 14 14 16 2 2 Acquisitions and disposals excludingcash 8 8 1 9 9 Other non-cash movements 9 9 9 At 30 September 2011 1,110 45 1,880 1,925 33 87 1,871 761 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 113 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2011 29 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt continued Other non-cash movements are comprised as follows: 2011 2010 Other non-cash movements in net debt m m Accrual for issuance fees 2 Amortisation of the fair value adjustment in respect of the 250 million Sterling Eurobond redeemable in 2014 4 4 Swap monetisation credit 2 4 Unrealised net gains losses on bank and other borrowings in a designated fair value hedge 1 8 Bank and other borrowings 9 Changes in the value of derivative financial instruments 9 5 Other non-cash movements 5 30 Contingent liabilities 2011 2010 1 Performance bonds, guarantees and indemnities m m 1 Performance bonds, guarantees and indemnities including those of associated undertakings 371 354 1 Excludes bonds, guarantees and indemnities in respect of self-insurance liabilities, post-employment obligations and borrowings including finance and operating leases recorded on the balance sheet or disclosed in note 32.
Performance bonds, guarantees and indemnities The Company and certain subsidiary undertakings have, in the normal course of business, given guarantees and entered into counterindemnities in respect of such guarantees relating to the Groups own contracts and or the Groups share of certain contractual obligations of joint ventures and associates.
Where the Group enters into such arrangements, it does so in order to provide assurance to the beneficiary that it will fulfil its existing contractual obligations.
The issue of such guarantees and indemnities does not therefore increase the Groups overall exposure and the disclosure of such performance bonds, guarantees and indemnities is given for information purposes only.
Eurest Support Services On 21 October 2005, the Company announced that it had instructed Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer to conduct an investigation into the relationships between Eurest Support Services ESS a member of the Group, IHC Services Inc. IHC and the United Nations UN.
Ernst & Young assisted Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer in this investigation.
On 1 February 2006, it was announced that the investigation had concluded.
The investigation established serious irregularities in connection with contracts awarded to ESS by the UN.
The work undertaken by Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer and Ernst & Young gave no reason to believe that these issues extended beyond a few individuals within ESS to other parts of ESS or the wider Compass Group of companies.
The Group settled all outstanding civil litigation against it in relation to this matter in October 2006, but litigation continues between competitors of ESS, IHC and other parties involved in UN procurement.
IHCs relationship with the UN and ESS was part of a wider investigation into UN procurement activity being conducted by the United States Attorneys Office for the Southern District of New York, and with which the Group co-operated fully.
The current status of that investigation is uncertain and a matter for the US authorities.
Those investigators could have had access to sources unavailable to the Group, Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer or Ernst & Young, and further information may yet emerge which is inconsistent with, or additional to, the findings of the Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer investigation, which could have an adverse impact on the Group.
The Group has however not been contacted by, or received further requests for information from, the United States Attorneys Office for the Southern District of New York in connection with these matters since January 2006.
The Group has co-operated fully with the UN throughout.
Other litigation The Group is also involved in various other legal proceedings incidental to the nature of its business and maintains insurance cover to reduce financial risk associated with claims related to these proceedings.
Where appropriate, provisions are made to cover any potential uninsured losses.
Outcome Although it is not possible to predict the outcome of these proceedings, or any claim against the Group related thereto, in the opinion of the Directors, any uninsured losses resulting from the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material effect on the financial position of the Group.
114 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Consolidated financial statements 31 Capital commitments 2011 2010 Capital commitments m m Contracted for but not provided for 106 70 The majority of capital commitments are for intangible assets.
32 Operating lease and concessions commitments The Group leases offices and other premises under non-cancellable operating leases.
The leases have varying terms, purchase options, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The Group has some leases that include revenue-related rental payments that are contingent on future levels of revenue.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases and concessions agreements are as follows: 2011 2010 Operating leases Operating leases Other Other Land and Other Land and occupancy Other occupancy buildings assets rentals buildings assets rentals Operating lease and concessions commitments m m m m m m Falling due within 1 year 51 50 59 50 52 43 Falling due between 2 and 5 years 121 68 60 118 90 53 Falling due in more than 5 years 82 7 36 62 7 36 Total 254 125 155 230 149 132 33 Related party transactions The following transactions were carried out with related parties of Compass Group PLC: Subsidiaries Transactions between the Ultimate Parent Company and its subsidiaries, and between subsidiaries, have been eliminated on consolidation.
Joint ventures There were no significant transactions between joint ventures or joint venture partners and the rest of the Group during the year.
Associates The balances with associated undertakings are shown in note 16.
There were no significant transactions with associated undertakings during the year.
Key management personnel The remuneration of Directors and key management personnel is set out in note 3.
During the year there were no other material transactions or balances between the Group and its key management personnel or members of their close family.
34 Post balance sheet events On 3 August 2011 Compass Group had agreed to acquire the entire issued share capital of Obasan Gda ns aat Sanayi five Ticaret Anonim S irketi Obasan, subject to obtaining clearance from the board of the competition authority of the Republic of Turkey.
The necessary clearance has been received and the acquisition completed on 3 October 2011.
For the year ended 31 December 2010, it generated revenues of 89.7 million Turkish Lira 34.8 million.
On 21 October 2011, Compass Group acquired Integrated Cleaning Management Limited ICM from Paul Rafferty and Coral Brodie.
For theyear ended 31 March 2011, ICM had revenues of 61.0 million.
ICM is one of the UKs largest independent specialist providers of core cleaning and related services.
ICM operates across the UK, with a particular focus on the corporate office, hospitality, leisure, hotel and retailsectors.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 115 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2011 35 Exchange rates Exchange rates 2011 2010 Average exchange rate for year Australian Dollar 1.57 1.74 Brazilian Real 2.65 2.77 Canadian Dollar 1.59 1.64 Euro 1.15 1.15 Japanese Yen 129.63 139.19 Norwegian Krone 9.05 9.34 South African Rand 11.17 11.64 Swedish Krona 10.40 11.28 Swiss Franc 1.45 1.63 UAE Dirham 5.90 5.73 US Dollar 1.61 1.56 Closing exchange rate as at 30 September Australian Dollar 1.60 1.63 Brazilian Real 2.89 2.67 Canadian Dollar 1.62 1.62 Euro 1.16 1.15 Japanese Yen 120.08 131.64 Norwegian Krone 9.15 9.23 South African Rand 12.52 10.99 Swedish Krona 10.70 10.61 Swiss Franc 1.42 1.54 UAE Dirham 5.72 5.79 US Dollar 1.56 1.58 1 Average rates are used to translate the income statement and cash flow.
Closing rates are used to translate the balance sheet.
Only the most significant currencies areshown.
116 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Consolidated financial statements 36 Details of principal subsidiary companies All companies listed below are wholly owned by the Group, except where otherwise indicated.
All interests are in the ordinary share capital.
All companies operate principally in their country of incorporation.
A full list of the Groups operating subsidiary undertakings will be annexed to the next annual return.
Country of Principal subsidiaries incorporation Principal activities North America Compass Group Canada Ltd Canada Foodservice and support services Bon Apptit Management Co USA Foodservice Compass Group USA Investments, Inc USA Holding company Compass Group USA, Inc USA Foodservice and support services Crothall Services Group USA Support services to the healthcare market Flik International Corp USA Fine dining facilities Foodbuy LLC USA Purchasing services in North America Levy Restaurants LP USA Fine dining and foodservice at sports and entertainment facilities Morrison Management Specialists, Inc USA Foodservice to the healthcare and senior living market Restaurant Associates Corp USA Fine dining facilities Wolfgang Puck Catering & Events, LLC 90% USA Fine dining facilities Continental Europe Compass Group France Holdings SAS France Holding company Compass Group France France Foodservice and support services Compass Group Deutschland GmbH Germany Holding company Medirest GmbH & Co OHG Germany Foodservice to the healthcare and senior living market Eurest Deutschland GmbH Germany Foodservice to business and industry Eurest Services GmbH Germany Support services to business and industry Eurest Sports & Food GmbH Germany Foodservice to the sports and leisure market Compass Group Italia S. P. A Italy Foodservice, support services and prepaid meal vouchers Compass Group International BV Netherlands Holding company Compass Group Nederland BV Netherlands Foodservice and support services Compass Group Nederland Holding BV Netherlands Holding company Eurest Services BV Netherlands Foodservice and support services Compass Group Holdings Spain, S. L. Spain Holding company Eurest Colectividades S. L. Spain Foodservice and support services Compass Group Schweiz AG Switzerland Foodservice and support services Restorama AG Switzerland Foodservice Sofra Yemek retim five Hizmet A. S. Turkey Foodservice and support services United Kingdom & Ireland Compass Contract Services UK Ltd England & Wales Foodservice and support services Compass Group Holdings PLC England & Wales Holding company and corporate activities Compass Group, UK & Ireland Ltd England & Wales Holding company Compass Group Procurement Ltd England & Wales Purchasing services throughout the world Compass Purchasing Ltd England & Wales Purchasing services in the UK and Ireland Compass Services UK Ltd England & Wales Foodservice and support services 1 Hospitality Holdings Ltd England & Wales Intermediate holding company Letheby & Christopher Ltd England & Wales Foodservice for the UK sports and events market Scolarest Ltd England & Wales Foodservice for the UK education market VSG Group Ltd England & Wales Security and support services Rest of the World Compass Group Australia Pty Ltd Australia Foodservice and support services GR SA Brazil Foodservice and support services Seiyo Food Compass Group, Inc Japan Foodservice and support services Compass Group Southern Africa Pty Ltd 97.5% South Africa Foodservice and support services 1 Held directly by the Parent Company.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 117 Parent Company financial statements Parent Company financial statements Directors responsibilities The Directors are required by law to prepare separate The Annual Report and Accounts complies with the Disclosure financial statements for the Company in accordance with andTransparency Rules DTR of the United Kingdoms Financial theCompanies Act 2006.
The Directors have chosen to Services Authority in respect of the requirement to produce an annual prepare these financial statements for the Company in financial report.
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The Annual Report and Accounts is the responsibility of, and has been approved by, the Directors.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: view of the state of affairs of the Company as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Company the accounts of the Company have been prepared in accordance forthat period.
In preparing those financial statements, the with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Directors are required to: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities and financial position of the Company.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable On behalf of the Board andprudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Mark J White Company will continue in business.
General Counsel and Company Secretary 23 November 2011 The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
118 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Parent Company financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Compass Group PLC Introduction Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of Compass Group PLC for the year ended 30 September 2011 which In our opinion: comprise the Parent Company balance sheet, the accounting policies the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year and the related notes 1 to 9.
The financial reporting framework that for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United the Parent Company financial statements.
Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Matters on which we are required to This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, report by exception in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our Companys members those matters we are required to state to them opinion: in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been anyone other than the Company and the Companys members received from branches not visited by us: or as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement have formed.
with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law Respective responsibilities of directors are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we and auditor require for our audit.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Parent Other matters Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an We have reported separately on the Group financial statements opinion on the Parent Company financial statements in accordance of Compass Group PLC for the year ended 30 September 2011. with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial Ian Waller Senior Statutory Auditor statements for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable London, United Kingdom assurance that the financial statements are free from material 23 November 2011 misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 30 September 2011: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 119 Parent Company financial statements Parent Company balance sheet as at 30 September 2011 2011 2010 Compass Group PLC Notes m m Fixed assets Investments 2 961 958 Current assets Debtors: Amounts falling due within one year 3 7,334 6,149 Debtors: Amounts falling due after more than one year 3 64 81 Cash at bank and in hand 875 433 Current assets 8,273 6,663 Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year 4 6,067 5,129 Net current assets Net current assets 2,206 1,534 Total assets less current liabilities Total assets less current liabilities 3,167 2,492 Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year 4 1,208 1,146 Net assets Net assets 1,959 1,346 Capital and reserves Share capital 7, 8 190 189 Share premium account 8 353 317 Capital redemption reserve 8 44 44 Share-based payment reserve 8 149 145 Profit and loss reserve 8 1,223 651 Total equity 1,959 1,346 Approved by the Board of Directors on 23 November 2011 and signed on their behalf by Richard J Cousins, Director Andrew D Martin, Director 120 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Parent Company financial statements Parent Company accounting policies for the year ended 30 September 2011 Introduction G Derivatives and other financial instruments The significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the separate financial statements of the Company are set out below: The Company uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
A Accounting convention and basis of Derivative instruments utilised include interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps and forward currency contracts.
The Company preparation and Group policy is disclosed in the accounting policies to the These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with consolidated financial statements.
applicable UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP and the Companies Act 2006 using the historical cost convention H Dividends modified for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
Dividends are recognised in the Companys financial statements inthe year in which they are approved in general meeting by the B Exemptions Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised The Companys financial statements are included in the Compass whenpaid.
Group PLC consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2011.
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies I Deferred tax Act 2006, the Company has not presented its own profit and loss account.
The Company has also taken advantage of the exemption Deferred tax is provided at the anticipated rates on timing differences from presenting a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1 arising from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in Cash Flow Statements.
The Company is also exempt under the tax computations in periods different from those in which they terms of FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures from disclosing are included in the financial statements.
Deferred tax assets are transactions with other members of Compass Group.
recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
The Compass Group PLC consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2011 contain financial instrument J Share-based payments disclosures which comply with FRS 29 Financial Instruments: The Group issues equity-settled and cash-settled share-based Disclosures.
Consequently, the Company has taken advantage payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based of the exemption in FRS 29 not to present separate financial payments are measured at fair value excluding the effect of non instrument disclosures for the Company.
market-based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based C Change in accounting policies payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting The Company has not applied any accounting standards for the first period, based on the Groups estimate of the shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non market-based time in the year ended 30 September 2011. vesting conditions.
D Investments in subsidiary undertakings Fair value is measured using either the binomial distribution or BlackInvestments are stated at cost less provision for any impairment.
In the Scholes pricing models as is most appropriate for each scheme.
opinion of the Directors the value of such investments is not less than The expected life used in the models has been adjusted, based on that shown at the balance sheet date.
E Foreign currency For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability equal to the Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling portion of the goods or services received is recognised at the at the rates of exchange ruling at the year end.
Gains and losses current fair value determined at each balance sheet date.
arising on retranslation are included in the profit and loss account for the year.
The issue of share incentives by the Company to employees of its subsidiaries represents additional capital contributions.
An addition F Borrowings to the Companys investment in Group undertakings is reported with a corresponding increase in shareholders funds.
For details of the Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction charge see note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost unless they are part of a fair value hedge accounting relationship.
Borrowings that are part of a fair value hedge accounting relationship are measured at amortised cost plus or minus the fair value attributable to the risk being hedged.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 121 Parent Company financial statements Notes to the Parent Company financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2011 1 Profit and loss account disclosures The Company profit on ordinary activities after tax was 932 million 2010: 184 million.
The fee for the audit of the Companys annual financial statements was 0.4 million 2010: 0.4 million.
The Company had no direct employees in the course of the year 2010: none.
2 Investments in subsidiary undertakings 2011 2010 Investments in subsidiary undertakings m m Cost At 1 October 959 960 Additions 1 Share-based payments to employees of subsidiaries 10 9 Recharged to subsidiaries during the year 6 10 Settlement of share-based payments by subsidiaries 1 1 At 30 September 962 959 Provisions At 1 October 1 Additions 1 At 30 September 1 1 Net book value At 30 September 961 958 The principal subsidiary undertakings are listed in note 36 to the consolidated financial statements.
3 Debtors 2011 2010 Falling due Falling due Falling due Falling due within after more within after more 1 year than 1 year Total 1 year than 1 year Total Debtors m m m m m m Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 7,306 7,306 6,139 6,139 Derivative financial instruments note 6 28 63 91 10 80 90 Deferred taxation 1 1 1 1 Total 7,334 64 7,398 6,149 81 6,230 122 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Parent Company financial statements 4 Creditors 2011 2010 Falling due Falling due Falling due Falling due within after more within after more 1 year than 1 year Total 1 year than 1 year Total Creditors m m m m m m Bank overdrafts 224 224 222 222 Bank loans 7 7 Bank overdrafts and loans note 5 224 224 229 229 Loan notes 293 889 1,182 77 521 598 Bank loans 47 47 Bonds 335 269 604 623 623 Loan notes and bonds note 5 628 1,205 1,833 77 1,144 1,221 Derivative financial instruments note 6 3 3 6 5 2 7 Accruals and deferred income 46 46 50 50 Current tax liabilities 4 4 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 5,162 5,162 4,768 4,768 Total 6,067 1,208 7,275 5,129 1,146 6,275 The Company has fixed term, fixed interest private placements totalling US$1,732 million 1,112 million at interest rates between 3.31% and 6.81%.
The Company also has a Sterling denominated private placement of 35 million with a carrying value of 37 million at an interest rate of 7.55%.
Loan notes Nominal value Redeemable Interest US$ private placement $450m May 2012 6.81% US$ private placement $15m Nov 2013 5.67% US$ private placement $105m Oct 2013 6.45% US$ private placement $162m Oct 2015 6.72% Sterling private placement 35m Oct 2016 7.55% US$ private placement $250m Oct 2018 3.31% US$ private placement $398m Oct 2021 3.98% US$ private placement $352m Oct 2023 4.12% The Company also has Sterling denominated Eurobonds totalling 575 million at interest rates of 6.375% and 7.0%.
The carrying value of these bonds is 604 million.
Bonds Nominal value Redeemable Interest Sterling Eurobond 325m May 2012 6.375% Sterling Eurobond 250m Dec 2014 7.0% Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 123 Parent Company financial statements Notes to the Parent Company financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2011 5 Maturity of financial liabilities, other creditors and derivative financial instruments The maturity of financial liabilities, other creditors and derivative financial instruments as at 30 September is as follows: 2011 2010 Bank Bank overdrafts Loan notes overdrafts Loan notes 1 1 and loans and bonds Other and loans and bonds Other note 4 note 4 note 6 Total note 4 note 4 note 6 Total Maturity m m m m m m m m Between 1 and 2 years 2 2 646 35 611 Between 2 and 5 years 460 42 418 353 33 320 In more than 5 years 47 698 20 725 145 10 135 In more than 1 year 47 1,158 60 1,145 1,144 78 1,066 Within 1 year, or on demand 224 628 25 827 229 77 5 301 Total 271 1,786 85 1,972 229 1,221 83 1,367 1 Other includes the debtor and creditor amounts associated with derivative financial instruments note 6.
2011 2010 Bank loans m m Amounts repayable by instalments falling due between 1 and 5 years Amounts repayable by instalments falling due within 1 year 7 Amounts repayable by instalments falling due within 5 years 7 Fees and premiums capitalised on issue Bank loans 7 6 Derivative financial instruments 2011 2010 Financial Financial Financial Financial assets liabilities assets liabilities note 3 note 4 note 3 note 4 Derivative financial instruments m m m m Interest rate swaps Fair value hedges 81 89 Not in a hedging relationship 3 3 Other Forward currency contracts and cross currency swaps 10 3 1 4 Derivative financial instruments 91 6 90 7 7 Share capital Details of the share capital, share option schemes and share-based payments of Compass Group PLC are shown in notes 24 and 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
124 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Parent Company financial statements 8 Capital and reserves Share Capital Share-based Profit Share premium redemption payment and loss capital account reserve reserve reserve Total Capital and reserves m m m m m m At 1 October 2009 185 215 44 146 725 1,315 Issue of shares 4 93 97 Repurchase of ordinary share capital Fair value of share-based payments 9 9 Settled in new shares 9 9 1 Settled in cash or existing shares 1 1 Dividends paid to Compass shareholders 258 258 Profit for the financial year 184 184 At 30 September 2010 189 317 44 145 651 1,346 At 1 October 2010 189 317 44 145 651 1,346 Issue of shares 1 30 31 Repurchase of ordinary share capital Fair value of share-based payments 10 10 Settled in new shares 6 6 1 Settled in cash or existing shares Dividends paid to Compass shareholders 360 360 Profit for the financial year 932 932 At 30 September 2011 190 353 44 149 1,223 1,959 1 Purchased in the market.
9 Contingent liabilities 2011 2010 Contingent liabilities m m Guarantees and indemnities including subsidiary undertakings overdrafts 364 331 Details regarding certain contingent liabilities which involve the Company are set out in note 30 to the consolidated financial statements.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 125 Shareholder information General shareholder information The Companys obligation is satisfied when it transmits an electronic Registrars and transfer office message.
It cannot be held responsible for a failure in transmission All matters relating to the administration of shareholdings in the beyond its control.
In the event that the Company becomes aware Company should be directed to Capita Registrars, The Registry, that an electronic transmission is not successful, a paper notification 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU: telephone will be sent to the shareholder at their registered address.
Shareholders within the UK: Freephone 0800 280 2545 and from overseas: wishing to continue to receive shareholder information in the traditional 44 20 7763 0041: email: ssd@capitaregistrars.
paper format should confirm this via www.
com or write to Capita Registrars.
Shareholders can register online to view their Compass GroupPLC shareholding details using the Share Portal, a service offered by Cash dividends Capita Registrars at www.
Shareholders registering for the Share Portal will require their investor code which is The Company normally pays a dividend twice each year.
We shown on share certificates.
The service enables shareholders to: encourage UK resident ordinary shareholders to elect to have their dividends paid directly into their bank or building society check their shareholdings in Compass Group PLC 24 hours a day: account.
This is a more secure method of payment and avoids gain easy access to a range of shareholder information including delays or the cheques being lost.
Ordinary shareholders resident indicative valuation and payment instruction details: and outside the UK can also have any dividends in excess of 10 use the Internet to appoint a proxy to attend general meetings paid into their bank account directly via Capita Registrars global of Compass Group PLC.
Details and terms and conditions may be viewed at www.
Published information Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP If you would like to receive a hard copy of this Report or a copy in an alternative format such as large print, Braille or an audio version on A DRIP service is provided by Capita IRG Trustees Limited.
The CD, please contact the Group Company Secretariat at the Companys DRIP allows eligible shareholders to use the whole of their cash registered office.
A copy can also be downloaded from our website at dividend to buy additional shares in the Company, thereby increasing www.
Additional information, including details of how to sign up, can be obtained from the Companys website at www.
com and from Capita IRG Trustees Limited, Electronic communications telephone within the UK: Freephone 0800 280 2545 and from The Companys Annual Report and all other shareholder communications overseas: 44 20 7763 0041: email: shares@capitaregistrars.
can be found on our website at www.
The Company can, at shareholders request, send shareholders an The latest date for receipt of new applications to participate email notification each time a new shareholder report or other in respect of the 2011 final dividend is 2 February 2012. shareholder communication is placed on its website.
This enables shareholders to read and or download the information at their leisure.
Share price information There are no particular software requirements to view these documents, other than those described and available on our The current price of the Companys shares is available on the website at www.
This is supplied with a 15 minute delay to real time.
The provision of a facility to communicate with shareholders electronically does not discriminate between registered shareholders The Companys share price is also available in a number of national of the same class.
The facility is available to all registered shareholders newspapers, e. g. Financial Times, and from the voice activated on equal terms and participation is made as simple as possible.
FT Cityline service, telephone within the UK: 0905 8171 690.
Calls Please note that it is the shareholders responsibility to notify our will be charged at 75 pence per minute at all times from a BT landline.
com or by post of any Average call duration will be one minute for one stock quote.
The change to their email address.
Before electing for electronic cost from other networks and mobile phones may be higher.
communication, shareholders should ensure that they have the appropriate computer capabilities.
The Company takes all reasonable Share dealing precautions to ensure no viruses are present in any communication it sends out, but cannot accept any responsibility for loss or damage The Companys shares can be traded through most banks, building arising from the opening or use of any email or attachments from the societies, stockbrokers or share shops.
In addition, the Companys Company and recommends that shareholders subject all messages to Registrars, Capita Registrars, offer online and telephone dealing virus checking procedures prior to use.
Please note that any electronic services to buy or sell Compass Group PLC shares.
The service is communication sent by a shareholder to the Company or the only available to personal shareholders aged 18 or over, resident in Registrars containing a computer virus will not be accepted.
the UK, EEA, Channel Islands or the Isle of Man.
Full details can be obtained from www.
com or by telephoning within the UK: Freephone 0800 280 2545.
126 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Shareholder information ShareGift Financial calendar ShareGift, the charity share donation scheme, is a free service for Annual General Meeting: shareholders wishing to give shares to charitable causes.
It is 2 February 2012 particularly useful for those shareholders who may wish to dispose of a small quantity of shares where the market value makes it Results announcements: uneconomic to sell on a commission basis.
Further information can Half year May be obtained from ShareGifts website at www.
org, telephone Full year November within the UK: 020 7930 3737 and from overseas: 44 20 7930 3737, or from the Registrars.
Dividend payments: Interim August Final February American Depositary Receipts ADRs Expected BNY Mellon maintains the Companys American Depositary Receipt register.
If you have any enquiries about your holding of Compass American Depositary shares, you should contact BNY Mellon, Board of Directors Shareowner Services, PO Box 358516, Pittsburgh, PA 15252-8516, Directors biographies can be found on page 42 of this Report.
Further information can be found on the Companys website at www.
Key Committee membership Warning about unsolicited investment Membership of the principal Committees of the Board can be contacts found on pages 47 to 49 of this Report.
Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited telephone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
These operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
These brokers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive.
The Financial Services Authority FSA estimates the cost of boiler room fraud in the UK to be 200 million per year.
The FSA receives around 3,500 calls a year from people who have been contacted by boiler rooms.
Around 1,000 of these are victims of boiler rooms and they lose about 20,000 each.
This produces a loss of 20 million that the FSA hears about, but it is estimated that only 10% of victims report the crime.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the FSA website at www.
uk and on the Companys website at www.
Unsolicited mail The Company is legally obliged to make its Register of Members available, subject to a proper purpose test, to the public.
As a consequence of this, some shareholders might receive unsolicited mail.
UK shareholders wishing to limit the amount of such mail should refer to the Mailing Preference Service website at www.
Identity theft protecting an investment Criminals may steal shareholders personal information, putting a holding at risk.
Advice on protecting a shareholding is available on the Companys website at www.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 127 Shareholder information Notice of meeting Notice is hereby given that the eleventh Annual General Meeting of Compass Group PLC the Company will be This document is important and held in the Churchill Auditorium at the Queen ElizabethII requires your immediate attention.
Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE on Thursday, 2 February 2012 at If you are in any doubt as to the action 12 noon in order to transact the following business: you should take, you should immediately consult your stockbroker, bank manager, To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following Resolutions, of which Resolutions 17 to 19 will be proposed as special resolutions solicitor, accountant or other independent and all other Resolutions will be proposed as ordinary resolutions.
financial advisor authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
To receive and adopt the Directors Annual Report and Accounts and the Auditors Report thereon for the financial year ended If you have sold or otherwise transferred 30September 2011. all your shares in Compass Group PLC, please send this Notice and the 2.
To receive and adopt the Directors Remuneration Report contained within the Annual Report and Accounts for the financial accompanying documents to the year ended 30 September 2011. purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through 3.
To declare a final dividend of 12.8 pence per ordinary share in respect of the financial year ended 30 September 2011. whom the sale or transfer was effected for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
To re-elect Sir Roy Gardner as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Richard Cousins as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Gary Green as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Andrew Martin as a Director of the Company.
To elect John Bason as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Sir James Crosby as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Susan Murray as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Don Robert as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Sir Ian Robinson as a Director of the Company.
See this Report online at: 13.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys Auditors until the www.
com conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
To authorise the Directors to agree the Auditors remuneration.
To authorise the Company and any company which is, or becomes, a subsidiary of the Company during the period to which this Resolution relates to: 15.1 make donations to political parties or independent election candidates: 15.2 make donations to political organisations other than political parties: and 15.3 incur political expenditure, during the period commencing on the date of this Resolution and ending on the date of the Companys next Annual General Meeting, provided that any such donations and expenditure made by the Company, or by any such subsidiary, shall not exceed 125,000 per company and, together with those made by any such subsidiary and the Company, shall not exceed in aggregate125,000.
Any terms used in this Resolution which are defined in Part 14 of the Companies Act 2006 shall bear the same meaning for the purposes of this Resolution 15.
128 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Shareholder information 16.
To renew the power conferred on the Directors by Article 12 of 19.
To authorise the Directors to call a general meeting of the the Companys Articles of Association for a period expiring at the Company, other than an Annual General Meeting, on not less end of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the than 14 clear days notice, provided that this authority shall date on which this Resolution is passed or, if earlier, 1May 2013: expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of for that period the section 551 amount shall be 63,254,650 the Company after the date of the passing of this Resolution.
and, in addition, the section 551 amount shall be increased by 63,254,650, provided that the Directors power in respect of such Voting on all Resolutions will be by way of a poll.
latter amount shall only be used in connection with a rights issue: By Order of the Board 16.1 to holders of ordinary shares in proportion as nearly as Mark J White may be practicable to their existing holdings: and General Counsel and Company Secretary 16.2 to holders of other equity securities as required by the 22 December 2011 rights of those securities or as the Board otherwise considers necessary, Registered Office: Compass House and that the Directors may impose any limits or restrictions and Guildford Street make any arrangements which they consider necessary to deal Chertsey with fractional entitlements, legal or practical problems under the Surrey KT16 9BQ laws of, or the requirements of, any relevant regulatory body or stock exchange, any territory, or any matter whatsoever.
Registered in England and Wales No.
To renew, subject to the passing of Resolution 16 above, the power conferred on the Directors by Article 13 of the Companys Articles of Association, such authority to apply until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the date on which this Resolution is passed or, if earlier, 1May 2013 and for that period the section 561 amount is 9,488,200.
To generally and unconditionally authorise the Company, pursuant to and in accordance with section 701 of the Companies Act 2006, to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of that Act of ordinary shares of 10pence each in the capital of the Company subject to the following conditions: 18.1 the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 189,764,000: 18.2 the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for each ordinary share is 10 pence: 18.3 the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for each ordinary share is, in respect of a share contracted to be purchased on any day, an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the purchase ismade: and 18.4 this authority shall expire, unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company, at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or 1August 2013, whichever is the earlier except in relation to the purchase of ordinary shares, the contract for which was concluded prior to the expiry of this authority and which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of this authority.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 129 Shareholder information Notice of meeting Resolution 15 Donations to Political Parties Explanatory notes to the Resolutions It is not Group policy to make donations to political parties.
Resolution 1 Annual Report and Accounts However, it is possible that certain routine activities undertaken The Directors are required to present to the Annual General Meeting by the Company and its subsidiaries might unintentionally fall within AGM the Meeting the audited accounts and the Directors and the wide definition of matters constituting political donations and Auditors Reports for the financial year ended 30 September 2011. expenditure in the CA 2006.
Any expenditure that is regulated under the CA 2006 must first be approved by shareholders and will be Resolution 2 Directors Remuneration Report disclosed in next years Annual Report.
This Resolution, if passed, In accordance with section 439 of the Companies Act 2006 will renew the Directors authority until the AGM to be held in 2013 the CA 2006, shareholders are requested to approve the when the Directors intend to renew this authority to make donations Directors Remuneration Report.
This Resolution is advisory and and incur expenditure which might otherwise be caught by the terms does not affect the actual remuneration paid to any individual of the CA 2006, up to an aggregate amount of 125,000 for the Director.
It serves to provide shareholder feedback to the Company and for subsidiary companies.
Resolution 16 Directors Authority to Allot Shares The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 53 to 60 The purpose of Resolution 16 is to renew the Directors power of the Annual Report and Accounts for 2011 Annual Report 2011 to allot shares.
Resolution 16.1 seeks to grant the Directors and includes the Companys policy on Directors remuneration for authority to allot, pursuant to Article 12 of the Companys Articles the next financial year and for the years subsequent to that, details of Association and section 551 of the CA 2006, relevant securities of the Directors emoluments for the year, and the Total Shareholder with a maximum nominal amount of 63,254,650.
This represents Return TSR of the Company and that of the FTSE 100 Index since 632,546,500 ordinary shares of 10pence each in the capital of 1October 2006. the Company, which is approximately one third of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 23 November 2011 being the last Resolution 3 Final Dividend practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice.
The Company The final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2011 will be paid does not currently hold any shares as treasury shares.
The authority on 27 February 2012 to shareholders on the register at the close of would, unless previously renewed, revoked or varied by shareholders, business on 27 January 2012, subject to approval by shareholders.
remain in force up to the conclusion of the AGM of the Company to be held in 2013, or 1 May 2013, whichever is earlier.
Resolutions 4 to 12 Election and Re-election of Directors Biographical details of all the Directors standing for election and In accordance with the Association of British Insurers Allotment re-election appear on page 42 of the Annual Report 2011.
Guidelines the Guidelines, Resolution 16.2 seeks to grant the Directors authority to allot approximately a further one third of the Under the Companys Articles of Association, one third of the Companys issued ordinary share capital in connection with a rights Directors are required to retire by rotation each year and, in addition, issue in favour of ordinary shareholders with a nominal value of no Director may serve for more than three years without being up to 63,254,650 representing 632,546,500 ordinary shares of re-elected by shareholders.
However, in accordance with the UK 10 pence each.
Such additional authority will be valid for a period Corporate Governance Code the Code, all the Directors will submit of one year or until the conclusion of the next AGM, whichever is themselves for annual re-election by shareholders.
The Chairman is the sooner.
satisfied that the performance of each of the Directors continues to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to the role.
If the Company uses any of the additional one third authority permitted by the Guidelines, the Company will ensure that all Directors stand for Resolutions 13 and 14 Auditors re-election.
The Companys current practice is that all Directors submit Auditors are appointed at every general meeting at which accounts themselves for re-election each year in accordance with the Code, are presented to shareholders.
The current appointment of Deloitte notwithstanding the provisions set out in the Guidelines.
LLP as the Companys Auditors will end at the conclusion of the AGM and it has advised of its willingness to stand for re-appointment.
The total authorisation sought by Resolution 16 is equal to It is normal practice for a companys directors to be authorised to approximately two thirds of the issued ordinary share capital of agree how much the Auditors should be paid and Resolution14 the Company excluding treasury shares as at 23 November 2011, grants this authority to the Directors.
being the last practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
Resolutions 1 to 16 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and require that more than half of the votes cast must be in favour of a resolution for it to be passed.
130 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Shareholder information Resolution 17 Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights The Company announced on 23 November 2011 its intention to If the Company issues new shares, or sells treasury shares, for cash commence a 500 million share repurchase programme, to be other than in connection with an employee share scheme, it must executed by the end of 2012. first offer them to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
In accordance with investor guidelines, approval is sought Beyond this programme, the Directors have no present intention of by the Directors to issue a limited number of ordinary shares for exercising the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares cash without offering them to existing shareholders.
but they consider it desirable to provide maximum flexibility in the management of the Companys capital resources.
The Directors Resolution 17 seeks to renew the Directors authority to issue would only purchase shares if, in their opinion, the expected effect equity securities of the Company for cash without application of would be to result in an increase in earnings per share and would pre-emption rights pursuant to Article 13 of the Companys Articles benefit shareholders generally.
of Association and section 561 of the CA 2006.
Other than in connection with a rights, scrip dividend, or other similar issue, the As at 23 November 2011 being the last practicable date prior to authority contained in this Resolution would be limited to a maximum the publication of this Notice, there were options outstanding nominal amount of 9,488,200.
This represents 94,882,000 ordinary over approximately 27,200,000 ordinary shares in the capital of the shares of 10pence each in the capital of the Company, which is Company which represent 1.4% of the Companys issued ordinary approximately 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital share capital excluding treasury shares at that date.
If the authority as at 23 November 2011 being the last practicable date prior to to purchase the Companys ordinary shares was exercised in full, the publication of this Notice.
The authority would, unless previously these options would represent 1.6% of the Companys issued renewed, revoked or varied by shareholders, expire at the conclusion ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares.
of the AGM of the Company to be held in 2013 or on 1 May 2013 if earlier.
Resolution 19 Notice of Meetings other than Annual General Meetings Save for issues of shares in respect of various employee share The Companys Articles of Association allow the Directors to call schemes and any share dividend alternatives, the Directors have no general meetings other than Annual General Meetings on 14 clear current plans to utilise either of the authorities sought by Resolutions days notice.
However, the Companies Shareholders Rights 16 and 17 although they consider their renewal appropriate in order to Regulations 2009 the Regulations require that all general meetings retain maximum flexibility to take advantage of business opportunities be held on 21 days notice, unless shareholders agree to a shorter as they arise.
In addition, and in line with best practice, the Company notice period, and the Company has met the requirements for has not issued more than 7.5% of its issued share capital on a nonelectronic voting under the Regulations.
This Resolution seeks to pro rata basis over the last three years and the Board confirms its renew the authority granted by shareholders at last years AGM intention to follow best practice set out in the Pre-emption Groups which preserved the Companys ability to call general meetings, Statement of Principles which provides that usage of this authority other than AGMs, on 14 clear days notice, such authority to be in excess of 7.5% of the Companys issued share capital in a rolling effective until the Companys next AGM, when a similar resolution three-year period would not take place without prior consultation will be proposed.
The Directors confirm that the shorter notice with shareholders.
period would not be used as a matter of routine, but only where flexibility is merited by the business of the meeting and it is thought Resolution 18 Purchase of own Shares to be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
An electronic This Resolution authorises the Directors to make limited on-market voting facility will be made available to all shareholders for any purchases of the Companys ordinary shares.
The power is limited meeting held on suchnotice.
to a maximum of 189,764,000 shares just under 10% of the issued ordinary share capital as at 23 November 2011, being the last Resolutions 17 to 19 will be proposed as special resolutions and practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice and details require that at least three-quarters of the votes cast must be in the minimum and maximum prices that can be paid, exclusive of favour of a resolution for it to be passed.
The authority conferred by this Resolution will expire at the conclusion of the Companys next AGM or 18 months from Recommendation the passing of this Resolution, whichever is the earlier.
The Directors consider that each of the Resolutions is in the best interests of the Company and the shareholders as a whole and, The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares accordingly, recommend that all shareholders vote in favour of all Regulations 2003 came into force on 1 December 2003.
These Resolutions, as the Directors intend to do in respect of their regulations allow shares repurchased by the Company to be held as ownholdings.
Treasury shares may be cancelled, sold for cash or used for the purpose of employee share schemes.
The authority to be sought by this Resolution is intended to apply equally to shares to be held by the Company as treasury shares.
No dividends will be paid on shares which are held as treasury shares and no voting rights will be attached to them.
Shares held as treasury shares will be treated as if cancelled.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 131 Shareholder information Notice of meeting iii Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Important information Regulations 2001 and section 360B 2 of the CA 2006, the Proxies Company specifies that only those shareholders registered in i A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the 2012 AGM may the Register of Members of the Company as at 6.00 p. m. on appoint a proxy or proxies who need not be a shareholder of Tuesday, 31January 2012, or in the event that the Meeting is the Company to exercise all or any of his or her rights to attend, adjourned, in the Register of Members 48 hours before the time speak and vote at the AGM.
Where more than one proxy is of any adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend or vote at appointed, each proxy must be appointed for different shares.
the Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at the relevant time.
Changes to entries on the Register Proxies may only be appointed by: of Members after 6.00 p. m. on 31 January 2012 or, in the event that the Meeting is adjourned, less than 48 hours before the time completing and returning the Form of Proxy enclosed with of any adjourned meeting, shall be disregarded in determining this Notice to PXS, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, the rights of any person to attend or vote at the Meeting.
com and following the Nominated Persons instructions for electronic submission provided there: or Any person to whom a copy of this Notice is sent who is a person by having an appropriate CREST message transmitted, if you nominated under section 146 of the CA 2006 to enjoy information are a user of the CREST system including CREST personal rights Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him members.
Please refer to the CREST manual on the Euroclear or her and the shareholder by whom he or she was nominated, website www.
com CREST for further information.
have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the AGM.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy Return of the Form of Proxy will not prevent a shareholder appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he or she may, from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
However, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to if you do attend the Meeting, any proxy appointment will be the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the The electronic addresses provided in this Notice are provided appointment of proxies in note i above does not apply to Nominated solely for the purpose of enabling shareholders to register the Persons.
The rights described in that note can only be exercised by appointment of a proxy or proxies for the Meeting or to submit shareholders of the Company.
You may not use any electronic address provided in the Notice of this Meeting to AGM business communicate with the Company for any purposes other than Under section 338A of the CA 2006, shareholders may request the those expressly stated.
Company to include in the business to be dealt with at Annual General Meetings any matter other than a proposed Resolution which may be ii To be effective the Form of Proxy must be completed in properly included in the business, provided that it is not defamatory, accordance with the instructions and received by the Registrars frivolous or vexatious.
The Company will include such matter if of the Company by 12 noon on Tuesday, 31 January 2012. sufficient requests have been received in accordance with section 338A 3 of the CA 2006 which, broadly, requires a minimum of 100 To appoint a proxy or to give an instruction to a previously shareholders holding an average of 1,000 ordinary shares each or appointed proxy via the CREST system, the CREST message shareholders holding at least 5% of the Companys issued share must be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by 12 noon on capital to make the request, and submitted in the manner detailed Tuesday, 31 January 2012.
Please note, however, that proxy in section 338A of the CA 2006. messages cannot be sent through CREST on weekends, bank holidays or after 8.00 p. m. on any other day.
For the purpose Right to ask questions of this deadline, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time Under section 319A of the CA 2006, shareholders have the right to as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the ask questions at the AGM relating to the business of the Meeting CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able and for these to be answered, unless such answer would interfere to retrieve the message.
CREST personal members or other unduly with the business of the Meeting, involve the disclosure of CREST sponsored members and those CREST members that confidential information, if the answer has already been published on have appointed voting service provider s should contact their the Companys website or if it is not in the interests of the Company CREST sponsor or voting service provider s for assistance with or the good order of the Meeting that the question be answered.
For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and system timings, please refer to the CREST manual.
We may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, as amended.
132 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Shareholder information Great College Street Queen Annes Gate.
Old Queen Street Website publication of audit concerns Information available on website Under section 527 of the CA 2006, shareholders have a right to The following information is available on the Companys website request publication of any concerns that they propose to raise at at www.
com: the AGM relating to the audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors Report and the conduct of the audit that are to be i The matters set out in this Notice of Meeting: submitted to the Meeting or any circumstances connected to the ii The total voting rights and number of shares of each class Companys Auditors who ceased to hold office since the last AGM.
in respect of which shareholders are entitled to exercise voting The Company will publish the statement if sufficient requests have rights at the AGM: been received in accordance with section 527 2 of the CA 2006 iii Shareholders rights to include business to be dealt with at the which, broadly, requires a minimum of 100 shareholders holding an AGM: and average of 1,000 ordinary shares each or shareholders holding at iv Shareholders statements, resolutions and matters of business least 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital to make the received by the Company after 22 December 2011. request.
The Company may not require the members requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with such Time of the AGM request.
Where a statement is published, the Company will forward The doors of The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre will be open the statement to the Companys Auditors not later than the time when at 10.30 a. m. and the AGM will start promptly at 12 noon.
it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that the If you are planning to attend the AGM, The Queen Elizabeth II Company has been required under section 527 of the CA 2006 to Conference Centre is located in the City of Westminster.
Please publish on its website.
Documents available for inspection Attending the AGM Copies of the service agreements of the Executive Directors, the If you are coming to the AGM, please bring your attendance card letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors, the Directors with you.
It authenticates your right to attend, speak and vote at the deeds of indemnity and the Register of Directors Interests will be AGM and will speed your admission.
You may also find it useful to available for inspection during normal business hours from the bring this Notice of AGM and the Annual Report 2011 so that you date of dispatch of this Notice until the date of the AGM Saturdays, can refer to them at the AGM.
All joint shareholders may attend and Sundays and public holidays excepted at the registered office of the speak at the AGM.
However, only the first shareholder listed on the Company and will also be made available at the Meeting for a period Register of Members is entitled to vote.
At the discretion of the of 15 minutes prior to and during the continuance of the Meeting.
Company, and subject to sufficient seating capacity, a shareholder may enter with one guest, provided that the shareholder and their Total voting rights guest register to enter the AGM at the same time.
As at 23 November 2011 being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice the Companys issued share capital Questions comprised 1,897,640,073 ordinary shares.
The holders of ordinary All shareholders or their proxies will have the opportunity to ask shares are entitled to attend and vote at general meetings of the questions at the AGM.
When invited by the Chairman, if you wish Company.
On a vote by show of hands, every ordinary shareholder to ask a question, please wait for a Company representative to bring who is present has one vote and every proxy present who has been you a microphone.
It would be helpful if you could state your name duly appointed by a shareholder entitled to vote has one vote.
On a before you ask your question.
A question may not be answered at vote by poll every ordinary shareholder who is present in person or by the Meeting if it is not considered to be in the interests of the proxy has one vote for every ordinary share held.
It is proposed that all Company or the good order of the Meeting or if it would involve the votes on the Resolutions at the AGM will be taken by way of a poll.
The Chairman may also nominate a representative to answer a specific question after the Meeting or The total voting rights in the Company as at 23 November 2011 refer the question to the Companys website.
St. Jamess Park Queen Elizabeth II Main entrance Westminster Conference Centre Birdcage Walk Parliament Square Lewisham Street St. Margarets Houses of Parliament Westminster Abbey St. Jamess Park New Scotland Yard Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 133 Old Pye Street King Charles Street Great George Street Westminster Bridge Parker St. Tothill Street Broadway To Victoria Station Broad Sanctuary Victoria Street Broadway Dartmouth Street Horse Guards Rd.
Matthew Great Smith Street Storeys Gate Tufton Street St. Margaret Street Parliament Street Victoria Embankment Abingdon Street Shareholder information Notice of meeting Voting at the AGM Security The Company proposes that all Resolutions to be proposed at Security staff will be on duty to assist shareholders.
The Company will the AGM will be put to the vote on a poll.
This will result in a more not permit behaviour that may interfere with another persons security, accurate reflection of the views of all of the Companys shareholders safety or the good order of the AGM.
by ensuring that every vote is recognised, including the votes of shareholders who are unable to attend the Meeting but who have Shareholder enquiries appointed a proxy for the Meeting.
On a poll, each shareholder Capita Registrars maintain the Companys share register.
If you has one vote for each share held.
have any enquiries about the AGM or about your shareholding, you should contact Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, After each Resolution is put to the Meeting, you will be asked to Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
All of the votes of the shareholders present will be counted, and added to those received by proxy, and the provisional American Depositary Receipt enquiries final votes will be displayed on a screen at the front of the Meeting.
BNY Mellon maintains the Companys American Depositary Receipt register.
If you have any enquiries about your holding The voting results, which will include all votes cast for and against of Compass American Depositary shares, you should contact each Resolution at the Meeting, and all proxies lodged prior to the BNY Mellon, Shareowner Services, PO Box 358516, Pittsburgh, Meeting, will be announced at the Meeting and published on the PA 15252-8516, USA.
Companys website as soon as practicable after the Meeting.
The Company will also disclose the number of votes withheld.
Data protection statement Your personal data includes all data provided by you, or on your If you have already voted by proxy, you will still be able to vote at the behalf, which relates to you as a shareholder, including your name Meeting and your vote on the day will replace your previously lodged and contact details, the votes you cast and your Reference Number proxy vote.
attributed to you by the Company.
The Company determines the purposes for which and the manner in which your personal data is to be processed.
The Company and any third party to which it Not attending the AGM Whoever you appoint as a proxy can vote or abstain from voting as he discloses the data including the Companys Registrars may process your personal data for the purposes of compiling and updating the or she decides on any other business, which may validly come before the AGM.
This includes proxies appointed using the CREST service.
Companys records, fulfilling its legal obligations and processing the shareholder rights you exercise.
Details of how to complete the appointment of a proxy either electronically or on paper are given in the notes to this Notice.
Published information If you would like to receive this Notice and or a copy of the Venue arrangements For security reasons, all hand baggage may be subject to examination.
Annual Report 2011 in an appropriate alternative format, such as large print, Braille or an audio version on CD, please contact the Please note that laptop computers, recording equipment, cameras and similar such equipment may not be brought into the AGM.
Group Company Secretariat at Compass Group PLC, Compass House, Guildford Street, Chertsey, Surrey KT16 9BQ.
Briefcases, umbrellas and other bulky items should be deposited in the cloakroom, situated on the ground floor.
Smoking is not permitted inside The Queen ElizabethII ConferenceCentre.
Please ensure that all electronic equipment is switched off throughout the AGM.
Tea and coffee will be available before the Meeting and light refreshments will be served afterwards.
The following facilities will be available at The Queen ElizabethII Conference Centre: sound amplification hearing loop: wheelchair access: and See this Report online at: sign language interpreters.
com annualreport11 Anyone accompanying a shareholder in need of assistance will be admitted to the AGM.
If any shareholder with a disability has any question regarding attendance at the AGM, please contact the Group Company Secretariat at Compass Group PLC, Compass House, Guildford Street, Chertsey, Surrey KT16 9BQ by 19 January 2012.
134 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Shareholder information Index to the consolidated financial statements Note Page Directors responsibilities 61 Independent auditors report 62 Consolidated income statement 63 Analysis of operating profit 63 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 64 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 65 Consolidated balance sheet 67 Consolidated cash flow statement 68 Reconciliation of free cash flow from continuing operations 68 Accounting policies 69 1 Segmental reporting 74 2 Operating costs 78 3 Employees 79 4 Financing income, costs and related gains losses 80 5 Gain on remeasurement of joint venture interest on acquisition of control 81 6 Tax 81 7 Discontinued operations 83 8 Earnings per share 84 9 Dividends 85 10 Goodwill 85 11 Other intangible assets 87 12 Property, plant and equipment 88 13 Interests in associates 89 14 Other investments 89 15 Joint ventures 90 16 Trade and other receivables 90 17 Inventories 92 18 Cash and cash equivalents 92 19 Short-term and long-term borrowings 92 20 Derivative financial instruments 94 21 Trade and other payables 100 22 Provisions 100 23 Post-employment benefit obligations 101 24 Called up share capital 105 25 Share-based payments 107 26 Business combinations 111 27 Reconciliation of operating profit to cash generated by operations 112 28 Cash flow from discontinued operations 113 29 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 113 30 Contingent liabilities 114 31 Capital commitments 115 32 Operating lease and concessions commitments 115 33 Related party transactions 115 34 Post balance sheet events 115 35 Exchange rates 116 36 Details of principal subsidiary companies 117 Index to the Parent Company financial statements Note Page Directors responsibilities 118 Independent auditors report 119 Parent Company balance sheet 120 Parent Company accounting policies 121 1 Profit and loss account disclosures 122 2 Investments in subsidiary undertakings 122 3 Debtors 122 4 Creditors 123 5 Maturity of financial liabilities, other creditors and derivative financial instruments 124 6 Derivative financial instruments 124 7 Share capital 124 8 Capital and reserves 125 9 Contingent liabilities 125 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 135 Shareholder information Forward-looking statements Certain information included in this Annual Report and Accounts is forward-looking and involves risks, assumptions and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements cover all matters which are not historical facts and include, without limitation, projections relating to results of operations and financial conditions and the Companys plans and objectives for future operations, including, without limitation, discussions of expected future revenues, financing plans, expected expenditures and divestments, risks associated with changes in economic conditions, the strength of the foodservice and support services markets in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates, fluctuations in food and other product costs and prices and changes in exchange and interest rates.
Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, including terms such as believes, estimates, anticipates, expects, forecasts, intends, plans, projects, goal, target, aim, may, will, would, could or should or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology.
Forward-looking statements in this Annual Report and Accounts are not guarantees of future performance.
All forward-looking statements in this Annual Report and Accounts are based upon information known to the Company on the date of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Accordingly, no assurance can be given that any particular expectation will be met and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only at their respective dates.
Additionally, forward-looking statements regarding past trends or activities should not be taken as a representation that such trends or activities will continue in the future.
Other than in accordance with its legal or regulatory obligations including under the UK Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts shall exclude any liability under applicable laws that cannot be excluded in accordance with such laws.
136 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Our business 5 0 We operate in around 50 countries 470,000 We have more than 470,000 great people delivering great service every day, 4 5000 We operate in over 45,000 client locations 4 bn This Report is printed on a combination of Revive 100 White Silk and Revive 100 Premium White Uncoated.
Revive 100 White Silk is produced using 100% recycled We serve more than waste, the pulp is bleached using a Totally Chlorine Free TCF process.
Revive 100 Premium White Uncoated is produced using 100% fide-inked post-consumer waste, 4 billion meals a year the pulp is bleached using an Elemental Chlorine Free ECF process.
Both materials are Forest Stewardship Council FSC certified and are produced at mills that hold the ISO 14001 environmental management standard.
Printed in the UK by Pureprint Group using vegetable inks and their and printing technology.
Pureprint Group is ISO 9001:2000, ISO 14001, EMAS and FSC certified.
